[{"Title":"One Of My All Time Favorites","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"37 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I won't get into the story line-- you've read the other reviews. This is one of my all time favorite sci-fi movies which combines great acting with tight direction and a wonderful claustrophobic atmosphere. Forrest Tucker is in top form, barking out orders and taking control of a desperate situation facing the village. It's fun to watch his on-screen character as his motions and gestures belie his get-tough attitude when it comes to dealing with the nature of the gruesome deaths which face the villagers. One or two inside jokes might sail past most viewers (one that comes to mind is at the very beginning of the film when one mountain climber shouts to the other, who is it Jim, the Abominable Snowman?, referring to Forrest Tucker's 1957 film.) One wonderful, often overlooked scene also occurs early in the film when the group meets for a drink prior to the two climbers going up the mountain. The scene centers around a discussion of roping and really sets up the atmosphere for what is to come-- it's a wonderfully done scene. By today's standards, the special effects may not hold up well, but given all the other positive factors which surround this production, the film stands as a tribute to 1950's sci-fi/horror. "},{"Title":"X-Files, 1950s style.   But better!","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"33 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have a huge and very soft spot for 1950s sci-fi films with freakish aliens and/or monsters. Be forewarned - my view of this film is definitely colored by my unhealthy interest in these films. This is a true archetypal classic of the genre. *** Weird psychic sisters, *** alien mystery clouds, *** giant creeping cyclopes with tentacles, *** secret government agencies investigating the paranormal, *** possession, *** zombies, ***Forest Tucker(!) - it's all here. This is a very entertaining low-fi, low-brow, B/W monster movie. I am convinced that the writers were asked to include every element of contemporary supernatural, sci fi and imaginative fiction stories and, kudos to them - they pulled it off! Stephen King's Dreamcatcher owes a huge debt to this beauty. If you think about it, Dreamcatcher is almost a rewrite of this film, with aliens that are just a little less ridiculous and a different narrative. And the biggest surprise of all - Forest Tucker can act! His F Troop character was not the only personality in his repertoire!Remarkably, the absurdity of the plot is not used as an excuse for exceedingly bad special effects.This is a little gem of a 50s pulp film. It's goofy as hell, fun, well executed, and well worth a sleepless night. Far more entertaining that the Creature from the Black Lagoon, and many others. "},{"Title":"Great movie, bad eyeball","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A well directed film that really gives you the creeps - until the end, when the special effects give you a cramp from laughing.  Two scenes stand out as exceptional.  An alien-possessed climber returns to the lodge and tries to act human, without success. It could be slapstick but is quite chilling. After the lodge is evacuated, there is a very long, slow pan of the empty room which is extraordinarily eerie.  The dramatic appearance of the actual crawling eyes at the end of the film really outcamps most other campy special effects in this genre.  This film should not be missed by anyone who loves great terrible films. "},{"Title":"Loved this one","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film, The Crawling Eye, on TV as a kid back in the very early 60s. Scared me to death. They keep the goodies from you until almost the end. Creepy. Kind of gross. I remember the mountain climbers at the very beginning of the flick Why did you let go of the rope? Didn't you see him? His head was gone!! Don't miss this one- it's fun. "},{"Title":"The Eyes have it, or maybe have it!","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When growing up in the sixties, one cannot forget a flick that has huge eyeballs moving around and wonderful music to match the eyes in action. I had seen giant ants, lizards, flies and wasps but not eyeballs. The opening scenes with two men mountain climbing in the cold and then one becoming decapitated was a true eye-grabber. Eyes outside of an observatory and cracking a hole in a cement wall with long tentacles was very exciting for a little boy. Watching Philip Truscott hanging by his neck, kicking and fighting an eye tentacle was one of the many highlights of this film. The ending with the jets was a little weak, because it looked really fake but overall you will enjoy this eye-popping feature.  "},{"Title":"An under-appreciated gem.","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has too much bad rap. Most people just pass it off as another bad 50's sci-fi flick. You want bad? See THE CRAWLING HAND or BRIDE OF THE MONSTER. The plot, adapted from the BBC teleserial, brings our attention to Forrest Tucker an American who bears a striking resemblance to Paul Birch. Anyway, he meets a touring telepathic sister act including Jennifer Jayne and Janet Munro (star of plenty of Disney flicks; and mother of Caroline Munro?). After stopping at a small town in Switzerland called Trollenberg, Forrest goes up to a secret lab and meets a goofy German scientist, in which he reveals he came to this place to study a radioactive, stationary cloud. What's inside? Well, if you can't tell from the title, there's no hope for you. In terms of acting, suspense, and writing (courtesy of Hammer regular Jimmy Sangster), this film holds up pretty well today. But the effects are mediocre, but cool-looking; the eyes emit a cool sound when attacked. But there are some stretches of belief Forrest doesn't act like he knows what the cloud is, and yet later we find out he dealed in a similar experiment in The Andes! But some creepy moments later make up for this, like the beginning sequence, in which the group of students find their friend headless. (But how could he scream when he was falling if his head was already chopped off? Oh Well.)Still, this film does make for some funny spoofs, like the imitation on the cartoon FREAKAZOID and being notable as the first movie ever made fun of by MST3K. It must be a step forward somehow. "},{"Title":"I like it!","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a fun movie. The goofiest monsters ever! This is late night shock theater at it's best. A minor classic that delivers all the b-movie thrills you expect. The cast is wonderful, and the sets are superb. You can't go wrong with this DVD. "},{"Title":"Warren Mitchell","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't believe that none of the reviews here have talked about the fact that Warren Mitchell co-stars. Yes, THAT Warren Mitchell, before he became famous for playing Alf Garnett. Forget about Forrest Tucker and all the others. If you're a fan of Mitchell's sitcom work, you should see this film just to get some idea of how his career got started.It's a good job Mitchell didn't have to keep doing Swiss-German accents in future roles. He's a good actor, but can't really do any accent except for cockney! But if you can ignore his dodgy accent, he turns in a great little performance here.And it's quite a good film too. Nothing special, but nothing awful either. The only really crap thing about it is the effects of the crawling eyes themselves. Luckily they don't appear until over halfway through, and by then we're already hooked by the performances and atmosphere.That's one reason why I've always preferred the real title, The Trollenburg Terror. Why did the Americans rename it after the WORST part of the film? I can just imagine American audiences getting impatient (So, how long until we see this crawling eye?) and then being very disappointed when it finally appears! What were the distributors thinking? "},{"Title":"Good Drive In Movie","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I kind of liked this movie for all of it's B movie glory. It's a great 50s sci-fi movie. It's a little boring but I thought the monster was pretty good. A great late night or after noon viewing, not even all that scary. Good solid drive in movie or the kind of movie that you would watch on TV late at night. I laughed at various points during the movie but they did a pretty good job with the monster. Even though, it's kind of boring, it's good to watch if you like schlock movies from the 50s like I do. I wish it had been a little more entertaining and scary. But I do have affection for the movies of this period. You can tell that they were trying to keep the cost down. The acting was okay, what you would expect to find in these types of movies. All around fun and excitement for a lazy afternoon. "},{"Title":"Fresh Air!","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ah, the glowing cloud!  The swirling paperweight!I've always had an affection for The Trollenberg Terror -a.k.a.- The Crawling Eye.  It occupies a perfectly decent niche between X The Unknown  (Jimmy Sangster writes science-fiction in the '50s) and The Abominable Snowman (Forrest Tucker faces fear in a handful of ... snow), and I won't hear a word against it.Still and all, there *is* one inadvertently funny moment (SPOILER ALERT) which  no one seems to have commented upon.  It's the finale, the Venusians have been fire-bombed, the Earth has been saved yet one more time, and the protagonists are finally able to emerge from their mountain bunker.  And what, as the interplanetary barbecue proceeds apace, does heroine Janet Munro say?Unless memory deceives, what she says is Let's step out for a breath of -- fresh air! "}{"Title":"Danger up the mountain","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is known either as The Crawling Eye or The Trollenberg Terror. For this review, I will refer to it as The Crawling Eye, which is the title on the copy I have.Strange killings start to occur at the Swiss mountain resort of Trollenberg and a team of people travel to investigate them. These include an American scientist, and two women a mother and her telepathic daughter. A strange radioactive cloud is discovered on the mountain and the killings occur when that cloud moves. The killings turn out to be the work of strange alien tentacled creatures with one large eye. The creatures are killed at the end and everyone is safe.The movie's special effects are OK for a low budget movie and the eye creatures look good. The movie is rather gory at times for its period and is also very creepy at times.The cast includes Forest Tucker (The Abominable Snowman), Janet Munro (The Day the Earth Caught Fire), Warren Mitchell (Unearthly Stranger, Till Death Us Do Part) and Jennifer Jayne (They Came From Beyond Space). All play good parts.I rather enjoyed this movie and is a must for 1950's sci fi fans like myself.Rating 3 and a half stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Good stuff.","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Amusing 50's monster movies about a killer eye (!) that terrorizes a town. Lots of fun, and fans of b-movies will  enjoy it. The rubbery-looking beast is quite a laugh, even though it actually does look a little better than the average 50's creature. Really fun stuff. "},{"Title":"The Crawling Eye is an eyeful!","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watching this I couldn't help but compare it to the films that Hammer studios made and I think I have a good reason because those involved all worked on some of those efforts especially the writer. Story here is about a mysterious cloud that is around a mountain in the Swiss village of Trollenberg and it seems to have a connection to the recent deaths of climbers in the area. Staying at the local inn is a United Nations science investigator named Alan Brooks (Forrest Tucker) who seems to know more than he's letting on as he talks in secrecy with professor Crevett (Warren Mitchell) who is the scientist in charge at the research station.*****SPOILER ALERT***** Also at the inn are Sarah Pilgrim (Jennifer Jayne) and her telepathic younger sister Anne (Janet Munro) who experiences bad dreams and visions concerning the weird goings on. When it appears that aliens are inside the cloud and descending down upon the village they want to kill Anne because her ESP is a threat to their existence and Alan and the others must protect her. Inside the cloud the aliens are giant eyeballs with tentacle like arms and they try to kill everyone inside the research station but professor Crevett and Alan figure out that they can combat them with fire and they call the nearest Air Force base to come and drop fire bombs.This is directed by Quentin Lawrence who was a pretty good television director and the idea for this film came from The Trollenberg Terror which was a British TV show that Lawrence was involved with. While the special effects in the last 15 minutes hamper the credibility of this film this is still a well made science fiction effort written by Hammer regular Jimmy Sangster. Some of the shots have an obvious screen behind the actors but there is some impressive cinematography by Monty Berman who does deliver some good looking scenes around the village. The actors do a good job in that they don't over do it and a case can be made that Tucker's character is a bit too subdued but he gives the film a sense of calmness that convinces the viewer that he knows what he's doing. One can't help but notice how much of a presence Munro had even in an early role like this and with her crooked front tooth and her Angelina Jolie lips she bears a resemblance to Leslie Caron. The main premise of the story reminded me of both Island of Terror and Night of the Big Heat which were two Hammer films that dealt with characters trapped someplace battling invading alien forces and the English made several films like this. While this surely won't be thought of as a sci-fi classic (and some of the effects are downright cheesy) it's still a well written and acted film that has some genuinely creepy moments and is a lot of fun to watch. "},{"Title":"9 of 10 popcorn kernels for this 50's classic","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (some of the details discussed my be considered spoilers for anyone unfortunate enough that they have not already seen this movie... several times)The Crawling Eye is both excellent sci-fi and a study in the psychology of 50's culture.Only the special effects suffer in this B&W classic, though not badly for the era. Produced in the atmosphere of the dawning nuclear age it was a pioneering effort, speculating on the possibility of life on other worlds. Special effects at the time were limited for the most part to chocolate syrup for theatrical blood and scaled miniatures and backdrops to add depth to a studio scene, and silly rubber costumes. The fact that the monsters seem a little artificial shouldn't spoil this film for anyone.The storyline is quite brilliant for the era. Xenobiology and serious scientific speculation on the nature of life, what form it might take, how it might look, didn't exist yet. We had only our imaginations and the understanding that life on other worlds would likely be very different... a huge bulbous brain/eye with tentacles, was as valid at that time as any other guess, and it was creepy, gross, and unexpected. What the Crawling Eye was NOT, more than anything else... was a monster that looked like some poor guy dressed up in 50 pounds of latex.Comments by scientific giants of the day that discounted the notion that intelligent life was unique to Earth as hubris, became the seed for the wonderful Sci-fantasy stories that followed. The possibility that we might not really be alone, but drama requires a villain. The bigger the threat, the greater and more dramatic the effort required to overcome it.We had just finished a horrible world war, Russia had gone from our ally to our most powerful enemy almost overnight, unrest stirred in Asia as Korea was embroiled in civil war and we replaced these threats in cultural fiction with much more fearful threats. More terrible than Hitler and Stalin combined, alien life with advanced technologies beyond our understanding, space flight, tremendous intellect, and inhuman evil provided the antagonist. Once again the Earth was saved not by brilliance, or super weapons, but by heroism, stalwart character, and the refusal to submit to tyranny... The paragon of western values. Our fictional monsters had to be more horrible than life, because we'd already beaten Hitler... and we really had to dig down into our imaginations to find something more evil, more cunning, and more horrible to defeat... We found it for the moment in a tentacled abomination with one huge eye and the force of will to control men's thoughts, even onto death.I suggest a large box of popcorn, a soda in a too large leaky paper cup and more ice than necessary, and a bit of gum or a milk-dud stuck to the seat for the full effect. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Trollenberg Terror is one of my most favorite horror films. Essential the story of these giant eyes with tentacles in clouds from space trying to take over the world, this movie has been been treasure since I first saw it. I've seen it now at least fifty times and it always makes me stop when I run across it on TV. MonsterHD was running it earlier tonight on cable and I found I was really watching it for the first time. I think it was because of the big screen TV and seeing it unchopped up with commercials or in a print thats scratchy and well worn. What struck me was the fact that allowing that the premise is silly, as most horror films are, that once you got past that once you got into the film its genuinely taught and suspenseful. Its a horror film that doesn't really let up and stays true to its internal logic. Its a really good ripping yarn, not an excuse to just show monsters. the movie has somehow improved in my eyes, which I didn't think was possible. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Crawling Eye or as l have always know it The Trollenburg Terror and a much better title the former, this is just wonderful, Forrest Tucker (American Import to sell the film in the States) over acts as usual but in a restrained way, Laurence Payne is the younger handsome hero, and looks who is the professor Warren Mitchell in his pre Alf Garnet days, l hope this is not a spoiler but l have to say that the Terror of the title must have cost all of 67pence to make, hahaha, it is just real tack, but it is so bad that it is good and one of my all time favorites, l have just seen it as l write this and it's the first time for maybe 25 years, and it still held me spellbound, the thing l do like about it is that you have to wait to see the monsters, and that provides a lot of scope to build up the tension, if you get the chance to see what a real horror film was like in the 50's try and watch it if l ever comes on TV, l give it 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Eye See You","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was very young, I viewed Quentin Lawrence's The Trollenberg Terror and Irving Pichel's The Most Dangerous Game quite often on late night TV. In retrospect, they are very hokey, but at such an impressionable age, these two films scared my sister and me a great deal. In fact, I think they marked us for life. The Trollenberg Terror, more often referred to as The Crawling Eye -- I love that name -- is about two psychic sisters in a remote ski resort who are terrorized by a giant, tentacled eye which uses the fog to hide its movements. The film climaxes with a King Kong-like finale involving the United Nations and an aerial battle with phosphorous bombs.What more could you ask for in a cinematic experience? ) ... Except perhaps some better special effects. p "},{"Title":"Still a good movie, and what an original monster!","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"     Not every monster to come out of the fifties was a guy in a rubber suit or a double exposed giant something-or-other.  This effective British thriller offers one of the most original monsters ever.  The creatures are aliens looking to colonise our planet but first they have to lower the temperature and eliminate one small obstacle . . .us!  The cyclopean, tentacled terrors are prone to tearing off the heads of their victims but they possess the technology to kill certain Earth people and bring them back from the dead to do their bidding.    Interestingly, the creatures brain waves are easily intercepted by anyone with even latent psychic abilities.  This makes Janet Munro our required damsel-in-distress from not only the monsters but from the man (Andrew Faulds) they reanimate to get rid of her.  Luckily this movie has two heroes, rough hewn Forrest Tucker (to make the movie appealing to American audiences) and British Lawrence Payne (later to star in Hammer's VAMPIRE CIRCUS).    Okay I have a question.  Midway through the film we see 2 mountain climbers, Brett and Dewhurst, halfway up the mountain where the aliens are.  They take shelter in a small cabin.  During the night Brett hears the aliens telepathic call and wanders up the mountain alone.  Later Dewhurst gets up to look for him and (I guess) sees one of the aliens  coming toward the cabin.  He quickly bolts the door but then turns around and screams.  Later a search party has to break down the front door and they find Dewhurst dead with his head torn off.  WHAT THE HECK GOT HIM?  The cabin is intact, not even a window broken, so how in the world did the alien monster kill him?  And how does Dewhurst's head get inside the knapsack of Brett who is miles away?  No, it isn't Brett who kills him because he could not have gotten into the cabin either.  It is indeed a scary moment but very implausible if you stop to think about it.    The rest of the movie is very good and quite memorable.  Way back in 1957 it played on a double bill with THE STRANGE WORLD OF PLANET X (a/k/a COSMIC MONSTERS) in America.  That was a bit before my time and now I am kind of sorry I missed the era of the drive-in.  Thank goodness for home video. "},{"Title":"Lot's Of Fun! Just don't Take It Seriously!","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I happen to think this is one of the more enjoyable films I have seen that was made in the 1950's. Deep down it is typical 50's mutated monster fare but it really is so much more. A strange mist overtakes an Alpine village and turns out to be a decapitating giant eyeball. It sounds pretty hokey I know and the special effects are poor but it was the 1950's afterall and there is a fair amount of blood that is featured which was a surprise to me. When the two hikers are found dead you can see their bloody, mangled faces. And in one decapitation scene you can see the blood flying. The performances are fine in this one including a robust performance from the great Forrest Tucker. Plenty of atmosphere in this one also. All in all I would highly recommend this one. It's a lot of harmless fun and when not taken seriously, as it seems to have been by some of the reviewers here, it is a highly enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"positive","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I haven't seen this movie since the early 60's and was surprised that it wasn't all that bad.  Although the monsters are hoaky and fit in with other '50's sci-fi stuff, the rest of the movie is actually quite suspensful.  We have the girl on the train with the mysterious eyes in a trance who must get off at Trollenberg even though that's not where she's going, the deranged mountain climber who is actually dead and the man who gets his head ripped off - all making you wonder - what's up there? "}{"Title":"Perhaps dated today, but in its time -- quite something","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Science fiction is a literature of ideas, and while mainly set fro suspense and terror, this movie (by whatever title you know it) is set off by a first rate SF idea -- that invaders would be trapped by their own environmental needs and thus have to act surreptitiously, their evil deeds to perform.  (Okay -- it doesn't answer the then obvious question -- if the environment is so hostile, then why the heck are they invading? -- but that's as may be.)While other SF movies of this time were efx-travaganzas, and treatises on the evil of the Bomb (what -- no giant mutant insects?) The Crawling Eye relies on atmosphere to bring forth a genuine sense of menace.  If the creatures are less than convincing at the end -- who cares? -- they're doomed by that time anyway.A little provocative thinking can go a long way toward making up for gazillion-dollar effects (Godzilla remake, anyone?).  This  picture supplies it quite generously. "},{"Title":"Actually pretty creepy","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Actually, a not-so-bad little chiller.  The psychic woman who makes telepathic contact with the giant alien eyeballs has a thankless part but carries it off well.  Standout in cheap special effects history the cotton ball stuck to a photo of the mountain to indicate movement of the alien cloud. "},{"Title":"Great B Movie","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this film late one night in the 70's as a part of a run of horror movies on British TV on a Friday evening. It sticks in my memory as fun, silly but very frightening and so typical of many movies of the same genre all vastly underrated. Atmosphere is what it captured with its mountain solitude, cloud descending down the mountain and headless climber found in abandoned hut. Alien Monster movies don't come more frightening than this! This was a simple film with a great premise, flawed but fun. Some horror movies these days need to learn from the grand masters of old especially in the skills of lighting, atmosphere and cinematography. "},{"Title":"The Crawling Eyes -- see it.","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A mysterious radioactive cloud hovers on the side of the Trollenberg mountain but no cloud should be at that altitude. In an observatory atop the mountain scientists monitor the behavior of the cloud. Forrest Tucker, who has seen such a cloud before, arrives to investigate. When townspeople start disappearing the cloud appears suspect.This movie isn't that bad but the monster creatures are so poorly done, they are truly cheesy and the ending reminds me of when I was a boy and used to light plastic army men on fire in the backyard and watch them melt. Just film that and you have the special effects for this film.The opening scene certainly grabs your attention. There is some nice photography of the Swiss Alps. The acting is fine. Janet Munro is an eye full as the extremely cute psychic who gets manipulated by the monsters. Crawling Eyes/Trollenberg Terror is a British horror film of the 50's like Day of the Triffids and the Quatermass films. "},{"Title":"The Crawling Eye.","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The filmic adaptation of a 1956 UK TV serial of the same name, The Trollenberg Terror is a whole bunch of fun and not deserving of the stinker reputation it has in some sci-fi loving circles.Action is set in Trollenberg, Switzerland and concerns a creature from outer space that has taken residence in a radioactive cloud atop of the Trollenberg mountain. As the bodies start to pile up and various climbers go missing on the mountain, the United Nations send a boffin to help the local scientists to hopefully solve the mystery.The effects work has been the source of some disdain, and in truth it's poor but not the worst from the 1950s pantheon of B schlockers. The back projection scenes are crude, but again in keeping with the fun aspects of the genre and era. However, Jimmy Sangster's screenplay is tight and produces brainy conversations and strong sequences.Horror comes by way of headless bodies turning up and that once sane people turn into maniacs as the terror weaves its magic. On the normal human side the narrative is given a boost by Janet Munro's (excellent) telepathic darling, something which troubles the visitors greatly and puts her in grave danger. The psychological aspects of the story mark this out as a genre piece of worth.Elsewhere director Quentin Lawrence does a study job with what is available to him, Forest Tucker is the hero in waiting, playing it reserved like, and Warren Mitchell proves good foil for Tucker and the Terror! It's not a great film, but it is a good one, let down in some tech departments for sure, but strengths elsewhere make up for its flaws. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Cloud Cover","Date":"7 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even with some holes in the plot the Queen Mary could have floated through, The Crawling Eye remains a favorite of mine from my adolescence. It's literally filled with atmosphere and it's atmosphere that these nasty eye creatures from some other world are trying to recreate.Wherever these things come from it's real cold so they say on mountain tops. Why this wasn't set in the Himalayas is anyone's guess.They were first reported in the Andes mountains and scientist Forrest Tucker was investigating there too. Now they're in the Swiss Alps and Tucker has responded to a call for help. So has Laurence Payne who is a reporter and smells a story first in the Andes and now in Switzerland.These creatures apparently don't like telepaths, one was killed in Argentina and they've taken an interest in young Janet Munro who has a mind reading nightclub act with her sister Jennifer Jayne. It's Munro whom they're after and they take their below freezing cloud cover atmosphere with them to get her any way they can.Lots of holes in this plot including a locked door murder which might have needed the help of Agatha Christie to get right. But for atmosphere and chilling thrills you can't beat The Crawling Eye. "},{"Title":"Yummy Swiss Cheese","Date":"27 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Monster fans, rejoice! This great-looking DVD from Image offers us the baby boomer favorite The Trollenberg Terror, from 1958, with the original, NONspoiler British title that is so much more preferable to the American appellation The Crawling Eye. In the film, sturdy as always Forrest Tucker plays Alan Brooks, a U.N. physicist/investigator (or something on that order...after two recent viewings, I'm still not clear on that point) who comes to the Swiss village of Trollenberg to investigate a recent string of mysterious deaths, as well as the radioactive, stationary cloud that hovers over a nearby mountain. Viewers must wait a full hour before getting a look at the title creatures, during which time they should be amply entertained by the plight of Janet Munro's character--a pretty young woman who is in telepathic contact with the creatures--and by the zombie cat's-paw who is sent by the unseen foes to do their bidding. The viewer's patience is ultimately rewarded by some of the most memorable-looking monsters in screen history; creatures that are fondly remembered by all baby boomers who watched the classic '60s TV show Supernatural Theatre, which showed the crawling eye expand each week during its opening credits. Though filmed on the cheap, these aliens look impressively yucky. The picture, on the whole, is uniformly well acted by all (Tucker, especially, underplays his role nicely), Stanley Black's subtle yet eerie score works wonders in ratcheting up the tension, and director Quentin Lawrence keeps things moving along briskly. I find this to be a quality example of horrific sci-fi, despite the lack of top-tier FX, and not at all campy (well, perhaps a bit cheesy!). And thanks to this great new print from Image, we may never see The Trollenberg Terror look any better. Reason to rejoice, indeed! "},{"Title":"Classic British Sci-Fi Thriller!","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... By 1958's standards, The Crawling Eye was really scary for children. such as I. It remains such, for those-with-imaginations still, even in 2010! The music, acting & decent black-&-white cinematography all adds up to a well-produced movie of its time. Lead actor Forrest Tucker heads-a-professional cast in a believable plot-&-building drama. True, the monsters in their own right, are what-they-are, but the film doesn't dwell on them for a good reason! They're not-that-great, but work well in context with thee entire effort. Just sit back & enjoy this trip back into the late 1950's, when UFO's & mental telepathy were just coming into-their-own! Grab the microwave pop-corn & Coke. Let yourself go & get ready-to-scream! "},{"Title":"A decent movie for it's time","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Crawling Eye, more commonly known as the Trollenberg Terror is a good movie for it's time.It has all the cheesy elements for a horror movie of the 60's era. Although I have to admit that I found the acting not as bad as in other movies. The effects on the creatures were also quite good, considering the time.The scientific explanations that are ALWAYS present in a movie like this were THIS time slightly better to swallow.Music was a bit over-dramatic, but that's part of the charm.A movie with a slow story, building towards an unavoidable climax. I've seen far worse stories in horror movies such as these.In conclusion, I was entertained. The Trollenberg Terror is not a bad movie, nor is it outstanding. It certainly belongs amongst the classic black-and-white horror movies.Recommended for fans of horror movies from the 60's. "},{"Title":"Here's Looking At You,","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's 1958, and that's as good a year as any for some low-brow hokum.I also saw this as a kid, though some time in the early 1960's and on television. And I don't mind saying that it gave me quite a scare.Tension builds surprisingly well for what is patently a B-movie. And that is a clue to good direction. The actors are all from the second division, which helps in a way because it makes the 'ordinary' characters they play seem more believable.There are some suitably gruesome killings which ratchet-up the tension as the 'mysterious cloud' begins to drift about. Whatever's in there must be pretty nasty. 'Mysterious Cloud'; has there ever been a horror/thriller that didn't have one? 'The Fog', 'Independence Day', 'War Of The Worlds', 'The Mist'; you just can't beat a mysterious cloud for - well, clouding things with mystery.When the monsters finally disclose themselves, you either laugh out loud or hide behind the sofa. Huge eyes with a bunch of whiplash tentacles no evident brain, no discernible digestive tract; these are just horror-props plain and simple. Interestingly, the beasties attack an avalanche-proof observatory and manage to shatter the thick, concrete walls. Presumably they just stare them to bits.Half a century ago; a credible, unquestioning audience gobbled their popcorn in a state of shock at the terrible aliens, 50 years on we can all have a good laugh at such truly terrible aliens.The bug-eyed monster never got better than this. "}{"Title":"Eye in the Sky","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (There are Spoilers) Somewhat silly but still entertaining horror flick involving these aliens who've settled on and around the Trollenberg Peak in the scenic Swiss Alps.Ater a number of mountain climbers end up dead or missing it becomes apparent to UN employed Professor Crevett played by a 30 year old Warren Mitchell, who looks at least 60 in the movie, that whatever is creating all this havoc is somehow hidden in the mist, or cloud, hanging around the mountain. Prof. Mitchell has his good friend American investigator of the supernatural Alan Brooks, Forrest Tucker, come over to Switzerland to help him out. Prof. Mitchell together with Brooks determined that some kind of alien creature is using the cloud, that defies science, as cover to kill mountain climbers and then decapitate them! It's never really explained in the film why these aliens are so hung up with the human skull or brain?The film Trollenberg Horror or The Crawling Eye goes on with both Prof. Mitchell and Alan Brooks getting the lowdown to what this, or these, creatures are really up to. This has to do with young Anne Pligrim, Janet Munro, who together with her older sister Sarah, Jnnifer Jayne, have a popular mind reading act. Anne in fact was guided to go with Sarah to Trollenberg by picking up wavelengths emitted from the creatures without them or her knowing about it.It's when mountain climber Brett, Andrew Faulds, came back from his climb that Anne realized that he was not really alive but fact a walking dead man. Bratt is being controlled by the aliens who had earlier killed and decapitated his fellow climber Dewhurst, Stuart Saunders, with Bratt ending up with Dewhurt's severed head in his nap-sack! Uncoordinated in his movements, due to being dead, a wild eyed and crazed looking Bratt attacks Anne only to get belted and knocked out cold by Brooks. Later while in custody after he murdered Trollenberg Mayor Klein, Fredrick Schiller, Bratt disintegrates into a blob of rotting and stinking flesh! That's when the aliens, who are controlling him, felt that Bratt's no longer any use to them.The Crawling Eye's final fifteen or so minutes has the aliens finally revile themselves as they come out of the cloud and attack the few people still remaining in Trollenberg. Figurings out just what makes, and doesn't make, them tick Brooks together with Professor Mitchell in a last desperate move have the RAF with the cooperation of the Swiss Government come to their, and the few persons remaining alive in town, rescue. The RAF ends up giving these crawling and pulsating eyeballs a taste of their own medicine, in their killing and dismembering human beings, by making things really hot for them in the confines of their new and adopted home; The minus sub 30 to 40 degree temperatures of the frozen Swiss Alps. "},{"Title":"I like it","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a movie you need to have a taste for in order to watch I think. You can't just watch and expect it to be good, you need to have it on your mind I am going to enjoy this, it was be decent. Unlike Psycho, this movie doesn't seem to have the test of time on its side. The special FX used in this film compromised its classical feel. However, I still think it's a classic. And many famous horror writers/directors must think so too. This film has been knocked off quite a bit. First by The Fog, John Carpenter has even said this movie was the inspiration for the things lurking within the fog. The Mist seems to be an even bigger knock off however, but I have not seen The Mist so I cannot shove my opinions of it in anyone's face. The acting in this movie wasn't bad. Some of it was forced a little but it all seemed to work out in the end. This movie does have some cheese value but come on, don't many horror movies? This movie was actually genuinely frightening in certain parts. This movie can and might just give you chills. This film does not depend on the dark for its spooky value, as 90% of it takes place during the day, including the final showdown. The plot is well explained, just a little unrealistic but I think I can live with that. I rate this a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly, a Badly UNDERRATED Flick on IMDb","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Trollenberg Terror, also released as The Crawling Eye, was and is, a highly effective piece of fifties sci-fi horror entertainment.Forrest Tucker, playing the young but nonetheless eminent Dr. Brooks, is markedly understated in playing the role of the young scientist, who hath seen this terror from Aliens before, on earthlings' mountaintops(in the Andes of South America), but simply refuses to want to believe that the unspeakable, all-encompassing horror, is happening, tragically, once again.The Hammer Films Movie, The Abominable Snowman, also starring Forrest Tucker(alongside Peter Cushing's Dr. Rowalson character), also made in 1958, wherein Tucker plays the ever-cynical and always, murderous profiteer, Tom Friend(*well, perhaps not so very different from Forrest Tucker's back-room dealing and hustling Sargeant Morgan O'Roarke, in the 60's TV Comedy masterpiece, F-Troop, only O'Roarke was far more LOVABLE than was Tucker's portrayal of Tom Friend!), it evinces a wholly DIFFERENT Human Being, almost, than the Dr. Brooks character that Tucker reveals before us in The Trollenberg Terror. And is not THAT, precisely what effective ACTING is supposed to be all about?The supporting cast too, is thoroughly effective. Janet Munro, later to become a scream queen flick regular, of sorts, is perfectly cast as the young woman SEER, who has presaged the coming of some FORCE, far beyond the merely human or normal incarnation, who simply must stop at Trollenberg, and STAY at The Trollenberg, to see through this whole frightful episode, with Jennifer Jayne(* truly underrated actress, classically, BEAUTIFUL and Consummately British Actress, too, Jennifer Jayne hath always been, to me)as her loving and always heroically DUTIFUL Older Sister, by her side through it all.Alright, so the special effects are maudlin; alright, they're even lousy, by say post 1980 AD Horror/Sci-Fi Special Effects standards. But what about the ACTING, The WRITING QUALITY, the Script and storyline's real QUALITY, throughout this movie?THIS, is precisely why, I just can NOT, get fully into the Latest remakes, of such Movies as 1997's Titanic, or the latest King Kong movie, though BOTH movies obviously have, INCREDIBLY EFFECTIVE, and intrinsically REALISTIC Special Effects.Still, without wishing to at ALL, besmirch the acting abilities of such as Leo Decaprio and Kate Winslet in 97's TITANIC movie, I still say, that by far the more COMPELLING acting performances for MY favorite Titanic movie, came from Sir Kenneth More, and the rest of the Cast from 1957's A Night To Remember. Surely, the special effects in the '57 enterprise and movie, WERE indeed HORRID, compared to the 1997 Blockbuster, but special effects, ... alone have NEVER been able to truly CARRY any movie, to me, even IF that movie is seemingly, almost fully dependent on Special Effects to carry its story along, such as in, e.g., 1977's Twin Cinematic Masterpieces, STAR WARS, and Close Encounters of The Third Kind.Close Encounters, to me, was carried along by the Brilliant starring role performance in it by Richard DREYFUSS, in his Roy Neary characterization. But the ACTING performances, did also carry those two flicks along, along with of course, the effective Story lines in each movie.Much the same, can defensively be said of The Trollenberg Terror, wherein the actors' performances are so compelling and yes, well-done, that the admittedly, Schlocko fifties special effects standards of The Trollenberg Terror, IE THE CRAWLING EYE, in my own, All-American, visage of the flick, are entirely forgivable.Does no one else consider Acting Skills, or Scriptwriting skills, or Directing skills, that fully convey TRUE and poignant human Emotion, fear, ecstasy, at having survived such as The Trollenberg Terror, to be perhaps, even FAR MORE Important to a given film's success, than even well-done special effects and such technical artistry? And yes, to conclude, I will say that the Special Effects skill levels of the other movies mentioned in my piece(and alright, NOT to include The Crawling Eye or A Night to Remember)are truly, highly accomplished works of High Art, by today's standards, or by the aesthetic standards of any epoch! "},{"Title":"Chills, spills, and thrills","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Trollenberg Terror stands out as having had a superb script for a 1950's Sci-Fi Horror flick. The story builds on itself with thrillers of various sorts each one leading to a more intense horror. It is not just the monster that kills. Forrest Tucker carries the movie with a strong supporting cast. Forrest Tucker also starred a year earlier in what I consider to be the best Horror movie made in the 1950's, The Abominable Snowman. The beautiful Janet Munro, who starred in the 1960's Swiss Family Robinson as Roberta Bertie, plays a strong supporting actress in this Crawling Eyed movie. The scenery is set in the Swiss Alps with gondolas and a genuine Swiss ambiance, but in black and white. This chiller comes highly recommended by me. "},{"Title":"British Fifties science fiction thriller effective tale of alien invasion","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was on television a lot in the late Sixties. I saw it several times as a kid, and found it sort of dull, because it's actually a fairly adult thriller. Seeing it years later, I found it quite suspenseful, and with a a fairly eerie atmosphere. The Alpine settings of the mountains and the village are good, with a nicely evoked atmosphere, especially the hut where the climbers stay. Forrest Tucker plays a very low key hero, and Jennifer Jayne and Janet Munro are both very attractive as the sisters. Supporting roles are well played, including the mayor of the town, and the English journalist. The sequence of Brett and Dewhurst climbing to the hut, and encountering stark terror there in the dark of night, is extremely well done ,and rather shocking for the time the picture was made. The aliens ,when finally revealed, are a trifle silly looking, but the movie still works. The movie has an odd sort of appeal all its own, and has gathered a loyal following over the years. For anyone intrigued by late Fifties science fiction movies, especially with an unusual English atmosphere, this is well worth checking out. "},{"Title":"great B movie with potential","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A great atmospheric little chiller and well casted considering the obvious lack of budget. This film could quite easily have been hammed up but the cast but luckily for us they take the script seriously. The most effective part of the film occurs at the beginning where the rock climbers first encounter the alien visitors. The action takes place off screen much to the benefit of the film. The scene at the cabin on the mountainside where Brett and Dewhurst are staying for the night is a lesson in abject terror. The creature FX are poor but genuinely creepy at the same time. This story definitely deserves the modern remake treatment. If you get a chance to see it,do. "},{"Title":"Memorable, atmospheric British sci-fi/horror","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This used to run all the time in New York in the '60's and it always stuck in my memory; I've never forgotten the tenseness and suspense and eerieness of the buildup to the monsters (the nervous mountaineers in the cabin; Janet Munro's psychic visions (They're climbing up the mountain...!; the cable cars snapping in the cold; the aurora surrounding the cloud; Hans saying how cold he is....) As I got older, I appreciated Warren Mitchell's hamminess as Dr. Kravat (the line I always remember from him is, The man vass dead--dere vas NO DOUBT!) And of course Forrest Tucker was added to give some good old American manliness and box office appeal for wider distribution, but I always wondered if the British were insulted that Lawrence Payne was made to look like such a wimp next to Forrest Payne is English and nervous and wiry, and at one point Tucker carries him in his arms! I remember the tentacles and being disappointed at the appearance of the eye, thinking it was better left unseen. I highly recommend The Crawling Eye for its Britishness; its tight direction, the enjoyable Warren Mitchell, the ominous music, the psychic element, the nifty combo of horror and sci-fi elements. "},{"Title":"Good Movie - Go With 'Trollenberg Terror', ,Ditch the 'Crawling Eye' title..","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a pretty good movie. I think the name 'Crawling Eye' makes it sound like a cheesy flick. 'Trollenberg Terror' is a more sophisticated title and more worthy of this film's good effort. Well suited for evening, late night or Saturday matine viewing. Well thought out with little or no special effects, except for the 'Eye'. Stock footage fits in well and affords nice continuity and great mountain shots. Jane Monro is convincing as the psychic, and it doesn't hurt that she's pretty. The cable cars are ridiculously flimsy. Don't think I would risk a ride. The plot is well developed, the actors perform well and the pace is even. I saw this movie many years ago and the only thing I remembered was the laughable 'Eye' or should I say 'Eyes'. This movie came as one of the offerings in a DVD collection and now that I watched it again, I really liked it, even with the poor eye. A great teen date flick. "},{"Title":"1950s Science Fiction At Its Best","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This has always been one of my favorite black and white science fiction movies from the 1950s. It has an interesting plot and it keeps you on the edge of your seat with hints of terror that leave goose bumps. Shot at a beautiful locale in Switzerland, it has an ensemble cast that is very strong for the 1950s science fiction genre. I was born in 1955 and began watching science fiction films on our family's lone black and white TV by the late 1950s, begging to stay up late at nights to watch the features on Staurday nights on the NBC station. I love the science fiction/horror films that played late night and on weekends on the Chicago TV stations (all 4 of them at that time) in the late 1950s and early 1960s. This was one of my favorites. Taking the 85 minutes and watch it next time you find it somewhere on cable. "},{"Title":"Good if you overlook the weak points.","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Crawling Eye was a thriller whose title I remember very well from childhood. This film was shown under this title on TV in the U.S. in the early '60s and it held me spellbound in horror as a child.As an adult re-watching this movie, some of my first impressions were that it was remarkably slow and had poor special effects. However, I was also simultaneously impressed by nuances I had not noticed as a child, in particular the Swiss alpine ambiance and the underlying current of fear delivered via the dialog.There is an appreciable amount of ambiance in this old black-and-white film, which makes it generally pleasant to watch. There are snow-covered mountains, an alpine valley seen from a mountain top, the lowing of cows and the tinkling of cow bells, cable cars, an old wooden staircase with Swiss style decorations, drinks of brandy, a hip pocket metal flask, a wooden mountain hut, mountain climbers on ledges, an old train and train station, travel posters in the background announcing destinations like RIEDERALP and ZERMATT, and so on. It's unfortunate that the main mountain is shown only as a prop painting, but it all works. Put all these little details together and you get a convincing, foreign, Swiss alpine atmosphere that reminds me of the Matterhorn ride at Disneyland and its atmospheric queue area.In the various dialogs, the locals are obviously eager to cover up the recent gruesome climbing accidents and the rumors from the local villagers. The car driver Mr. Klein stammers and hedges when asked directly about a climbing accident, Hans similarly excuses himself when pressed for details, and Alan the professor keeps downplaying an obviously freakish cloud that hangs over the Trollenberg mountain. All this creates an atmosphere of dread and denial, especially when the dialogs are delivered in German accents with sinister voices, as if the locals have inside knowledge that they don't wish to share with tourists.As with so many other films of the 1950s, this one has an excessive and unrealistic emphasis on ESP and mind control. Maybe those themes were popular in the 1950s because they didn't require expensive special effects. In this film the telepathic woman Anne Pilgrim is frequently talking in a spaced-out voice as if in a trance, and constantly fainting afterward. She in turn is the target of two dead men whose bodies are reanimated by the crawling eye, who attempt to murder her so that she can't telepathically monitor the alien monster.Overall, the film seems carefully thought-out in many ways, yet quite negligent in others. Therefore if you can overlook its weak points and savor its strong points, it's still an enjoyable film. "}{"Title":"giant, unstoppable hungry eyeballs-what more could you ask?","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one gave me nightmares for weeks when I was 7. All those tentacles...it was an experience right up there with Invaders From Mars and War of the Worlds. Darn near put me in Special Ed.! ) "},{"Title":"A true cult movie!","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Known to us as The Crawling Eye, this one is my husband's favorite all-time campy sci-fi flicks!  He and his brothers and cousins must have seen it a thousand times as kids, and were fascinated. Today, it's campy, culty, and good for some laughs! The special effects are now laughable, the drama a bit overdone, but watch it like you used to watch Rocky Horror Picture Show, and you'll be calling out, De cloud, de cloud!  Eet is moving! along with the best of them!  A great rental for a New Year's Eve with your buddies, if that's your thing!  Don't forget the beer!  "},{"Title":"Things I learned from this movie","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film had a couple of things going for it, not least of which was that Anne is really attractive. Unfortunately, they made this movie in 1958 so she dresses like June Cleaver... a.) Villagers have something to say about everything b.) Clouds that are stationary and radioactive are bad news c.) Foreboding music does not belong in a scene involving empty beds d.) Do not open a backpack that is just lying around on a mountainside; odds are there's a head in it e.) Zombies created by freezing aliens melt away when killed.Maybe a good film to see on late night cable TV while you're hoisting a few at the bar.  In fact, every character in the film has either a brandy or a Scotch to drink at some time-when they're shook up or about to climb the mountain...or just to be sociable.  So they might know something about this film we don't-such as, it might be best to have a few nips while viewing to enhance the quality of the film.  Not the I'm an advocate of drinking, but what the hell...it can't hurt in this case. "},{"Title":"High Camp, Low Brow","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  On the list of campy sci-fi, this film ranks high. Although it was a British import, it had many elements of American sci-fi (namely, a passable plot and low-budget special effects). The difference is that the acting is more credible, Forrest Tucker notwithstanding.The plot revolves around mysterious deaths in the Alps, near an Austrian town called Trollenberg. It seems several mountain climbers have met grisly deaths, including one at the very beginning who gets his head ripped off. They don't show it, but seeing the body from the neck down, covered in blood is effective enough. Also, for some reason, a telepath named Anne Pilgrim (played by Janet Munro, who went on to do such movies as Darby O'Gill & The Little People and Swiss Family Robinson before dying of acute myocarditis at age 38) feels the need to stop at Trollenberg instead of continuing on to Vienna. She and her sister Sarah (Jennifer Jayne) are part of a mind-reading act. While on their train, they incur the interest of Alan Brooks (Forrest Tucker playing another fish-out-of-water role as a serious leading man), a man with hazy United Nations connections, who is heading to Trollenberg for mysterious reasons.It seems aliens are trying to acclimate themselves to Earth's atmosphere so they can take up shop. They use a radioactive cloud to hide their activities and kill mountain climbers who get too close. They also take some of the climbers and make them into zombies so they can kill potential enemies. In this case, it's Anne Pilgrim who, as a telepath, can sense the aliens' presence.The action takes place at a brisk pace, simply because the aliens need to get acclimated before their activities invoke a response from mankind. We also learn that Tucker and Professor Crevett (Warren Mitchell), head of the Trollenberg Observatory that first noticed the cloud, were involved in a similar situation in the Andes Mountains in South America. They were too late to stop that situation as the aliens bailed when it got too hot. Now, however, they may get the chance to put an end to them for good.The acting is crisp, save for Tucker. Veteran British stage actor Lawrence Payne does a nice turn as Phillip Truscott, a newspaper reporter and love interest for Anne. If you can ignore the fact that he was assigned to investigate the Andes incident and just happens to be in town for this invasion, that is. Particular menacing is Andrew Faulds as Dewhurst, a local climber who becomes a zombie. With an eerie sneer, he decapitates a climbing companion, kills two would-be rescuers with a climbing pole to their heads, then attacks Anne Pilgrim twice, getting bashed in the head, then shot for his trouble.The film has a few glaring flaws. The special effects are low-budget. Close-up scenes of the aliens (as giant eyeballs, hence the title) are creepy, but when they move up the mountain, they're laughable. When Tucker and Payne hit them with Molotov cocktails, they burn up like matches (a common complaint I have about British sci-fi is the way they don't even attempt to make explosions or fire look like anything other than match heads flaring). Another flaw is when Brett, Dewhurst's climbing partner, is killed, rescuers find his cabin door barred from the inside and the windows locked and intact. Yet, his head is missing. A neat trick. Also, when UN bombers torch the mountain to get at the crawling eyes, the whole attack looks totally cheesy.A few notes in parting. Janet Munro is not related to Caroline Munro (Golden Voyage of Sinbad, The Spy Who Loved Me), despite rumors to the contrary. Also, the original title of the movie is The Trollenberg Terror. The Crawling Eye was the American title. For some reason, American audiences were believed incapable of understanding the cerebral titles of British films and needed titles that were sensational. Thus, The Quatermass Experiment became The Creeping Unknown; Quatermass 2 became Enemy From Space; Quatermass and the Pit was changed to Five Million Years to Earth, and Trollenberg Terror became The Crawling Eye. Finally, this film was first shown on a twin bill with The Strange Case of Planet X (changed, of course, for American audiences to Cosmic Monsters). It also starred Forrest Tucker, who is even more wooden than in Crawling Eye. If you want to see some good acting from Tucker, stick to The Abominable Snowman of the Himalayas where he plays a selfish, conceited and boorish American businessman clashing with Peter Cushing while in pursuit of the fabled monster.  "},{"Title":"Their Eyes Were Watching Misty Clouds","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mountain climbers on the Trollenberg mountain in Switzerland mysteriously disappear.  Atop a nearby peak is a research center for the study of cosmic rays.  American Forrest Tucker, on vacation, visits an old friend who is in charge of the scientific study and soon discovers he was asked by his friend to investigate a strange cloud that hangs over Trollenberg.  This is the beginning of this little science fiction-horror gem from Great Britain.  The film is directed by Quentin Lawrence and is full of suspense, tight direction, and good acting.  It seems that the cloud is a means for alien movement for the aliens that have come to live on the mountain peak.  These aliens are huge eyes basically, and are indeed impressive.  The film is very serious in nature and this really helps the actors and plot in the area of believability.  Forrest Tucker does a nice job in the lead and the rest of the cast is very good.  A neat film! "},{"Title":"B-Movie my butt, this is one cool movie, although dated","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Trollenberg Terror is certanly a more respectable than the original release title of The Crawling Eye. There are plenty of flaws, but the idea of an 'unseen entity' at the top of a mountain picking off climbers one be one was very unique for it's time. During the 50's slew of UFO movies, this was a refreshing change. Even the creature (yes, the effects were sloppy) was different from the standard film monster of the day.  Along with Invaders from Mars, The Blob, House on Haunted Hill, and a few others, this is one of the movies that never failed to scare the hell out of me as a kid. With the right look, this movie could be remade successfully today (eliminating some of the hokey parts), with more impressive effects.  A Halloween must! "},{"Title":"Hokey movie, but well done monster","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like I said, this movie is great on MST3K. The monster suit is great, but the rest,dumb,dumb,DUMB!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best of the giant killer eyeball flicks","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Neat little flick about giant eyeball critters from outer space who use a mountain peak in Switzerland as their base from which to take over the Earth. While the low budget definitely shows, especially in the climactic attack, this is really a tense, atmospheric, creepy little flick, very well acted by Forrest Tucker (reining in his tendency to go over the top at every conceivable occasion) and Janet Munro, with some truly scary moments. While the Brits (let's face it) don't usually do monster flicks all that well, this is one of the best ones to come out of Old Blighty. Definitely worth your time. "},{"Title":"Why do I watch this junk?","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, I buy this disc for a couple of bucks and stay up late watching it. My girlfriend leaves me about 15 minutes into it asking, Why do you watch this junk?.Yeah, a crawling eyeball with dumb-looking tentacles is pretty stupid, but I got a kick out of it. Why did it decapitate everyone? I mean, it could have just frozen em all. They all should have saved one to keep around for a hot day eh!.Seriously, this movie was not much. The eyeball monster was crappy and incapable of scaring a 2-year-old. Acting was pretty bad too. The story was a little better than most sci-fi of that era though. At least the plot didn't stray off into unrelated drama and personal issues.My version of this movie is called The Trollenberg Terror. I don't know if there are any differences between it and The Crawling Eye. I like the title The Crawling Eye better though. Seems more catchy.Anyhow, for the amusement factor, whether Eye or Terror, it was worth watching for me. Really die hard sci-fi fans probably can handle this one. Otherwise, you may want to pass.Now, if you're an eyeball monster movie fan, check out It Came From Outer Space. That was a decent movie and actually worthy of a remake. "},{"Title":"The Eyes Have it!","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forest Tucker meets two attractive sisters on a train to a mountain in Switzerland. Instead of going on to Geneva, one of the young women (part of a pair of professional mind- reader) feels compelled to stop at a remote town which is known for its mountain climbing. It turns out that several climbers have met their fates (including one which we witness at the beginning). So the threesome end up in a mountain chalet with people who are interested in scaling the peak. It turns out that people are being found with their heads missing and it has something to do with a cloud that sits next to the mountain. Everything gets jumbled up. It's the usual thing where people go ahead and stupidly make their way into danger, totally unprepared or ignorant of the dangers. Forest is the hero and he finds himself in the middle of all this. One of the girls is empathic and keeps getting herself in danger. Of course, we eventually see the crawling eye. It looks like a big pastry with one eye and skinny tentacles. There is also something about the temperature on the mountain. Anyway, it eventually gets down to fighting with fire. It's not that I don't appreciate these kinds of films, but lets not get carried away with praising them, other than their sentimental attraction to drive-in movie goers of the fifties. "}{"Title":"Influential 1950s Science Fiction","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A series of decapitations on a Swiss mountainside appear to be connected to a mysterious radioactive cloud, not unlike one that appeared in the Andes years earlier.Although one of the earliest films to be lampooned on Mystery Science Theater 3000, there is no denying the growing reputation this movie has received over the years not only was it referenced in Stephen King's It, but was also the primary influence behind John Carpenter's minimalist masterpiece The Fog (which itself has gone on to influence others).Crawling Eye was the debut feature for director Quentin Lawrence, and probably remains his best-known work. Writer Jimmy Sangster (adapting the work of Peter Key) had only been working a few years, but was a rising star with such Hammer classics as Dracula and Curse of Frankenstein under his belt. Here he crafts a tale of science gone wrong mixed with the living dead, and done to perfection.Most interestingly, shortly before the film was released, Lawrence directed a 6-part television miniseries with Key writing the episodes. Today, no copies are thought to exist, and there is no way to know what changes were made for the big screen, as well as what cuts had to be administered to accommodate the shorter running time.Leading the cast is Forrest Tucker as United Nations troubleshooter Alan Brooks. Tucker had been in nearly 100 films during the 1940s and 50s, and easily handles his role here as the hero -- part action star, part scientific genius. He is assisted by Warren Mitchell as a caricatured Swiss professor (a portrayal which provides the film's only comic relief).The standout performance comes from Janet Munro as a semi-psychic young woman who goes into trances when she nears the cloud. One gets the impression that she had a bright career before her, and indeed was given a Golden Globe in 1960. Sadly, she passed unexpectedly at age 38.Today's audiences might find some of the special effects cheesy. Obviously the crew used miniature sets and plenty of rear projection. But in general, there is no denying the impressive use of fog, the freezing effects and the creepy realism of the titular eye. While other 1950s films were busy using radiation as a plot device for large bugs, this one went in a completely different direction -- possibly the only film of its kind.Notably, Crawling Eye was the final film to be produced by Southall Studios, one of the earliest pioneer film studios in the UK, which had made a steady stream of films since 1924. They went out on a high note, which is always nice. "},{"Title":"Loved the movie","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was scared to death by this movie at 6 when it was 2 years old. Later I found it in a movie store marked as one of the worst science fiction movies of all time. I bought it. The movie no longer scares me but it is well written and can be watched again and again if you don't mind drinking,smoking and offering the same to others when you want to be polite. I liked the acting, writing and story which to me were not over the top and let me add I like movies but am not a huge fan of 1950s science fiction. I am not fond of classics from that era when we were fighting the cold war and the aliens represent evil. The special effects are not special but if that makes no difference to you, this is a good movie. "},{"Title":"The Trollenberg Terror","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quentin Lawrence directed this British science fiction horror film that stars Forrest Tucker as UN science investigator Alan Brooks, who goes to a remote mountaintop Swiss Village where a series of mysterious decapitation murders have taken place. Also there is Professor Crevett(played by Warren Mitchell) and a young woman with psychic powers(played by Janet Munro) who discover strange aliens who are crawling eyeballs who travel in the fog! The survivors try to escape their hotel to find a way to defeat them. Strange film is atmospheric but hurt by its silly monsters and inadequate F/X. Would have been better to keep them more in the fog, where they would have been eerie. "},{"Title":"If the film did not crawl so slowly it would have been pretty good.","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie started out kind of interesting, but then got real slow in the middle. It picks up again at the end, but it just moved to slowly and refused to reveal the monsters for to long to be a good movie. The story has these two sisters on a train making their way to Geneva, however, one of the sisters apparently has a vision or something and they end up stopping in this one resort mountain town where some strange things have been happening. Seems a lot of climbers are disappearing and there is even an incident where one climber lost his head in an unexplainable way. Well a guy visiting the area seems to suspect something and his friend at the observatory also believes something is happening that is more sinister than just a bunch of freak accidents. However, during the middle portion of the film there is just a bit to much speculation and way to much build up before they finally let us see the monsters in all their glory. They do not look that bad for the time, as I have seen a lot worse monsters in films made much later than this one. The film is also rather more bloody with a couple of people who have lost their heads along the way. The film was just very close to being a good movie, perhaps a better cast could have helped this one as I had a hard time understanding the ones they had at times during the film. Also, they could have been a lot less skittish about their monsters and give us an earlier peek. So while overall I did not like it, it was not boring and borderline good. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable enough 50's sci-fi horror film.","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Trollenberg Terroris set in the Swiss village of Trollenberg where several climbers have mysterious disappeared while climbing th Trollenberg mountain with one being found dead after having been decapitated. A nearby research observatory run by cosmic ray scientist Professor Crevett (Warren Mitchell) has detected a strange cloud that seems to be hovering at the peak of the mountain, Crevett sends for UN scientist Alan Brooks (Forrest Tucker) who arrives is shown the cloud & informed that is is radioactive. The cloud starts move down the mountain as more people turn up dead, finally the scientists realise that they are dealing with hostile aliens that want to take over the world.This British made sci-fi horror film was released in the US under the more sensationalistic title of The Crawling Eye & was cut down from 84 minutes to 75 minutes by the distributors who wanted to get to the alien monsters quicker, the version I will be basing my comment on is the full 84 minute cut under the title The Trollenberg Terror. Directed by Quentin Lawrence from a script by Hammer horror regular Jimmy Sangster this is a fairly decent little sci-fi horror film, the setting helps with it's small isolated village & hazardous mountain terrain & the actual alien monsters are kept off screen until the last fifteen minutes which helps build suspense because when they do make an appearance the special effects are not very special at all. There's a fair amount of theorising going on & huge leaps of logic are made by the character's, it's never really really revealed why the aliens are here anyway apart from a guess by Crevett. There's no explanation as how the aliens decapitated that guy in the log cabin since all the doors were locked from the inside, why did they decapitate people anyway? It moves along at a decent enough pace & has a nice mix of horror & sci-fi but I wouldn't call it a classic. A perfectly fine way to pass 80 odd minutes but not much else, it's fairly predictable & just about meets the genres standards but rarely rises above them if truth be told.Once the alien monsters are seen at the end they look alright when required to do nothing but sit there, when they need to move & act menacing the effects fall apart. The monsters look like giant pulsing brains with an eye & tentacles that are alright conceptually but when brought to life on screen with unconvincing model shots, silly sound effects & tentacles that look more like rope the effective creepiness that the film had built up with it's mystery is lost. The main hero doesn't even really get to fight them as he just ask's for a load of bombs to be dropped, The Trollenberg Terror never quite comes to life. The film was based on an original six part television series made by the BBC called The Trollenberg Terror (1956) which no longer exists, the makers obviously saw the success the Quatermass film had after that too had been adapted from a BBC serial & wanted to cash-in with more of the same. Unusually for a film of this period there's a headless body shown & a decapitated head in a sack.Shot on what was probably a low budget this was filmed in Middlesex here in England. Production values are alright, some of the sets look a little fake & the special effects don't hold up too well but it's a product of it's time & could have been worse. The acting is OK, it's not great but again it could have been worse.The Trollenberg Terror, of the The Crawling Eye if you prefer is a good 50's sci-fi horror film that is of it's time & suffers from the limitations of it. A decent enough way to pass 80 minutes if nothing else. "},{"Title":"The fog!","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" More than one poster here has drawn a comparison between Eye and X-Files, and I heartily agree. I am not saying Chris Carter was familiar with Eye, but the similarities are there. An investigator into the paranormal for the U.N. gets a cal from an old buddy to check out a disturbing situation atop Trollenberg Mountain. These two investigated a similar case in Peru or somewhere like that several years earlier. Turns out the disturbance is aliens from outer space, as it was in the Peru case. The aliens move about in a radioactive cloud and kill people in gruesome fashion. Some of those they kill become their undead slaves. The same day the U.N. investigator arrives, a pair of sisters show up who perform a mentalist act. The catch is, one of the sisters is indeed telepathic, and is receiving messages from the aliens. We mercifully don't get a good look at the aliens until halfway through, as they are ludicrous looking puppets that wouldn't scare a 4 year old. But before they are revealed, the suspense is built nicely and the film is quite unsettling. Forrest Tucker plays the investigator and the very pretty Janet Munro of Darby O'Gill fame is the telepath. As low budget and backlot stagey as Eye is, it is worth a look. Avoid the MST3K version, unless all you are after is a laugh. "},{"Title":"Remember this film from the 1970's","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember this film from the 1970's, when it used to be one of the staple Sci-Fi/Horror films they showed on UHF stations on Saturdays. It's actually a much better film than I remember. I have to assume that the Americanized version I watched as a kid was heavily edited so the context was lost.It was usually titled The Crawling Eye in the US, and the fact that it had Forrest Tucker (later better known for Comedy) makes you forget that this was in fact a British film.The plot is that a mysterious cloud appears in the Swiss Alps, accompanied by a number of unexplained deaths. A team of heroes which includes a mind reader and her sister, a scientist, a reporter and a UN investigator, fight a bunch of monsters who live in super-cold clouds.The climax is when they are trapped in the observatory, battling the beasts who are finally revealed to be one-eyed giant octopi. In many ways, the ending is anti-climatic because they did a very good job of building suspense without showing you the monster, but when the monster is revealed, well, it just kind of looked silly and could be easily defeated with Molotov Cocktails.This movie also has the distinction of being the first film mocked by Mystery Science Theatre 3000, which is kind of sad, because it isn't that bad of a film. "},{"Title":"Looked at seriously, it reminds me a lot of Dr. Who","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ()Possible Spoilers() You could actually take this story and make it a Dr. Who serial and it would be a perfect fit. Think about it... 1> Forrest Tucker works for a UN Phenomena Research Bureau and has run across things like this before. 2> There is something out in the clouds that tears off human heads. 3> Those not killed by the monster return to the village as zombie assassins. 4> The monsters effects are awful once fully revealed. 5> Everything is done and everyone acts with deadly seriousness.I've always loved this film and try to introduce it to as many people as possible. My daughter saw it at age 8 and loves it too. It's very creepy until after the first time we see the EYE in the lodge with the little girl. I would love to get my hands on the original British TV serial. If anyone out there knows if it still exists, let us know. I've seen the Quatermass serials and would like to add this to my collection. Maybe someone could digitize the EYES and make this a really good flick. RATING 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An Eyeful!","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw this movie as a kid, it really scared me.  But when I finally got it on tape and saw it uncut . . . those eyes were not nearly as scary as I remembered.   Some highlights In the beginning, on the train, watch Forrest Tucker's newspaper.  The plot moves along pretty well, one of the best scenes takes place in a cabin, where an unsuspecting climber suddenly finds himself alone when his friend takes a midnight stroll.  As he is talking to Forrest Tucker at the lodge he hears . . . a noise outside!  Has his friend returned?  Go ahead, stupid, open the door.  AHHHH!  What is it?  The line goes dead.  They find him later, but he's lost his head.  When we finally we get to see these creatures, one is trying to steal a little girl's ball, along with the little girl.  With everyone crowded in the halls of the observatory, our hero and his scientific side-kick decide to bomb their uninvited guests. Bomb a cloud?   Neat bomb.  It leaves the eyes dripping and in need of eye drops.  It doesn't hurt the building, even though it was a direct hit on the roof.  Oh, and there WAS that hole in the wall made by an eye trying to grab Janet Murno.  See this movie.  It's a real eyeful. "},{"Title":"THE TROLLENBERG TERROR (Quentin Lawrence, 1958) **1/2","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the late Jimmy Sangster's 'extra-curricular activities', as it were, was taking some time off from Hammer Films and contributing scripts to other 'brand names' this, in fact, is among a handful he made for the movie-making team of Robert S. Baker and Monty Berman. While here he was dealing in science-fiction, he would also pen their JACK THE RIPPER (1959) and THE SIEGE OF SIDNEY STREET (1960), both of which attempted to recreate notorious real-life incidents and whose own viewing will follow presently.Like Hammer's own QUATERMASS titles (scripted by Nigel Kneale), which were the prototype of this subgenre, the film under review saw its origins as a TV serial actually, Sangster had earlier been responsible for X&#x96;THE UNKNOWN (1956), the very first off-shoot of that classic franchise (again made by the famed British House Of Horror). Still, even if the writing is reasonably intelligent (feeding on the alien invasion/mind control themes then prevalent within the genre), the 'lower-berth' nature of the production does render the proceedings slightly less than persuasive for one thing, the design of the creature (The Crawling Eye, as the U.S. moniker would have it, though there is actually more than one and it can perhaps best be described as an over-sized octopus!) is more silly than scary, their telepathic connection to Janet Munro's character never properly explained&#x85;nor, for that matter, just what kind of threat she was supposed to pose for them that they had to send 'zombies' &#x96; whose flesh literally disintegrates when exposed to extreme heat &#x96; in order to eliminate her, since she is mostly so distraught by these visions that she faints outright after each experience! Another illogical detail pertains to the walls of the fortress-like conservatory (to which the severely under-populated village retreats during the alien clampdown), which are shown as not able to withstand the sheer impact of the invaders' weight, yet we are asked to believe that the bombs fired away by the stock-footage planes that come to the rescue will not harm the edifice! This is not forgetting the monsters' victims, which are bafflingly left beheaded (though this may have been merely a way of incorporating gory effects, which were becoming fashionable around this time!).I cannot say whether it was done on purpose, but it seems to me that the Central European setting in this case was a direct nod to the Universal FRANKENSTEIN films (which had just been revived by none other than Hammer with the involvement of Sangster himself!), down to the iconic moment in which an innocent young girl comes face to face with the monster &#x96; though here she is saved by hero Forrest Tucker. Typically, an American lead (albeit hardly a star) was recruited to secure overseas commercial appeal actually, he had already appeared in Hammer's fine THE ABOMINABLE SNOWMAN (1957; scripted by Kneale and co-starring company and genre icon Peter Cushing) and would also make the even less distinguished THE STRANGE WORLD OF PLANET X (1958; which I have yet to watch, even if I do have a TV-sourced copy of it somewhere!).Mind you, while I seem to have been rather harsh on the film, I enjoyed it a good deal if anything, apart from the familiar suspense situations and exciting action sequences, it is well-enough cast &#x96; numbering among its other protagonists future Hammer alumni Jennifer Jayne (from KISS OF THE VAMPIRE 1963 and THE REPTILE 1966) as Munro's elder sister and the other half of their clairvoyant stage-act, Laurence Payne (who had been the protagonist of the interesting Poe adaptation THE TELL-TALE HEART 1960) as an initially suspicious figure who, revealed to be a scoop-seeking reporter, eventually turns heroic and Warren Mitchell as the obligatory eccentric scientist (who has summoned former colleague Tucker to Trollenberg after a similar 'radioactive cloud' occurrence &#x96; which the aliens utilize to travel in! &#x96; at another mountain-top setting, the Andes, some years before). "}{"Title":"I am the eye in the cloudy sky, crawling at you &#133;","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the lesser-known entries in the massive offer of alien-invasion Sci-Fi/horror movies of the 50's decade, The Trollenberg Terror benefices from a neat and continuously gripping atmosphere, decent acting performances and a supremely cool type of extraterrestrial opponents, shaped &#150; as the a.k.a title implies &#150; like gigantically crawling eyes. It takes a little while before the crawling eyes are properly shown on screen, but they instantly reminded me of the Brainbug in Starship Troopers. I wonder if Paul Verhoeven & C found some inspiration in this underrated and almost forgotten gem of British horror. Trollenberg is the name of a picturesque little village in Switserland, famous and popular particularly among Alpinists. A befriended colleague has called the eminent scientist Alan Brooks here because, lately, several climbers died under mysterious circumstances whilst climbing the Trollenberg. They were gruesomely decapitated after the passing of an odd and seemingly unnatural cloud of mist. Meanwhile, traveling sisters Anne and Sarah Pelgrim interrupt their voyage to Geneva because some higher force calls to them. Jimmy Sangster penned down the script for this film, and if you're slightly familiar with the work he did for the legendary Hammer Studios, you know he was one of the most gifted and professional writers of his time. He puts the main emphasis on tension and pays almost no attention to the potentially corny relationships between characters. Admittedly some sequences, entire chapters even, are quite dull and redundant and the climax is disappointing as well. Nevertheless, an underrated and recommended film. "},{"Title":"The Crawling Plot","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When it comes to B movies, The Crawling Eye is pretty well-done.  Of course, this is not always a good thing, as it means less fun in the form of derisive cat-calls available for the viewer to hurl at it.  But in the case of this movie, it is just suspenseful enough to overcome its own quality. In it we have Forrest Tucker, long past his prime and career swirling down towards the inevitable Columbo episodes, as our hero, out to foil the nefarious plans of mist-dwelling aliens who take the form of huge, gelatinous eyes.  Unfortunately for us, they only make their appearance in the final third of the film, but when they do the predictably cheesy SFX provides an ample cue for invective throwing on the part of us poor viewers. But as I said, the suspense story which leads us to the final confrontation, while leisurely-paced, is strong enough to carry us along for the ride.  All in all, a competent B film experience.  "},{"Title":"For once, the UN does something right!","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film is set at the Trollenberg--a mountain in the Alps. It seems that several mountain climbers have been decapitated recently. Upon investigating, they discover that it's due to the presence of aliens. One way they know is that a lady among them seems to have psychic powers and she can sense these otherworldly creatures. The other is that they actually see the bizarre things. To try and describe the odd creatures is very hard--you really have to see it. It looks a bit like an octopus, a giant eyeball and a lot of pus all rolled into one.This is a decent 1950s horror/sci-fi film, though the monsters themselves are certainly NOT the highlight of the film. Another less than stellar aspect of the film is how incredibly easy these things turned out to be! What is decent is the rest of the story as well as the acting--led by veteran American actor, Forrest Tucker, in this British production. While far from great, the film is less silly than most (at least until you see the aliens) and the story (at least up until then) seems thoughtful and interesting.By the way, if you do watch the film, you'll see that in a rare case of actually accomplishing something, the UN comes to the rescue. "},{"Title":"Eye laughed...Eye cried","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  aka The Crawling Forrest TuckerClassic B grade 50s terror flick.  It definitely dragged, there were parts where the actors dialogue was garbled, so no plot was necessary.  There's 2 girls who'll accept a drink from anyone.  One of them goes cosmic and foresees danger in Trollenville.  Oh, guys fight, lots of heads chopped off, and some crazy guys wield a cleaver and a pick-ax.  I also loved how they failed miserably on building tension and suspense by not showing one eyeball until an hour into it!!  I lashed out at first, but laughed at the crappy efx especially where the eyeball grabs the action figure on the 5th grade model set. I recommend seeing this...heh heh. "},{"Title":"By any other name, this movie sucks.","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Regardless of what you call this movie, it is polluted with the presence of Forrest Tucker.  I've seen children who don't overact this badly.  Tucker plays a scientific-type with some hazy relationship with the United Nations that allows him to call in a bombing run on himself at any time.Tucker has a his scientific teammate a stereotypical German scientist who bears a faint resemblence to Groucho Marx.  Unfortunately, it would have been better had Harpo Marx had the part.  Groucho butchers his lines like they were so much butt steak.The sisters who play opposite Tucker & Groucho are fairly straightforward in their performances.  They give a sense of reality to a film that sorely lacks it.Don't watch this for sfx -- they're not there.  Watch it as a change of pace from the usual '50s bomb scare. "},{"Title":"Long and pointless and boring","Date":"22 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Forrest Tucker is the lead actor you pretty much already know you're in for it.This movie was long and dull and never got around to any good stuff you expect from a horror/sci-fi film.A remote village in Switzerland is attacked by a strange mist.Within the mist live strange hideous creatures that like to kill humans or raise humans from the dead and have them kill other humans.Anyway the village people all seek refuge in an observatory on the mountainside that is built to withstand avalanches.Now I probably made it sound better than it actually is.The whole picture is pretty much just Tucker and some other guys standing around talking about the mist creatures.Only near the end of the picture do we get to any action and boy that sucks too.The special effects were clearly done by someone who had no idea how to do special effects.The miniatures looked painfully obvious.No scale was given to anything.A small Molotov cocktail made giant flames when compared to the building beside it.One special effects shot was a close-up of the melted plastic used to make the small scale stuff.Surprisingly the acting was pretty good from all involved.The actors were just bogged down by a dreadfully boring script. But Tucker was his usual hammy self,putting his hand over his eyes whenever he was trying to emote terror.Even the title of this thing is a mixed up mess.I suppose The Trollenberg Terror was a bit vague and the supposed scarier title The Crawling Eye is just misleading.A bad movie all the way around.Skip this snooze fest. "},{"Title":"Evil Eye Blobs Decapitate Alpine Idiots!","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The eyes have it!  Yes, 4 nasty slithering eye blobs from outer space have surrounded an Alpine mountain, lopping climbers' heads off, and only Forrest Tucker can save the world - which is cause itself for a deep depression. Tucker overacts shamelessly as usual - before making bad tv (F Troop, Ghost Busters), he was making bad to mediocre moovies throughout the 40's, 50's, and 60's, and The Crawling Eye showcases yet another gruff, stuffy, scene-chewing performance.  This time, his nemesis is a couple of very crudely cowstructed eye creatures - they sort of look like squid blobs with one eye, but they have optic nerves (on strings) which reach out and get people. Unfortunate close-ups cannot disguise the fact that the eye creatures are blobs bobbing on a miniature set.  Fortunately a plane drops bombs on the blobs, which apparently hurt only them and not the building beneath them, so the earth is saved.  Cute telepathic chickadee Janet Munroe went on to such films as Darby O'Gill & the Little People, Swiss Family Robinson, and Bitter Harvest.   As for The Crawling Eye, it is a dull, tepid, tension-less blob of celluloid; the ludicrously poor fx provide an occasional chuckle, but for the moost part, MooCow says keep this turkey in the freezer!=8P "},{"Title":"The cloud on the side of the mountain....","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...isn't a sign of alien eyeball creatures. It's the steam from this pile of a movie! As of this writing, this movie has a 4.6 rating? How is this possible. The horrible quality of the soundtrack alone would get it a 3 alone! The soundtrack literally pops, hisses, crackles, sounds like an out of tune radio receiver, and so much more that it's just awful.The Crawling Eye is about eyeball creatures that live in some mountains. They prey on human mountain climbers apparently out of pleasure of ripping heads off the human victim's bodies! In the end, the creatures are killed by an airplane dropping bombs on the creatures and burning them to death.It truly is a horrible movie. The acting is passable, however the lines they were given weren't. The special effects are pretty laughable, although there are a couple shots of the eyeball creatures that aren't terrible. Overall it's fairly simple, this movie sucks. Only watchable as the MST3k version.1/10 "},{"Title":"Unspectacular, silly science fiction/horror film","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  1st watched 12/1/1999 - 2 stars (Dir-Quentin Lawrence) Unspectacular, silly science fiction/horror film about giant alien crawling eyes that live in radioactive clouds in the mountains and decapitate their victims. Enough said. "},{"Title":"Dreadfully lame sci-fi.","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A Swiss mountain top is menaced by a cosmic mist that harbors a threat to the world; a giant, crawling eyeball. Totally bad and a waste of time. Grade school children might enjoy. Forrest Tucker is the only known star. "}]