[{"Title":"Works for sheer audacity, shameless conviction of its aims.","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"38 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For what this is (a rather over-heated horror sci-fi stew), it works for its sheer audacity and shameless full-bore conviction of its aims. Mad scientist movies end up resorting to long shots of people in white lab coats talking in sterile sets. But this one has a woman's head in the tray, fighting with the doctor, yelling at the monster in the closet, and engaging the assistant in metaphysical questions usually not heard in such low-budget potboilers.Nice dynamic that it's his fiancé that he wants to save...but she has become so bitter since becoming a disembodied head in a tray of water. I remember watching this for the first time on TV in the early 70s and being amazed they used to make movies like this.Better than average camera work, also, trying to get a sense of vertigo and movement throughout. This film with its hell-bent-for-leather pace is a fever-dream that works because it doesn't let go, or tip you to the fact that the makers thought it was ridiculous as it certainly is. Be sure to get the restored version with the monster in the closet finally grabbing the doctor's arm and making a bloody mess at the end. A great cathartic bloody end to this near Shakespearean morality play about how man should not meddle in god's business.  "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE WAS GREAT!","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"48 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was one of the first CREEPY movies I ever saw...I was about 5 at the time. It scared me GOOD! But that night I put chewing gum in one eye to be like the monster...and my mom got very upset. She had to clean my eye with alcohol and the next day my eye smelled like DOUBLE MINT! NOW THAT'S A MOVIE! Hey for it's time it was a great movie. That Head sitting on the lab counter top was as real as it got back then. And IF your 5 it is VERY SCARY! Kids now a days are spoiled by special effects that show too much and leave NOTHING for your minds imagination. Your mind can imagine things more scarier than special effects! (IMO) "},{"Title":"A 1950s Mens Magazine version of a movie","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"36 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With all the teasecake in Brain (shot in 1959 but released in 1963), the locations (a loner wandering through strip clubs, swimsuit contests, a model's studio, in a convertible following and picking up women on the street) and the wolfish emphasis on full-length shots of near-naked stacked women, the movie has the sensibility and style of the men's magazines of that time (with symbolic titles like Rogue, Knave, Dude, Bachelor, Caper, etc.). It's surprising that it hasn't been remade and updated, even if only for the cable or home video market, like Not of This Earth, Little Shop of Horrors, How To Make A Monster and other B programmers. Sure it's a cheap little film but that's the fun of it.  "},{"Title":"'60s Schlockfest","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The opening credits bear the title THE BRAIN THAT WOULDN'T DIE. Some 80 minutes later, the same film is strangely billed as THE HEAD THAT WOULDN'T DIE in the end credits. That gives you an idea of how much effort went into this '60s schlockfest.But that doesn't mean it's not worth watching if you're in the right mood. Jason Evers (who would later lend his considerable talents to such memorable efforts as A PIECE OF THE ACTION and A MAN CALLED GANNON) stars as a wacky doc who thinks it'd be just super to keep his fiancée's head alive in his laboratory after her untimely decapitation in a car accident. He's understandably not content marrying a head, so he seeks out an appropriate (though not necessarily willing!) body donor.Much of the action takes place in the mad doc's basement lab (likely marking one of the final times the traditionally cheesy horror film lab set was put to use). Jan Compton (Virginia Leith), or Jan in the Pan as she's called, spends an awful lot of time yapping and whining. Another IMDb reviewer wasn't far off when he likened her to THE HEAD THAT WOULDN'T SHUT UP! Can you blame her? She's understandably not content to live this sort of life. But what's really holding her interest (and mine... there, I admitted it) is the doctor's other monstrous creation, which keeps trying to pound its from behind its single-doored prison. Will our hero find a body for his woman? Are the authorities on to him? Why am I enjoying this so much? Those are just some of the questions you'll find yourself asking.THE BRAIN THAT WOULDN'T DIE comes to us in the tradition of PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE and THE BEAST OF YUCCA FLATS, though it's not quite on par with those films in terms of so bad it's good appeal. As incredible as it sounds, the picture is legitimately able to hold the viewer's interest with its outrageous plot and suspense built up over the creature behind the door. Sure it goes on a bit too long and sure there are dull moments, but what did you expect?Admit it. If you haven't seen this one, at least part of you wants to. It's probably that part that yearns for pure, unadulterated stupidity from grown men and women from time to time. So indulge that inner glutton with THE BRAIN THAT WOULD'T DIE. "},{"Title":"A Little Head, Any One?","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" THE BRAIN THAT WOULDN'T DIE was considered so distasteful in 1959 that several cuts and the passage of three years was required before it was released in 1962. Today it is difficult to imagine how anyone could have taken the thing seriously even in 1959; the thing is both lurid and lewd, but it is also incredibly ludicrous in a profoundly bumptious sort of way.The story, of course, concerns a doctor who is an eager experimenter in transplanting limbs--and when his girl friend is killed in a car crash he rushes her head to his secret lab. With the aid of a few telephone cords, a couple of clamps, and what looks very like a shallow baking pan, he brings her head back to life. But is she grateful? Not hardly. In fact, she seems mightily ticked off about the whole thing, particularly when it transpires that the doctor plans to attach her head to another body.As it happens, the doctor is picky about this new body he wants one built for speed, and he takes to cruising disconcerted women on city sidewalks, haunting strip joints, visiting body beautiful contests, and hunting down cheesecake models in search of endowments that will raise his eyebrow. But back at the lab, the head has developed a chemically-induced psychic link with another one of the doctor's experiments, this one so hideous that it is kept locked out of sight in a handy laboratory closet. Can they work together to get rid of the bitter and malicious lab assistance, wreck revenge upon the doctor, and save the woman whose body he hankers for? Could be! Leading man Jason Evers plays the roguish doctor as if he's been given a massive dose of Spanish fly; Virginia Leith, the unhappy head, screeches and cackles in spite of the fact that she has no lungs and maybe not even any vocal chords. Busty babes gyrate to incredibly tawdry music, actors make irrational character changes from line to line, the dialogue is even more nonsensical than the plot, and you'll need a calculator to add up the continuity goofs. On the whole THE BRAIN THAT WOULDN'T DIE comes off as even more unintentionally funny than an Ed Wood movie.Director Joseph Green actually manages to keep the whole thing moving at pretty good clip, and looking at the film today it is easy to pick out scenes that influenced later directors, who no doubt saw the thing when they were young and impressionable and never quite got over it. The cuts made before the film went into release are forever lost, but the cuts made for television have been restored in the Alpha release, and while the film and sound quality aren't particularly great it's just as well to recall that they probably weren't all that good to begin with.Now, this is one of those movies that you'll either find incredibly dull or wildly hilarious, depending on your point of view, so it is very hard to give a recommendation. But I'll say this if your tastes run to the likes of Ed Wood or Russ Meyers, you need to snap this one up and now! Four stars for its cheesy-bizarreness alone! GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Classic Ham and Cheesecake","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is wonderful over-the-top entertainment for fans of sleaze cinema. Some people apparently don't like this film because everyone in it is evil. Thankfully, that is true. There's nothing more boring than all those nice, bland heroes and heroines. Yecchh!! Our cast here is totally over-the-top bad. Leslie Daniels in particular as the doctor's Igor-like sidekick puts on his best (or should I say worst?) Richard III impression, complete with withered hand and drawn out Shakespearean rant. A classic ham! And there's cheesecake for everyone with busty babes bursting out from every corner (as long as the doctor has to find a new body to crown his girlfriend's head on... well, who wouldn't pick the creme de la creme?). There's even a fabulous (meee-owww!) cat fight between two strippers that probably levitated a lot of audiences back in 1960. And ... RE-ANIMATOR fans will love the similarities of the angst-ridden head in the tray trying to seize a little power. So, how can anyone say this film is bad in a bad way? You want good, go watch DONOVAN's BRAIN, a very competent but forgettable little film made several years earlier. This film is a like a mad, campy Halloween party. Leave your attitude behind, and try to enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Good, Old-fashioned Fun","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had a heck of a good time viewing this picture, and was splendidly surprised at its more erudite features.  First off, the film is undeniably cheaply-made with its cardboard sets, limited settings, and creative scientific props.  The acting ranges from very poor(the two strippers), barely professional(Herb Evers as the leading man), gothic overstatement(Leslie Daniels as the assistant Kurt)to first-rate with Virginia Leith in the title role as the headless victim alive against her will for the benefit of science and her fiancee's lustful passions.  The scripting though is very good and the dialogue is fantastic for a movie of this ilk.  Issues abound about what role science and medicine have in our lives and what their boundaries should be.  This film is a thinking film in many ways.  However, don't be too fooled by its real intent.  It is a sleazy story about a man obsessed with his aptitude in medical science who wishes to fuse together his dead girlfriend's head with the perfect body, thereby creating the perfect woman for a man with the best of both body and soul.  One other very bright aspect of the film is the sax music which resonates strongly every time the doctor scours town for female beauties. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The unethical surgeon Dr. Bill Cortner (Herb Evers) is developing a technique of transplantation of organs and members using a serum against rejection. When he has a car accident with his girlfriend Jan Compton (Virginia Leith), he saves her head only, and tries to find a woman with a beautiful body to transplant Jan's head against her will.I found the low budget movie The Brain That Wouldn't Die very underrated in IMDb. The story is not so bad, and certainly inspired Frankenhooker and The Man with Two Brains. The acting and the direction are very reasonable, and there are some mistakes of edition (for example, when Dr. Bill Cortner is having a conversation in the car with his friend on the sidewalk), but these errors just contribute to make the movie funnier. The make-up of the creature is great. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) O Cérebro Que Não Queria Morrer (The Brain That Did not Want to Die) "},{"Title":"Hey, it ain't that bad","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is an absolute classic for camp. That is why it was an Elvira and MST3000 classic. Everyone knows the story. Scientist keeps his girlfriend's head alive in a lasagna pan in his basement while he cruises town and tries to find her a body by checking out the local chicks. Finally he finds a real hourglass body with a scar-faced chick's head on top. The severed head makes friends with the failed experiment in the closet and the conehead comes out of the closet and rips off the assistant's remaining good arm (his other is not right from a scientist's earlier failure), and the whole place burns down.The movie scared us so much as kids that my friend wouldn't go into his basement for a year after seeing it. As kids we ranked the scariest movies of all time and this one was number four. Only one of those scary movies was really any good (the Original The Haunting.)I had to give this movie a seven rating for the tremendous amount of entertainment value it offers. Its eerie effect because of the crappy production and the weird sexual angle when the scientist looks for the bodies (complete with porno sound track) scares the hell out of innocent children, while the ridiculous aspects make it prime material for watching talking and laughing. I could watch this film tonight and enjoy it while I'd rather go to the Dentist than watch Chicago again.Seven is the most I can give it, because its entertainment value is mere luck. The film , as cinema, is a disaster.  "},{"Title":"Don't watch it alone!  Have friends over and laugh together!","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This one hearkens back to the days of the matinée, when kids with nowhere else to hang out took their dates to the balcony after dumping their younger siblings below. It didn't matter what was on the screen - the little kids would sit through it and the big kids would ignore it. The adults, of course, would never see it.But they put it on video, anyway, along with most of the other creaky, low-budget B horror flicks of the golden age...of television. This film's inherent and unintentional humor is derived from stale ideology (the bad girls harvested to replace poor Jan's crushed body - they had it comin'), overused plot (a mad scientist, trying to play God), violent yet conscientious monster (whose presence in the heretofore-normal-seeming scientist's rural lab is never fully explained), and acting that polarizes at wooden or over-the-top.This is a great party film, assuming your guests enjoy adding dialog and commentary to otherwise abominable cinematic exploits. In fact, should you or your guests prefer more passive entertainment, this film is also available on video in its Mystery Science Theater 3000 treatment, in which the host and puppets of the cult TV series make the necessary additions for you. "}{"Title":"Excellent, atmospheric shocker made for the pre-1977 world","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of those movies that puzzles today's audiences. They're so jaded with mega-million dollar budgeted, hyperactive action films, they have no idea what movies were like before Star Wars ruined the market for drive-ins and one-screen sidewalk theaters.Brain That Wouldn't Die is a personal favorite of mine. I grew up seeing it occasionally on Detroit's WKBD-TV50 Saturday night Chiller Movie Double Feature during the 1970s. It was the perfect thriller to watch late at night (in those days stores closed and people went to bed early), after a long sunny week in school and playing outside. There were no computers, cellphones, video games, cable TV or videos back then. You had three or four channels and they signed off after the news. If you were still up after 1130pm, you felt like the last person on earth; the perfect setting in which to watch this type of picture.The film sets a nightmarish tone immediately with its moody, creepy score and grim B&W cinematography. Yes, it's a low-budget independent film produced by people mostly just starting out. Given that it was most of the production's first screen credit, it is outstanding.Despite the comedy relief stripper scenes, the film was one of the more violent, gory and shocking at the time and for years that followed. Everyone's stomach turned over at the arm tearing out scene and my mother used to excuse herself from the room at that point, she found it so disturbing.Like Abbott & Costello before them--and MST3K after them--the Medved brothers ruined films like this by burlesquing them in their 1980 book, The Golden Turkey Awards. This and the post- Star Wars culture have doomed these movies to an eternity of sneering contempt from a younger audience weened on endless laser blasts, propane explosions and hyperactive CGI effects.Happily, I got to see and enjoy Brain That Wouldn't Die while it was still considered relevant. Every kid on the block used to know and love this movie--and I was one of them. "},{"Title":"Loved it when I was a kid....","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A scientist and his girl friend are out driving when his speeding causes a car crash. He escapes unharmed but she is decapitated. He saves her head, brings it to his house and keeps it alive (!!!!). He then proceeds to search out models and strippers for the perfect body for the head. His crippled assistant watches over the head which starts talking and has a telepathic (or telepathetic) link to a deformed monster kept in the closet....As you can see, this is pretty stupid stuff, but I had a certain fondness for it. When I grew up in the late 1970s, a local TV station showed this movie about 20 times each year (no exaggeration). They showed it always on Saturday afternoon TV--uncut. Seeing this on TV back then was great! Explicit blood and gore along with a gruesome monster and sleazy sexploitation--who cares if it was good? Seeing it now I realize how lousy this really is.The acting is perfectly wretched, the production values are nonexistent, the script is pretty dumb and (aside from the still pretty disgusting gore) this is dull stuff. There's also a mild cat fight between two women and the admittedly great monster at the end. Also add in an ending which leaves tons of loose ends. On one hand this is an interesting example of a 1960s exploitation film. On the other its utter trash. Either way, it's not a good movie but is a must-see (for one time only) for horror and gore fans.Also the head's laugh is pretty creepy. Note the end credits which gets the TITLE wrong (calling it The HEAD That Wouldn't Die)! "},{"Title":"Whew - guts, gore, and more - way back then!","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie scared heck out of me when I was just a kid. It's no Citizen Kane but it has its moments. The arm ripping scene is good. The plot is good even if characters aren't - could have something to do with the acting. Put some top name people in the roles and then see what you get. This was one of those shoot, edit (what little there was) and distribute in a couple of months type of movies. This is classic low budget sci-fi and deserves it just due. I rated it a 9 based other films of this genre and age. "},{"Title":"Was the monster that guy in the Diane Arbus photo?","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" We might call The Brain That Wouldn't Die a B-movie, but it actually wasn't too bad. Granted, the concept was pretty outlandish, but the movie is worth seeing (if only for sci-fi fetishists). The plot of course has Dr. Bill Cortner (Herb Evers) keeping lover Jan Compton's (Virginia Leith) decapitated head alive. The head befriends a monster (Eddie Carmel) in the closet.Sound far-fetched? It is, but the movie's pretty cool. And I remember that Diane Arbus titled one of her photos Jewish Giant Visiting His Parents in Brooklyn, and I think that it was Eddie Carmel in that photo. The things that we see in life... "},{"Title":"A sick movie, yes . . . but fun-ny!","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A surgeon (Jason Evers) and his fiancee' (Virginia Leith) crash their car on a lonely road, causing her to be decapitated.  Evers takes Miss Leith's head to his modest one-room laboratory (one small room, with very little equipment).  He puts her head in a shallow, liquid-filled pan and connects it to a few tubes.  Voila!  The head lives!  (And talks.  Never mind where the air comes from).Then, in an effort to find a replacement torso for his poor fiancee', Evers goes body shopping -- cruising the streets in his convertible while he ogles numerous shapely women in tight skirts.  (In fact, there doesn't seem to be anything BUT tight-skirted women walking the streets in his neighborhood.  How curious . . .)But with so many shapely female bodies to choose from, the good doctor gets overly picky about physical endowments, and he takes too long making his choice.  The wife loses her mind.  In a climactic orgy of bloody justice, Jason gets his just deserts when he is attacked by the dreaded Thing In The Closet, an imprisoned creation of a failed experiment.A blatantly low-budget film that never cracks smile.  But trust me, the audience can't keep a straight face through this classic. "},{"Title":"Disturbing for all the wrong reasons, but nonetheless interesting","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Brain (or head) that Wouldn't Die is one of the more thoughtful low budget exploitation films of the early 1960s. It is very difficult to imagine how a script this repulsively sexist could have been written without the intention of self-parody. And the themes that are expressed repeatedly by the female lead, Ginny Leith - a detached head kept alive by machines, I-Vs and clamps - seem to confirm that the film was meant to simultaneously exploit and critique gender stereotypes. Shades of the under-rated Boxing Helena.The genderisms are plentiful, and about as irritating as an army of angry ants. The dialog is hyperbolic, over-dramatic and unbelievable, and the acting is merely OK (but not consistent). Why have I given this film a 4? Because some thought clearly went into it. I am really not sure what point the film was really trying to make, but it seems clear that it strives for an unusually edgy and raw sort of horror (without the blood and guts today's audiences expect).Another unique and interesting aspect of the Brain is that there really are not any heroes in this film, and none of the characters are particularly likable.All considered, this is a fairly painful and disturbing look at early 1960s American pop sexuality, from the viewpoint of a woman kept alive despite her missing body after what should have been a fatal car crash. Her lover is threatening to sew a fresh, high quality, body onto her and force her to continue living with him. She is understandably non-plussed by all of this and forced to befriend a creature who is almost as monstrous as her boyfriend. Oh, there are also some vague references to the 1950s/60s cliché about the evils of science run amok.Recommended for B sci fi buffs and graduate students in gender studies. O/w not recommended. "},{"Title":"One of the greats","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What better movie is there than this? It gives you everything thrilling surgery scenes, exciting car chases, nailbiting stripper-fight tension, a talking severed head, a seven-foot-plus pinhead monster (sensitively played by Eddie Carmel), and some stunning scenes of verbal philosophy. Plus one of the greatest pieces of theme music ever recorded.Do yourself a favour and rent The Brain That Wouldn't Die today. "},{"Title":"A lot of fun if your expectations aren't too high.","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Granted, I didn't rent it because I wanted a deep, fulfilling cinematic experience...but would anyone in his or her right mind actually expect that from a movie with the phrase that wouldn't die, in the title?It has everything a cheesy sci-fi/horror flick from the '60s should right down to inherently over-dramatic line, You men are all alike.Realistic?  Nope.  Well-acted?  Nope.  Good SFX?  Nope.  Entertaining? Yes, yes, YES!  Once in a while, everyone needs a break from films that beg emotional involvement.  It's a quick, guilt-free 82 minutes. "},{"Title":"A perfect example of  good bad taste and a lot of fun.","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this movie on a local station on the Sunday afternoon horror show back around 1969 or 1970. Uncut. I was just a little kid at the time, but I loved it and wasn't really that scared by it. I thought it had such a cool and highly original storyline. Thinking back, I'm still surprised that it was shown during the day on T.V. uncut in those years. I've sought out this film ever since, seen it over and over again, and always loved it. One would think John Waters would have idolized this film. It's got to be not only a scary film, but one of the sleaziest, trashiest films ever made at that time. And surprisingly, you don't hear about this one as having the cult following that a movie such as Blood Feast or The Hills Have Eyes have acquired over the years. It has a cult following, but it should have really become a cult classic, in my opinion. As far as I know, this came out a little before Blood Feast came out, making this probably one of the first true gore films. In fact, this movie has elements of Hershell Gordon Lewis AND a little Russ Meyer thrown in for good measure.Anyway, I recommend this for anyone who likes trashy, sleazy, black and white horror films from the early '60's (I think the date at the end of it read 1960). "},{"Title":"a monster that vile is definitely worth the seventy-minute wait!","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There must be some reason they call them B movies and air them at 330AM.This one was called The Brain that Wouldn't Die and hailed from 1962.Some surgeon--collaborating with his surgeon dad--steals limbs from the discard pile to supply nefarious experiments at the country house. Give Junior some credit when dad's patient went Code Blue on the table, Junior's serum brought him back to life! (Dad mocked and mumbled about deleterious side effects, but Junior was like, whatever.)Junior's fiancée (Jane?) wanted to know the scoop at the country house. That, and Bill's earlier emergency call, motivated him to floor the pedal. Lo, curves ahead, and the fiancée burned to death--except for her severed head, which Junior saved (we see him wrap some treasure in his jacket, anyway), trudging uphill to the country house, conveniently located near the accident scene.The emergency was that it became so violent that it almost broke out of the closet. It, played by Jewish Giant Eddie Carmel, was the sum total of all of the surgeon's failures. Our first hint at the horror is Bill's withered, deformed arm. But Junior's interest lies more in saving his fiancée's detached head in a casserole dish of ducts, tubes, and Habitrails (sans hamsters, sadly) than in bemoaning his failed Heathkit. Though Jane repeatedly extols her telepathic capabilities, about all she can muster is to command her seven-foot pet, Knock once for 'yes', twice for 'no'. You won't score a Ph.D. from Duke's famed parapsychology squad for THIS shoddy work!So, what's up our surgeon's sleeve? He wants to kill a gorgeous prostitute as a host for Jane's head and brain. He discovers and befriends a gorgeous but facially disfigured girl, brings her home, and slips her a mickey. Zonk! Lights out!Meanwhile, Jane has exercised her penchant for Schadenfreude. Bill calls Jane a 'monster' subsisting on hatred while it in the closet is more partial to roast chicken. How unfortunate that Bill forgot to lock the little latch that permits him to insert food and such into the closet (though I wonder how they extricate the urine and feces! man, it must stink to high heaven!) for, at a signal from Jane, the monster grabs Bill's good arm and tears it off. Now, when I last saw the movie in 1986, the surgeon clearly saw Bill's denuded humerus hanging from his scapula when he got home and checked out the lab, but good old TCM spared us this detail. Yet, the censors still permitted Bill to decorate the office for us (again, during our absence) with generous smears of blood as he writhed and contorted--all over the lab, up and down the stairs--kind of like the modern artist who proudly composes Supine Apotheosis with Sausage Quintets; or, Multicolored Zapotec Boots with his paint-smeared feet.Well, back to the body-A-plus-cheek-F prostitute to whom the surgeon slipped the potion. He carries her unconscious form downstairs to the operating table, planning to decapitate her and sew on Jane's head, thereby building a new Jane. But, disapproving Jane engineers her surgeon hubby to a position right in front of the (still unlocked) closet door hatch and yells, Now! Kill him! The hatch ominously swings open. A huge, nicely manicured hand reaches through the door and grasps the surgeon's chin, simultaneously pulling and pushing with sufficient strength to rip the door right off the hinges and permit us to revel in the glory of grade-B 1962 costume work. Harryhausen would vomit; even Prohaska--who wasn't above playing an asbestos-skinned tunneler on Janus VI or a horned white gorilla on Neural--would gag.Our seven-foot cone-head (IMDB insisted on the dopey comma) sports lumps and bumps; limbs of variegated sizes; teeth and lips that do justice to 1980's Elephant Man; one eye that points forward; and another eye, a good six inches north, that looks squarely at Rigel. Brrr! The monster knocks down the Bunsen burner and sets fire to the lab; he also knocks the surgeon to the floor and throws the door to the side. Thanks to the TCM censors, we miss another lovely 1986 scene, where the monster takes a generous chomp from the surgeon's neck. (I mean, even a dummy can recognize the discontinuity when the music suddenly jumps; the creature instantly rematerializes from this corner of the room to that one; the standing, cowering surgeon is suddenly motionless on the floor; and the monster's tunic sports a fresh blood stain beneath his chin. Whatever the noble savage assesses the scene, rescues the prostitute, and trudges up the stairs on his way out of the country house.You know, I really wonder what a passing police officer would say of a horribly disfigured, seven-foot monster, dressed in blood-soaked surgical scrubs, carrying a girl (most likely, an incessantly screaming--once she's woken up--girl), but that's not our evident concern.Ah, well away in the interest of cinematic balance, we are treated to a closing philippic from Jane I told him to let me die! Not exactly Ray Harryhausen for special effects, and, for plotting, certainly no Maupassant, but the disfigured dude was worth the wait. Other than that, the picture wasn't worth a zloty. "}{"Title":"Seriously twisted","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie reminds of of an old black and white horror comic --- not the good ones, like TALES FROM THE CRYPT or CREEPY, but their sleazier offshoots like NIGHTMARE. And while the film is pretty bad by normal standards, it ranks high on the whacked-out-imagination meter, and maybe even higher on the anything-to-creep-you-out chart. I mean, anyone can make a movie where a guy's arm is torn off but it takes a special brand of sicko to make him a cripple with only one good arm and then tear THAT ONE off --- AND have him stagger around the room smearing the walls with blood from his stump. Ouch. The disembodied head is also pretty creepy when you actually think about it, thanks in large part to a quite good performance by Virginia Leith. And that mutant in the closet is a seriously ugly dude.Oh, and one other thing Meow. "},{"Title":"Give it a chance!","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I cannot believe that this is voted one of the worst movies ever! If you were one of the people that gave this movie a low vote, you either did not see it and just assumed it was bad or you automatically think it's bad because it is an old black and white, SciFi. OK honestly, the effects are out-of-date and they knew close to nothing about brain surgery at the time but the movie is well written and studying the cinematography of the movie, I can tell you everyone knew what they were doing. In fact, this movie was delayed for three years because it was very gory, for then, and when it was released, it was censored. Give the movie a chance! "},{"Title":"Classic 60's sleaze","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the quintessential 1960's cheap exploitation film.  It is without question one of the funniest ideas to ever have been made into a horror picture.  Mad scientist's wife dies, so he saves her head and goes to strip bars looking for a new body.  Meanwhile, there is that mysterious thing in the closet.  Its a shame that the movie was so badly done.  Why can't Hollywood remake the bad movies with good ideas, like this one, and make them better rather than remaking good movies and make them worse?   There is no denying that you have to overlook the bad parts of this movie to enjoy it, but I think the movie is worth more than being forever cropped with the shadows of the Mystery Science Theater people superimposed in the front.   Maybe a MST3K DVD, where you can have the option of viewing the film with and without the interruptions would be the right venue for this film.  I kindly rated the film a 6 of 10, for its sleazy spirit and outlandish plot.     "},{"Title":"One of the most ahead (excuse the pun) of it's time plots","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This plot has got to be the most original, and surprisingly ahead (excuse the pun) of its time idea I have ever seen come out of the 60's sci-fi/horror movies. Think about it, a man described as playing God while being ridiculed for his actions by his peers, while today, we have people trying to do the same thing. Stem cell research, cloning, back then it was just science fiction, but today, it's real! How profound is that! I say this is worth more than most people give it credit. Yes, I would agree that there are a couple of goofy scenes, especially during the crash, when the doctor gets thrown out of the car. That definitely was a little hard to swallow. And then when he went up to the car and put his coat into the fire, and then pulled it out. I really didn't understand exactly what he was doing. And the monster... Well, I gotta say, he's got some big hands. They were almost the size of the assistant's head! But never mind the small goofy spots, indulge yourself and pay attention to the plot. You'll actually find it far ahead of it's time. "},{"Title":"Well, it sorta did die, ya know!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mystery Science Theater 3000 rescues another classic from the dust bin -- and with a new victim for the mind-melting film-watching experiments. Mr. Nelson must suffer through this movie, but we can enjoy his suffering.Let's see -- where to begin. Slinky babes, sleezy music, severed heads, a closeted monster, a body-beautiful contest, a model who doesn't date men because she hates them all (just like the title character in KISS ME, KATE). And that's just for starters.A man loses his wife -- well, actually he loses her body but keeps her head, see? Then, of course, since he's a mad scientist, he has to go cruising around looking for a new body so she will be a whole woman again -- 'cause he's not into anything kinky, see?But guess what? Just like the Wolfman, this unappreciative head just wants to die. How ungrateful, huh?The dialogue is so overly unintentionally hilarious, you must hear it to believe it, and even then it's hard to believe.This is a surreal existential treatise that has the subtitle, A celebration of betrayal. Throw in some sci-fi and morgue humor, and you have a classic! And the closeted monster and the drugged model live happily ever after. What other movie could give you all of this? "},{"Title":"Heads on Baking Sheets, Cat Fights Between Strippers, and Tall Cone-Head Like Monsters What Is There Not To Like?","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Out of all the horrific science fiction/really weird and overdone movies from the 50's and 60's (e.g. Plan 9 From Outer Space, 'Manos' The Hands Of Fate, Queen of Outer Space, Eegah, etc.) this film is one of my favorites. The music is amazingly done and really adds something special to the excellently written scenes. The acting is top-notch for movies of this kind. The actress that plays Jan really makes it seem like she is just a head on a plate. She manipulates her voice so that it sounds huskier than before and kind of scratchy, just as anyone's voice would sound after they had been decapitated. Also, what is a bad movie from the sixties without hot babes? Nonexistent! This magnificent film has a swimsuit modeling show, a fight between jealous strippers/ possible prostitutes, and a model with a secret deformity. The writers were also able to masterfully keep three plots going at once the surgeon's quest for a body for Jan, the mystery of the thing in the closet, and the evolving relationship between Jan's head and the thing. To tell the truth, I was a bit disappointed by the unveiling of the monster towards the end of the masterpiece. I guess I had built up the moment in my head so much and imagined how creepy the monster would be that I expected it to be more than an abnormally tall human with a cone-head, bloody features, and slight elephantiasis. All in all, The Brain That Wouldn't Die was wonderful from start to finish. "},{"Title":"sheer awfulness overtaken by humor","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you're looking for the most hilarious, yet wonderfully awful horror flick for its time, this is it. The plot line is actually pretty decently thought out despite some tragically terrible acting that only add to the humor of the movie as a whole.After surviving a car crash that his fiancé had been decapitated in, scientist Bill Somethingoranother takes the head of his dead love's body from the scene of the crash and keeps it alive through the use of his new, special serum in hopes that he could transplant the head to a new body. Apparently, transplants are no new experiment for Dr. Bill as there is also a creepy, mysterious monster thing locked behind a closet door in his basement laboratory. The disembodied fiancé's head and creepy monster thing form a tight bond through the Power of the Serum and form a brave attempt to stop Dr. Bill from maiming any more people in the name of science.The most hilarious scenes involve arm-ripping and over-exerted acting, and an obnoxiously long death scene from one of the doctor's maimed cohorts. Also, just wait until you see Creepy Closet Monster Guy... though not well-made or even truly good by film standards, I've come to the conclusion that this could quite possibly be the most hilarious horror movie ever. "},{"Title":"A Head Short","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Headless film about a bodiless woman who would rather be dead and in her grave and at peace but her insane doctor boyfriend has other plans for her. Speeding to his country hideaway after getting an argent phone call from his live in assistant Kurt, Leslie Daniels,that the thing, played by the late Israeli seven foot six giant Eddie Carmel, that's hidden in the closet has gone bananas and needs another strong shot of tranquilizers. Dr. Bill Centner,Jason Evers, drives his car off the road and ends up having his fiancée Jan Compton, Virgina Leith,decapitate in the accident. Wrapping up Jan's head in his jacket as Dr. Bill runs with it, like someone running with a football for a touchdown, to the cottage and hooks it up to a number of tubes and wires. Having only some 48 hours to keep it, the head, alive the doc. has to get a new body in order for it to survive. Having experimented with body parts in the science of body transplantation for years without much success, both Kurt and the thing locked in the closet are some of his failures, Dr. Bill has now developed a new serum that if injected into the original body, the head in this case, that will keep it from rejecting any other body part or parts no matter how different in blood-type and DNA they are. The doctor after checking out some of the towns nightclubs and strip-joints in order to find the right body to match the head of his sweetheart Jan comes up with a former girlfriend Doris Powell, Adele Lamont, who's a professional model. Doris has a beautiful body but her face was badly scared by a former boyfriend who threw acid on it and wants to have it restored back to normal again. Dr. Bill telling Doris that he could give her back her looks via plastic surgery has her fall for his line of bull and goes with him to his place in the woods to have him operate on her. Back at the cottage Jan's head had developed a mind of it's own and deeply resents what her boyfriend Dr. Bill and his assistant Kurt did to it. The severed but alive head has the thing, through it's new found brain power, in the closet grab Kurt, when he was about to give it it's lunch and tear his arm off having him bleed to death. Dr. Bill gets to the cottage later and as he goes downstairs he's somewhat surprised to see the dead Kurt and the bodiless Jan with Kurt's blood smeared all over the lab. Without as much as a second thought Dr. Bill just calmly fixes a drink for Doris to knock her out and then, still oblivious to what he just saw, goes upstairs to have a talk with her about her upcoming surgery! Weird! As Dr. Bill was about to amputate the drugged and unconscious Doris' head the thing brakes out of the closet and attacked and killed him saving Doris and in the fire, that resulted in the fight that it had with Dr. Bill, the head went to it's eternal reward and died peacefully. Standred mad scientist or mad doctor movie with a number of very graphic and gory scenes as well as a wild and very sexy cat fight, over the handsome Dr. Bill, between two strippers. The semi-nude strippers scratching and tearing into each other was very unusual for it's time back then in the early 1960's when the movie was released. "},{"Title":"Think of it this way","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...you're a thirteen or fourteen year old boy back in 1962. Your mother gives you money for a matinée (and fortunately, doesn't inquire too closely as what you're going to see). You're expecting gore. You get it. You're expecting schlocky terror. You get it. You not expecting babes and a little sleazy sex, but oh man you get it. In addition, you even get a plot that makes a serious point. Now being fourteen I doubt you'd spend much time wondering how a person can talk without lungs. But - did you have a good time watching Head, er, Brain that Wouldn't Die? Did you think you got your 75¢ worth that afternoon? Did you brag about seeing the gross parts and the model in the bikini to your friends for weeks afterward? You bet your buttered popcorn you did! "},{"Title":"...a guilty pleasure.","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Come on you guys. Lighten up. This film doesn't belong on the Bottom 100 List. Where's your sense of humor? Try to experience it in the spirit in which it was made. Take it with a grain of salt. It's a very funny movie. Unintentionally maybe, but still pretty hilarious. I run it sometimes when I need a really good laugh.  "}{"Title":"Perhaps one of the best films ever made.","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I would say that The Brain That Wouldn't Die ranks right up there with Beyond the Valley of the Dolls and The Killing -- undoubtedly the two (other) greatest films ever made.  When watching The Brain That Wouldn't Die, focus on the dialogue.  It is incredible.  Any movie that has the line posing bare in front of a bunch of neurotics will get my vote everytime. "},{"Title":"Not THAT bad, really","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Meh, people tend to exaggerate! I purchased this film especially because it carries the reputation of being an absolutely awful 60's production, almost unbearable to sit through. Either my interpretation of awful is completely different from the public opinion or this reputation is unjustified, because I what I saw was a cheap, but nevertheless creative and dared story with above-average acting performances and groundbreaking gory make-up effects (groundbreaking when realizing the year was 1962 and hideous scars as well as poking out eyeballs weren't that common yet). I was expecting to witness really lousy dialogues and ridiculously illogical plot-twists but the script and elaboration of this film pleasantly surprised me for sure. If you can't get passed the cardboard set pieces and weak photography, that's your loss, but it certainly isn't a reason to entirely neglect this film. The story focuses on the overly ambitious surgeon Bill Cortner (decent performance by Jason Evers) who likes to experiment with transplanting limbs, organs and even complete heads! When a car crash he caused decapitates his fiancée, her artificially keeps her alive while searching for a decent (still walking) donor body. The plot is enriched with a horrible monster in the laboratory's closet (a previous experiment of Dr. Cortner that went wrong), a traumatized model and the stubborn head itself that hates not being dead. Granted, The Brain that Wouldn't Die features a couple very boring sequences that lead nowhere. In an overlong sequence set at a nudie bar, for example, Cortner seduces two possible hot body-donors but his attempt is eventually fruitless. This, along with the abrupt ending and fuzzy camera-work, is the only real letdown in an otherwise entertaining and enthusiastically made horror quickie. Experienced horror fans will certainly appreciate the maker's attempts to serve us gore and morbid humor (in a hilarious sequence, Dr. Bill tapes the talking head's mouth shut!). Please, don't let the negative comments and the ranking in the bottom top 100 keep you from watching it. It's an okay movie that you won't regret wasting time with. If you really want an awful film with a more or less similar premise, check out The Frozen Dead (Herbert J. Leder &#150; 1966). Very tedious nonsense in which the experimenting doctors are vicious Nazis and the separated heads are a lot less lively. "},{"Title":"The best part is when he taped the head's mouth shut","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just loved watching it though and having fun with it's total badness of a film. I saw this film through the helpful sarcasm of Mystery Science Theater 3000 and I have the DVD. If you flip the to the other side of the DVD, they show the actual movie, so I gave it a chance. Seriously, folks this is grilled cheese.The acting, special effects, and plot in general is very cheesy and unrealistic. Doesn't she need lungs said Crow noticing how the head can still talk while it doesn't have a body, and Tom Servo just wistfully remarks No, she's got neck juice!. The ending is just classic and no one can touch this soundtrack with K-Porn! I loved the cat fight between the two strippers. That Meow after the fight or scene, whatever, was classic. So, in some ways this was a fun movie. I think for horror fans, you'll probably enjoy it. For a good time, watch the MSTK3 version, you'll get a great laugh.MST3K version 10/10 The Brain that would die 1/10 "},{"Title":"Experiment...Experiment...Experiment","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I would have enjoyed this movie slightly more had not been for Jason (Herb) Evers constant harping on experiment. Many early reviewers of The Seven Samurai accused Toshiro Mifune of overacting.  Yet, as more and more critics viewed that film they saw it as being purposefully done.  Jason Evers is obviously not Toshiro Mifune, and his overacting is exactly that.Most of the actors in this B classic were rather good actors, minus Evers and the showgirls. If you watch this movie, you would have noticed Evers shouting almost every line, that is until he is smoking and blowing the smoke coolly out his nose.  The special effects were par for the course in a B movie such as this one.  In hindsight, there isn't much that stands out in my mind as fantastically good or bad for this movie.   "},{"Title":"Incredible '60s horror movie full of gore and sleaze","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This outrageous, no-budget shocker might as well be the '60s equivalent of RE-ANIMATOR, what with its graphic carnage, mad scientists, fantastic serums and monsters assembled from the body parts of the dead. It's quite an eye opener and a definitive so-bad-it's-good viewing experience, somehow turning a downbeat and sadistic plot into upbeat, often funny viewing pleasure. It's another of the films in the living-severed-head canon, which feature disembodied bonces still managing to speak although they have nothing below the neck. The film begins on a high with a surgery scene featuring a graphic shot of a patient's exposed brain, so you know straight off that you're in for something different from the normally tame early '60s fare that most people watch.The rest of the film is deceptively simple, but blessed with a script with high aspirations featuring hilarious philosophical discussions over life and death and the ethical implications involved. Our scientist anti-hero crashes his car and decapitates his girlfriend, but carries her head back to his secret countryside laboratory and keeps it alive in a pan. Virginia Leith plays the head and magnificently manages to retain her dignity and character even though she spends the film kneeling beneath a table with only her head visible. Our old friend the mad scientist decides to find her a new body, which means travelling to the nearest burlesque club and checking out the well-proportioned strippers on view.The plot slows down as the cameraman lingers on the lingerie-clad dancers strutting their stuff, and there's even time for a saucy cat fight too. Unfortunately the scientist gets the cold shoulder and is forced to flee. Meanwhile, back at the lab, the assistant (with a withered arm no less) is engaging in aforementioned debates with the severed head, which is very opinionated and just wants to be put out of its misery. A great addition to the plot is a unseen monster kept in a closet in the corner of the room which keeps on banging on its door repeatedly before escaping at the end - Paul Naschy borrowed it for his gore flick THE HUNCHBACK OF THE MORGUE, so it must be decent. The unseen monster actually works very well, building up the suspense and the viewers expectations throughout as it makes horrific noises and causes the door to judder all the while, biding its time before it escapes.The gory highlight of the film sees the goofy lab assistant getting too close to the beastie, at which it promptly rips off his arm. He then goes on an incredibly extended death stagger around the entire house before making back to the lab again, smearing his bloody stump all over the walls as he does so. I couldn't believe I was watching a film first made in 1959/60 when I saw this moment, its so over-the-top! The climax involves the scientist preparing to behead an innocent victim when the monster escapes. Turns out its an incredibly tall and well-built bloke with a cheesy rubber mask on, which is fine by me. The creature tears a strip of flesh from the scientist's face, bloodily killing him, before chucking it on the floor in disgust! Meanwhile the severed head burns as the lab goes up in flames and the monster and the female victim live happily ever after.Well, what can I say? This film is an exploitation classic and never lets up for a second. Although the story and plot elements are in bad taste the campy script and performances give it an enjoyable edge. Herb Evers in particular is good as the slimy scientist and there are plenty of pretty girls around for the viewer to ogle. The living head and the cheesy monster make for fine horror elements and the climax is worth the wait. Chills, thrills, laughs and gore combine to make THE BRAIN THAT WOULDN'T DIE a sleazy dream come true for fans of the schlocky B-movie. "},{"Title":"Lurid and then some...","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Brain That Wouldn't Die, or Jan-in-the-pan pretty much defines the word lurid. Filmed in the distant age of 1959 but not released to the public until 1962 due to its then gross excesses, Joseph Green's nasty piece of drive-in trash proved to be ultimately prescient to the many splatter and sex grindhouse movies which followed after Brain was old news.Brain has the look and feel of a police gazette magazine from the late 50s. Filmed in a choppy documentary style, the movie moves along quickly through a simple narrative. Arrogant doctor Bill Cortner, who is working on human transplants way before anyone else, takes his fiancée away for a weekend. There's an auto accident and the fiancée, Jan, gets her head cut off. Luckily, the accident happens about 50 feet away from the doc's secret country lab, so within minutes, he has Jan's head up and running in an enameled photo developing pan on a table. He does have an assistant who's hoping to have his withered arm replaced by the doc as compensation for his help. Jan revives, but only wants to be allowed to die. How she speaks is anyone's guess since she has no lungs, but hey! Let's forget about this and go on.Dr. Bill is determined to give Jan a new body, so naturally he goes hunting in dark and low-life places featuring the kind of strippers who used to grace the pages of men only magazines. The strippers only want to cat-fight so the doc presses on. He finds the body he wants on a photographer's model in a dismal studio, takes her back to the lab and drugs her. What he doesn't know is that Jan has developed telepathy and is in contact with a something behind a locked door in the lab. The something is able to reach out through a small observation window in the locked door and ambush the assistant. An arm is yanked off the poor assistant, who leaves a bloody mess all over the lab. This is a minor annoyance to Dr. Bill, who's got to get the head off the foxy lady he's drugged. Jan wants no part of this mess, so she telepathically goads the ugly pinhead mutant whatsits into coming out of the closet and putting an end to the doctor with no scruples. Fire breaks out, Jan gets cooked in her pan, and the giant pinhead takes the buxom body replacement somewhere.These many years after Brain unhinged those who saw it originally have given way to the lowest common denominator in horror/sci fi. Nothing is left to the imagination anymore. Brain opened the door for gross and had the nerve to just end abruptly. We have no idea what happens to the pinhead or the model, but that's probably best left to wonder about. Director Joseph Green pushes this ridiculous story along in journeyman fashion, no frills added. Herb Evers will always be remembered for his portrayal of the amoral doctor who meets a kiss of death from his biggest mistake. Jan just chuckles and roasts. It's still very unsettling even fifty years after it hit an unsuspecting drive-in crowd in 1962. Also of note here is the amazing and totally sleazy soundtrack anthem The Web by Abie Available Baker and Tony Restaino. Arguably one of the snakiest sex cruise tunes ever written, it's pretty damn hard to forget once heard. If you search hard enough, you might find it in the stacks of the Internet for your personal late-night enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Something of a trash classic","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Brain That Wouldn't Die is pure unadulterated schlock. It's one of those old Z-grade movies that sort of lives up to its reputation. It's another mad doctor movie, of which there were countless examples in the 50's and 60's, but this one is quite a bit more entertaining that almost all of them. The plot line is basically about a surgeon who is experimenting with reanimating dead tissue. He is in a car accident where his girlfriend dies and is decapitated. He takes her head from the crash site and brings it back to life. Meanwhile one of his monstrous creations lurks in the cupboard in the lab...Like a number of similar cheap sci-fi/horror productions of the time, this film includes a lot of scenes with scantily clad women; in this case dancers and a photographic model. Our crazy doctor prowls the strip clubs and the models studio looking for women with the perfect body for his disembodied head back in the lab. Obviously these scenes aren't exactly racy by today's standards but they are fun nevertheless. They are in contrast to perhaps the film's most famous element &#x96; the scenes of graphic gore. Again, to a modern gorehound these scenes will be very tame indeed but for a film released in 1962 they were very extreme &#x96; a man has his arm ripped off and another has a lump of his cheek bitten off! In other words this was a true schlock-fest of a movie at the time.With the exception of Virginia Leith in the role as the head, the acting is atrocious. But this damages the film in no way whatsoever as this is truly a trash classic. It moves along at a good pace and it has some imaginative camera-work, especially in the external scenes leading up to and after the car crash. The make-up effects are crude but the monster is pretty memorable. As is the film in general. I certainly recommend it for fans of the trashier and schlockier side of sci-fi and horror. "},{"Title":"If you see one living head on a dish film- this is it. Actually this is a very good drive in horror film","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Classic film about a woman's head in a dish and a monster in the closet is a must see for movie monster fans. The story of a mad doctor's girl who gets into a car accident that mangles her body but finds her head saved by her beau is as schlocky as they come. This is about as far as you can go with this sort of silliness as you can and still have it be reasonably serious. Its played mostly straight which helps give the film its standing. Then again it doesn't hurt that in the uncut version contains one of the great early gore scenes where the hideous monster in the closet breaks free and tears the arm off one of its captors, the victim them slides down the wall leaving a trail of blood. I can't imagine how that played with audiences that were used to horror films that never really saw anything graphic. I like the film, but to be honest I find it a little bit slow. Still it's a must see. "},{"Title":"decent piece of weirdness","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A young surgeon, Dr. Bill Cortner, and his fiancée, Jan, are driving to his laboratory in a remote wooded area where he performs weird experiments on people. He finally wants to come clean on what it is he does there that has been such a secret. On the way, he gets in a terrible car accident, leaving the car in flames and soon to be wife, beheaded. He grabs the head out of the car and takes it to his laboratory. He's experimented on decapitated people before and had success and this would be his most brilliant achievement. Bill and his lab partner, who helps the doctor in hopes he will get his amputated arm treated, keep the head alive with a special device and a new type of liquid they invented that works like blood. The lab partner has a fake arm now but it is very deformed from the doctors previous attempt to help. It works! The head is alive and bitching every second that she should have been left for dead. Dr. Cortner's plan is to find a worthy body for her so he goes out looking for nice bodies in a strip club. That's the gist of the story and believe it or not the movie isn't bad. It's pretty well filmed besides the fairly lame car accident, and main actors, Jason Evers as the doctor and Virginia Leith as Jan, the fiancée, are pretty good. The movie even has a decent scene or two of suspense and found that watching this late at night in the right mood, was not amazing, but definitely entertaining. "},{"Title":"Very well, the corpse is yours, do what you want to do.","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bill Cortner (Jason Evers) is a maverick doctor who steals limbs from amputee victims in his quest to create new life; nurse Jan Compton (Virginia Leith) is his frisky fiancée who just can't wait to get married. The good doctor maintains a country home where a medical assistant keeps watch over his less than ethical experiments, and also houses a terrible secret behind a locked door. Well the door is locked, but the eye level hatch door is usually kept unlatched so Cortner's creation can have some fun every now and then.This is probably the closest I've ever seen a horror film turn into a comedy, scene for scene the action approaches comic absurdity on all levels. Heading out to the country home with his fiancée, Cortner drives so recklessly that he crashes his car, claiming Jan as a fatal victim. The doctor manages to retrieve the inexplicably dismembered head with the idea that he'll find a suitable body to replace the one left behind. This quest brings him to a number of likely places - a strip club, a makeshift beauty contest, and a private photo shoot where frantic photographers can't get enough of the best body in the world. Are you still with me? About forty years ahead (a head?) of it's time, I found Jason Evers' portrayal of the leering Dr. Cortner to be particularly prophetic. He looks exactly like he's impersonating Darrell Hammond impersonating Bill Clinton, biting on his lower lip in an expression of mock sincerity - it's hysterical! The film offers some well conceived dialog as well. In a scene where Jan in the Pan contemplates on the creature behind the door, she remarks with a straight face - I'm only a head, you're whatever you are. Somehow, with the help of the doctor's adreno serum, she's gained telepathic powers, and is able to communicate with Mr. Gruesome. We're finally offered a treat when the creature makes a grab for the doctor through the peep hole, he breaks the door right off it's hinges to reveal a bit of a Swedish Angel knockoff, a hideously deformed mutant who does in the doctor as the lab itself is about to go out in a blaze of glory.The Brain That Wouldn't Die is one of those films you have to experience at least once in a lifetime. It will also leave you with plenty of unanswered questions, like the scene in which Jan in the Pan is shown on the lab table with a completely clear view of the empty space below the table. How'd they do that? "}{"Title":"Only movie that ever really scared me.","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, so I was seven years old at the time, but Brain is the _only_ film that ever included a scene so scary that I had to leave the room.  Of course, I immediately peeked around the edge of the door, to see if it was still scary...  Guess that means, as a horror film, it was pretty good.Now, be clear I wouldn't show it to a seven-year-old.  My folks weren't in the room and I was flipping channels.  And, in their defense, I didn't have any nightmares about it.  I wasn't much of a monsters-in-the-closet kid.  Still, it's a bit much for most children.Overall, it's a silly, dumb, grade-B (at best) movie.  Nevertheless, it has a unique place in my mental trophy room.(Semi-spoiler The scene that got me--actually several--is hardly a secret, but I'll only go so far as to say it is depicted on the DVD cover art you can <*shudder*> find online.  Still gets to me...) "},{"Title":"entertaining film that should be seen by anyone interested in the genre","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  some spoilers... this is a classic. it's sort of a 1960s precursor to re-animator...we follow an ambitious doctor who thinks he can bring people back from the dead (within a reasonable time) and can transplant body parts from dead bodies onto amputees. his girlfriend dies in a car crash on the first reel and he is able to salvage her head. he keeps her head alive while he searches for a body. it's beyond me what joseph green didn't make more than two pictures, because he clearly showed potential in his writing/direction on this film. the story alone is ripe with symbolic depth and secondary meanings. the protagonist goes out on the town searching for a woman with a perfect body just so that he can kill her, take her body and put his girlfriend's head on it...it's a shrink's field day. at the very beginning the film addresses the philosophical/ethical ramifications of his experiments and that's a level that most sci-fi films of the time don't explicitly address. none of the performances are as awful as you might expect from a b production. overall it's an entertaining film that should be seen by anyone interested in the genre. B. "},{"Title":"It made me laugh; it made me laugh some more","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERS It takes a lot to make me discard the ambitions and fragile dreams of artistic significance of even the tiniest shoestring movie crew. This movie achieves that, and was funny enough and odd enough to keep me tied to the TV to the end. The music is a hokey piece of stock, a staple of TV horror hosts of the 50s and 60s, that plays over and over again throughout the film. Some of the dialogue, especially that of the deformed lab assistant, sounds like an entry in a Bad Shakepeare Soliloquy contest. The writers reached for something moving and incisive, and in another movie, this character's speeches might even work. But The Brain That Wouldn't Die is no Jacobean drama, and it is probably this dialogue that jarred me into the realization that it is perfectly alright to laugh at this movie. My favorite dumb scene the lab assistant gets his arm torn off by a monstrosity (who is, by the way, hidden throughout the film in a broom closet) and flails all over the films limited sets -- up stairs, down stairs, to the front door, and all over the walls leaving a slug-like trail of blood. This man is more mobile dying of blood loss, than he was any other time in the movie. A riot. See it. 10 stars. If you consider this exquisitely foul film a waste of time, you are way too busy. "},{"Title":"Lost Classic","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this one when I was 12, at a theatre that was condemned two months later, and even then the connection wasn't lost on me.  This was a film that came out around the time of the famous Topps bubble gum cards Mars Attacks, and Herschel Gordon Lewis' Blood Feast.  Back then (1963) graphic gore wasn't too common, and the Legion Of Decency still had a lot of clout over young Catholic midwest minds.  Brain was a black and white preview of the drug drenched hell soon to engulf America, with the mad scientists' Dwight Frye-like assistant getting his arm torn off by the monster locked in a closet, and staggering along a wall, leaving a bloodsmeared trail  behind him.  The monster was incredible!  He wore a white Oxford businessman's shirt, he was bald, with one eye about four inches higher than the other, and I'll never forget the scene when he ripped the mad scientists' tonsils out of his throat, and held the quivering gelatinous mess up to the camera.  I've looked for it on TV, but haven't found it yet.  A forgotten classic of '60's trash.  "},{"Title":"Strange, funny, weird, but interesting!","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie as a kid, many years ago. Since then I have wondered if it would be possible to keep just a head alive without a body. This seems to be a little science fiction, horror and comedy all wrapped up in one neat package, with something in it for everybody (no pun intended).If the lady could just meet the Headless Horseman, perhaps they could get together and be one person. What a great follow up movie that would have been.I never quite got the monster in the closet/cage thing. Truly this must be mind over matter (again, no pun intended)..LOL...Once you start watching it you will not turn it off until it is over...promise!  "},{"Title":"Sleazy and terrible","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Brain that Wouldn't Die exceeds just about every standard of good taste.  The movie is dark and sick and is not good enough to become interesting.  It's a standard sci-fi/horror flick that may as well be about a growing serial killer.  The principle villain is a doctor who borders on insanity.  His girlfriend gets her head cut off in a car accident and gives the doctor a chance to explore his theories of organ transplant by finding a body for her head.  Her head sits,ridiculously, n a pan with fluids piped in, defying all known laws of the human body.  The doctor's search for hookers and loose women to use for her beheaded beau sinks to the lowest depths.  These scenes are worthy of a documentary about serial killing.  The violence in the movie is put on parade and exploited for it's full effects.  Blood ends up splattered all over the place in one scene and open wounds are shown for seemingly an eternity.  The ending is also very abrupt without fully resolving the movie's plot points.  The movie progresses to a Bride of the Monster type ending and then just peeters out.  The head in the pan is also able to get the monster in the closet under her power way, way too easily.  Movies like Natural Born Killers also exploit violence but are well filmed and make a point.  This movie is just really sleazy and  fails be interesting.  2.6/10 "},{"Title":"Nostalgic Horror","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I loved this movie when I was little and I still love it! The image of the unseen 'thing' in the closet is a great device. All of the irony is great. There are more ironic films but this was 1962!The characters are great, maybe not very deep, but they are multi-dimensional. The plot is pretty good. The production was great! I love the special effects (blood etc). It is an old film, so you don't expect much maybe.I enjoyed this film and wouldn't mind seeing more like it! I always was confused at the title though. The beginning and end titles don't match!9/10 "},{"Title":"Classic horror camp!","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alive... without a body... fed by an unspeakable horror from hell!So reads the tagline for this laughter-inducing horror film.Dr. Bill Cortner is an egotistical and arrogant physician who likes to experiment with bodies in his spare time. In the first scene, after exclaiming, He's dead! I can't do any harm! and Sure! I've made a few mistakes, but I've learned from them! Learned! he is allowed by his physician father to take over in the operating room when a patient dies on the table. Good Dr. Bill is next seen recklessly driving himself and his sweet, horny fiancé Jan out to his country house; the car crashes, he salvages Jan's head from the burning wreckage, wraps his prize in his jacket, and runs the rest of the way with it like he's going for a touchdown during a football game. Once he gets to his lab, he sets her all up and presto! It's Jan in a pan! as I have heard this film referred to in the past. Almost immediately his once-sweet lady (well, her head anyway) becomes a screeching shrew hoarsely calling out such lines as Revenge! I hate him for what he's done to me! as the desperate doctor goes on the hunt for a suitable body to use for restoring his girl back into something more, uhm, fully functional. His search takes him to strip joints and a beauty contest, to name two avenues he tries before he finds someone he believes to be a suitable candidate, telling her, I'm going to cut your face off and give away your body, ah ha ha! as she innocently laughs along.To add to the fun, there is of course the wretched assistant with a mangled arm; one of the doctor's earlier mistakes, and the thing locked in a closet in the lab. There's also the continual soundtrack of horns and sleazy stripper-like music. As far as the gore factor, this movie is actually pretty gruesome for its time, although the blood seems to be rather conveniently spilled (downstairs, but not upstairs, for instance), and Jan in a Pan laughs more maniacally as the movie progresses.You can find this movie on Amazon.com in a DVD version that has the original film by itself, and also the film as part of an episode of Mystery Science Fiction Theatre 3000, the now-defunct hit TV show. Well, all I had to review this film with was my raggedy old videotape that appears to be degrading, so after watching it again, I gave into temptation and ordered the Amazon DVD of it. It'll be worth having a really good version of this so-bad-it's-funny bomb. "},{"Title":"You have a beautiful mind....","Date":"11 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... but it wouldn't hurt if you had a stripper's body! That is, if Dr. Bill Cortner (Jason Evers) has his way. Almost everybody in the world has seen this one, but I'll go over the set-up anyways. Dr. Cortner has just finished an operation in which he saved a patient that his dad lost. He actually brought the guy back from the dead, but just a few minutes had transpired. One of the nurses assisting is Jan, Bill's fiancé. They are on their way to a relaxing retreat but hark! Bill gets an urgent call from his assistant, Kurt. They must go up to his dad's old cabin - where Bill is doing his research - before they can be on their way. But then tragedy - and bad driving - strike. Bill is in a hurry, he doesn't slow down for a curve and the car crashes. Bill is thrown from the wreckage and is OK, but his fiancée's body is burning. Her head, severed from its body, is alright and unburned. He covers the head in a coat and heads towards the cabin. Question #1- If the cabin is so close that he can walk to it in a few minutes, why was he speeding in the first place? Bill has been experimenting with transplants, so he decides to try the biggest transplant of them all - He stabilizes Jan's head with some configuration of tubes and fluids and takes off to find her a new body - in every strip joint in town. This was NOT the kind of figure Jan had when she was alive and whole! Meanwhile Jan wakes up, evaluates her situation, and all I can say is The Big Giant Head is very unhappy!(Third Rock from the Sun). She wants revenge on her fiancé for turning her into a freak and not letting her die. Yet who does she turn on? Bill's assistant Kurt of course, who in many ways is as much a victim of Bill's Frankenstein like experiments as she. He was a surgeon whose arm was blown off, and Bill transplanted a new arm on. However, it has not taken and has become warped, deformed, and useless. Kurt is hanging around and assisting the doc, hoping he will perfect his methods, give him a new arm, and then he can go back to the operating room. Why is she venting and arguing at this guy? And furthermore, why doesn't Kurt just tape her mouth shut, go upstairs to the living quarters, and read Life Magazine? Meanwhile, Bill has gone from strip club to strip club, used some of the most obvious juvenile male come ons in the history of the world, YET he is having success with the ladies, as their come backs are just as juvenile as his. I can really believe Rex Carlton wrote the dialogue for this one folks, it is very laughable. Now Bill doesn't seem to notice that some of the ladies seem as turned on by the strippers as he, which begs the question, would his honeymoon be all that he hoped if he grafted a gay woman's body to a straight woman's head? In the end, Bill chooses a woman with a knockout body and a scar on her face, which doesn't matter because he plans to discard the head anyways. But meanwhile, Jan grows more and more evil and makes a telepathic connection with the beast in the closet, one that was created entirely out of grafted body parts and has also become physically deformed as time grows on, but you don't see that until the finale.I guess in summary I disagree with this film's current low assessment. It is not boring, it is definitely unique, and though most of the dialogue is very wooden, there are some good ideas here. For example, where is Jan's soul? Just because you kept her brain alive, is that where the essence of a person actually resides? I'm giving it a six just based on uniqueness and the fact that it keeps the viewer engaged. At least it kept me engaged. "},{"Title":"Late 50's horror schlock that's actually effective (in some ways)","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Brain that Wouldn't Die was shot in B&W in 1959, but not released until 1962 due to its lurid and lewd excesses. The story involves a modern-day American Dr. Frankenstein wannabe (Jason Evers) who tries to find a hot body for his fiancé (Virginia Leith) after she is decapitated in a car accident. While her head is on life-support the mad doctor searches the dives for the right body and ultimately focuses his attentions on a model with a disfigured face (Adele Lamont). Leslie Daniel plays the doctor's assistant while Eddie Carmel plays the mysterious thing dwelling in a locked room.It's easy to sneer in bemused contempt at old low-budget horror movies like this after the advent of blockbusters in the late 70s (e.g. Star Wars), but &#x96; believe it or not &#x96; they were relevant at one time. If you can ignore obvious plot holes and the cheap production values there's quite a bit to enjoy, which isn't to say that this is a good movie, just that it's entertaining in many ways and even unexpectedly horrific.Yes, it's basically a Frankenstein rip-off, but the Jan in the pan element offers an intriguing angle with the idea of a head transplant. The first successful organ transplant was a kidney transplant in 1954 and the second was in 1962, so this was still a novel idea when the film was made in '59 and released in '62. Amazingly, head transplants were already being done with animals in the 50s and are only now surfacing as a legitimate possibility with humans (although I'm sure it's already been attempted by real-life Frankensteins).Surprisingly, the movie scores high marks on the female front with Adele Lamont standing out as a petite babelicious model. In the European version of the movie she appears topless in the photog sequence. In 2013 Timeless Media released the movie on DVD with a supplemental section that shows this scene, which is only like 80 seconds. Virginia Leith is effective as Jan in the pan who understandably goes more psycho as the story progresses. The idea that she develops telepathy and communicates with the monster in the closet is an interesting addition.Lastly, there are a few surprisingly horrific or gory scenes that are still somewhat disturbing to this day. Jan's demonical laughing in the midst of fiery perdition is effective, plus the irony of who the real monster is and isn't. Unfortunately, the story lags at certain points and is overly-talky here and there. I suppose it should've been cut by at least ten minutes, but even these sequences have their charm.The uncut version, which I saw, runs 83 minutes and was shot in Tarrytown, New York.GRADE B "}{"Title":"The movie that was D.O.A.","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What kind of brainless twit would come up with such an outlandish idea? Jason Evers is a handsome doctor/scientist with some rather strange ideas of what his mission is, and when he heads out to the country with his fiancée (Virginia Leith), tragedy strikes which leaves Leith only a head in Evers' game to go where no research doctor/scientist has ever gone before. Now all he needs is a body, and he heads out to go-go joints where he interviews floozie after floozie after floozie in an effort to find someone to provide legs, torso and arms onto the Jan in the Pan which makes Leith look as if she's been planted on a record player. Anthony La Penna is a handicapped doctor who tries to explain Evers' theory to Leith and why he has turned to such unscrupulous methods. The alcoholic has his bottle. The dope addict his needle. I had my research, he tells her to no avail. She finds a grunting companion in the locked cell whom she converses with in ways like, You agree, knock once. You disagree, knock twice. It's obvious that whatever is there is equally as horrid as the bodiless Leith and that the unseen creature will be the one to bring both Evers and La Penna down once time for that occurs.One of the most absurd moments comes when La Penna is attacked by the unseen creature and appears to have his arm ripped off his torso. It is obvious that the actor's arm is actually now hiding in his shirt, and while the arm was inside the cell's small opening, his shirt was covered with some sort of dark paint to make it appear that it was bleeding. To make everything even drastically worse, Leigh starts shouting, Kill him! Kill him!. Earlier, she had been moaning, Please let me die at Evers, and all of a sudden, the efforts to make it appear that she is going increasingly mad becomes just way beyond absurd. Meanwhile, Evers is out interviewing an attractive model (Adele Lamont, who slightly resembles Elizabeth Taylor) and finds out she has a bitter hatred towards men and gets a visual display of just what some man did to her. When she agrees to have him remove her own deformity, he drugs her, and there is genuine horror in the viewer's mind as she gets groggy and asks in a panic, What did you put In my drink?. The film concludes rather violently with the revelation of the creature (Frankenstein meets the Coneheads) and gives no revelation of what happens to any of the characters there (including the model). I'm just surprised that the writers didn't have Leith's finale shot be of her whole head on fire and a demonic gleam in her eye. Come on, when you've already traveled down this road into ridiculousness, why not just go all the way? After all, there's no rating worse than Bomb. To make things even more eye-rolling at the end, the title pops up again, but this time it is different than the one you saw in the opening credits. "},{"Title":"Excellent Sci-Fi Horror","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I forgot just how good this film was until I watched it again recently - it really is a good work of science fiction horror. A very creepy and highly underrated movie.The movie was due to be released in 1959 but there was some legal and censoring issues. The movie was finally released in 1962. What is interesting is in the beginning of the film where Dr. Bill Cortner stated that one day there will be limb and organ transplants. The first real life successful organ transplant was a kidney transplant in 1954 and the second successful was also a kidney transplant in 1962.In real life The world's first full face transplant took place in Spain 2010.One can also look up Head Transplant and find out there were successful head transplants in real life successfully performed using dogs, monkeys and rats but NO human head (that is known) - all this during the 1950s.LOOK UP the 2015 CNN article Are human head transplants coming soon? and the Wall Street Journal's 2015 article Surgery's Far Frontier Head Transplants -- then you will see just how realistic this film is - it was ahead of it's time like Frankenstein. With all this said, the film The Brain That Wouldn't Die (1962) is a bit more realistic! To me, Dr. Bill Cortner is mad because he was more than willing to kill a woman for her body just to put the head of his fianceé on another woman's body. He has no care at all for life of his fellow humans - he only cares about his scientific experiments no matter how sinister they become.This is a great late night film! A great film to watch for horror and science fiction fans alike! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Entertaining","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Actually, for a B sci-fi flick from the early '60s, on a $62,000 budget, it wasn't that bad. There was something about the goofiness of it that kept my attention for most of the 80 minutes. I was hoping it would be one of those so-bad-it's-good movies, but it really wasn't. Oh, if you try to explain the story it sounds like one of those ludicrous stories - and maybe it is - but it's a fairly straight combination of a Dr. Frankenstein-wannabe and the Steve Martin vehicle, The Man With Two Brains.A pretty woman's head sitting on baking pan on a table while her doctor-boyfriend goes looking for a good body to go with it. She lost it while the two were driving up to his cabin/lab. They had a car accident and he plucked her head out of the car fire.....really! She will stay alive for about two days in his newly-discovered solution so he goes to strip clubs to find a body for her. Meanwhile, she is not happy. She knows there is some hideous creature locked away in a closet nearby and uses some new-found psychic power to communicate and rule over him. Her plan is to get revenge on the deranged doctor. I won't say what happens in case someone reading this wants to see the film.Yes, it's very stupid but there is something likable and entertaining about this cheapie film. I saw it as part of a Four More MGM Sci-Fi Classics DVD which is inexpensive. "},{"Title":"Drags a Bit, But A Solid Film Just the Same","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A doctor (Jason Evers) experimenting with transplant techniques keeps his girlfriend (Virginia Leith)'s head alive when she is decapitated in a car crash, then goes hunting for a new body.This film was made in 1959, but floated around a bit until picked up (and re-cut) by American International and Sam Arkoff. Over the years, and due largely to its falling into public domain, it has become a late-night staple. Many people -- and all horror fans -- have probably seen this film in some form.Worth pointing out is that the monster in the closet is played by Eddie Carmel in his first cinematic role. Carmel was a well-known Israeli-born circus performer who worked under the name The Jewish Giant. Those who want to see him in action again ought to track down a copy of 50,000 B.C. (Before Clothing) (1963). Interestingly, author Tony Sasso believes the monster in the closet is symbolic of repressed homosexuality. It is an interesting interpretation, and one he makes a big deal out of, but I certainly have my doubts on its veracity the closet metaphor did not really take root until the 1960s, so there is no way the writers could have referenced it.On the whole, this film is pretty decent, with some great ideas and concepts. In an age when transplants were still in their infancy, it makes sense to use them for a horror or science fiction jumping off point. And it is clear to see how this might have influenced other pictures. Some have said Jan in the Pan is a precursor to the head in Re-Animator. Whether or not this has been confirmed, the resemblance is there.What the film lacks is some realism. Early on a brain is exposed inside a head, apparently without a skull. Huh? And later, a woman's head is lifted from a car crash without being cut or forcibly removed. It was just lying there. Maybe that is possible, but it seems rather silly.The film also drags a bit because it is weighted down by dialogue. Dialogue can be a very good thing, and create exposition or add character depth. Here, however, it just seems repetitive. Jan says variations of the same line multiple times. And even in the opening scene, the elder doctor makes a point of arguing against playing God multiple times. We get it. The film would be much stronger at 60 minutes than it currently is in the longer form.For those who prefer longer, however, Synapse Films has graciously released an uncut edition running closer to 85 minutes with more cat-fight goodness, and a picture that is vastly improved from the awful public domain prints floating around. Whether or not you want to pay more when you can get a cheap version for free is up to you.Still not good enough? Scream Factory has jumped into the game. They say their 1080p uncut edition, scanned from the negative, is new (suggesting it is even better than the Synapse print. That may or may not be true. But regardless, they have definitely brought out the superior disc because they have added commentary from film historian (and king of the commentary) Steve Haberman and Tony Sasso, who literally wrote the book on this movie. What really makes the Scream disc the must-have version is that it also includes the full episode of Mystery Science Theater 3000 where the film is riffed. Well done, Scream. They previously released Squirm in two versions the MST3K version and a new collector's edition. All features should have been on one disc. So perhaps they are learning... "},{"Title":"One of the great 'bad' movies","Date":"5 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a mad surgeon/scientist's fiancé is horribly injured in an auto accident he manages to preserve only her head alive. He then goes searching for a body upon which to transplant her disembodied head. And exactly how does he go about that? By cruising suitably zaftig 50s babes in his '58 convertible, how else?The 1950s were the heyday of really bad science-fiction movies, the kind that were so bad they were good. This one has to rate pretty near the top of the genre. Roger Corman once remarked that a filmmaker cannot set out to make a cult-movie, only the audience can make a cult movie. I think that The Brain That Wouldn't Die is a perfect case in point. From beginning to end everybody concerned, director and cast, seems to be taking everything absolutely seriously, and that is precisely what makes the whole thing so enormously funny. One doesn't need to watch this movie on Mystery Science Theater 3000, accompanied by a steady stream of snide remarks, in order to find oneself laughing out loud. The filmmakers may not have meant it to be, but it really is that funny. This movie deserves a '7' not for it's direction, it's acting or it's cinematography, but simply on the basis of being so outrageously bad that it is an absolute joy to watch. Check it out and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"Unintentionally ludicrous and quite disappointing","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After escaping from a car accident alive but his girlfriend decapitated, a man decides to utilize his surgical skills to save her and sets out to find a new body to transplant it onto, unaware of her desire to finally die and be rid of him forever.This here was a massive disappointment overall and really didn't have a lot going for it. One of the biggest issues here is the fact that this one doesn't really do a lot of anything during it's running time. Keeping the head inactive by chaining it up to the machines doesn't do anything but provide the visual of it in that condition and the only thing it can do is communicate with the grotesque monstrosity off-camera and nothing more, leaving it quite unsatisfactory as a villain capable of accomplishing fear or terror with it's swim-cap on as a hat to keep it in check, so the majority of the film amounts to the doctor walking around doing absolutely nothing just checking on women to be viable candidates for his surgery, and when that provides only teasing and not much else even that falls apart. The cheapness of the film really sets it down when the final monster looks too goofy to amount to anything anywhere imposing or threatening, and the climactic fight in the laboratory is really the only thing all that impressive as it goes out in a blaze the way all these films work. Overall, had this given the head something more imposing to do, it could've helped out as it's the main problem with this one.Today's Rating-PG-13 Violence and Brief Nudity. "},{"Title":"The head in a dish ran away with the spoon","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Astonishing B-movie is everything you would think a movie about a living head in a tray should be. The very idea of it is unimaginable...just sit back and try to envision for yourself what it would be like if your entire body was gone and you were simply an immobilized head. It's enough to scare the heck out of ME. But wait till you see the thing in the closet, another pitiful victim of the mad doctor who so gleefully reduces people to doomed, debilitated beings. Amid all of this doom and existential agony are things like swimsuit modeling contests and catfights between strippers. You'd be a fool to miss this one. "},{"Title":"Pathetically Laughable","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bill Cortner is a mad scientist, fixated with transplant experimentation and with being able to sew a bunch of body parts together and give them life. Kind of a Dr. Frankenstein type. Then, because of a car accident, his fiancé Jan is decapitated and he keeps her head alive while he searches for a woman with a great body (that was apparently his main interest) to transplant her head onto. This movie didn't work at all, for lots of reasons.First off were the plot oversights, which were numerous. The ones that struck me most? First, Dr. Cortner and his father perform surgery on a man, including apparently open heart massage by Cortner, Sr. The problem? There wasn't a spot of blood on either of them when the surgery was over! Then, there's the car accident. Jan must have been decapitated, because Cortner had no equipment with him to cut her head off. But if so, how is she raising her hand as he runs toward the burning car? Then, there's the problem of Jan's severed head - kept alive by Cortner, being able to talk. But, wouldn't her vocal chords be cut by the decapitation? And, if not, she has no lungs - no way to breathe. Even if she had vocal chords, they need the flow of air to produce a voice. Pathetically silly. That's combined with poor acting.The only thing that was even remotely interesting was waiting to get a look at the grotesque creature (a result of Cortner's experiments) who's being kept locked in a closet. That look finally comes - very late in the movie - and he is quite grotesque. Which kind of sums up the movie as a whole! 2/10 "},{"Title":"A rather odd film","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Brain that wouldn't die tells of a doctor and his wife riding in a car on their way to.. someplace. An accident happens and the poor wife loses her head! The doctor quickly takes the head and keeps it alive (miraculously) using some kind of serum he invented. Now he goes out and tries to find a new body for his wife's head and he only has about 48 hours before the head dies forever! Quite a story wouldn't you say? For the time, I have to admit that it's creative. And I'm sure it was scary back then.However, the Brain that wouldn't die didn't scare me that much. It did leave an impression on me. It IS a very strange movie.Worth a watch if you are a fan of strange stories. But don't expect a masterpiece. This movie has been spoofed and parodied countless times. I think that means something.5 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Weird little sci-fi B-film thriller is awfully executed...but it's hard to turn away...","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite the below par performances of the leading actors and the triteness of the script, it's hard to turn away from the silly horror manipulations of THE BRAN THAT WOULDN'T DIE. It actually gets off to a good start before the pace starts to slacken and you'll find yourself guessing how it's all going to end. *****POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD*****Actually, the ending is telegraphed after a gruesome murder--from that point on, it's easy to guess that the mad doctor will get his comeuppance too.JASON EVERS is the young doctor intent on creating his own monster when his girlfriend is decapitated during an auto accident. VIRGINIA LEITH plays the title role and seems to relish her close-ups as the bitter victim who resents having her head kept alive on a tray. Can you blame her? It's schlock that almost passes for something Rod Serling might dream up for an extended version of The Twilight Zone, but with more of an edge to it.If you enjoy bad films from the '60s that exploited shock/horror, this one is right up your alley. It does provide a shiver or two. "}{"Title":"The Brain That Wouldn't Die","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Frankenstein gave birth to many hell spawns in the Mad Scientist genre and one of the most notorious cases of this is none other than THE BRAIN THAT WOULDN'T DIE. Positively bizarre in every shape and form, this movie gives you exactly what it says in the title, the disembodied head of a nurse, decapitated during a violent crash, is kept alive thanks to an experimental serum, created from the genius of a brilliant, but quietly psychotic(..perhaps to fellow scientists, he'd be referred to as emotionally driven), scientist. Jason Evers is this very scientist, Dr. Bill Cortner, and his fiancé, the one whose brain was kept alive, is Jan(Virginia Leith). Jan doesn't want to live and realizes that the serum keeping her from death is providing great mental powers. A monster resides in a locked room, a victim of Cortner's various transplantation experiments, is very angry, and wants out..Jan has a mental line of communication with this thing and is concocting a plan to free it so that her miserable existence can end. Meanwhile, Cortner scours around town looking for a delectable body to transplant to Jan, finding one in an enraged model, Doris(Adele Lamont), a man-hating beauty whose furor derives from the abuse of a former lover who left a hideous gash down her left cheek. Cortner's assistant, Kurt(Leslie Daniels), has an ongoing war of words with Jan over her being stuck in the very uncomfortable position and current predicament. Kurt's left arm is withered and crippled and he continues helping Cortner despite how obviously psychotic he truly is, because of that hope of potential success in the transplant ion of limbs and flesh through a truly perfected serum. Jan's only ally in stopping Cortner's madness is the beast in the locked room and he must be freed.The premise is just beyond crazy and all you can do is watch in awe as the whole movie transpires. Leith as Jan is a hoot, full of vitriol, vehemently opposed to her fiancé's dangerous scientific methods and immoral conduct, constantly voicing her displeasure in regards to being a head in a tray. Her feud with Kurt is an unintentional comedy, the way they attack each other's current weaknesses, and the insults fly. The monster's facial make-up looks like a botched version of the Cyclops creature, and the man portraying it is huge. The handsome Evers drives around checking out the ladies he comes in contact with as jazzy burlesque music plays in the background. Lamont as the bitter model is also noteworthy, spitting venom at lecherous photographers who want to get more cozy with their luscious subject. It's also amazing how Kurt can not, for the life of him, stay away from the door of the beast, and clumsily opens a hatch(..a hatch just big enough for the man-monster to fit his giant hand through no less)resulting in getting his arm ripped off(..this occurs off screen, but Cortner later finds him, and the walls of his lab, a bloody mess)! The final climactic sequence ends rather abruptly with your typical laboratory going up in flames just before Cortner is about to sever Doris' head(..to spark the scene, Cortner tapes Jan's mouth shut because she won't shut her yap!)..it's a given that the monster would eventually free itself from the cage containing it. "},{"Title":"Brainless","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this with the Elvira box set and ,man, was it bad. Which is good. As others have pointed out there brain operations where the patient doesn't appear to have a skull. Or any blood for that matter. There 's a car accident where her head comes of, not that you see it. You'll have to use your imagination folks ! In fact it took me a while to realise what what he was carrying as he was running from the accident. The film consists of a severed talking head, a mad scientist who want to re-animate tissue and organs, and his buddy. It's kinda like Re-Animator. Except in re-animator he didn't go around looking for women that had a body he could give his girlfriend. The end credits even get the name of the film wrong. Watching this with friends comes recommended. It's a riot. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is Crap with a capital C. First of all it's incredibly boring. We have scenes of the head that is being kept alive and scenes of the mad scientist trying to find a showgirl / stripper / prostitute body for his girlfriend who wreaks havoc at the lab. Sounds interesting? Forget it. The film also contains some mild fetish scenes like a burlesque dance at a club and a catfight between to women. If you're into that sort of film, you may like it. But the treatment of sexuality is fairly frank for the time. The leading man is really hamming it up which makes the film rather funny but the overall effect is just boredom. So yet again, another b-movie that has small production values but really isn't worth watching because it is simply boring and at 1 hour 22 minutes actually fairly long. "},{"Title":"Re-Animator","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anyone who would like to watch this flick (which I would not recommend) will soon realize that the title totally misses the point actually,the head WOULD die,the actress tells us so during one long hour ,and it is a very talky movie at that.An umpteenth variant of Mary Shelley's immortal Frankenstein,where the scientist ,for a change, is not the old dad ,but the son .He wants to bring the dead back to life ,in spite of his old man's good piece of advice .In a car crash on a winding road (they should have looked at the road sign ),nothing is left of his dear wife but her head;hence the necessity to find a body.And while you're at it,try to find the most beautiful body you can.People who play with fire must expect to get burnt. "},{"Title":"Go to the Head of the Class!","Date":"17 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A surgeon working on experimental transplant procedures seems to be on the verge of a major breakthrough with his technique, even though his surgeon father disapproves of his manner of research. While out driving with his fiancée, the doctor crashes his car and is horrified to discover his bride-to-be is decapitated. Rushing his fiancée's head to his lab, he is able to revive her where she is now living as a bodiless entity kept alive by tubes and an experimental serum. Hoping to restore his fiancée, the surgeon begins to bars and gentlemen's clubs looking or a candidate for transplanting his fiancée's head onto another body, according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis.After its so-so operating room opening, this film kicks into high gear, with dashing hero Jason Evers (as Bill Cortner) recklessly driving fiancée Virginia Leith (Jan Compton) into her accidental decapitation. Mr. Evers' mad rush to carry her wrapped head home really draws your interest; ironically, it's like watching a car wreck. Ms. Leith's head, sitting in what looks like Evers' Thanksgiving roasting pan, is quite a sight. With the gore level about as high as it gets (for the time), the film parades sexy, large-breasted women across the screen, as Evers searches for s suitable body for his fiancée's severed head. Meow. Leslie Daniels (as Kurt) has trouble keeping his arms to himself. Eddie Carmel adds tension, as the monster in the closet. Joseph Green's Brain is a lurid classic.**** The Brain That Wouldn't Die (1962) Joseph Green ~ Jason Evers, Virginia Leith, Leslie Daniels "},{"Title":"Good classic, though it's no masterpiece!","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A scientist is driving around with his gorgeous girlfriend and everything's hunky-dory until he wrecks the car and her head goes flying off. Not to be discouraged, he wraps the decapitated noggin in his jacket and scurries off to his lab, where he keeps the poor woman's head alive in a developing tray with some coils and tubes running in and out of it. With his girlfriend's still-conscious Jabez back at the lab, the good doctor drives around shopping for bodies, ogling women who might make likely candidates for reattaching the head. Finally he finds a model with a gorgeous bod (and leopard print bikini), but a scarred face. He convinces the young woman that he can fix her looks with plastic surgery and convinces her to go back to the lab. Meanwhile, his girlfriend-head (silenced by a strip of duct tape over her mouth) has developed telepathy and a nasty grudge. This movie used to regularly leave late-night TV audiences aghast and scare the be jabbers out of the young'INS. Decades later, it's an indispensable trash classic, complete with a cat fight, a pinhead monster, a deformed assistant, and even a spatter of gore. Make no mistake; this incredible, sleazy gem is a must-see for any self-respecting fans of camp cinema. They just don't come any better, and they definitely don't make 'em like that anymore. "},{"Title":"Jan in the pan","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember watching a censored version of this on TV back in the 1970's,they cut out part of the operation in the beginning,someone getting his arm ripped out from its socket,and some of the stripper scenes.its a very gory movie for 1962.i believe it was filmed earlier like 1959 but i could be wrong,this DVD is available everywhere you look.for as low as a dollar,i spotted it at a dollar store from a company called PC treasures,with a second feature;beast of yucca flats with the late great;Tor Johnson,with a bonus cartoon superman the Arctic giant.anyway brain that would'nt die is such a classic b-movie,very campy.Jason herbevers as a very mad doctor trying to graft his fiancés head on the body of a bikini model,why not?there's also a mutant creature that lives in a locked room,made by the spare parts of unsuccessful experiments,i believe everyone who has seen b-movies had to see this at least once.how about a remake?on the VHS version released by warner brothers its censored.i don't know why,maybe they got the TV print and didn't bother to check it.this movie is a bit much for kids,i think even today it can give children nightmares.beware of Jan in the pan.this was released by the notorious;American International Pictures.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's supposed to be bad, and yet...","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I bought this as part of the MST3K series (a show I've recently become completely addicted to).  And while I always love Mike and the bots' riffing (Help, the road is attacking meeee!!), I'm also kind of glad for the DVD inclusion of the original, uncut movie.  Is it okay to admit I kind of actually *liked* this old clunker??That's not to say it's completely undeserving of sneers.  There's the just-can't-buy-it notion of a head being able to talk and breathe and laugh and *act* with no oxygen (no lungs!!)  There's the overacting to painful degrees by both supporting actors (a Noel Coward song once begged Don't Put Your Daughter on the Stage Mrs. Worthington-- but in Leslie Daniels' case the opposite might be begged; there are some actors that really oughta just stay on the stage, where the overdramatics would play better).  And of course there's the hokey monster at the end.  However, there's also performances of genuine creepiness from both leads, especially Virginia Leith as the undead head.  Between her raspy voice (you try talking distinctly with *your* vocal cords sheared in half) and her honest amusement at the frightened lab assistant, she actually manages to be believable and menacing.  Both she and Jason Evers as the power-drunk doctor/boyfriend get to transform through the movie from cutesy lovers to truly deranged evildoers.  It even touches on the timeless question of, if you had to decide between life in a paralyzed (or bodyless) state vs. dying, which would you choose?  Just imagine what a more rounded cast and a more pro director might have come up with.Recently Showtime regurgitated several B-movie titles with modern day stars and effects (with mixed results).  This is one I wish they'd try to revamp. It's bad, yes.... but as other fans of other movies roasted by the SOL might argue, it's not all *that* bad.... Bottom line, thanks MST3K for introducing me to this one! "},{"Title":"One of the great sleazy mad scientist films of the '60s...","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How often have we seen this A guy's fiance is killed in a car wreck, so, being a mad scientist, he keep her head alive in a tray of what looks like grape Kool-Aid until he can find a suitable replacement body. He jumps in his convertible and goes ass-hunting while a wonderfully cheesy piano combo plays on the soundtrack. Atmosphere? You got a dump truck of atmosphere, baby. Why is it - in all mad scientist movies - that when the chips are down, the lab is in flames and the police sirens are screaming in the background, these obsessed yahoos STILL try to complete the experiment? Talk about resilience! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"It gives great head, er, brain!","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pardon the sick joke, but there are more coming, the way this movie turned out. So a doctor (who, according to his father, is obsessed with playing God!) takes his fiancee, drives out to his house, and promptly crashes. What happens to the darling debutante? Well, lucky thing that the doctor really IS obsessed with playing God, because he wraps up the head, takes it home, puts the ol' noodle in a lasagna pan, and brings it back to life. But it's kinda hard to make love to a bodiless woman (despite the above statement) so he goes out searching for the nicest body this side of Raquel Welch. Ah, every man's dream come true. But the other Ms. doesn't take kindly to having her mouth taped shut (long story), so she chums up with the Frankenstein monster in the closet (even longer story) and kills the doctor and herself, the suicidal maniac (short story, really.) It's amazing - Virginia Leith (who acted for Kubrick - I can't recall which film) shows off more acting ability from her head up than most of the actors in this flick can project from their entire body. The only one who comes close is Leslie Daniel, as the doctor's Shakespearean assistant. Oh, I can you dig the subtlety behind the cat-fight ending with the Meow? I need not go any further.  "}{"Title":"B movie classic","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i mean do i really need to say anything about how bad this movie is, i mean its called the brain that wouldnt die! can you imagine and the academy award gos to 'the brain that wouldnt die!' anyway, i caught this one on MST3K, mike's first movie actually. there are many opportunities to make fun of this movie, especially the scene in which the doctor drives his car around town looking at women he passes by, with the most lecherous look ive ever seen on anyone's face. also great is the monster in the closet and the head's evil cackle.  "},{"Title":"I love this movie!!!","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The best and wildest part of the movie is right there on the movie poster A woman's head kept in a petri dish! (And then Tim Burton used it in Mars Attacks.) My favorite part is when the doctor goes out shopping for sexy bodies upon which to put his fiancé's head -- the needle drop is wonderful early sixties stripper music. Hilarious! I also think it has a subtle feminist message The good doctor cares a little too much about his fiancé having a hot body -- her mind's not enough for him -- and he pays for his shallowness! I would say that it's so bad it's good, but it's better than that. The entertainment value and watch-ability make it one of my very favorites of the genre. "},{"Title":"Sleazy horror on a fast-food budget!","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this movie! I don't know who could fail to enjoy the bodiless head bemoaning her fate, cackling as she grows crazier living in a lasagna pan! She gives a great performance! And Jason Evers as her insane mad scientist boyfriend, prowling around, drooling over every hot chick in the neighborhood to a sleazy music score---priceless! And the way he lies and gets the scarred model to trust him, of all men, but still tells her exactly what he intends to do to her---need your body babe, not your head, heh heh heh! What an evil guy! And let's not forget the monster in the closet, one eye pointing up and one eye down, telepathically controlled by Jan in the pan! This is a very entertaining very low budget melodramatic film, and I heartily recommend it. "},{"Title":"This film was aHEAD of its time","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Neat premise.  Very unrealistic.  What I learned from this movie is that speeding crazily out of control to go to the weekend cabin may not be the best idea after all.  I loved how Bill conveniently rolls out of the car and down the hill with no injury at all!  Unfortunately, the same can't be said for his gal.  Oh, and the police never seemed to find the car or trace the owner of the wreck.Lots of dragged out scenes including a plain stripper (still have nightmares from that scene).  Poor assistant guy and his crummy useless hand.  I admit I was intrigued to see what the mysterious thing was behind the door, but when it appeared, I just laughed. HA HA HA!!  The girl really seemed sadistically angry about being revived.  Personally, I really would want a new body after an excruciating experience like that! "},{"Title":"The Movie That Wouldn't End!","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one sad film. First of all we have this doctor who is doing something, attaching arms and legs and whatever together in hopes of making people out the pieces. Yes the Frankenstein thing again. But, unfortunately, the serum he has developed has some bad effects, and this thing turns into a rubbery mess. He is also very powerful. Now thrown in the victim of a traffic accident, caused by the doctor. His young fiancée is decapitated in the accident. The accident has been caused by some unexplainable speeding over treacherous roads by the doctor, so he can get back to his lab where something terrible has happened. He doesn't seem in a hurry until they are almost to the house; then he speed and careens all over the place. Of course, his thinking would be. Unless I can get this woman's head off, there won't be any movie. From that point on, the head sits in a pan with plastic tubes running in and out of it. Somehow it's able to talk without an air supply, but, perhaps, there's some sort of ventilator. She allies herself with the thing behind the door, who apparently got really good ears, because it can hear whatever she says. Or is it telepathy? I remember this being pretty scary when I saw it when much younger, but now t it ludicrous. There are scenes of titillation, involving strippers and the finding of an appropriate body to attach the head to. Since there is so much hatred from his fiancée's head, did he think this would all work out after he attached the head. Oh, well, don't ask too many questions. "},{"Title":"More like The Mouth That Wouldn't Die","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was bad. It was real bad. It stung, Mommy. But what made it worse was that she was really nice before being dismembered. But afterwards, she was a real bitch! Her hubby didn't even try to explain what he was doing for her. She wouldn't shut up either! Somehow she talked without any vocal cords, too. AAARRRGGH! "},{"Title":"Cheap sets, bad acting, but better than average","Date":"12 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, so this movie has all the hallmarks of B scifi from the 1960s and 1950s. Cheap sets, bad acting, utterly laughable dialog (I'll handle the brain area).In spite of all these things, the movie is underpinned by a great story line, no matter how poorly executed. So just like the classic 1960s Star Trek TV series (also plagued by cheap sets and bad acting), remember... STORY FIRST.And that saves it.The moral conundrum of when it is okay to tamper, experiment or try to save human life. The inner struggle that a doctor or surgeon must wrestle with between only doing what *should* be done to save people, vs veering over the line and trying to improve or reconstruct them. The clash between trying everything possible to save a person's life vs deciding that it is in their best interests to let them die (Is it ever? Can they make that decision if they are dying?) I'm the first to admit that I enjoy this film largely for its laughability, its sleazy dialog and background music, the tawdry story line of a surgeon trying to save his fiancée's head by not just saving her, but trying to trade up and graft her head onto a stripper's body. But unlike a lot of other schlocky horror/scifi movies, this one has a nugget of something better. "},{"Title":"Why, you cheap, third-rate stripper!","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yet another Dr. Frankenstein type attempts to play God in this memorable schlock picture. Dr. Bill Cortner (Jason Evers) is an unbalanced genius with radical ideas about body part transplants. One day, he's in a mad rush to get to the family country home. His reckless driving causes an accident that decapitates his girlfriend Jan (Virginia Leith). Acting quickly, Bill scoops up her head and takes it back to the lab that's in the country home. He's able to keep Jans' head alive in a pan, and although she would have preferred that he let her die, he's determined to find a perfect donor body.Despite its reputation, The Brain That Wouldn't Die might not be all that satisfying to some viewers, because it doesn't play out the way that one might think. It's rather slow and VERY talky, and there's a fair bit of padding as Bill spends time in a strip club ogling the bodies of the lovely ladies present. What the movie does have, however, is a script full of deliciously stupid lines. Written by director Joseph Green, based on the story by him and producer Rex Carlton, it gives Jans' severed head plenty to say. (I've heard some Internet wits refer to this movie as The Head That Wouldn't Shut Up.) This also gives us a cool monster (played by Eddie Carmel) that remains hidden in a closet for most of the running time, only to emerge minutes from the end. There's a surprisingly high amount of satisfying gore in the full length American version. The scene where Bills' associate Kurt (Anthony La Penna, credited as Leslie Daniel) gets his arm ripped off by the monster and staggers around the house & lab is a real corker. The movie also benefits from a groovy jazz score.Evers gives a decent performance in the lead role. Leith is both a good sport and a real hoot as she rants from her place in the pan. La Penna is great fun, especially when his character undergoes an inexplicable personality change and exchanges words with Jan. Adele Lamont is tantalizingly sexy as Doris, the model who won't leave her house.Some bad B movie enthusiasts are sure to have a good time with this one. One might say that its head is in the right place.Five out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Brain That Wouldn't Die","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was two when I saw this movie and it scared me so badly I was afraid of closets, and people with covers up to their neck. I had a few nightmares but soon got over the scare. I think that movie is what made me so weird, I like telling scary stories just to see if I can scare the crap out of someone. I usually do. The creepy things that hide in the shadows of the closet. The movie was in my memory but I couldn't remember all of it. I was unable to sleep one night and there it was on Sci-Fi, and I got a good laugh at it, not believing that I had ever been afraid of the movie. In so many ways it's so third rate it isn't even funny. It's also very corny. Now if they were to do it today and take way the ridicules dialog it could work. Maybe get Kane Hodder to be the monster in the closet. "},{"Title":"Miss Brain Beautiful - 1962!","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" How on earth did American cinema survive the three-year wait for the release of this motion picture epic??? For those who have a soft spot for really awful low-budget horror films, The Brain That Would't Die (1962) delivers in spades! It's all here cheese, sleaze, terrible dialog, amazingly inept delivery, and just plain bad acting. Yet, it's all surprisingly entertaining.A surgeon with a really serious god complex gets in over his head when he causes a car accident that kills his future bride. But being an early proponent of 'repurposing' he sets up some comfortable Corning Wear in his lab in which she can rest her head while he searches the finest stripper dives and swimsuit competitions for a hottie who will (involuntarily) give her body to him.He finally settles on a K-Mart Elizabeth Taylor who herself is trying to save face. But back in the lab, his basting beauty proves she has a good head on her shoulders (minus the shoulders) as she strikes up a kinship of sorts with one of the doctor's failed earlier experiments, whom he keeps locked in 'the closet'. These two take head games to a whole new level, with a predictably tragic but morally sound conclusion.Actress Virginia Leith is actually quite good as the disembodied fiancé of the mad doctor. Her character displays not only intelligence and wisdom, but also a compelling capacity for evil. Her performance here is head and shoulders above the rest.The quick and dirty answer put your brain on hold and just enjoy all of the unintentional humor of a true guilty pleasure. "}{"Title":"brain","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember when I was a kid, my mother god rest her soul,, told me that this movie was the one that terrified her the most,, somehow that didn't do it for me,, the one that horrified me the most was invasion of the body snatchers 78.. In this movie a man and his girlfriend wind up in a car crash,, he survives,, apparently unhurt, his girlfriend on the other hand isn't quite so lucky,, but lucky for him her brain is still alive,, head intact.. he has been working on human bodies for years,, transplanting different organs, well now he wants to keep his girlfriend's brain alive,, problem is he needs a new body for her,, well he searches far and wide, and finally settles on a model with a decent body,, well the girlfriend summons this creature , not sure what to call it because it really isn't show in the movie hardly,, she get's tired of waiting on her boyfriend, or she just doesn't approve of the new body,, I'm not sure which,, but this is a really decent horror movie,, I wouldn't even classify it as a b movie actually.. "},{"Title":"Not Nearly As Bad As Some Would Have You Believe","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Brain That Wouldn't Die (1962) ** (out of 4)After his girlfriend is decapitated in a car crash, Dr. Cortner (Jason Evers) takes her head and keeps it alive while he searches for an appropriate body to put it on. It doesn't take long for the girlfriend (or the head) to wish that she was dead and then realize that she has a certain power. This film has the reputation as being one of the worst movies ever made and my opinion of it used to be quite low but after watching the 82-minute uncut version I think the film has gotten somewhat of a bad wrap. Yes, the idea of this head being alive and how cheaply produced the effect of that head is are quite laughable but for the most part this is right on the mark when compared to various other cheapies that were being made during this time. I will say that no matter how cheap a lot of the stuff is there's never really a dull moment here, which is kind of interesting considering we get a lot of dialogue scenes. Usually long, drawn-out scenes of nothing but talking kills a horror film but I thought they actually helped here and especially when the head is having a serious talk about her being alive with another man who also was victim to the doctor's experiments. The film, in its uncut form, also has some rather sleazy moments as well as some gory ones that help separate it from others of this era. With that said, there's no question that there are some moments here that should have happened throughout the film and I think this picture would be loved today. The mutant that finally shows up at the end is so strange and weird looking that I couldn't help but wish that he had been used throughout the picture. I think this here would have been much more effective had the producers used it. There's also no question that many of the performances are weak and that the film looks like it was shot on one set. Still, THE BRAIN THAT WOULDN'T DIE isn't nearly as bad as its reputation and remains one of the stranger horror pictures from this era. "},{"Title":"Equally humorous and unsettling, you'll feel her power!","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen a lot of bad films, and The Brain that Wouldn't Die would not be in that list. Some see the movie as pure schlock and camp, and some see it as creepy. The idea of watching a head talk on its own without a body can be a strange thing to watch, but when you start to think about the logic behind it, the head wouldn't be talking without a voice box attached to it or lungs to force air over it, making speech audible.The film accomplishes the story it sets up if you mess with people's bodies using experimental methods, you have to be prepared when they turn against you. For years, I thought the movie ended differently, and I totally forgot about others that were experiments in the laboratory. It was actually shocking how much of a chauvinistic pig and jerk the mad scientist, Dr. Bill Cortner, was. (The actor who portrays him does such a bad job at pretending he's hurt, BTW, when he's involved in his accident.)There are humorous moments in a few parts which make you wonder what the director wanted to make of these scenes, like when two strippers are fighting after meeting the mad doctor (both having an attraction for him), and as they fight, the camera zooms in on two paintings of cats as a meow is heard (to mark the scene as a catfight). Also the audio- dubbing of laughter to the shots of the head (Jan in the Pan) laughing was ridiculous and unbelievable. The music was standard small orchestra 60's music heard in everything during that era.Overall, I had a decent time watching this. It's been featured in a memorable episode of Mystery Science Theater 3000, and it continues to be a cult film worth checking out. It will make you laugh and get uneasy at times, but it's bound to leave some lasting memories of the movie with you for years to come. 5 stars. "},{"Title":"enjoyable but rather silly for squeamish horror show","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- 1962, A young couple consisting of an attractive women and a wildly experiment-doing doctor drive to a mountain cabin. The cabin is the sight for the boyfriend's questionable medical experiments reanimated dead body parts to help human science. He has been experimenting with some weird positive success, but his established doctor father does not approve. There is a car fiery accident and the boyfriend desperate doctor only saves his girlfriend's severed head and takes it back to his lab cabin to save her life. The girl's head wakes up in a shallow dish alive and depressed she begins to wish for death. She hates her doctor boyfriend for experimenting on her. She enlists the help of a closeted walking 'body part' lab experiment monster getting her vengeance on everyone in the cabin.*Special Stars- Leslie Daniels, Bonnie Sharie, Paula Maurice, Eddie Carmel *Theme- Don't tamper with Nature without expecting disastrous results *Trivia/location/goofs- This film was shot outside Terrytown, New York. Look for the 'disfigured closet' monster's obvious laced seam in his mask when the monster turns away from the camera. After losing a left arm to the closet monster, comes along the world's longest and funniest Kurt 'the deformed' lab assistant death scene. The monster was a local extremely tall stand-up comedian in the NY city area. Two real strippers were used in this film in the bar fight scenes. This film had theaters distribution problems due to the graphic nature of decapitation in the film. It's one of the best Mystery Science Theater 3000 episodes.*Emotion- An enjoyable but rather silly for squeamish horror show viewers. Hilarious for some of the cliques dialog, unintentionally comedic plot scenes and bad acting by supporting players. "},{"Title":"Fun, but nothing to lose your head over.","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This black and white cheapo effort from 1962 is built from precisely the kind of deliciously demented concept that makes fans of B-movie schlock horror go weak at the knees with excitement Bill Cortner (Jason Evers), a surgeon obsessed with perfecting limb transplants, searches for a top-of-the-range female body to carry the decapitated head of his girlfriend Jan (Virginia Leith), which he has kept alive using his revolutionary life giving serum. Meanwhile, Jan's head, its mental powers boosted by the serum, communicates with the obscene medical experiment gone wrong that occupies a nearby locked room, convincing it to seek revenge for their hideous existence.Sadly, being a product of the early 60s, the film is a long way from delivering the excesses this incredibly trashy premise deserves; Director Joseph Green goes as far as he dares, with a touch of blood towards the end, a suitably gnarly creature, a cheesecake dance routine from a curvaceous burlesque performer (accompanied by a suitably sleazy soundtrack), and a shapely photographers' model posing in a bikini, but much of the film is also very drab, with a large portion of the running time padded out by dull monologues from the severed head as she ponders her dire situation.It's a real shame this film wasn't made just a few years later, when HG Lewis had pushed the envelope with his extreme gore, and the sight of naked female flesh was no longer restricted to nudie-cutie features&#x97;then we might have seen a film genuinely worthy of the sordid story, the 60s equivalent of Stuart Gordon's 80s gore-fest Re-animator (which develops themes from The Brain That Wouldn't Die with delightfully outrageous results). As it stands, The Brain That Wouldn't Die is passable fun, but far from an unmissable classic.5.5/10 rounded up to 6 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"A disappointing B - movie","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Brain That Wouldn't Die is a B movie in the truest sense of the word, unknown actors with a short running length and a title designed to pull in the punters. The Brain That Wouldn't Die doesn't have a satirical subtext or any chin stroking comments on the human condition it simply wants to be a bit of fun, which would have been great if the film had accomplished that successfully.The Brain That Wouldn't Die is the story of a doctor who has begun secretly experimenting on the human body which comes in handy when his girlfriend is somehow beheaded in a car crash, so he decides to keep her head alive with some medical equipment down his basement. While there she begins to talk to a strange monster locked in an adjacent room which makes violent noises. The film moves along at a leisurely pace and the audience is introduced to a few semi interesting characters along the way, meanwhile the head and monster talk and plot.One of the problems with this film is that many of the scenes feel relatively repetitive, as the film cuts between the doctor attempting to find a new body, the head arguing with a deformed assistant and then plotting with the mysterious monster it felt like the film was going through a cycle of scenes with only slight advancements each time. When the film does move forward it's pretty interesting, the actor's all feel functional throughout and some of the characterisations can be interesting but really the film lacks a sense of suspense or horror for the main part. This eventually all leads up to a disappointing climax that doesn't feel choreographed properly and the great reveal moment for the monster comes across as a bit of a letdown, earlier in the film one of the characters describes the process of making it involved stitching limbs, injecting drugs before being followed up by horrific mutations however when it comes out it's a simple man with papier-mâché on his head type job. You could have said that this was to be expected but the movie really hyped up this moment throughout so it was deflating to see the actual creation.Overall The Brain That Wouldn't Die was lacking in real suspense or horror sequences and although it had interesting characters it lacked the payoff that was promised throughout the film. "},{"Title":"Look at this brain! See, it just won't die!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  AAAAAAAAARRRRRRRRGGGGGGGGHHHH!!!!!!!!!!I CAN'T STAND THIS ANYMORE!!! IT'S HORRIBLE!!!I think the movie was made to be heckled at on MST3K. It's useless without Mike, Tom and Crow ripping it to shreds.I'm in another dimension! Help me!!! "},{"Title":"definitive Science Fiction, but could've been better","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" How could it have been better? First, lets recap why it was definitive Science Fiction. First, the plot is about a mad scientist with visions of glory, and of saving mankind with ultimate transplants. His character is much like Baron Frankenstein. The ends justifies the means.We get the contrast between his ideas and those of more conservative men of Science. We realize he is bent on a a Shakespearean tragedy. He rushes to his country home for an emergency involving his research, and causes the accident which severs his fiancé's head.Undaunted, since his research is in transplants, he takes the head and looks for a body to transplant it to.Here is where the real genius of the film takes place. Nowadays, some hack would write down that he kills 10 cops and 10 women in 10 hours to get what he needs. But this film shows his dilemma, and also his ruthless vicious nature. Meanwhile, the head of his fiancé gains some mental powers that aren't explained, and with the help of a grotesque experiment gone wild, makes plans.We see her thinking of herself as evil, but in fact, she and the other Frankenstein creation, are indeed the benevolent ones, except to the doctor's assistant, and that is only after he assures her he is against her. The two grotesque creations are the salvation for those who may become further victims.There is so much in this film. A cat fight is staged, but it is so funny that we don't mind the contrivance. We see the mad scientist struggle to get a victim, and meeting obstacle after obstacle.How could it be better? The ending was a bit too hastily done, it seemed. And a lot of the beautiful women seemed to be contrived to be on camera. A lot of the low budget direction was extremely well done, however. The use of the knocking on the door, the cutaways, and other mechanisms could give modern film makers examples of how to make better films. "},{"Title":"'Jan in the Pan' is quite Ungrateful for a Talking Head","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Brain that Wouldn't Die (1959/1962) is a fun little piece of low-budget schlock Horror that is quite underrated due to its cheap look. Sure, the execution of the film is amateurish, most of the acting performances are bad and the whole thing isn't exactly the epitome of logic and brilliant storytelling, but so what? The film is highly entertaining, and furthermore includes quite explicit gore effects for its time (the film was completed in 1959 but not released until 1962, which is the year named on IMDb). The brilliant doctor and scientist Dr. Bill Corner (Jason Evers) is incredibly dedicated to his experiments in finding new transplant techniques. When he is driving out of town for the weekend with his fiancée Jan (Virginia Leith), they have a car accident in which she is beheaded. After recovering her head and managing to keep it alive, he has to find a (sexy female) donor body to transplant her head on. In the meanwhile, the severed head of his formerly beautiful fiancée is anything but grateful for her rescue... Overall, this film won't give anyone the creeps (at least not today), but it is still a highly entertaining little low-budget Exploitation feature that has the very specific 50s/60s B-Movie charm. The scenes with the severed head in the pan ('Jan in the Pan') are actually very well-done, and seem to have inspired a similar scene in an absolute 80s Horror/Gore favorite, Stuart Gordon's masterpiece Re-Animator (1985). The Brain that Wouldn't Die may look incredibly amateurish and the story and dialogue may lack the least bit of logic, but that only increases the entertainment value. Overall The Brain that Would not Die may not be a masterpiece of subtlety and ingenious film-making, but it is definitely an entertaining little cult gem that fans of low-budget Horror/Sci-Fi/Exploitation should not miss. "},{"Title":"Transporter Malfunction","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A smart aleck would probably have fun saying that The Brain That Wouldn't Die, if it had been transported by Scotty, on a binge, would have been good before it went into the chamber.I'm not that smart aleck. Instead I'll leave the popping off to the Jonathan Naylor of Manitoba, who wrote a great review a couple years ago.I think TBTWD has just one transporter malfunction--the critter with a penchant for ripping off arms, trapped in the closet in the laboratory. If you've ever read Mad Magazine's spoof of Star Trek, you'll recognize the symmetry--or lack thereof--with closet boy and Kirk and Spock. Arms and legs sticking out of ears and chests. Yikes.TBTWD is a funny movie IF you find this sort of grade double-Z funny or entertaining or even tolerable. I do, yet it may have been the chill in the room (we have had a terrific cold snap lately and we don't heat parts of the house) or the sheer dullness of the pacing and dialogue that caused me to nod off from time to time.I don't think I missed much. The head was still yapping after I dozed. I stopped the thing (the movie, you dolt!) and made a cup of coffee.I sipped. The critter in the closet ripped. And at the end I could take credit for sitting through a really entertainingly awful movie.On the other hand, I could have used some of Scotty's 400 year old Scotch to fortify the coffee. "}{"Title":"I've seen better.  A lot better...","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Another movie that relies upon the trite, worn-out cliché of the mad scientist gone madder. The movie centers around a surgeon whose life's ambition is to bring the dead...back to life. I know, I know...you've never heard that one before! Of course, as all of these movies go, the experiment goes very, very wrong and creates a maniacal, bloodthirsty creature. For this promising setup, you'd think that it'd be at least a bit suspenseful. Wrong. Like many movies of this era, the idea is nice, but the execution and the script is mediocre. Not the worst horror movie I've seen (no, Abominator the Evilmaker 2 still takes the cake)...but not one of the gems, either. "},{"Title":"Ah, Where To Start?","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Where should I begin to review The Brain That Wouldn't Die? Maybe I should start off by saying that it's really what you'd expect.It's a bad (and I mean bad!) early 60's science fiction movie (but it's one of those so bad it's good...really good movies.) We start off with two doctors in the operating room. Once they're finished with the operation (blood free, of course!) and have touched their faces with their hands (which were just inside the patient's organs but that's OK I'm sure, right?!) Dr. Bill's wife Jan walks into the operating room casually and we find out that they're heading up to the family's country home.Dr. Bill and his wife Jan are now driving up a road to their country home. All of a sudden Bill decides to speed up and how do we know he's speeding up? By shots of moving scenery and his foot pushing on the gas. But then, he's losing control of the car! And how do we know this you ask? We see a sign that reads Winding road and the car turning (using shots they has just shown several times again.) Now they've crashed (and Bill falls from a direction that isn't near where the car has landed) and he takes his wife's severed head (and we're supposed to assume that because he has something wrapped up that he's holding like ball) and yet again no blood is coming out! Now to make a long review a little shorter. Jan becomes Jan in a Pan (who is never referred to as that in the movie so I think adoring fans affectionately gave her that name) and Bill is now on a quest to find Jan a perfect body. Hestarts his quest by going to a stripper club and there's a 6 minute scene of just a stripper dancing with only stripper music playing (which also plays throughout the entire movie whenever there's a scene with flirting going on) then Bill walks back to the stripper's dressing room, they talk, yadda, yadda, yadda...now another stripper who was eyeing Bill walks in, they argue, Bill leaves now the two strippers are having an all out cat fight.Hilarious! It's my favorite part of the movie because it is so pointless and has NOTHING to do what so ever with the movie! Oh and when the cat fight is over there's a shot of a cat on the wallpaper and we hear a MEOW! Now he's at a beauty contest. They announce there's five beauties to come out. Only four show up. Pointless and stupid once again.Also, in between these little quests for Jan's perfect body have been Jan and a monster talking back and forth (one tap for yes, three if you can hear me!) There was also some other experiment who is also deformed (it's his hand which we're supposed to believe is really deformed when it's really just the actor curling up his hand.) The monster is so thoroughly locked in his room (with a simple door with hinges and an everyday padlock of course! That does it's job great!)Now Bill is on a quest to find an old friend who is scarred. He shows up at her place and there are photographers there (right, like a woman would be safe alone at night, in a bikini, alone in her apartment, with a bunch of men taking picture of her!) She shows him his scar (which to me looks like a mark that you'd get from sleeping on your face after you wake up in the morning.) She says she doesn't trust anyone after being scarred by a man who she put all her trust in yet she's going out into the middle of the night alone with a man she barely can remember.The ending is that Dr. Bill brings what's her face back to his house, he drugs her, she passes out, the Monster escapes (somehow he musters up the strength to knock down that hard to open door by taking it off it's hinges. Dr. Bill is killed and now we can see the Monster (the actor's hair is visible I think.) Another goof that I noticed was that the actor's lips didn't match the words that were being said! It's what I expected, it was great, I laughed, I cried...well not really. I did laugh though. Can't wait to see the MST3K version too! I loved Jan in a Pan! I thought she was precious (though many hate her.) I want one of my own now....The real pathetic thing is that when this was first released that many people were probably horrified by it. And for those that weren't they had the eye candy in there for those who got bored.The movie also makes itself look even more pathetic that in the end credits it lists the wrong title with The Head That Wouldn't Die then THE END below it.Not sure what to rate it so I won't rate it at all. "},{"Title":"Classic Mad Scientist Foo","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie Re-Animator was obviously inspired by this monster movie. The head resting on a plate of blood and the thing in the closet helping it to accomplish revenge match up. I noticed that the original title was The Head That Wouldn't Die, I think that makes more sense. After all, the doctor preserved his wife's entire head. The known title makes one think it's about a human brain floating in a glass container that mutates. Not exactly. Anyway, I liked the monster in the closet idea. They keep you wondering about it until he comes out! The gore involved was top notch for it's time. It actually caught me off guard, I guess because it was a black and white film. The only part I didn't like was when the doctor went around town in search of strippers while playing that cheesy music. It was rather annoying. Otherwise, this is certainly a sci-fi/horror classic that continues the Frankenstein legacy. Excellent for Halloween time. "},{"Title":"a classic of its kind","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Admittedly, I have an affection for this schlock-fest.  I originally saw it on late-night TV in the early 1970's, when I was alone and babysitting my cousins.  My Aunt & Uncle were out for a late evening, my little cousins were tucked tightly into bed and I was alone in front of the TV with a bottle of Pepsi.The seventeen-year-old me found TBTWD pretty gruesome and frightening.  I don't think I appreciated all the body perfect references which now seem so obvious.  To  be honest, it kinda freaked me out back then!Today, it certainly is less effective, although certain scenes still can shock and horrify any viewer.  Sometimes, to me at least, these cheap sets and sub-par special effects elevate the creepiness.  As other reviewers have noted, the disembodied head's gravely laugh can still frighten one!  "},{"Title":"Not so bad when you're under it's skin!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While the review that this movie is about an egotistical Frankenstein- like character who accidentally decapitates his girlfriend's head and then considers murdering a bimbo to attach her head to is correct on the surface, there is more here. For one, some of the dialogue is actually quite interesting in it's linguistic gymnastics in the discussions between Jan in the Pan and Kurt over life, death and weird science. Also of note is the music score. The bolero used in the scene where Kurt,the assistant (who sports a withered arm from a failed transplant operation by the mad doctor) has his good arm ripped off by the thing in the closet is freaky and intense. To find a piece of music such as this in a movie so easily dismissed as junk is incredible. Too often, highly talented folk use the monster or science-fiction or slasher genres (or porn!) as a means to get started in their dream to conquer the film business and hints of greatness to come (exJack Nicholson in Little Shop of Horrors)are displayed in the black and white crap they start with. Give this nutball film a chance...there's some gorgeous women in it to boot!  "},{"Title":"But what does turning them into clowns Prove John","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great MST3k caper but other wise get ready to moan at this fantastically sick film about a Brain that wouldn't die.  The Lessons learned?  Even when the chips are down and there's nowhere to turn there's always someone waiting to chop off your head.  Sick Film.  > "},{"Title":"Just put your own brain on hold and watch!","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Brain That Wouldn't Die is undeniably a cheap, tacky, sleazy film, but it isn't the absolute worst film ever made (try sitting thru Al Adamson's Horror of The Blood Monsters sometime!).  If you have the right cheese-craving mindset for it, it can be quite a hoot!  The decapitated head residing in a lasagna pan, the mad doctor's search for the *right* kind of slutty body for the aforementioned head, the monster in the closet that resembles Zippy the Pinhead...all of these add up to a truly unique cinematic experience.  It IS a bad movie, but I'm not sorry that it was made. "},{"Title":"Cool Schlock","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This picture is just plain brainless fun.  It's like playing solitaire or Tetris on the computer.  I would actually rent this movie if I could find it.  The effects are actually pretty good considering the era and the obviously low budget.   "},{"Title":"Little Known Masterpiece!","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Probably the finest little gem of its type. If you're bored some wintry evening and have seen all the really good films, read all the really good books and feel like slitting your throat--then take a gander at The Brain it will restore your joie de vivre and send you smiling into a new day. Easily a ten! "},{"Title":"Something to cheerfully laugh at on a rainy afternoon...almost want to believe me?","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This cheesy classic is a great way to waste a rainy afternoon. A woman loses her head and a mad doctor keeps it alive, because, well, it's both in the name of science and in the name of love. And so it goes.Once you get past the incredibly annoying and wildly goofy orchestral music in the scene where he is carrying the wrapped-up head through the woods, the rest is fully enjoyable, especially the Doris Powell character, who is meant to be the victim (read new body for Jan in the pan).By far, some the weirdest acting - even to the point of being of a consuming nature - that I have seen in any movie ever is done by Adele Lamont as Doris Powell. Her acting and extremely weird timing and amazing enunciation of her lines was so off, it was quite intoxicating. That's a rare gem with bad acting, especially in movies of this time period. (Honestly, it was so intoxicating and ridiculous, I probably shouldn't even label it as bad in this case)Doris Listen...Galaaahaaaaaad...I trusted a man once...all the way...what did it GET me...he GETS his head full of jealous lies...and I GET...Doc You GOT to for-GET what happened... (Hehe. Like perfect rhythm and poetry.)More funny quotes (by Jan in the Pan)Knock twice if I'm not the first... (Thump. Thump.)I'm only a head...and you're whatever you are...He intends to kill somebody...then rob them of their body... WHAT? If you've been killed, someone robbing you of your body would be the least of your worries, I'd think.I've got to see your hideousness. You've got to see mine. (For some reason, after Virginia Leith starts this particular sequence of lines including the part about the grave, she seems GENUINELY upset and REALLY annoyed - something that is hard to fake. Maybe she was very uncomfortable and tired of doing takes.)Also listen for how, for some reason, Kurt's (Bill's assistant) accent gets thicker and thicker and more exotic-sounding as the movie progresses.Great fun. Do you almost want to believe me...almost want to believe me... Shall I say it again, Galaaahaaaaaad? Haha... Recommended.4/10 "}{"Title":"Prime Example of So Bad It's Good....","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film has become one of the classic examples of 60's exploitation schlock. It is ineptly made on every level, but that is one of it's charms,and one reason why it is such a unintentional laugh riot. I won't describe the plot..other reviews have done that for me except that scenes that are meant to be seriously scary become drop dead funny instead. The acting is over the top,production values minimal,and the gore at the end hopelessly fake. But ,once again, that is why the film is so funny. Carnival Of Souls is a film made about the same time,on a similar small budget,but it's creators had talent and imagination and they made a classic horror film under almost impossible conditions. George Romero was to do the same a few years later with Night Of the Living Dead. Brain That Would Not Die in not in the same universe as those two films, but achieves, however unintentionally,a sleazy immortality of it's own,and the film has a cult following. However, I find it incredible that some people try to defend this film on a serious level. Seen as a serious horror movie, it is a total failure. Seen as a Ed Wood style laugh riot, it is a classic. I was torn about what rating to give it, I decided on 1 because I judge movies a lot on how well the filmmakers achieved their aim, and the makers of this failed on almost every level. BUt if you are looking for a evening of drop dead laughs,I would recommend this film in a minute,particularly if you can get the MST3K version. Mike and the Bots make the most of all the material this film gives them. "},{"Title":"Terribly Inept 60's Horror/Sci-Fi film, that's actually pretty boring, with minimal entertainment value, and wretched dialog!","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a terribly inept 60's Horror/Sci-Fi film, that's actually pretty boring, with minimal laughs, and wretched dialog!. All the characters are dull, and the story is as well, plus while I was expecting plenty of unintentionally funny moments, I surprisingly got barely any at all. This should be in the bottom 100 in my opinion,and it's very poorly made and written, plus while we do get a cat fight between two women, it's not as entertaining as it sounds. I got this in a DVD Horror set called A Taste Of Evil, along with a bunch of other Horror films, and while the finale is mildly entertaining, it sure couldn't make up for a film that was dull basically from start to finish, plus I do admit that it had me chuckling a little when the Dr. put some tape on the head's mouth. As far as bad movies go you can do a lot better then this believe me, and the weird looking monster at the end was laughable looking, plus at least we got a bit of gore though!. This is a terribly inept 60's Horror/Sci-Fi film, that's actually pretty boring, with minimal entertainment value, and wretched dialog, and I say avoid it. The Direction is really bad. Joseph Green does a really bad job here with average camera work, making the film look very cheap, and keeping the film at a pretty dull pace. The Acting is just as bad. Jason Evers is laughable as the supposed psychotic Doctor, he didn't convince me at all, and bored me to boot, it also didn't help his dialog was god awful. Virginia Leith is amusing at times as the talking/alive severed head but the act grows tiresome rather quickly, still she brought a few laughs. Adele Lamont is adequate at best, but didn't have much to do. Rest of the cast are bad as well. Overall avoid it. * out of 5 "},{"Title":"Dr Bill - Look in the damn closet","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A doctor who is trying to complete the medical dream of transplantation is experimenting secretly on corpses from the hospital with varying success. His final best chance comes when he lovingly wraps his girlfriend's head in his jacket as he rescues it from a burning vehicle.I was looking for cheese and with this premise I believed I found it. It has everything everything that bad movie hunters look for - chest and brain surgery with the surgeons leaving with pristine white scrubs, unique camera angles (I always love watching the rear passenger wheels of cars), cheesy clarinet stripper music, and one of the longest death scenes in movie history. But unfortunately these so-bad-they-are-good moments can't overcome the too-bad-they-stink stretches.Jan in the Pan annoyed me, with her droning monologues in a hoarse whisper, the somewhat less than evil laughter, and the fact she was kept alive with some Columbian home brew coffee and 2 DD batteries.I couldn't even entertain myself with Dr Bill's horrid overacting and moral self righteousness. Usually such ham makes these movies a must see in my opinion, in this case I was bored with it.The best part of the movie in my opinion was the 1960's version of body shopping and I even found myself nodding off during that.Don't spend money on this one - there are better bad movies out there to entertain your sick sense of humor. "},{"Title":"This movie changed my life","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was young I had seen very few movies. My parents in all their wisdom rented this one. I was very wary of what the movie was about, in fact I wasn't even allowed to watch it. My brother and sister got to of course and this made me very angry. So what did I do? Late at night I trashed the VCR! Kicked the screen of the TV in and called the police and reported vandals. I was arrested of course, I was unable to get my foot out of the TV set before the police arrived. I was only given a stern talking to and sent home. My parents grounded me of course and made me work to repay the debt for the TV and VCR. This tore me apart, slave labour really sucks believe me, but I had to do it. Chores all around the house. What happened in the end? We got a big screen TV, DVD player and a surround sound system for my work. How did I get the money? Easy I made movies of my own and sold them to Disney! Do you remember Finding Neno? Well I wrote that movie and filmed my goldfish in their fish tanks! They rewrote the plot of course and did it in CGI because they couldn't afford to make it a real life action picture like I had done! In the end I never saw the film The Head that didn't die and the rating I gave it is my life rating! It's doing pretty good! "},{"Title":"A great and extremely underappreciated movie","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Brain That Wouldn't Die is genuinely creepy, with some sleaze thrown in that just makes it creepier. The opening words, Let me die! Let me... die!, spoken just before the title appears (not to mention the WAY the words are spoken) - incredibly effective, as is the scene in the strip joint, which induces actual physical discomfort and is also very effective in the context of the movie.The sets are obviously cheap, and the acting is not the greatest. So what? Who cares? Would you rather watch some smooth yawner with Meg Ryan or Tom Hanks in it? This is a triumph of low-budget film-making.Moviegoers who give this film a low rating are, I think, focusing on the easily-targeted shortcomings and ignoring the very real strengths of the film.Obviously not for everybody, but thank God for movies like this. I wish there were more of them. One of the best ever.  "},{"Title":"It's cheesy, but you really must love it","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love buying those cheap, lousy DVD's from Alpha Video.  One day, I happened to buy this one.  It's the perfect silly science fiction film of the 50's, all sexed up.  Replete with unscientific EVERYTHING, scantily clad girls and plenty of melodrama, it's an enjoyable film, to those who appreciate this kind of stuff.  And if you can 'suspend your disbelief' enough, you can actually get creeped out-- not just by the psychotic head or by the beating of the thing in the closet, but toward the end, with the character of 'the perfect body'.  It's so . . . . what's another word for mindf***ing? "},{"Title":"A long time between viewings but fun just the same.","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a young sci-fi horror genre fan in the early 60's The Brain That Wouldn't Die was on the cover of the first Famous Monster of Filmland magazine I ever bought. Unlike today a movie such as this had to be seen in a theatre or drive-in or you didn't see it. There was no VHS or DVD copy of it.  Well I only had the article about it along with the few photos that appeared in the magazine to go on.  It took many years before I got to see it and by then my interest in Sci-Fi and horror films was not quite as passionate as it was when I had been much younger. The filming is only a tad above The Creeping Terror and the story is well.....hokey but it's one of those films that you just have to love because of this. Another number of years went by before I got to see it again recently on AMC. By then it was like I had never seen it before. "},{"Title":"Brain, head, what's the difference?  Right?","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Another lame B movie.  The producers seemed to have trouble deciding what to name it.  Apparently, they decided to change the title in the middle of the film; at the end, the credits state The Head That Wouldn't Die.  Perhaps if they spent more effort on the plot(among other things) than the title this film would be better.  This movie was shown on a MST3K episode, and a special episode at that; the first one with Michael Nelson on the SOL. That will probably be this film's legacy.  Don't confuse this film with The Thing That Wouldn't Die, which was also featured on a MST3K episode.  "},{"Title":"Has a reputation as one of the most unintentionally hilarious bad films ever made but in actuality its not that inept","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Brain That Wouldn't Die has a reputation as one of the most unintentionally hilarious bad films ever made but in actuality its not that inept. Its never scary but has such a sleazy and sordid atmosphere that I find it fascinating. Despite the ridiculous concept, some of the acting isn't horrible by the standards of exploitation cinema. Jason Evers, Leslie Daniels, and especially Virginia Leith are all surprisingly good. I guess the main problem is the screenplay which should have done the audience a favor by adding at least one remotely likable character, as all these characters have potential to be sympathetic. However, the sleaziness of the characters suits the films scuzzy style well. The supporting cast is awful but luridly overwrought and always fun to watch.As I said above, this is one incredibly sleazy gem. Its seems like your most bizarre fever dream often and the moments of sleaze make it more memorable than most other horror films of the day. Also, the worst crime a film can commit is being boring and The Brain That Wouldn't Die is anything but. Its actually very well paced and there's a surprising lack of filler. Even the scenes that could be considered filler are great fun to watch, such as the cat fight. The film ultimately didn't deserve the MST3k treatment (as much as I love the show) and is a fun little cult film. Just make sure to avoid shorter prints which eliminate the gore. (6/10) "},{"Title":"The story that wouldn't be good. (SPOILERS!)","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Brain That Wouldn't Die is one awful piece of film that stinks from the opening credits. It's got all the classic signs of being bad unbelieveable plotline, terrible acting, low-grade sets and lighting. The plotline goes like this When a doctor and his fiancee get caught in an accident, she gets decapitated and he picks up her head and takes her to his lab, where he sets up her head in a pan with some special liquid that keeps it alive. I'll bet Virgnina Leath, who played the head in a pan had to spend a lot of uncomfortable time wearing that pan around her neck and squatting under a table. Anyway, the doctor then tries to find her a new body, and hires two strippers so she can chose one to have her new body. Bad all the way through, so bad it was torn to pieces on Mystery Science Theater 3000.  "}{"Title":"The brain won't die honest.","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A demented scientist girlfriend is decapitated so he brings her head back to life. Honest this is the plot of the movie. He try's to get her another body he searches through the sleaze area of town for that perfect body. For some reason he has ugly looking monster in a closet at his cabin. The sleaze style of the movie is laughable. No one in the movie can actually act including the head. The closet monster is a man with a mask tie on and you can really tell. The plot is slow, weak and the ending is so badly done. Watch the Mystery Science Theater 3000 version of this move. Believe me folks I wouldn't watch this movie on its own.  "},{"Title":"Brainy","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a little annoyed at the folks that poke fun at this.Sure, all the production values are poor, but this is just a matter of degree. If perfected imagination is defined as the images you dream and you set that at 100, well maybe this would be a 3. But lets be honest about stuff you don't laugh at, like Star Wars which would probably be a 5.Its all a matter of negotiation, what we will accept as real. The reason I'm annoyed is because this is a pretty cinematic ally conceived project, and we don't have all that many. Just think about it the monster in the closet (actually called a closet!), telepathically communicating with the disembodied head of a mad doctor's sexy girl friend to plot revenge for their situation. That idea should be enough.Here's a test. Play this movie just listening to the sound as if it were a radio show. Yes, the acting is still hesitant, but doesn't that make sense in a self-referential way?Any bad movie that works with my eyes shut isn't a bad movie in my book. Its just an inexpertly done good movie.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"no way to treat a lady...","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... or an audience. A quick recap....So you've got this doctor who's been experimenting with stolen body parts for some vague reason. He wants to perfect transplants, but feels he needs to do this in his basement. WTF??? And then suddenly, unfortunately, and conveniently, his fiancé gets her head cut off in a traffic accident that HE'S responsible for. Agonized with grief, he preserves her head in a lasagna pan (or is it strudel?) and pumps it full of adreno-serum (sic) to keep it alive. And then she awakes, talking her head off (so to speak) even though her neck was obviously severed at the vocal cords, and she has no lungs so she couldn't speak even if she had 'em. Seems the ungrateful b*tch doesn't appreciate all that her fiancé has done for her. Just like a woman.....Then his grief turns to horniness as he sees the possibility of grafting his beloved's head onto the body of the first sleazy bimbo he can pick up off the street. Meanwhile, the doctor's assistant, a sort of dime-store Igor, gets into philosophical arguments with the head, who has struck up a telekinetic friendship with the monster in the closet (every mad scientist has one). Eventually the screenwriter realizes that he can't keep inflicting his misogyny and fear of intimacy issues on the audience ad infinitum, so he kills everybody, then presumably goes to the bank to cash the check before the movie's financial backers have a chance to stop payment on it. Have I mentioned that I think this is a bad movie?Someone should tell Turner Classic Movies to stop showing that edited version without the gory stuff. The sight of the assistant with his arm ripped off, pirouetting around the house without leaving much blood anywhere is just too precious. "},{"Title":"Early Schlock at it's Schlockyness","Date":"10 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While still what I'd call a mediocre entry at best, I still thoroughly enjoyed TBTWD, it reminded me of the absurd things you could get away with back then. Brilliant Dr on the edge of science, breaking the moral boundaries he's supposed to abide by, his girlfriend reduced to a head, the deformed lab assistant, silly dancers/ would they really have been strippers?, as the good Dr watches trying to pick out a new body the obligatory weird creature we don't see until the finale.so many things that if this were ever to be remade, certainly the film would fail abysmally. honestly not one of the better from it's era but certainly it has a special place in some hearts of those who watched it's first release and certainly a warm place in the hearts of us B movie enthusiasts.good movie to watch with friends of similar mind. "},{"Title":"The Funniest Comedy of All Time","Date":"16 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though the movie Scary Movie ripped this classic off, The Brain (or head, i'm not quite sure what they named it) that wouldn't Die is hilarious! My favorite part is when the monster pretended to tear off the scientist's arm but didn't really and the scientist was being so dramatic even though his had was just in his sleeve; PRICELESS! This movie's poor acting really gave it a funny touch. The only thing I was curious about is how the head survived without any heart to keep it living but then I noticed the Magical Juice that the head was placed on and calmed down. This, by far, was the best comedy I have ever seen in my life and I would recommend this to ANY person who is bored and would love to have a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Paging Doctor Sleazy","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The operating room is no place for experiments So what ? He's already dead!!! It's one of those films. Dedicated doctor wanting to do transplants to further the cause of medicine. His surgeon father tells him he mustn't meddle with things he doesn't understand.Dr Cortner (Herb Evers) drives his fiancée, Jan (Virginia Leith) to his workshop to show her his experiments. Virginia Leith gives this film the only class it has. She was a beautiful brunette with a sultry voice in the Suzanne Pleshette mould. She appeared in A Kiss Before Dying with Robert Wagner. Even though Joanne Woodward had the flashier part as the younger sister who falls for Rober Wagner's creepy charms, Virginia Leith, as the older sister is still memorable.Anyway, after what looks like a minor accident, Cortner comes to down a steep hill staring at his fiancée's decapitated head!!! But that doesn't defeat our hero. Now he can show the world he can successfully transplant a head on to a body - he just has to find a body!!! Where will he find a body - where else but at a sleazy strip club. There is a fight between two strippers as they both want to be the girl he takes home. He then sees a friend walking along the street and thinks she will do but uh-oh her friend wants to come on the ride as well so they are both saved.They tell him about Doris, who has a beautiful body but hides herself away - posing only for a select group of sleazy elderly photographers. He convinces her to come to his house where he will perform plastic surgery and restore her face back to what it was.Back at the lab Jan's head is hooked up to all these tubes. With her brain working overtime she is slowly taking over the lab. Kurt, an assistant, who has a mangled hand (the result of an operation gone wrong) is dubious about her. He has a lot of faith in Dr. Cortner. There is a thing behind a locked door (an early transplant experiment gone wrong). With an irritating, high pitched laugh, Jan convinces the thing that with her brain and his brawn, together they can conquer the mad doctor and maybe the world!!!!It is very entertaining and a lot better than some of the million dollar movies that pass for entertainment now. "},{"Title":"Cheesy fun","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is also called The Head that Wouldn't Die.Whatever title you call it by it is a pretty fun watch of a cheesy little movie that offers some mild sex and some mild gore along the way.A brash young surgeon and his nurse girlfriend have a terrible car crash on the way to his remote country home.The girlfriend is decapitated in the crash but luckily and unbeknownst to her he has been conducting sinister experiments that leads him to believe he can save her or at least her head.He grabs the head from the burning car and rushes to his lab which comes complete with an assistant who has a withered leathery looking hand that is the result of some failed research by the good doctor.Also in the lab locked in a closet is some sort of lumpy looking huge creature that is also the result of the doc's experiments.The surgeon keeps his girlfriend's head alive in a tray with some solution in it while he goes out to look for a body to attach her head to.The doc goes to all the usual places that you would go when looking for hot chicks--a strip joint,a swimsuit competition and an art studio where models pose so nerds and losers can take pictures of them.Meanwhile the Head awakens,resentful of her boyfriend for keeping her alive in her condition, and finds she can control the thing in the closet with her now somehow more powerful brain and she also begins taunting poor old Curt,the withered arm lab assistant .Of course her control of the huge closet monster assures us that the mad surgeon will get what is coming to him.This movie is in black and white and the lighting is uneven and the sound is messed up in places and the acting is often bad and the writing is worse but I still like it for some reason.Maybe it is all the mistakes you can spot like the girlfriends hand reaching out of the burning car even after she has her head cut off.Or maybe it is all the women scantily dressed .Or maybe it is the stripper cat fight where we can see their big wobbly breasts bouncing around.Or it might be all the mild double entendres this film has.Or it could have been the nicely done gore that the film has right near the end,a small amount but nicely done.Whatever the reason this cheesy little film was pretty fun to watch. "},{"Title":"A sick movie, yes . . . but fun-ny!","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A surgeon (Jason Evers) and his fiancee' (Virginia Leith) crash their car on a lonely road, causing her to be decapitated.  Evers takes Miss Leith's head to his modest one-room laboratory (one small room, with very little equipment).  He puts her head in a shallow, liquid-filled pan and connects it to a few tubes.  Voila!  The head lives!  (And talks.  Never mind where the air comes from).Then, in an effort to find a replacement torso for his poor fiancee', Evers goes body shopping -- cruising the streets in his convertible while he ogles numerous shapely women in tight skirts.  (In fact, there doesn't seem to be anything BUT tight-skirted women walking the streets in his neighborhood.  How curious . . .)But with so many shapely female bodies to choose from, the good doctor gets overly picky about physical endowments, and he takes too long making his choice.  The wife loses her mind.  In a climactic orgy of bloody justice, Jason gets his just deserts when he is attacked by the dreaded Thing In The Closet, an imprisoned creation of a failed experiment.A blatantly low-budget film that never cracks smile.  But trust me, the audience can't keep a straight face through this classic. "},{"Title":"MSTed vs Normal ?","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I caught this film at one point many years before I heard about MST3K, as a big B-Movie fan I actually enjoyed the film, the plot involves a surgeon who after accidentally killing his wife takes her head to his lab and brings it back to life (cheesy huh?) and then he searches for a body for her. The premise while pretty good the execution is terrible, the actors are semi-decent but not memorable. Like someone said previously the strippers are HIDEOUS! Later on this would be the first proper film I watched on Mystery Science Theatre and I laughed at nearly every scene as Mike and the 'bots give the film a thorough thrashing.Normal Version = 5/10MSTed Version = 9/10 "},{"Title":"I was 9 when i first saw it and I could never erase this movie from my head until I was 30","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A certain day when I was 9 they showed this movie in Chile, where I live (26 years ago). It really shocked how can someone´s love for other can be so twisted to attempt  to keep his loved head alive in a tray and then try to find a body (a perfect one) to fit the head. I spent years trying to see this movie again until I went to the States on vacation and bought the movie in Tower records. I couldn´t wait to come back and watch it again. Elvira, the mistress of the night was the host for the movie and she kept making jokes of how bad the movie was which I didn't like. But she was right. It is bad. But at least, I was satisfied. never think of it again. (Except now that I couldn't resist the temptation to look for it and write these lines). "}{"Title":"Its a bad movie sure, but you know...","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think its telling us how women were treated as mens objects to do with as he pleases. That sort of thing. All the women in this movie are minipulated. From the dude's girlfriend to the dancer/model he drugs and wants to decapitate! I could be wrong here, but thats what i think...but also its also sort of has this thing telling us how men want to play god and all that BS that was played upon in Frankenstien. Makes me sort of wonder if Ira Levine was inspired somewhat by this movie for his novel The Stepford Wives (as well as for the movie obviously too, as far as men controling women is concerend) All in all, great sci-fi schlock! 5/10 "},{"Title":"this film will really make you think...","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Maybe health care reform wouldn't be such a bad idea after all. The film starts off with a lovely operating room scene where our hero, after arguing with his fellow doc and Dad, proceeds with a risky and bizarre procedure on a hapless patient. Sure, it works, but at what cost? Like this particular maniacal medical practitioner needs any extra encouragement to continue down his unorthodox, unethical, and just plain unsavory path. BTW, we also learn during this opening scene that he's responsible for making off with all the missing limbs from amputations, which he's been using in his little experiments. Dr. Mengele, eat your heart out.Not surprisingly, the movie goes downhill from there. Seeking a bit of R&R, our hero drives out to the country with his plucky finacee in tow. In his haste, he manages to run the car off the road, and wouldn't you know it, as a result of the accident his lovely wife to be loses her gosh darned head. Oh well. Luckily he is well schooled in the ways of mad science and has a nice panful of revitalizing neck juice in which to keep the head alive and well until he can, you guessed it, find a suitable 'donor' body.As an MST experiment, it makes for some good entertainment. I wouldn't care to watch it on its own, however. "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasures","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MMMMMmmmmmmmm...that really bad cat fight between the two strippers is enough to make anyone love to hate this fab piece of tacky trash.  Listen to the rotten sound...did they film this in a warehouse??  I have to laugh every time I pull this gem out from my video collection.   "},{"Title":"A fine vintage that's worth taking off the rack","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A generally fun film worth a watch, if for anything; to see the Organ transplants?  You're insane doctor!  You're playing God! at the beginning. Interesting to compare the 60s sci-fi with the 90s reality.  The first half is quality sci-fi, however the last half seems to drag a little as the 'brain' whines too much about being alive.  Worth a pick-up in a bargain bin or a bulk weekly rent.  "},{"Title":"C'mon Down To The Lab and See What's On The Slab!","Date":"18 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If it's sleazy.... If it's cheesy.... If it's so bad that it's good enough to be mistaken for an Ed Wood production... Then it must be The Brain That Wouldn't Die! On all 3 counts - You can bet it is! And I ask you - When was the last time you saw a z-grade Mad Scientist flick where the experiment actually went right for a change? Well, I'll tell you, this flick ain't one of them. I'd say that just about everything that could go wrong did go wrong in this ultra-cheap, unintentionally hilarious, Sci-Fi/Horror film from 1962.... And that's what made it so enjoyably entertaining to watch.*Spoiler Alert* It's hard to say what was the most laugh-filled scene in this film. But, for me, it's got to be one of these 3 gems.1... When the fine, upstanding (but totally unethical) doctor ventures down to a local, 2-bit strip joint in hopes that here he'll find that certain hot body desperately needed for a head reattachment operation that he's got cooking back at the lab.2... When this good, but utterly ruthless, surgeon places a piece of masking tape across the mouth of the talking head (that's sitting in a shallow pan of liquid on top of the table) in order to shut it up.3... When the thing (also known as it) breaks out of the closet down in the lab. Believe it, or not, it turns out to be the hero. He actually saves the day and even rescues the hot tamale (in leopard print leotards) who's now primed for head detachment, strapped down on an operating table.Whatever. You really need to see this z-grade gem for yourself to make a fair choice on the matter.P.S. - I gave this film 4 stars, which is the same rating that I gave The Dark Knight. And even though these 2 films are rated the same, in my books, I'd say that, with all of its sleazy, cheesy cheapness, The Brain That Wouldn't Die was better entertainment, by far. "},{"Title":"It's bad, unless you like that kind of thing","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What can I say about this film that isn't blatantly obvious.It's silly, it's from the 60s, it's cheese-tacular fun. I'm going to try to give a thorough review, but what do you really expect? I'll give one paragraph of what's positive, and one of what's negative.What's good about it? It's good old cheesy fun. It has a hilariously stock story that would make even Ed Wood say, That's a little stupid. The performances (Especially Virginia Leith) are hilariously horrendous. I know it sounds like I'm poking fun at it, but this is what happens when you try to be serious...The plot, is just downright dumb and mind numbing. The effects are below fourth rate, even for the time. The acting is horrible, but to the actors credit, 90% of their dialog is poorly written exposition (and I swear some of them are intoxicated). Everything about this movie seems rushed, and as one final insult the title of the movie changes to The Head that wouldn't die in the films ending credits. As if to say, We didn't care about this movie either. And that's my final thoughts on the matter. "},{"Title":"Cult classic is low budget fun","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For many years this played on television in an edited form but now on DVD the complete film can be enjoyed (or however you choose to view this) and those who first viewed it as a child can see the material that was missing for a long time. Story is about Dr. Bill Cortner (Jason Evers) who is with his girlfriend Jan Compton (Virginia Leith) and they are headed to his house in the country when they are involved in a car crash that decapitates Jan. Doctor Cortner brings her head to his laboratory where he has invented a serum that can connect lymphoid tissues and he keeps her head alive in a pan with electrodes and tubes that keep both blood and serum circulating but when she wakes up she wants to die!*****SPOILER ALERT*****Dr. Cortner is helped by his assistant Kurt (Leslie Daniels) who has a mangled and deformed arm (thanks to the good doctor!) and while he tends to things in the lab Dr. Cortner immediately heads to the local strip clubs in search of the perfect body for Jan's head. He runs into a sexy model named Doris (Adele Lamont) who has a bad scar on her face and he plans to lure her back to his lab and use her luscious body for the transplant. Meanwhile, Jan has been using telepathy to communicate with the hideous mutant (yep, thanks to the good doctor again!) that's locked in the closet and she manages to get him (or it) to grab Kurt and rip off his good arm.This was directed by Joseph Green who only made one more film after this and I guess it's hard to keep a directing career going when your the one responsible for this. This is very low budget and it looks as if most of it was shot and filmed in someone's basement which would account for the echo that is heard in certain scenes. I did manage to notice little things that I found interesting like in the beginning of the film Evers is smoking in the ER after performing an operation! Isn't that a tad unsanitary? Also, the country house that Dr. Cortner owns is gigantic and resembles an English castle! It must be nice to be a well paid doctor. I found it very amusing that Dr. Cortner wasn't going to be satisfied with any female body for Jan and didn't waste any time heading to strip joints and cajoling with sexy models. The guy was definitely horny! The film manages to get two strippers to start fighting and wrestle to the ground and as this takes place the camera zooms up to the pictures of cats on the wall...Meow!!! This does manage to do two things that are still quite effective and the first is the gore in the scene where Kurt has his arm ripped off. For 1962 this was pretty graphic and it led to some of it being edited out. The second thing is the casting of Eddie Carmel as the mutant which is still pretty gruesome to watch and I can perfectly understand a young kid being effected by his 7 foot stature and the make-up that's applied on him isn't that bad either. This does have it's share of unintended laughs (the tape over Jan's mouth!) but I found this to be an entertaining exploitation horror flick from the early sixties when these types of films were just a few years away from being really graphic and it's something that all lovers of cult (and camp) should definitely view. "},{"Title":"Campy camp from camp camp","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Really stupid one line summary for this review, huh?  It very accurately describes The Brain (Head) that wouldn't die, then.  A viewing with the MST3000, touch, and once again I'm baffled how films like this can be made unless they intended it to go with some satircal commentary track.I mean, I enjoy the occassional bad film, especially when you get a hold of a classically bad horror film.  This stuff, however, gives MST 3000 a run for its money in making it tolerable camp.  Oh well, I didn't pay for the viewing . . . "},{"Title":"The brain that wouldn't shut up.","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh, the pain. I can imagine that brain (or head) asking that doctor if she looks fat. I got my first dose of this film a few years back when the local independent station played it at 10am. This version was really weird because sometime into the film the screen turned all white, and some guy gave an inspirational message (if anyone has seen this version, or knows what it's about, please send me a private comment)! Then it returns to the movie and the pain. Later I bought the MST3K version, which happened to be Mike's first episode, and it was somewhat easier to watch. I didn't see that message, but they might have cut it out. A good movie to make fun of, but not much else. "},{"Title":"The Movie That Wouldn't Die!","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I got this movie on DVD and VHS of MST3K. The DVD you do get to see the movie with out the creature and uncut. Now, it is painful to watch this movie with out MST3K. Think God for MST3K. The bad thing is that MST3K did cut out some parts in which makes like the movie has more mistakes then it has. So watch out! All in all this movie did have a plot, some action, good cinematography in it. But, watch out for the special effects and sound those are very bad.The Motion Picture That Wouldn't Die!!  "}{"Title":"The Film  That  Shouldn't  Have  Been  Made","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was really bad whether you take it as a sci-fi movie, as a horror one or even as a comedy. The whole thing is ridiculous.The film looks (and is) definitely cheap, the actors have no idea of what acting is and the script shows clearly that it was being made along with the shooting. It is obvious that the monster in the closet was added because the living head was not scary at all -she was even pretty- and they thought they needed something more impressive; they failed here too (the make up is awful even for the late 50's, rather funny).The film shows clearly why Director Joseph Green's career as such and also as a writer never materialized; he was really bad at both. Same goes to the actors, leading and supporting.The Brain That Wouldn't Die's best achievement is its short running time. "},{"Title":"Title The Movie that Wouldn't End or Hookers! Hookers! Hookers!","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is a loose collection of unintelligible analogies and ill conceived plot devices.Movie history The director of this film was a pervert who drove around town filming random women. When his wife discovered the film reels, he was forced to quickly contrive a story. He claimed he was making a movie called The brain that wouldn't die. Eventually, his wife demanded that he show her his so called movie. That night he quickly filmed some extra scenes with a friend and The Brain that wouldn't Die was born.I hate this movie! Plot Synopsis The main character's fiancé is killed in a horrible car accident(that he caused by ignoring the clearly posted road signs). He grabs her head from the wreckage and reanimates it. After reanimating the head, he goes and picks up a bunch of hookers. That is pretty much what happens for the rest of the movie. At the end, he fights and is killed by a monster that lives in the closet. The monster appears with little to no explanation. However, the monster saves a hooker and I assume that they live happily ever after.Side notes The end credit screen claims that the movie is called The Head that wouldn't Die.I hate this movie! "},{"Title":"You can't even laugh at this cynical cut rate disaster.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE BRAIN THAT WOULDN'T DIE is a notorious cheapie that doesn't even deserve its notoriety. Someone in this forum compared this film to that of the films of Ed Wood. The comparison is inapt. Whatever Ed Woods short comings as a filmmaker, I don't think he would ever dream of making a film as dismal, dreary, depressing, unpleasant and cynical as this cut rate disaster. Forget about the films cheap production values and lame script. How can anyone sit through a film with such depressing characters? Everyone in this film is evil, scheming or jaded. The film has no hero, unless you count Eddie Carmel as the hideous monster that spends most of the time hidden away in a closet. You can't even laugh at this cheapie. It's disasters like this that killed the low budget programmer horror/sci fi market.   "},{"Title":"But oh don't we wish this movie would...","Date":"31 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie tells the tender tale of a demented scientist who, after his fiance is decapitated, goes around ogling strippers so that he can find a suitable body to attach her noggin to.  Everyone in this movie exudes more slime than a snail, particularly our protagonist. "},{"Title":"Let me die! Let me die!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Following a car accident, a mad scientist(Jason Evers) keeps the head of his fiancee(Virgina Leith)alive. He then goes on the prowl looking for the perfect body to make her whole again. Pretty lame all the way around, nothing redeeming here. Also in the cast are Leslie Daniels, Bonnie Sharie and Bruce Brighton. Someone should have helped put this one out of its misery. Let it die. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, if compared to a POS like Mitchell","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I bought this film on DVD so I could get an episode of Mystery Science Theater 3000.  Thankfully, Mike, Crow, and Tom Servo are watchable, because the film itself is not.  Although there is a plot, a story one can follow, and a few actors that can act, there isn't anything else. The movie was so boring, I have firmly confirmed that I will never watch it again without Tom, Crow and Mike.  As summarized above, however, it was better than the film featured in the MST3K episode that preceded it; Mitchell. "},{"Title":"Seeing this makes you realize American culture hasn't degenerated...","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ...but it'll make you wonder if we had any in the first place!  This movie is just as bad as any of today's horrible horror.  A man goes around ogling semi-clad ladies, trying to decide which one to kill so he can give his girlfriend a new body.  One scene involves a man staggering around and spurting all over the set for a full three minutes, coating everything what what must be well over ten gallons of blood.  The movie also attempts to create a sense that what the man is doing to his girlfriend is wrong and against nature, but the movie is so badly done it's impossible for the audience to dredge up any feeling of shock or outrage.  Aimlessly dark and unimpressively sinister, this movie can't even get its own title straight-- the beginning credits say The Brain That Wouldn't Die, but the end credits list it as The Head That Wouldn't Die. "},{"Title":"A movie made for satire","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Everyone who has done a horror film show where you take a cheap, and preferably public domain horror movie and mock it has had a go at this one. Svengoolie, Elvira, the MST3K guys (who came up with the term Jan in the Pan). It's just the cinematic equivalent of a Kick Me sign.The plot is that a mad doctor is doing unauthorized transplant experiments, when his girlfriend is decapitated. While she is compliant and all beforehand, she goes into a serious anger mode when she finds herself as the Head in a Pan. (I still think they should have gotten her a date with Hitler in a Jar from THey saved Hitler's Brain.) The doctor then goes about trying to find a replacement body by frequenting strip joints and other locales. The sleazy music and exploitation is fun... kind of.But really, it's an awful film, only fit to be mocked. "},{"Title":"Jan in the pan","Date":"29 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the most infamous b movies ever made and seen everywhere because its public domain.OK this mad Dr played by Jason evers has a car accident with his fiancé as his passenger,needless to say she loses her head.he takes her head from the burning auto and heads for his mountain cabin that seems to be close by,next he has her head kept alive,his assistant has his own problems,he had an arm transplant that did'nt work so he only has one arm to work with,this movie has everything like strippers,big busty women,freaks,and yes Jan in the pan.well the mad doc needs to find a body for his fiancés head to be grafted on,so the search is on.well i do recommend the uncut unrated version that shows lots of gore in black and white,ear chewing long before mike Tyson's outing with evander holyfield.and some arm yanking.and a disfigured bikini model.anyway I'm sure most people have seen this classic b movie,it is however enjoyable on the level of plan 9 from outer space.there was a warner home video on VHS back in the 80s that was totally censored and really unwatchable.this was made by American international pictures back in the early 60s.i would call this a cult classic,they don't make movies like this anymore,someone should do a remake,since Hollywood is on that trend remakes,TV shows made into movies and overdone computer graphics films.i do however prefer the low budget movies from the 50s and 60s,and yes some of the cheese from the 70s as well,I'm giving this little gem 6 out of 1o. "},{"Title":"Not too bad late 50's exploitation.","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Brain That Wouldn't Die starts as pioneering surgeon Dr. Bill Cortner (Jason Evers) & his girlfriend Jan Compton (Virginia Leith) are rushing to his country home where he conducts his grisly medical experiments, however on the way Bill loses control of his car & crashes decapitating Jan in the process although he is thrown clear. Devastated Bill grabs Jan's decapitated head & heads for home where along with his assistant Kurt (Leslie Daniels) manages to use the techniques he developed to bring Jan's head back to life, now no woman with a fit body is safe the race is on for Bill to find a suitable body to graft Jan's head on to before the head dies & Bill's love Jan is lost forever...Written & directed by Joseph Green this low budget exploitation horror film has gained quite a reputation over the years & isn't a bad little time waster although it's no masterpiece by any means. The Brain That Wouldn't Die is your typical mad scientist film mixed in with some unusually sleazier elements for the time period that it was made, decapitated heads in pan's (affectionately described by fans of the film as Jan in the Pan), freakish deformed monsters, a bit of naked flesh, strippers & a touch of gore as well as grisly medical experiments concerning organ & limb transplant at a time when medical science was developing. Apparently available in a crappy 70 minute edited version & an 82 minute uncut edition the uncut one is the way to go everyday of the week. Although 82 minutes isn't that long it can drag at times as not that much really happens but the film has a certain sleaziness & interest factor that kept me watching. The character's are alright, the story is OK & it passes the time but as I said it isn't exactly brilliant, just good. I am not quite sure how Bill expects Jan to love him or how he is going to explain away killing another woman to steal her body but he never gets the chance so it's immaterial I suppose.As a public domain film there are no legal rights holder therefore there are plenty of legal copies of The Brain That Wouldn't Die floating around on the internet so it's very easy to see. This film has never been released here in the UK on any format which seems odd but I guess no-one bothered to try & get it released. The film has that rather static point & shoot look about it but it's not terribly made by any means. There's a bit of gore & more than you would expect from a film of this vintage including a deformed freak, a ripped off arm & a chunk of flesh bitten off someone's neck. Although the opening title card reads The Brain That Wouldn't Die the closing credit card reads The Head That Wouldn't Die.Filmed over just 13 days in New York in 1959 this apparently wasn't released until 1962 because of censorship & distribution problems. The acting isn't up to much so the less said about it the better.The Brain That Wouldn't Die is a fairly decent retro piece of exploitation with a slightly sleazier tone about it than one might expect from the late 50's. I wouldn't call it brilliant but it's worth a watch if your a fan of the genre. "}{"Title":"Never Gels","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The ingredients are right 1 cup mad scientist, 2 tablespoons dismembered head, 1/2 pound of ground stripper, and 4 cups deformed monster. So why does this psychotronic mash-up feel like work instead of a giddy thrill? Maybe we forgot to pre-heat the oven.It's supposed to be trashy fun but the movie forgets the fun part. Stick with the MST3K version... there's nothing to see here.NOTE Director John Landis recently appeared on Turner Classic Movies with the chance to play his favorite films for the night. Being deeply disturbed, Landis included this movie as one of his favorites. Why again? He considers this wonderful cinema? Had he forgotten that two actors were decapitated while shooting his Twilight Zone Movie segment? Was it intentional malice from this eternally-giggling monster? Host Robert Osborne looked as if he was close to vomiting on John... I would have really enjoyed that. GRADE F "},{"Title":"My review + a rant.","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm going to give the same basic review that I gave The Atomic Brain, both of which are in the AMC Monsterfest Cult Classics-Collection 1. I previously made a joke about the DVD title, but I'm gonna skip it this time around. You know the plot (or maybe you don't, I don't know) a young couple has a car crash. Girl losses her head. The boy is a scientist and brings the head back to life. Since her body is mangled, he's going to get her a new one. How's he going to get a body? He's gonna kill a stripper or model and use their body. Now I'm a fan of somewhat bad sci-fi/horror movies. This is one of those films you should never take seriously. It's one of those films you make fun of with your friends and have a good time. The problem for me was that I did take this movie seriously. Don't ask me why. At the time I just haven't seen too many of these cheesy 50's-60's sci-fi/horror movies before. I not sure what I was expecting. Wait. I do know what I was expecting. I was expecting this would probably be a better movie than The Atomic Brain. I mean I buy this DVD with the word classics in it, the first film was just OK, so I'm thinking well the movies must get better with each film. Then I watch this and it's pretty much The Atomic Brain just not as good. I'm sorry. I know, I just go on these rants that go no where. I never said I'd be a great critic like Ebert. But I'm just trying to shed some insight into the situation. Back to the review. Like The Atomic Brain this just felt kinda slow. There was only one scene that I sort of liked. The cat fight scene. It was just unexpected and... yeah that's pretty much it. I don't know, maybe if I watch it again my rating for this film will go up. We'll see. So if you come across this movie watch it with friends, get some drinks, and bash the hell out of it. "},{"Title":"A freak of life! And, a freak of death!","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Another mad scientist movie, but grounded in science yet to come. A doctor (Jason Evers) seeks to advance science by attaching limbs to bodies that have lost them. He has made many mistakes, and they are all present in one body; a hideous, gruesome monster (Eddie Carmel) that has mutated.He is on his was to his country house with his fiancé, when an accident occurs. he save the head and rushes to his lab to keep it alive.This is where I found it fascinating, as his lab partner starts moaning about the heart and the soul and love, not realizing that love and other emotions exist only in the brain.So, the good doctor (Ha!) goes in search of a body. Now, where do you think he looks? Of course, burlesque house and beauty contests. He finds a perfect body with a facial deformity and brings her back to replace his fiancé's head on the body.But, she is aghast at the thought of what he is about to do and controls the monster with her brain.B movie fare, but fun to watch. "},{"Title":"So, this is where experimenting gets you.","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Bill Cortner is an excellent surgeon, but a real risky one too - who likes to experiment on rejuvenating dead limbs with a drug he has recreated. One day he gets in a car accident and his girlfriend is seriously beheaded, so he rushes back to his lab to inject her with this drug. But this machine would only keep her alive for 72 hours. So, Bill is now on the look out for the perfect body for his girlfriend's head. Although his early experiments didn't come off quite well, as he keeps one of his supposedly hideous creations locked up in a laboratory closest.Okay then. What can I say about this howler of a&#133; of a&#133; damn - it's bone-headily insane! That's right&#133; it's unbelievably clunky madness and quite sleazy! This quickie, no-frills enterprise is incredibly tacky, tasteless and out-of-control hokum that takes itself far too seriously. But this makes it even more the merry, although I thought the jolly trailer made it out to be better than it actually was. That's not saying I was expecting anything great (since it's made up of card-board sets and it's far from art), but it's not as fun as could have been. The problem was that I found it to have too many useless slow stretches of character's rambling and pondering about in what you can call melodramatic overload. These uninterestingly talky scenes were filled with an arrangement of whiny and inane dialogue that felt like it went on for an eternity. Science this&#133; science that&#133; science is the key. You're right&#133; no you're wrong&#133; I got the power&#133; huh? It was all the same! Maybe the script and subject matter was too good for this production&#133; ah, I don't know. The story really does keep you waiting and waiting.. And waiting. Especially when it comes to finding out what's behind door number one. It's one LONG wait, but it's kind worth it for the final 20 minutes, where things finally get a move on and there are one or two decent jolts. Alas the knocking and hideous sounds coming from behind that closest door makes way for a decently grotesque looking monster that has too little screen time, but definitely makes the most impressionable mark. There's even a small dose of gore that makes its way into the frame and it's depicted rather well. The whole head in a pan and the beast in the closet part of the story are mildly inventive, but very underused. Instead it goes for far too many uninvolving filler scenes that it could've done without. The story's format is the usual mad scientist thinking he can interfere with god's work and getting there up and comings. The acting is pretty stuffy or either poor from the cast. But Virginia Leith as the deliciously deceitful head in the pan was great fun. Her laugh was simply wicked! Jason Evers is pretty stiff looking, but watchable in certain patches as sordid mad doctor Cortner. Just after when he puts the pedal to the metal with dire results, I just love that scene when he runs a gruelling marathon with his girlfriend's head. And how can I go past the astonishment when he discovers the dead body of his assistant in his basement laboratory. Yes&#133; it's a body laying there&#133; yes, it's dead! Just look at it! His assistant stumbling around the house after the attack, feels like it goes for ages and it's quite hilarious too. Oh, you got an odd inclusion of a tame cat-fight as well. Well, I guess the film is glutted with some scenes that are worth waiting about for. The standard direction doesn't leave much of an imprint, but the photography has some novel shots and the score blasts away intrusively.This very junkie and quite bonkers exploitation opus might be restlessly uneven and lack life at times, but there's enough goodwill and ghastly make-up effects to give this one a look. But for some (or maybe the majority) some things are better left untouched. "},{"Title":"Disappointing...and therefore I give it a higher score than it probably deserves. In short I expected worse!","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, well a movie about somebody keeping a head alive through some experiment isn't exactly realistic. I can only assume that that was the downfall of the movie. The Brain that Wouldn't Die is supposed to be a horror movie, but instead it is considered a horrible movie. I agree that the movie was bad, but it's a MST3K movie, and has a score of 3.2 out of 10, so I expected worse. I believe the movie actually has a couple of high points.It starts off with a dramatic Let me die. Let me die! Unfortunately for her, we see the title The Brain that Wouldn't Die. Then, we head to the movie. Dr. Bill Cortner works in the hospital with his father to do surgery. After they lose a man (He dies before he can save them.) Dr. Cortner decides to experiment. When his work is finished, the patient comes back to life. Well, they get a heart beat from him. After that, Dr. Cortner and his wife go on a trip to some science convention. But, they crash, and the wife's head falls off. So, Dr. Cortner rushes to his co-workers' house to operate on the fallen head. When she wakes up, she wishes that she were dead. However, there is a twist! She can communicate with the monster in the doctor's closet, due to some serum thing used to operate on her. So, as Dr. Cortner searches models and strippers for the perfect body for his wife, she spends time with the co-worker and talking to the monster.This movie actually has some high points. There is some good dialogue between the characters. It also offers decent thrills, a sense of unknowing. The story unravels itself in an exciting way. Plus, there is an unintentionally funny fight between the two strippers.Of course, its low score is because of numerous flaws in the movie. First of all, it's black and white, which makes it feel a bit dated. Second, the story line is very far-fetched, and the thing with the serum isn't very realistic. Third, the reason the fight between the two strippers was funny, was because it was so corny! Fourth, the ending has to be one of the worst in history! I know many people hated the endings for Vertigo, The Village and Dead Poet Society, but this has to be the worst!Yes, the movie was bad, but not as bad as I expected. Watch The Brain that Wouldn't Die with your friends for some entertainment value, and unintentionally funny parts. Don't you just love B-Movies?5/10Feel free to send me a Private Message regarding this comment. "},{"Title":"Honey roasted!","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (spoilers) Yoiks.  This is a truly sleazy film.  One step above soft core porn, with the greasy doc cruising the streets looking for a nice body to graft his fiancee's severed head onto.  The scene where he convinces the bitter and unhappy scarred woman to trust again so that he can lure her back to his house and lop her head off is just repulsive.  The trailer trash stripper brawl is one step away from Jerry Springer, especially since they were fighting over the nasty doctor.  Combine that with stupid pseudo-science(Did you notice during the brain surgery in the beginning that the patient appeared to have no skull?  And of course the fiancee still talking and whatnot with no lungs and only half her vocal cords left)And a sound track that appears to actually have been lifted from a soft core porn, and you have a movie that leaves you with the feeling that you need a good shower immediately after watching it.  The only bright spot in the film is the head, which manages to be derisive, mad, menacing, and coldly frightening, and even manages to foil the plans of her icky fiancee and his wormy lab assistant, all without being able to move.  Kudos to her, man.  Jan's the real star of the show,...errr...hands down. "},{"Title":"Not Many Alpha Waves Here...","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers Ahead**	Jason (a.k.a. Herb) Evers is a brilliant brain surgeon who, along with wife Virginia Leith, is involved in the most lackluster onscreen car crash ever.  Leith is decapitated and the doctor takes her severed noggin back to his mansion and rejuvenates the head in his lab.  The mansion's exterior was allegedly filmed at Tarrytown's Lyndhurst estate; the lab scenes were apparently shot in somebody's basement.  The bandaged head is kept alive on lab equipment that's almost cheap-looking enough for Ed Wood.  Some of the library music&#150;the movie's high point&#150;later turned up in Andy Milligan's THE BODY BENEATH.  Leith's head has some heavy metaphysical discourses with another of Ever's misfires, a mutant chained in the closet.  Meanwhile, the good doc prowls strip joints looking for a body worthy of his wife's gabby noodle.  The ending, in uncut prints,  features some ahead-of-its-time splatter and dismemberment  when the zucchini-headed monster comes out of the closet to bring the movie to a welcome close. 	This thing took three years to be released and then, audiences gave it the bad reception it richly deserved.  Between this, PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE and a few  others, 1959 should have been declared The Year Of The Turkey. "},{"Title":"The power of mutilation in horror films and a remake would be interesting","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a very good movie and is absolutely unfair to judge it without taking into account the time when it was released. There are some movies which do not get older but this is clearly out of date. However, I saw this film when I was a boy and for more than twenty years both the images as the story were unforgettable for me and most of my friends, until we could appreciate it again on DVD. Actually, I do remember this movie as the topic of several chats and meetings where old boys were talking about things we have in common. Therefore there was a little feeling of disappoint and even sadness when we finally had the DVD. Firstly, there was a theory about how naives our generation was. Secondly, I think there is something more. I would asset that this movie has something which should be interesting for all the modern film makers, specifically those who focus on the decaying horror genre. This is the mutilation, the idea which gives coherence to the film; the fact of a human being mutilated produces a deeper horror than death and torture. I remember how sick the sensation was, when the monster rip Kurt's arm out. And at the end; when the creature bites the doctor's neck to take a piece of his veins. Another remarkable thing is the morbid atmosphere which prevails without decaying in intensity through all the scenes, no matter if the action is on a secret lab, a lonely street where the man in a car is looking for a female body, a striper dressing room, and so on. May be the reasons why it is not longer a good movie are just technical things. For example, in the scene of the accident and the man saving his fiancée's head a more accurate work, made for another and modern second unit director could be interesting. Same thing with all action scenes, including the one of Kurt's arm. Furthermore, something could be done with the monster's make up. Some remakes have been good; I think in this case an attempt would worth while. Nevertheless, the black and white tones should be conserved. "},{"Title":"ABout what you'd expect from a cheap early 60s horror flick","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I bought this DVD for $1 at Walmart. After seeing it, I might just return to the store and try to get my money back! The only reason I gave the movie a 2 and not a 1 is that the story has a few novel story elements, though it really never rises to the level of being interesting. This film has all the earmarks of being a made for the drive-in theaters market--ultra-low budget, amateurish acting and a liberal dose of sex (for an early 60s film). In fact, I wonder if perhaps the only reason the film was made was to make a fast buck AND because someone knew some strippers they could use as extras. The film is about a wacko doctor who wants to transplant his girlfriend's severed head onto the body of an unsuspecting donor. Most of the potential donors are skanky strippers or a model--whose only real purpose in the film is to titillate as they remove most of their clothes. However, they keep too much on to make the movie even worth watching for the naughty bits and the film isn't quite awful enough to merit watching by bad film buffs. "},{"Title":"God Awful, sometimes I think there is a movie company named GOD AWFUL.","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Where to begin, there's so much wrong and horrible about this movie I am not sure where to start. Okay, the two stooges who wrote this crapper. Joseph Green and Rex Carlton, first they couldn't make up their so-called minds for a name. My guess they split the difference, that's why the main title is BRAIN THAT WOULDN'T DIE, but the end screen says HEAD THAT WOULDN'T DIE. Neither one knows anything about the Medical profession. After all Doctors take oaths to do no harm. Killing a woman for a head transplant would be considered harm. Plus, a little thing called blood and tissue matching. Rejection would spell death for Jan in the pan. Plus who keeps a patch work monster. What medical school did Bill graduate from, FRANKENSTIEN UNIVERSITY? Old FU, or MAD SCIENTIST TECH? The monster had no name, that bugs the hell out of me. Plus, the brilliant surgeon Doctor Bill Cortner doesn't know how to keep a patient sedated? All and all a disaster of a movie, it's incredibly stupid and unwatchable, except on MST3K. I give it THE THANKSGIVING TURKEY. "}{"Title":"It is a stinker!","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie thinking that it would be one of those old B movies that are fun to watch.  I was so wrong!  This movie was boring and obviously aimed at males who like looking at corpulent women.  The story was so ridiculous and implausible that it lost my interest altogether.  It seemed to be in the same genre as the Ed Wood films - bottom of the barrel. "}]