[{"Title":"Beautiful and moving","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"77 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" In World War Two, almost thirty million Russian soldiers and civilians were killed in the fight against fascism, a fact mainly ignored during the paranoia of the Cold War. In our attempt to demonize everything Russian, we also overlooked stories of individual heroism. In 1959, Russian director Grigory Chukhraj made a film attempting to describe what happens when the world loses a single person and it is a masterpiece. The beautiful and moving Ballad of a Soldier tells a personal story that illuminates how war can ravish both an individual and a country. The film is set in Russia in the midst of the war. Pvt. Alyosha Skvortsov (Vladimir Ivashov), a signaller, has earned a commendation by destroying two German tanks. Instead of accepting a medal, he requests to be granted a four-day leave to go home and visit his mother.We learn early through the narration that this soldier did not survive the war so his journey home to visit his mother for one last time becomes all the more poignant. The film, however, is not about a destination but about a journey. The four-day trip encompasses a lifetime of experience. Before hiding out in a freight car, Alyosha encourages a soldier (Yevgeny Urbansky) who has lost his leg to go home to his wife. Along the way, he hitches a ride on a rain-soaked road with a woman deprived of sleep for 48 hours. He brings a present of soap to an unfaithful wife of another soldier but changes his mind and gives it to her father who longs for his son's return. He also meets Shura (Zhanna Prokhorenko), a radiant young woman who, like him, hides out in a freight car. Reluctant at first and fearful of Alyosha, the young couple experiences their first love in several sensitive scenes but it is to be short-lived.Ballad of a Soldier, of course, aims to present Russian soldiers in the best possible light yet Chukhraj does not hesitate to show his characters as real human beings with flaws. A venal security guard is willing to grant the young soldier free passage in a freight car in exchange for cans of beef, and the wife of a soldier is unfaithful to her soldier husband, a sequence that landed the director in trouble with the Russian censors. In Alyosha, Chukhraj has created a good person kind, loving, and noble but not larger than life, a soldier perhaps typical of millions of young men who gave their lives to protect their homeland. Their struggle and personal sacrifice has been immortalized in a great film. "},{"Title":"Rare evocation of history's worst war on the home front","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"67 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  In connection with the cinema's 100th anniversary, the BBC invited a number of celebrities to choose personal favourites. Michael Douglas picked this neglected Soviet-era classic, thus making full amends for his choice of knitwear in the 'Basic Instinct' disco scene.Made towards the end of Khruschev's thaw, when artists were allowed out on a looser rein, the film depicts an accidental hero a somewhat gormless, naive, gawky country boy drafted into the front line. His bravery is momentary and reflexive but wins him a coveted spot of leave. (The Red Army did not give its soldiers any time off in the ordinary way.) He tries to get back to his home village long enough to put a new roof on his mother's shack of a house, but is delayed en route, and has time only to greet her and say goodbye before returning to duty and death.Alyosha is swimming against the tide. The Soviets are pushing forward, pushing the Germans out of their land, but he encounters more chaos, misery and stoic endurance than jubilation a one-legged veteran who fears his wife will spurn him, a mother driving a lorry whose son was killed, a surly rear-echelon private who tries to kick him off the train on which he and his equally shy girlfriend have bummed a ride. The atmosphere of disruption, of thousands of lives turned upside down, is brilliantly accumulated by such cameos with hardly any actual 'action'.There is no Communist preaching to speak of, and significantly the spoken narrative over the sky at the end says He would have been a fine man... but we remember him just as a soldier- a Russian soldier. Not as a Bolshevik comrade, not as a freedom-fighter against fascism the film is true to the truth of the Great Patriotic War, in which millions of Alyoshas fought and died for their patch of earth, not for ideology or Stalin.Chukhrai's later movies have not been seen widely in the West. They should be. "},{"Title":"Clutching at your heart-strings","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"47 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Alyosha, a 19-year old private in the Soviet army, more or less by accident neutralizes three German tanks and is allowed to return home to see his mother and fix her roof on a six-day leave. On a train he meets another stow-away, the timid Shura, and falls in love. The movie depicts the people he meets on his way home through war-torn Russia.This is an amazing film, a kind of shaggy-dog story and one you are not liable to forget. It is so extremely well-paced in a natural, flowing rhythm with a smooth, unassuming camera and lovely lighting. Be that all is it may, whatever the film's affinities with Pudovkin masterpieces such as 'Earth' and 'Deserter', 'Ballad of a Soldier' is all heart, empathy and sincerity, and it will clutch at your heart-strings.The boy is not yet jaded in the grown-up fashion, and the people he meets stir him into immediate sympathy, Alyosha is simply one of the most likable characters you will encounter in a film, without being trite or cutesy. And the people he meets are hardly ever as sympathetic as he is, witness private Pavlov's girlfriend, whom Alyosha promised to bring the soap as a gift. When he gets there, she has a lover visiting her, and although Alyosha judges her, the film itself does not. Its description of budding young love is enchanting, but it has, finally, its own bitter irony.Watch this whenever you get the chance. Do not let prejudice about what you think Soviet cinema is like detain you. "},{"Title":"This is a most powerful, and positive, statement against war.","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"42 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Gregori Chukhrai makes a very powerful, and poignant protest against the horror and futility of war.  There is no whining, no accusing, only a very real, and believable, look at the effect that it has on some very ordinary people.  People that each of us can relate to.  I have to classify this as my all time favorite war movie.  If you have a choice, watch it with the Russian language, and subtitles.  The warmth is missing in the overdubbed voices, in the dubbed version.  Although my Russian is as limited as possible, the emotion that is portrayed by the vocalizations of the actors, is powerful.  One is certain to fall in love with either Vladimir Ivashov, or Zhanna Prokhorenko.  This is one of those rare films, that each time one watches it, one gleans more from it, and feels that much closer to the film, the director/writer, and to the actors. "},{"Title":"Argentinian cinéaste Eliseo Subiela and his father wept inconsolably after watching this humanist masterpiece.","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"36 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" In the 1950s, 2 very critically acclaimed Russian films were made. The first film was The cranes are flying by Mikhail Kolotozov. It is true that it was a good film but it was more of a love story. If there is a film which all human beings must watch, it is Ballad of a soldier made by the great Russian cinéaste Grigori Chukrai. I still have vivid memories of this film, although I saw it in 1986 on India's only public television network called Doordarshan. What I like the most about this film is that it has tremendous emotional power to move anyone regardless of that person's ideologies or beliefs. It talks of war without begging for kindness, mercy or pity. Such is the greatness of this masterpiece. In my opinion, Ballad of a soldier is not only the greatest Russian film ever made, it is one of the greatest world cinema gems too. For those who have not yet seen it, one word of advice. Throw away all your Hollywood flicks and watch this humanist masterpiece. PS 10 out of 10 is a understatement. Ballad of a soldier would easily fetch 100 out of 10. "},{"Title":"So little time to love,so much time to die.","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Ballada o soldate has one of the most poignant sequences of all war movieswhen the mother holds only for a few minutes, her dear boy in her arms,it's impossible to hold back your tears .I saw the movie for the first time thirty years ago and I have never forgotten it.Far from politics ,ballada o soldate is an universal poem,enhanced by a magnificent grandiose score,which enhances the simple beauty of the pictures,climaxing on a symphony for the finale.Aliocha's furlough is so short (48 hours) and it's such a long way to his dear home.His journey becomes an odyssey ,but ,unlike Ulysses,his happiness will be short-lived.He and the girl form one of the most touching,lovable and innocent couple you will see on a screen.Their simple joys ,particularly when they share the soldier's food,or when they meet again in the desert station,are the ones which make a life worthwhile,even in the hell which surrounds them.Sometimes recalling Sirk's  a time to love and a time to die(1958)from Erich Maria Remarque ,the great German pacifist writer,with which it shares the same disgust of war (I wanted to film a subject which could condemn war,the director said),ballada o soldato is one of these rare movies that will reward you each time you watch it. "},{"Title":"Well worth a look!","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Ballad of a Soldier is a fine, humanistic view of war as experienced by a young Russian soldier.  The young soldier is everything a Boy Scout should be trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean and reverend.  Well, maybe hold the reverend.Having managed to save a bunch of his comrades from certain death at the hands of the Nazis, the young soldier is called to the general's hq.  There, the general tells him he's putting the lad's name in for a medal of valor. Fine, says the boy, but could I please go home to see my mother?The general hesitates, but encouraged by the soldiers surrounding him, he lets the boy go home, making him promise to get to see his mother and come back to the front within four days.So the lad goes home, and along the way he does favors for some of his comrades, he helps a lovely young maiden in distress, and he generally spreads good will.  He gets home in time to give his mom a hug - there's an incredible scene with him and his dear old mom (wearing a babushka) running toward each other through a field of wheat.  Then he wipes away her tears, and tells her he's got to go back.  Immediately.  A promise is a promise.What a film.  If you can watch this one without crying over the human condition, you're just plain not human! "},{"Title":"One of the best russian movies ever made!","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Ballad of a Soldier along with Andrei Rublev is one of my favorite Russian films ever and one of the great movies made in USSR during Khruschev´s so-called thaw period in the late 1950s and early 1960s when soviet filmmakers got a certain amount of an artistic freedom and were less controlled by the Soviet state.Directed and co-written by master Russian filmmaker of a soviet era, and also a WW-2 veteran, Grigory Chukhrai, who was even nominated for this picture for Academy Award for Best Screenplay, the film is set during WW-2. It´s a story of 19 year old Russian soldier who as a reward for a heroic act in fighting with Germans given a 3 day leave home by his commanding officer. We follow the soldier´s journey home through ravished by war land where he meets different people and witnesses how they lives are affected by war and falls in love with a girl whom he occasionally meets on a train. The atmosphere created by this movie is quite unique, rarely before or after achieved on the film. A genuine masterpiece of a world cinema. A must see. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A single death is a tragedy; a million deaths is a statistic.","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A single death is a tragedy; a million deaths is a statistic is the famous quote by Stalin. In this movie we see a marvellous illustration of the sentiment.Don't worry; I didn't spoil anything. We learn from the opening narration that this is the story of a fallen hero. With that in mind, the atmosphere of impending tragedy colours the entire film despite the film's rather charming presentation. It's a wonderful irony, because the director opens with such a powerful & nihilistic statement, but then he follows with a sweet and inspiring presentation which you might even call innocent.I'm not exactly a fan of war movies, but I don't consider this to be one at all. There are very few details about the war, no politics, no propaganda. Essentially you can replace the Russian uniforms with British, German or Japanese, and the story would remain the same--The Ballad of a Soldier. Oddly enough, it's the compelling portrayal of rustic life (which he encounters along his journey) that provides the backbone and theme of this film, a very human story.It reminds me of the Italian classic Bicycle Thieves as well as the Japanese masterpiece Ikuru by Kurosawa. Each scene packs a lot of heart, and the grand finale brings it all together poetically and artistically. I won't mention any names, but I sure wish certain other artsy Russian directors could be as lucid and authentic in their presentations.One more thing... I can't end this review without mentioning the SUPERB MUSIC. The composer is listed as Mihkail Ziv, but IMDb offers no biographical info on him. The melody is powerful and epic while being traditional and intimate at the same time. It really mirrors the theme of the film perfectly things of great importance come in simple packages.This movie gets 9 stars from me, which is about the highest rating I ever give. See it if you ever get the chance. "},{"Title":"The most human of Russian films","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"25 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Chukrai has made a film that combines the great Russian visual style with the most human of filmmaking. Ivashov is superb as the soldier who knows his duty as well as his family. A movie that reaches and touches its audience for many reasons and on many levels. Of all the Russian films I've seen this is the one that touched my heart. "}{"Title":"Beautifully sad, moving, and photographically expressive","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Ballad of a Soldier (1959)An old fashioned but utterly gorgeous film about a soldier discovering something bigger about himself than even the war could teach him on the battlefield. It's a drama about life, photographed with what strikes me as a European poetic visual sensibility. In its lyrical flow, it is amazing. No other word for it.In 1959, the Soviet Union was only 14 years away from the end of the war that cost them 23 million deaths (10 million of these were soldiers). And a ravaged countryside. This is monumental in a way that we Americans have trouble appreciating, even though our own losses were around 1 million, including civilians directly and indirectly. But with this kind of staggering history, the very touching tale of a very innocent boy wanting to get back to his mother for a single hug is heart wrenching. Director Grigori Chukhrai, himself Ukrainian, seems to know that his role, in the Khrushchev era of Cold War USSR, is to show the best of the Soviet heart and soul.The journey, for the viewer, is often filled with silence, and with carefully composed shots of the boy, alone or with other travelers (often soldiers). The light and the framing is moving even on its own terms. Many times the key face in foreground is sharp and softly stark while many other faces fall out of focus around this, camera tilted, or looking up, with flickers of light from trees outside the train window or a diffused glow of a grey sky drenching it all with melancholy.Alyosha, the young man who by some fast wits and luck knocked out two tanks in the first scene and earned this special trip, meets a variety of people on his way who each represent a part of the Soviet (mostly Russian, but with a nod to Ukrainians) experience a wounded man going home without his leg, a young conscript heading to the front to probably never return, this same young man's father in a hospital apparently dying, and a girl his own age, equally pure and nearly untouched by life's horrors. In every case, there is a kind of Soviet optimism that is almost refreshing even if it is just slightly reminiscent of their earlier propaganda movies. Because, the wounded man meets his wife at the station and is renewed, the young conscript is cheerful and hale, the father is proud and glad his son is a good soldier, the mean officer has an understanding heart, the sergeant gives his only soap to the traveller, and so on. But this kind of goodness is part of what makes the film special. There is no room for noir cynicism, or even existential loneliness. After all, Alyosha has found the truest of true love, and even though he may be returning to the war to never return, the boy and girl have elevated each other, and the movie, and the viewer, with a real sense of what being good is all about. If you can find this movie, see it by all means. "},{"Title":"At an age when one falls in love, he went to die in war","Date":"30 August 2010","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" When I saw Ballade of a Soldier for the first time I was fifteen, and I felt in love for the girl. A love as innocent and as total as in the movie. I was tending to identify myself with the soldier, and I was seeing myself in the freight car, finding the girl there, behaving kindly, as he was doing, and finding in her eyes the same response.Many years passed and I had the chance to see the movie again. I was now in my early sixties no more identifying with the young heroes, still loving their love, following their innocence with a joy balanced by sadness. My empathy was naturally going now to the old mother, as I knew this time so well that there are losses that time never heals.At an age when one falls in love, he went to die in war. He wasn't a larger than life hero, he was just an adolescent, and that's why it was so easy for me to enter his skin in my imagination; I was also an adolescent, I also was not larger than life, and I was also supposed to fall in love, as he did.Grigori Chukhrai made this movie in 1959, three years after Сорок первый (another gem), and two years before Чистое Небо (a movie trying maybe to say too much, this time, but definitely with some unforgettable moments).And let's mention here the names of the actors who played the two young innocent lovers Vladimir Ivashov and Zhanna Prokhorenko. "},{"Title":"A little masterpiece.","Date":"3 October 2010","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is one of the greatest anti-war movies ever made and a touching little human drama that has not lost any of its power after half a century. After fifteen years since I first saw it, it remains among my ten favourite movies of all time from any country. It is full of poetry and visual beauty; a humble masterpiece from a young director at that time, who encountered all sorts of problems and restrictions during the shooting. Nevertheless, his perseverance to bring this work to life and the touchingly realistic performances of the cast make of this movie not only one of the best films that ever came out of the Soviet Union but also a classic gem of world cinema. "},{"Title":"My all-time favorite movie","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is the best movie I ever seen all my life - I have seen no other film that compares to this one.The movie is about the romantic love of a young couple, and a mother's love of her child.No movie ever can get better than this one. A young Russian soldier (Alyosha) almost accidentally becomes a hero. As a reward he gets a 4 day leave back home. The movie is about his momentous trip back home. This is also one of the most beautiful love stories you will ever see. On his trip home he meets a beautiful young girl named Shura. You will yearn, and want this couple to hug and kiss I can't recommend this movie high enough. If anyone ever told you that they didn't cry at the end, they are either bloody liars or no human on earth. "},{"Title":"The Heartbreaking Return Home of a Teenage Soldier","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" During World War II, the nineteen year-old Pvt. Alyosha Skvortsov (Volodya Ivashov) destroys two German tanks in the front and the general gives a medal to him. However Alyosha asks for a leave to visit his mother instead of the medal and the general gives six days to him. During his journey home, Alyosha helps a cripple dashed veteran to meet his wife; embarks as clandestine in a train and falls in love with the stowaway Shura (Zhanna Prokhorenko) that is traveling in the same wagon to visit her aunt; meets the unfaithful wife of Pavlov, a soldier that is in the front and misses her, to give soap to her. When he arrives home, it is time to return to the front in a journey with no return. Ballada o soldate is a film with the heartbreaking story of the return home of a teenage soldier to visit his mother and repair the roof of her house. Alyosha is charismatic and very gentle. The plot is realistic and the dramatic conclusion is very sad. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) A Balada do Soldado (The Ballad of a Soldier) "},{"Title":"A film of rare beauty and powerful emotion","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" For me this is a beloved movie, one that I have just seen for the third time and no doubt will see again after time passes.A 19-year-old Soviet soldier who knocks out two Nazi tanks is offered a decoration by his general. Instead the soldier, Alyosha, asks for a short leave so he can travel home to see his mother and fix her roof. Along the way he meets a variety of vividly portrayed characters. One of these is Shura, a pretty young woman. They fall in love, are separated when their train pulls out without him, are almost miraculously reunited, and finally are separated for good, without his having ever declared his love for her.Having helped a number of people during his journey and encountered various delays, Alyosha finally arrives at his home village with only minutes remaining before he must rush to catch his train back to the front. The few moments in which he and his mother embrace are heartbreaking--particularly since we already know from the voice-over that opens the movie that he is doomed never to return home.He is not the only casualty of war. During his journey home we see many casualties. While not a grim picture, Ballad of a Soldier gives a sense of how the Russian people suffered in World War II.It's been called an antiwar movie, but there is a deeper theme, etched in sharp relief by the forces of war on ordinary people. We are reminded of how fleeting is youth and the beauty of young men and women, and how precious is the little time we have to experience the joys of life. There is a profound sadness in this movie.Back in 1959 when this film appeared, the late critic Stanley Kauffmann dismissed the movie as superficial and snidely remarked that director Grigori Chukrai would be happy working at Twentieth Century Fox. It is easy to be cynical about the earnest expression of emotion. I tend to believe, however, that, unlike Mr. Kauffmann, the great Anton Chekhov would have been genuinely moved by Ballad of a Soldier. "},{"Title":"Not a Tractor in Sight","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Comedians used to poke fun at Soviet movies during the Cold War era. The claim was that every Soviet film could be characterized by a single standard plot line&#x97;Boy meets tractor, Boy falls in love with tractor, Boy marries tractor. Now, I'm not sure how accurate the wags were since Soviet films were never shown here, nor ours there. But, given Soviet emphasis on collective farming, and their theory that art should follow politics, that sort of result wouldn't be surprising. Nonetheless, Soviet-made or not, this 1959 humanist gem shines like a proverbial pearl in the night. Sure, the boy and girl are idealized, but were there ever two more charming performers; they even look alike. Moreover, it's that natural glow amidst the seediest surroundings that suggests what some might call a triumph of the human spirit. After years of slickly contrived Hollywood pairings, I was captivated by a warmth and chemistry seemingly so unforced and unrehearsed that I marvel at how it was done. In my book, it's one of the great compelling love stories of the big screen.Just as importantly, the movie is anti-war, but subtly so. We do see some devastation and combat, but the real indictment lies elsewhere. It rests with all the potentials cut short by unrelenting demands of the war machine. The boy must return to his unit or risk being shot as a deserter. Thus he must abandon the injured soldier with whom he could have been friends; he must risk losing the love of his life because trains must run on wartime; he must leave his mother, without even time to fix the leaky roof. But most of all, war demands that he, like so many fine young men, must leave life with a personal potential that will go tragically unrealized. As one of Chukrai's effects brilliantly illustrates, war is indeed a world turned upside down.Also, there are the stunning visuals. Those vast Russian steppes may be flat and boring. Nonetheless, the corresponding big sky makes a magnificent backdrop for heroic low-angle shots of those dwelling amidst the vastness. Then there's that long dusty road at film's end, leading off into a great unknown that Alyosha must now travel. In contrast are the teeming crowds at the railway station, looking nothing like Hollywood in their simple cloth dresses and shirts. And what concern with fancy hair-do's can the women have when their hair is bound down with knotted kerchiefs. All in all, it's a revealing look at what could be called the Russian peasantry of the time.No, the movie clearly doesn't come from the ministry of propaganda. Still, there are concessions. Note how cooperative strangers become no matter how initially cranky they are. The army officers especially are portrayed as understanding and non-threatening. Nobody is depicted negatively, except maybe the disloyal wife. Not even the Nazi enemy responsible for 20 million Russian dead is mentioned, let alone, vilified. No, the real antagonist here is war itself; the point is not stated, but it is shown to an uncommonly moving degree. The dedication at film's end may be to the Russian soldier, but the subtext throughout aims at the universal, regardless of time, place, or nationality.Thus 50 years later, the movie remains a timeless humanist classic. And with it, I think Chukrai deserves a place alongside the early masters of Soviet film, that is, before the Stalinist tyranny descended. Now, I have nothing against tractors. In fact, I wish Hollywood would feature more such life-affirming inventions than the exploding cars they so love and worship. Nonetheless, I guess I'm glad that here, there's not a single tractor in sight. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Anti-War Movie Ever Made","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I know it is a very grand statement to say that this is the greatest anti-war movie made so far. I have a good reason for that though. Every anti-war movie has showed the fighting and showed the killing of people. However, this mostly focuses on the physical faults of war rather than emotional faults. The excessive violence in other movies also numbs the audience to gore and violence. Ballad of a Soldier keeps the violence and bloodshed to a minimum. Instead, the movie focuses on the emotional impact of the war on the innocent civilians and soldiers outside of the battlefield. The chemistry between Alyosha and Shura is amazing. The simplicity of the plot is brilliant and allows exposure of real human interaction. The movie focused on one soldier rather than having a grand scale of characters and action. This way, we can take this one person as an example of the millions of lives similar to Aloysha's that were lost in the war. The subtlety and simplicity of this film is what makes it so great. I love it and it's a masterpiece. I rewatch it over and over again. Everyone should see it. "},{"Title":"Deeply moving classic","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" If one is to talk of genres in Russian film, then the World War II film is a genre all to itself. A good half (if not more) of Russian films deal with what Russians term the Great Patriotic War, and yet precious few of them are so profound and universally understood as Grigory Chukhrai's classic.It's a simple story about a young soldier, Alyosha (Vladimir Ivashov), who has just 48 hours of furlough. Since Russia is so vast, he uses practically all that time to travel home to his mother. Along the way, he finds romance and lives a lifetime in limited time.The film is exquisitely crafted, well-paced and deeply moving in its evocation of the bonds of love and family. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Full Metal Jacket, Platoon, Apocalypse Now - these movies have their rightful place in the history of cinematography, but if you want to have a refreshing look at what war really is on a personal level, you must see this movie. It will grab your heart, it will make you want to live each day to the fullest, it will reinforce the importance of love within you, it will remind you of one simple fact 'memento mori' is a maxim we all need to keep in mind, but there is another one that is so much more important 'memento vitae' - remember that you are alive! The love, the youth, the passion for living, the war - all come together in this extraordinary picture. I would recommend it to anyone, from any culture, with any background. "}{"Title":"A soldier's journey immortalizes a generation of Russians willing to sacrifice everything","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" During World War II, Pvt. Alyosha Skvortsov (Vladimir Ivashov) receives a commendation for his heroism, and elects to take a four day leave to visit his mother. Ballad of a Soldier follows him along what should be a simple train ride, but turns into a masterpiece of beautiful humanism. The story not only follows one soldier, but through his encounters it also exposes Russia as a whole during wartime, from his talking in the soldiers only train-car to when he finally returns to the village and hears from the wives left at home.Ballad of a Soldier manages to span an entire culture and war in just four days along a train track. While director Chukhraj must remain loyal to the Party, he manages to still show the flaws some soldiers had, while showing how some could be truly selfless. During one encounter as Alyosha is caught, he is forced to give away his rations to a greedy guard, and the guard's commander catches the bribe in the act. Rather than punishing the hitchhiking Private, the commander punishes the greedy guard and allows Alyosha to carry on his journey.In the span of just four days Alyosha falls in love with a girl, while in the span of just 90 minutes the viewer falls in love with Alyosha and his story. The announcement at the start of the film that Alyosha is dead makes his experiences all the more impactful, knowing that he will never return home again, and assuming that he may never see his love Shura (Zhanna Prokhorenko) after he leaves her.Alyosha is an idealization of what many Russian soldiers were Young, and willing to give anything for their country. He is both brave and fearful, and along his epic trip he never hesitates to give help to those around him. The favor is returned to him by civilians such as a truck driver whom he rides with, eager to support a soldier in any way they can. Through his story, soldiers and civilians alike are immortalized, in their sacrifice during World War II. "},{"Title":"Ballad of a soldier is Cold War movie that warms my heart","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Some Americans at the time, must have thought, that the godless Soviets were just cold-blooded killers without any sense of a soul. This 1959 war film movie directed by Grigori Chukhrai, proves them, wrong, big time with its gripping story about love! Ballad of a Soldier is not primarily just a war film. It recounts, within the context of the turmoil of war, various kinds of love the romantic love of a young couple, the committed love of a married couple, and a mother's love of her child, as a Red Army soldier named Pvt. Alyosha Skvortsov (Volodya Ivashov) tries to make it home during a leave, after being rewarded for taking out two German tanks. On the way, he meets several people and help them deal with the stress of war time life. But with each random act of kindness, spells less time for him to reach his love ones before he has to go back to his life as a soldier on the war front. This Soviet love road movie came out, and really surprised the world! It even surprising got an Oscar nomination for best original screenplay in the US, where most people show them as just the enemy. The film paint a very positive light of the red army without going over patriotic. It didn't felt like a propaganda film. It shows, a realistic tone to the war with the amount of loses that Russia was taken. The film show a subversive or critical tone to lose. Things like this, would be banned or censored under Stalinism. It illuminates how war can ravish both an individual and a country. Coming off, from the death of totalitarian Joseph Stalin, a few years earlier in 1953. Soviet movies makers can now have a little bit freedom, as the regime became more, reformed. It did help that the Soviet leader, at the time, Nikita Khrushchev was a fan of the director, so Chukrai was given more flexibility than normal. It really shows here with how the soldiers were portray. The movie is about the incredible ability of humans to adapt to the most extreme conditions on survival instinct, love and courage. The film is beautiful well-shot. Just watching it, you can see the how much work was put into this film from the wide shots of farmland to the harsh reality of the battlefield. Beautiful cinematography for a black & white film. Another great thing about the movie is the music by Mikhail Ziv. You be clutching at your heart-strings for it. Another thing, great about the movie is the pacing. For a movie that's 88 minutes long. They really put a lot of things into it that are pretty well-delivery stories. The movie didn't need a lot of dialogue, as the movie show more than it told. The movie had such a convincing and humane performance from both Vladimir Ivashov and Zhanna Prokhorenko, as his love-interest Shura. They make a beautiful couple. They had amazing chemistry. Zhanna was stunning, she had the face of an angel. Her character had a lot of depth. Even supporting actors help show the stress, love has to go through like the ex-soldier, Vasya (Evgeniy Urbanskiy) sub-plot of being a burden to his wife due to him, losing a leg. Another great scene is when Alyosha visit a fellow soldier's wife (Valentina Markova), only to find out that she was cheating on him. Really heart-breaking. The whole film is very touching. The movie faults could be that it's pretty predictable and somewhat depressing. After all, the movie opening really set the tone of the film, by stating out what happen to Alyosha during the war. I didn't felt the narrative prologue was needed in the beginning, since they repeat it in the end, as well. It really makes you wonder, why am I'm watching this film, if something really bad is going to happen him in the end. It kinda guilt-trip you into an emotional trap. The warmth is missing in the overdubbed voices, in the dubbed version of the film. If you find a copy, watch the movie in Russian, with English sub-titles. One version worth checking out is the Criterion one. It remove instances of dirt, debris and scratches. The result of Criterion's efforts is a presentation that's pretty extraordinary, considering this is pretty old film. The image looks slightly better than the others DVDs, out there. Overall This movie left a deep impression to me. Marvelously acted, powerful and often thought-providing film is worth the watch. "},{"Title":"A tender history of love within the horrors of the war.","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" During World War II, a very young Russian soldier, destroys two tanks military German. When he was going to be decorated by the commander in chief, the young soldier and already hero, he asks to him of favor allows to change his decoration him by a visit of a few days to his mother.In the way to his maternal house, he finds to a young girl in a load train, falling in love, having themselves both that to dismiss to few days in untimely form.After visiting by minutes his mother, he must return to the front, where it is understood that he dies.I consider a film against the war since it describes the death, pain and destruction consequences of a war. The phrase is very insistent in the dialogs of when the war finishes.History is tender, describes the birth of a love that as soon as farmer begins between the young soldier of origin and the girl of the city.As usually it happens in a good film, without giving me account I already put to the plot, doing to me part of the events.I do not want to take leave without commenting that there are three or four scenes that surely the director used David Lean, to make its film, the Dr. Zhivago. "},{"Title":"The five minute leave","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Fans of outstanding black and white photography will enjoy this film as that is the best feature.It's a simple story. A young, fresh-faced soldier (Vladimir Ivashov) gets a couple of days leave to go see his mom, but runs into several adventures along the way.First, he helps a one-legged soldier (Yevgeni Urbansky get home to his wife (Elza Lezhdey). Then he sneaks onto a train and runs into another stowaway (Zhanna Prokhorenko). One expected the Lieutenant (Yevgeni Teterin) to be a terrible beast, but he was only a beast to the corrupt guard (Aleksandr Kuznetsov).After he and Shura (Prokhorenko) get stranded, he goes to deliver a bar of soap to a friend's wife. She has set up household with another man, and this angers the private.Insert beautiful music as Shura and Alyosha are on another train staring into each other's eyes.He leaves her in her village and travels on. The train is hit less than 10 clicks from home and he is stranded with some Ukranians traveling to the Urals. He finds a raft to get home rather than wait as his leave is almost up.He manages to hug and kiss his mother before he heads back to the front. "},{"Title":"BALLAD OF A SOLDIER (Grigori Chukhrai, 1959) ***","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This simple, sensitively handled love story with a WWII background is often bundled together with Mikhail Kalatozov's THE CRANES ARE FLYING (1957) - they were both issued simultaneously on R1 DVD by Criterion and will likewise be issued on R2 by Nouveaux Pictures next January - but actually they are poles apart in terms of stylistic approach. Director Chukhrai shows little of the overpoweringly visual virtuosity of Kalatozov's film (except for the superb sequence near the beginning which earns the main character his heroic status) preferring to capture the reality of the scene rather than its emotional core.Even so, BALLAD OF A SOLDIER is a beautifully made film with winning performances from its youthful leads a 19-year old boy who wins a much-coveted 6-day leave from the front after blowing up two enemy tanks single-handedly and the suspicious waif he befriends (and subsequently falls in love with) on his clandestine train journey. Events beyond his control contrive to make his visit to his farm-laborer mother a pitifully short one after which, the unidentified narrator tells us, he is once again drafted off to the front to his eventual death (which we never actually see); his misadventures during that train journey and visit to his village take up the bulk of the film as he meets a one-legged soldier coming reluctantly back home to his wife, a greedy train guard who is constantly demanding food from the soldier as a bribe against his telling his superiors that they are stowaways, the duplicitous wife of a comrade of his and his bed-ridden, ever optimistic father, etc. "},{"Title":"Fine and Carefully Observed Tale.","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This story of a Russian soldier on leave in the middle of The Great Patriotic War, as it's called in Russia, was directed by Chukhrai in 1959, a period of detente. I wonder if there are instances in which you can judge the political health of a nation from the quality of its films. When Czechoslovakia was loosening up ten years later, a number of quality movies were produced before the Soviet crackdown, and now that China is, if not being internally liberated, at least sliding sideways into the global village, we're beginning to see some admirably done Chinese films. Is there some causation involved? Probably not.Ballad of a Soldier was one of a pair of films that showed up in America at about the same time, the other being The Cranes are Flying. This one won an Academy Award nomination.It deserved it too. The direction, acting, and photography are fine, and Mikhail Ziv's orchestral score is different from what we've become used to. Not necessarily better, but not Hollywood either.Vladimir Ivashov is a nineteen-year old, handsome, innocent-looking soldier at the front who manages to knock out two German tanks by himself. The scene was stunning for 1959. Ivashov runs pell mell with the tank pursuing him across the fields. The camera is perched on a crane and the man and the tank run towards it. Then they run UNDER the camera and PAST it, and the camera turns upside down to follow them from behind. Now, we're used to all kinds of camera tricks but this shot was truly novel at the time.Here's another incident from that same chase that would STILL be refreshingly innovative in an American war movie. The exhausted Ivashov finally falls into a trench, where he finds a primitive anti-tank rifle. The monstrous Panzer rises over Ivashov's trench, about to crush him, and he puts a huge bullet through its sensitive underside. Now, in any modern film, this calls for a stupendous explosion and a fireball ballooning upward. Here, the mortally wounded tank simply stops, groans for a moment, then whines as it slides slowly back down the berm and halts. A moment later, there is a plume of black smoke. That's it. That's how the tank is stopped. A second tank is disabled at a greater distance and with no more fanfare than the first.Almost everyone in the movie is good natured. There are a few guards and an unfaithful wife to be met with along Ivashov's way home, but no one is bitter for very long. There is nothing about the dirty Krauts. The name of Stalin is never mentioned and no one has a speech about Mother Russia. The dirtier parts of the Great Patriotic War are absent nothing about putting slackers in line and marching them towards the Germans to be mowed down, so that the enemy's positions would be revealed. It's not a NICE war. Good people die, or are betrayed or disabled. But it could be war anywhere at any time, in which the best thing that could happen in the war is that it ends. "},{"Title":"A different sort of war movie.","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Sitting down to watch this movie with no idea of what was to come, judging directly from the cover, I was expecting a Soviet war epic full of nationalism and destruction of fascism. The first scene of Alyosha did not disappoint in that aspect, and I was prepared to sit through another generic war flick. But then things changed dramatically when he asked to go home. From then on out it was a play of emotions. From the emotions that the people Alyosha was running into were experiencing, to the hard anxiousness of Alyosha trying to get home and running into seemingly impossible obstacles the entire way. A range of emotions were experienced. The man missing a leg was heartbroken that his wife would have to deal with him for the rest of her life and didn't want her to go through it, only to find that she was overjoyed to see him again regardless of what had happened. Anger and resent was felt from Alyosha as he discovered an unfaithful wife still living in her husband's home. Anger and resent soon switched to hopefulness by the father of the soldier Alyosha met upon leaving the front. But the most powerful presence in the film was the constant fear in the back of your mind that time was quickly running out for Alyosha to see his mother, missing a train here, dealing with a transport soldier there, having to deal with the German attack on the train. All of the anxiety and time crunch came to a head when Alyosha could only hug his mother and speak with briefly just to have to get back onto a truck and go back. Imaging the pain of a mother not seeing her son for months on end, not knowing if he's dead, alive, wounded, or captured just to see him for a few fleeting moments is heartbreaking. What I felt this movie portrayed was the separation of people. War is one thing, but the longing, heartbreak and hope that is held by loved ones behind the lines is so powerful and rarely touched upon by movies. Hands down one of my favorite war movies of all time. "},{"Title":"The (in)human face of satanic violence (war)","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Grigori Chukhray's movie is still highly topical. It is one of the best anti-war films ever made. It reveals in a most outspoken way the human faces behind the bloodshed. It shows how war violence is not limited to the battlefield, but provokes also physical and mental havoc everywhere in the countries involved. People lose their homes, their possessions and even their country. People bleed also psychologically through broken or strained relationships and family ties. Women have to do a man's work at home. As a contrast to the satanic war machinery, Grigori Chukhray scripted a pure love encounter. But, it also didn't last very long. Ideologically, this movie is a perfect example of Marxist art it has a positive hero, who is also a type, a representative of a particular class (a soldier, a 'Russian' soldier). 'Ballad of a Soldier' stands in sharp contrast to the actual avalanche of so-called blockbusters preaching an unacceptable and shameful gospel of violence. 'Ballad of a Soldier' in its way is also a blockbuster, but with 'big' sentiments, preaching love instead of hate, respect instead of inhumanity and family ties instead of random killings. 'Ballad of a Soldier' is a 'big' movie. A must see. "},{"Title":"Ballad of a Soldier is a story too good for Hollywood.","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Ballad of a Soldier is a story too good for Hollywood. With love and tragedy in equal measure, this film is an exploration of love between a man and a woman - platonic, romantic and maternal. Each possibility tugs hard at the heartstrings. The protagonist, a soldier called Alyosha, is very young and naive, which makes him a more relatable character than someone whose charm precedes them. From his first meeting with Shura to their last encounter, there's a charm between them that makes the audience beg for them to stay together as she accompanies him on his journey despite delaying him. Their last train rain with their loving bittersweet stare tugs at the heartstrings in a way that shows that genuine love in film is rare. While there are a few contrivances, such as the opening scene where Alyosha is chased by a tank until he gets a chance to blow it up, but the film does flow very gracefully. The drama is always excellent with believable characters and dialogue the whole way through and very subtle moral dilemmas. Our protagonist is racing against time from the very moment the film ends and it never stops which makes for always compelling viewing. It has great cinematography despite some choppy editing in places, reminiscent of an earlier Russian war film The Cranes Are Flying though perhaps not as impressive. The huge operatic score accompanies the film throughout and highlights the power of the film, though Alyosha's final embrace with his mother is music-less and arguably even more powerful than his embrace with Shura. Incredible film.9/10 "},{"Title":"Hopeless Love on the Run","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is such a gentle movie. Other than the beginning when the young man becomes a hero by causing the destruction of two enemy tanks through a panicky, thoughtless circumstance. HIs reward is to go home and visit his mother and to hopefully fix her roof. He is given a few days and begins his journey. He is fighting on the front and otherwise would be cannon fodder to the enemy. As he wends his way home he encounters all the elements of war, from men ready to face their deaths, people bombed while trying to travel away from their deaths, unfaithful wives, dismemberment, and, finally, the love of his life. This works so well on so many levels. It has a subtle humor. It is sentimental and charming. Yet the war hangs over everything. Duty is duty and there is a greater cause. It is certainly a serious anti-war movie that pulls us in gradually, allows us to care about the characters, knowing that they are living under a sword. I had never heard of this film. The young woman who shares the young soldiers few moments, has a wonderfully expressive face. She is his salvation, if only for a short time. "}{"Title":"a masterpiece","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" touching, power, subtle, full of force and grace. it is difficult to describe it. because small and ordinary pieces makes a great story about love, war, mother portrait and youth in dark time. each aspect is unique. and great virtue is perfect measure. a film like flower after Stalin death, it is, in same measure, a lesson out of age. about cinema art, about science of Soviet directors to expose the essence but, more that, it is a beautiful lesson about meetings as seeds.all makes easy. but like old ballads, it is a tale about hero and his travel, fights and victories, Alexey Skvortsov may be Ilia Muromets. or another character from legend. his war is pledge for sensitive roots of existence. adventures who makes him better. it is not a manifesto or fresco. can be a letter. or only a kind of Oddysey in which Itaka is more than a place. "},{"Title":"Against all odds a great war movie out of the Soviet Union","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Grigori Chukhray's film Ballad of a Soldier, shot in 1959 in the Soviet Union, somehow miraculously happened against all odds. The board which had to decide whether the film should be made called its script shallow and a thing about a boy, a girl and a leaking roof that isn't worth to be made in the Soviet Union. Chukhray, who referred to it as the film of his lifetime, also insisted on changing the leads to unknown actors, there was an accident on the first day of shooting, then the director himself turned ill when they restarted, finally a mutiny cost him half of the crew - and once the film was finished it was recommended not to show it in larger cities of the Soviet Union. It won in Cannes, though.Well, Ballad of a Soldier was worth all the trouble. It's not about the Soviet Union, the Nazis, battle scenes, violence or death. It's about a young WW II soldier lucky enough to have a heroic moment and get permission to return home for a few days. You might call him the unknown soldier. In this road movie of the different kind you learn a lot about life far away from the front lines, it's about people and their varying struggles during the times of war. The voyage to what seems to be the other end of the world results in one of the most compassionate, humanistic, even poetically beautiful war-related movies. Plus the restored print is as perfect as it can be, making this one a shining gem in every movie-lover's collection.Additional Note If you've acquired a taste for emotional war drama between the front and back home, there's of course that other Soviet key film you shouldn't miss either. Mikhail Kalatozov's The Cranes are Flying focuses on a couple torn apart by the woes of war, features powerful imagery on an emotional roller coaster ride and is as universally tangible as Chukhray's film. "},{"Title":"Strikingly Beautiful Cinema","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Ballad of a soldier is a story of a Russian soldier and of his three day break from the war front which he has been granted (for his bravery) to visit his mother in hometown. There is something really beautiful about this movie that attracted me most. The story though very simple and common it is told in a most humble way (Just for instance the reason soldier want a break from war to visit his mother is to take care of the leaking roof that she wrote about in a letter), possibly very few movies are this strikingly simple. This soldier's journey is filled with fun, laughter, love, humanity and much more all beautifully balanced with scenes from war in the backdrop. Acting wise the lead actor is brilliant, his mother too in a small role ably depicted the longing for his son, and the actress (love interest for our hero) is good too, and she looks beautiful throughout. Direction is good; cinematography too is very good capturing the beautiful landscape of Russia well.Although this is a war movie, not much of the war is depicted as in Saving Private Ryan, neither is it The Deer hunter kind movie depicting the affects of the war on people but nonetheless for me it is a powerful and moving war movie with very human touch to it. Any moviegoer interested in quality cinema must see this. "},{"Title":"Truly magnificent movie, not shown enough","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I saw this movie with my mother in 1960! I was but 10 and just happened to get drawn into this movie about a young Russian soldier trying to get home to see his mom, going through all kinds of foibles and silliness traveling and government red tape presents to him, in the meantime falling in love with a beautiful, kind fellow traveler, and then finally getting to spend a few very brief moments with his mom, with a flock of cackling neighbors standing a short distance away. If this movie doesn't wrestle a few tears from your heart no movie will. Wonderfully acted, beautifully photographed (albeit black and white), exquisite portrayal of what moves the heart. Unfortunately, this movie is seldom shown, so make sure to grab a video tape the next time it is shown. "},{"Title":"A great relic of the thaw.","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" After Stalin died, Khrushchev denounced him in started allowing more artistic freedom (this era was known as the thaw). Probably the two best results film-wise were Letyat zhuravli (The Cranes are Flying in English) and Ballada o soldate (Ballad of a Soldier in English). The latter portrays Pvt. Alyosha Skvortsov (Vladimir Ivashov) getting a leave of absence during WWII so that he can visit his mother. He travels across the countryside, meets various people, and falls in love with Shura (Zhanna Prokhorenko), a young woman whom he meets on a train.One of the interesting things about this movie is that it starts by telling the audience that Alyosha got killed in WWII. Even though we know throughout the whole movie that he eventually gets killed (which the movie doesn't show), we always root for him. The movie in fact begins in the same place where it started. The opening shows a road in Alyosha's home town, and the last scene shows him walking down the road after seeing his mother. We don't find out how he gets killed, we just know that he is a hero for his country.All in all, a great movie. "},{"Title":"Words are not enough you must see this","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" There are 25 comments, if you take the time to read them all. Greatness in all aspects of film making. Epic score, masterful writing, directing, acting. This very moving film, is a documentary disguised as a drama. This is the only film that has several real tiger tanks in one scene. You are transported back in time, like a fly on the wall observing the real Russian people fight the great patriotic war. This great movie was band during the cold war and the United States role was greatly distorted. But that is politics right? Millions of Russians were killed civilians were killed without hesitation. The eastern front war between Hitler and Stalin was personal. They slaughtered each other. no quarter was given nor expected. Whole armies were destroyed. Cities bombed to ruins, then fought over to the last man. This movie records the pain, suffering, desperation, struggle, the sacrifice and most of all the character of the great Russian people. "},{"Title":"A Russian War Tale","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Young Russian soldier Alyosha (Vladimir Ivashov) earns a medal, but asks to visit his mother instead. His journey recounts various kinds of love during wartime.The film received considerable praise for both its technical craft and its strong, yet subtle story. Viewed from the earnestness and unabashed youthfulness of the protagonist, the film was hailed as an instant classic by Soviet and American critics.We are quite lucky there was a thaw in the Cold War at the time this film came out, as it allowed Americans to see what their enemies were doing making really good anti-war films. Despite all the political rhetoric of the leaders, the average person just wanted to live a happy life. The characters in this film could be Russian, American, French or anything else... "},{"Title":"Worth watching for its collection of characters and stories","Date":"17 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" In discussing the horrors of a war, Ballad of a soldier spends its time on the tragedies and victories outside of the battle. The film starts with an exaggerated encounter of a man running from a tank, and eventually stopping it and another tank. That strange scene, with its equally exaggerated camera angles, is pretty much the only direct reference to the war, and after that the war is something that bleeds into life but doesn't cover it. The war is tragic, but because of what it does to life, not what it does to politics. And the heroes are heroic because of who they are as people, not what they've done for the cause.In this movie the casualties of war are the families forced to leave their homes, the wife unfaithful to her deployed husband, the almost soul-mates separated by a train that has to leave on time and the mother who has to see her son for the last time. And the beautiful moments are made of honest love between people.This movie is clearly against war, not just because of what happens in battle, but because of what it does to lives outside of it. The framing and lighting of the scenes frequently emphasizes the individual in the scene, letting an expressive face and its context tell the story. And much like its protagonist, this movie's story is very tragic, but it does not always feel that way because of how earnestly and sweetly it tells its story, and its worth watching because of that. "},{"Title":"Ballad of a Soldier","Date":"17 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The 1959 Soviet film entitled Ballad of a Soldier, directed by Grigori Chukhrai is set during World War ll. The film revolves around a young enthusiastic 19 year old soldier named Alyosha who receives a medal for his heroic act in the front when he single handedly destroys two German tanks. Instead of this he appeals to be granted leave for a few days to visit his mother. Throughout his journey home he comes to fully realize the turmoil and affect of war on humans. One of the many themes this film portrays is heroism. At the beginning we immediately realize that Alyosha isn't particularly this traditional amazing hero as we see him fleeing from the German tanks, but his instincts to survive has him become an accidental hero. This isn't writing off his title of a hero in any way. The presentation of a heroic act between the scene of him staying back to deliver the message that a group of tanks were heading their way, to the scene of him saving countless people from the train wreckage that happens later in the film is comparatively different in the portrayal of a hero. The treatment in soldiers from the beginning of the filming towards the end is significantly different as at the beginning many citizens were willing to help Alyosha get home, but near the end it was difficult to have someone take him merely 5 miles to see his mother. He was treated as a good for nothing or obstacle especially in the scene where he had saved several people from the train wreck. Chukhrai usage of angles is rather unique, for example the deep focus shot that is slowly turned upside down when Alyosha is running away from the German tanks gives a sense of disorientation and loss that the battlefield is composed up. Chukhrai especially like to elongate characters and objects perhaps to highlight the importance these elements have on the film. Although the film does respect authority figures and idealizes soviet workers it does devote a lot of its attention on the humanistic picture that is powerful as it is devastating. For example the scene were Alyosha meets a veteran who lost his leg and is hesitant to return to his wife. It was through Alyoshas constant optimistic view on the situation that made this reunion possible. "},{"Title":"A Ballad of the Heart.","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I hesitated watching BALLAD because I was a bit concerned about seeing a propaganda film. But boy, did I cheer the soldier in this story! The filmmakers did a fine job to build sympathy for him from the moment the viewer laid eyes on him. He's handsome, tall and the kind of person with that boy-next-door appearance. It is really a tightly-knitted film in which you wonder from the opening scene, about the son, whose mother longingly stares down the one road into their home town. Having the opportunity to follow his journey, we really get a sense about his upbringing, his hopes and dreams, and where his heart lies. I dare not divulge too much, because it was such a treat to see how this young man undertakes a journey to try and see his mother. As for calling this a war story, it's not the kind that we might picture the John Wayne flicks, or ones like, Saving Private Ryan, for instance. There's not much violence in this film, at all.Rather than a film with attitude, it's a film of the heart. And BALLAD certainly has heart. This film delivers with a terrific story line, in which the filmmakers help the viewer open their hearts up to those of the main characters. Witty combinations of humor and nostalgia transcend borders, giving the viewer a sense of wanting to know many of the people portrayed in this film. Why, I actually searched for further information about the lead players, and my heart dropped when I learned that both of the main talents recently passed away in real life. In a sense, it felt as if I had lost two genuine friends. BALLAD gives us the opportunity to see the two lead characters in their first roles. They were simply mesmerizing on film, which has preserved them in time. The players had little to no experience, yet their screen presence showed tenderness, charm and power. Please do yourselves a favor. If you're sitting on the fence about whether to watch BALLAD, go ahead and watch it. Even if it was a film to showcase Communism and the motherland of Russia, I didn't care. I really argued whether to give this a perfect score, but just couldn't do it. And I'm trying to express why, yet I can't. I'd like to pick apart an obvious shot using models instead of real equipment, or maybe the shot of either lead looking through a window as trees reflected. Or perhaps the ending, which seemed a bit abrupt? It's the ending. I guess I wanted something a little more, or different. How nice it was, upon reflection, to watch an almost flawless film. "}{"Title":"love story","Date":"14 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" a version of Odissey. the way is more important than the destination. a version of Romeo and Juliet. same rules, same choices. a Soviet war film at first sigh, like many others. in fact, profound different. because its delicate poetry, the dark aspects from Union every day life, the meetings of Aliosha with different social cases, the dialogs, the force of images are more than beautiful, touching or seductive. it is a film about silences and choices. about innocence as the best manner to define the world. and for transform it. a film who must see. for the final feeling. for its special form of beauty. and as tool for discover a page from East's past. because it is not only a film about Russia. but about the sensitivity from a part of Europe. "},{"Title":"Review for Russian Film Class","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The Ballad of a Soldier is a war drama that reveals the effects of war on Russia during this time period. It is a very interesting film in that it is a story told in a very short amount of time. Although the time to get to know the protagonist of the film, a young and eager soldier, is short, his character takes no time to fall in love with. The main character of the film represents the qualities of a good soldier he is loyal and faithful and obedient and caring. His good character makes the ending of this film all the more heartbreaking. Though this movie is a war drama, the genre may also be argued to be of the romantic drama. The main character falls in love with the girl he is traveling with; however, the movie also becomes a tragedy because he never sees the girl again when they part. The plot of the film contributes to its message of the devastation of war. One of the most interesting parts of the film is how the movie is told in past tense it is told at the beginning of the film that the main character will never return home. The film is tragic in its ending but overall still a very well told story. The film does a good job in plot and character development. "},{"Title":"An excellent perspective of the individual faces of war","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" War is Tragic, thousands experience it, maybe even the whole world; but this isn't what Grigori Chukrai wanted to show. He made the film an inmate experience, with slow moments, suspension, and room for intellectual thought all through the personal individual experience of Alyosha. Alyosha was young solider, from the country-side who managed to take down two enemy tanks. As his reward instead of a medal he received leave to visit his mother and fix her leaky roof. We begin the film with this scene and the knowledge that Alyosha would be leaving on his last leave, for he would die in the war. From his realistic heroism, his simple desire to see his mother again, and his death we know we are following the last days of a journey chalk full with all the experiences of young life and love. When we hear of war on the TV or a friend who knows someone who has died in a war we don't think of that individual life that was lost, but rather about the death toll or big picture. Ballad of a solider takes you away from all of that to see the faces that make up the military force. In this case the lives that Russia lost were so much like Alyosha young and kind, not a killing machine. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Ballad of a Soldier is about Aloysha, a young private in the Soviet army that is granted some time to go visit with his mother. The movie follows the people that he meets on his journey home, even falling in love on the way. The whole time you are rooting for Aloysha to make it in time to see his mother before his time runs out&#x97;making you emotional invested in his journey and his new relationship with the girl he meets along the way. Additionally, the movie depicts the hardships of war without actually showing any attacks. And instead of taking a soldier and trying to portray him as a hero, Aloysha is portrayed as a human being with flaws and fears. Because of this, I found this movie very real and enjoyable. The main character was lovable and I found myself invested in his story. "},{"Title":"I like it","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Ballad of a soldier is a very interesting movie. Alyosha made me fall in love with this movie. His trustworthiness, energy and loyalty makes a Ballad of a soldier the best Russian movie have ever seen.. It's nice to get a different perspective of war from another country. The Direction was awesome and all the actors and actresses played their parts to perfection. The girl who played Shura is beautiful and reminded me of Cameron Diaz. The part when the soldier finally meets his mom was very emotional and it reminded me of a personal experience i had. ... man, I cried like a baby! Please, please! More movies like this!!!. I can't get enough of this movie and I've even introduced it to some of my friends "},{"Title":"Russian Movie","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The Ballad of a soldier is a Russian movie that revolves around World War 2 and is about a young couple who are madly in love. The main character named Vladimir Ivashov is very home sick and yearns for his wife. The soldier is very good and commits numerous acts that give him heroic status instead of having a medal he asks for 6 days to help his mother and fix his roof. On a train towards his mother he falls in love with a girl named Shura. On his way home he commits acts of kindness. Some of those include carrying a suitcase for a wounded soldier and he helps push out a jeep that is stuck in the mud. Wen the end of the movie happens Shura confesses that there is no fiancé only an aunt. The soldiers train is blown up and then Alyosha rafts across the river and then to a rural village. The soldier only gets to see his mother for a few seconds. We see his journey home and he eventually dies along with being remembered as a Russian soldier at the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"Soldiers journey transcended everything","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Everyone should wish it his or her last film in life before taking the last breath as it's enough to awaken the greatest realization in life that we are riding in a train like the soldier with a destination. On the way we make love and on the same way we lose him or her, because this temporal world is the place for all sort transient relationship. We are running after so many valuable stuffs like catching soap bubble in the staircase like heroine. Time to time the film will put you reality and also in romantic fantasy. It's a phenomenal experience. Thirst for love will keep you waiting and admitting that you are in love without saying a single word. Trust me! In you life you'll also realize that some people are not worth of any gift like the soldier depicted here. On the other and, some people worth more than you are going to sacrifice for them, which was depicted through the one legged soldier. In some part of your life, you are just a hero, who has transcended everyone and everything. But, in the next place, you'll find yourself as asshole, because this is how life works out and, you and me no exception of it as we are under the normal distribution at the end of the day. "},{"Title":"Another Great Separation Film of the Thaw","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Chukhrai's Ballad of a Soldier is a great example of several important values of Soviet film of the Thaw era. Films of this time are known for a movement away from Stalinist ideological monumentalism and towards individual self-expression via the protagonist's struggle (and often failure) to find coherence. A common theme of Thaw films, especially those about World War II like the Ballad or Kalatozov's The Cranes are Flying was the lack of communication between soldiers leaving for the front and the people who they loved who stayed behind. So important was this theme that in these films, the actual war, in the sense of guns and shells, took backstage. Very few combat scenes were shot&#x97;the fighting was always implicit, but not central, in the overall plot. Ballad of a Soldier follows many of these ideas. For example, the only real combat scene in the entire film is at the very beginning, when Alyosha takes out two German tanks. For the rest of the film, everybody he meets on his journey to visit his mother inquires about the war, or complains about it, or is among other evidence of war, like destroyed buildings and news flashes of events on the front. In addition, despite bringing peace to certain individuals, and revealing the evil in the actions of others during his journey, Alyosha never truly finds this peace himself. Despite bringing couples back together or chastising an unfaithful woman, he never got to proclaim his feelings for Shura before he left her, and even the visit to his mother itself was unsatisfying. He never got to finish his dealings before he was killed in the war. He never got a chance to communicate.Furthermore, in terms of form, the Ballad is representative of the loosening of the conditions on montage after Stalin. One sees interesting camera views (like the experimental ones of the 1920s) again, like the upside-down camera when the tanks are chasing Alyosha, or the recurring shots of the moving backgrounds when Alyosha and Shura are on the train. Like The Cranes are Flying, this was another very enjoyable separation film of the Thaw. "},{"Title":"Daily life behind the Russian front","Date":"2 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" In Germany and the Netherlands the film Ballad of a soldier is one of the most celebrated Soviet war stories. The script is an intricate mixture of the aspects of the daily life in the rural areas just behind the Russian war front during the Second World War. The main character is private Aljosja, who is granted a short leave in order to visit his mother. He enlisted without a farewell bid to her, and perhaps wants to make good. His father had already died in a previous battle, perhaps during the Russian civil war. The narrative is actually a flashback, since at the start a comment tells us that Aljosja has fallen in battle. On the one hand this is a study of the typical mother-son relation. We see the lonely mother gazing over the enormous cornfields, and the winding sandy road, ending at the distant horizon. On the other hand we follow the soldier on his long and wearisome journey from the front to his home village. Although he is barely an adult, his loyal and dutiful character soon becomes apparent. On the way he helps to unite a wounded soldier with his wife. Aljosja has to bribe a fellow-soldier in order to get in a military train. In the goods van he meets a young woman, traveling to her aunt, and fraternizes. He brings presents of his fellow-soldiers to their families. When one of the spouses turns out to commit adultery, he takes her presents to the ill father of the soldier instead. When he and the young woman are finally separated, Aljosja forgets to ask her address. Close to home his train is bombarded, and many travelers are killed or wounded. Finally he is reunited with his mother. But due to the many delays he is forced to depart again almost immediately. These scenes remind of the emotions during the leave of Paul Baumer in the film Im Westen nichts Neues, but are much more intense. A voice commenting the film laments that under normal circumstances Aljosja could have enjoyed a fruitfull and productive life. It seems as though a complete life span is condensed into a journey of a few days. At the same time the misery of the civil population is portrayed. In addition the natural comradeship during war times is used as a tool for propaganda, in order to demonize asocial behavior like corruption or adultery. There is a strong message. that common people have an obligation to fulfill, It is a touching film, a continuous succession of greetings and farewells. Nevertheless, it is difficult to identify or feel empathy, because the main characters seem to drift with the flow, and are motivated more by external obligations than by internal convictions. If you appreciate Bolshevist films, it may be worthwhile to look at some of my other reviews. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Moving","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" During WW2, a young Russian soldier is rewarded for bravery by being given a leave of a few days to go meet his mother and fix her leaky roof. This beautifully filmed and superbly directed drama chronicles his long, enlightening journey back home, as he meets some interesting people and learns about life. Ivashov, in his film debut, gives a remarkably natural and free-wheeling performance as the soldier who is basically a good-natured country boy. Prokhorenko is beautiful and endearing as a girl he meets during his journey. This simple and moving film has some heart-wrenching moments, but its central message is simply to point out the the absurdities of war. "}{"Title":"Ode to a Soldier","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" With the exception of Andrei Tarkovsky, Soviet cinema remains rather unknown this side of the Atlantic. For those who haven't yet indulged further, Grigori Chukhrai's 'Ballad of a Soldier' is a good introduction more universal, less political, not as formally difficult, and quite a bit more fast-moving (demonstrated, quite literally, by sped-up shots of a tank near the beginning!) than most other Soviet fare.In general, the film is a delicate, lyrical story about a young Soviet soldier who goes off to fight the Germans, and then gets just enough leave time to come back to his small village and see his mother. This return journey takes up most of the film, and along the way our hero meets a girl, falls in love, and sees a variety of characters affected, in different ways, by the war. Everything is presented in episodes, and the film feels, at times, like it's in chapters.Although the DVD cover and title make 'Ballad of a Soldier' appear to be a war movie, be warned that, really, it's not. It's sentimental, about love, fleeting, decidedly poetic. However, it's never mush, and its poetry is often quite good. If you're in the right mood, I reckon this film can really hit the soft, nostalgic spots.And, if your guy or gal is a bit eccentric, reads Dostoyevsky and Kundera, and is into foreign cinema, 'Ballad of a Soldier' even makes a decent date movie. "},{"Title":"Watch this film as soon as possible!","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I have to start with the fact that this will certainly be one of the most compelling and most unforgettably sincerely romantic films that you have ever seen. The title does not suggest the true meaning and thought provoking power of one of the greatest films in existence. While the war is the backdrop and plays a strong supporting plot point, it does not suggest the feeling of love and the knowing that every moment counts that the film ultimately portrays. I hope that everyone who reads this will take the time to seek out this film. It is the quintessential example of a form of art that can really alter your outlook on life for the better. "},{"Title":"Different Perspective on the War","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I thought Ballad of a Soldier was definitely a must watch for a wide ranger of viewers. It offers a broad spectrum of genres including romance, historical, and war. I want to say, however, that when I say historical, you will not learn about the Second World War from this film. Instead, you learn of a different perspective on how the war affected different nations and cultures at the time. As an American studying American History for almost my entire life, it was interesting to see a vague intro to how the citizens of the Soviet Union reacted to the devastation caused by the war. Also, the ending really showed the viewer how important it was for soldiers during the war to see their parents, even if that means they only get to see them for a few minutes. Overall, I felt that Ballad of a Soldier is a must see for any cultural film fan. "},{"Title":"Wondrous and fascinating Soviet film about the tale of a young man destined for life changing events, that are not of a military ilk, set amidst World War Two.","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Grigori Chukhrai's Soviet film Ballad of a Soldier begins with a downbeat and downcast voice-over informing us of a situation in which a young boy's mother will never have the chance to have recited to her the rather epic story her fateful son has to tell. She gazes, ruefully, down a broad road leading off into the distance as she stands on the brink of where her town and general dwelling area meets wilderness; a longing look on her face and an uneasy establishment of power over a rather forlorn figure established within us. Just as you dread a Soviet era period piece set during The Second World War in which war heroism from the country's youngest and finest is at the very forefront; as the rest of those those poor, equally brave in some sense civilians stay at home and weep for the very soul of the nation; the situation and those on the front, Ballad of a Soldier actually opens up into one of the more interesting coming of age tales I've seen.The young man at the forefront of the piece is a certain private by the name of Alyosha Skvortsov (Ivashov), a boy whose war exploits would indeed make a fine story to tell any mother; friend or friend of a mother in the sense that in the heat of conflict, two Nazi tanks are wiped out by the said young man who has both the reality and responsibility of fighting on the Easatern Front thrust onto him at this early age. Following these heroic acts, Alyosha is granted a six day leave and takes it upon himself to return home in hope to complete an errand that is embedded at his family's house in the roof requiring mending. Thus begins Alyosha's travels, a sort of circular journey as he leaves the front with the intent of coming back again blended with that of a straight, singular line journey or 'road movie' as he ventures from 'A' to 'B'; discovering and finding new experiences and emotions in the process. The film is decidedly anti-war, rendering it a soulless and empty experience if a young man's coming of age adventures are explored on the travels he makes inbetween exploits of a combative ilk, and thus gradually informing us that any prior 'dread' we may have had in what to expect from this period Soviet piece, was unnecessary.The film will focus on Alyosha's travels in a minute and careful manner, observing one such instance in which the failure to identify the moment when it is apparently necessary to bribe someone, almost getting caught out and rectifying the situation before applying the said learning later on under different conditions. This trial and error process nestles in with the overall study, while Alyosha's naivety will see him, in a gleeful and euphoric mood at the time following the granting of the six day leave, happily take on the extra burden of delivering a gift from one soldier to their partner along the way; something that we will eventually come to realise merely delays the lead as well as put his life at needless risk. The extra burden of a chore is significant in the sense it is an odd job Alyosha is returning home for, and in preoccupying himself with one of someone else, risks the threat being unable to fulfil a duty set by himself - but it's all part of a learning process.If anything, Chukhrai's film victimises the 'little guy', or the poorer and more grounded characters such as Alyosha and those he encounters - it pities them and presents their situation as less than desirable; whereas stately figures such as soldiers and others of various degrees of authority are hard-nosed, seemingly uncompromising and find it rather difficult to understand the true nature of human emotion. Without giving too much away, if a particular truck impatiently loitering nearer the end knew anything about what certain people had been through up to that point, they'd surely had more remorse than they actually exhibit. Chukhrai's representation of two classes of people, worlds apart, but bound within the same nation is both sly and inspired.Rather, the film focuses on Alyosha's relationship with a young girl he meets whilst stowing away on a cargo train returning home she is Shura (Prokhorenko). The ties binding the two of them see an immediate connection, items they have in common from the offset; capturing that sense of being able to bond with someone from the offset as you come to realise the two of you are sharing the same boat, so to speak. Both are boarding the goods train without warrant; both of them will suffer the same repercussions if caught and both of them are merely trying to get to a homely place. The initial thrill, at least for the audience, in these two coming together is part-cruelly, part-wonderfully interrupted by the train's large, wooden door being torn open by a guard on the outside who then engages in talk with Alyosha, before he himself is able to renew acquaintances with Shura.The two bond as the train steams on ahead, before stopping at a number of stations, before slowly turning over and heading on out of them again. The cut away shots of the moving, travelling train representative of both characters' forward moving journey and furtherance of their development; the stop-start nature of the mode of transport in question as it pauses at regular intervals for whatever reason is representative of their initial on-off truce with one another, two stowaways in equal measure and two people forced into sharing a space throughout the development process together. The fact of the matter being that it cracks along at a tremendous rate, with, as cited by Chukhrai himself, the nervous energy from the amateur acting talent propelling what is a very beautiful and very natural progressive act caught magnificently. "},{"Title":"Brilliant--one of the better and more heart-wrenching war pictures","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is a wonderful movie from the Soviet Union that follows one simple soldier for the course of less than a week. Pvt. Alyosha Skvortsov is on the battlefield running from an oncoming German tank. He is scared half to death but manages, in his panic, to jump into a fox hole where he finds a bazooka-like gun and destroys the tank. Moments later, another German tank appears and he dispatches that one as well! The German tanks not hit are in a panic and make a hasty retreat. Later, the private is brought to the general where he is congratulated and told he would get a medal for his bravery. Skvortsov instead asks if perhaps he could have a pass to see his mother--and the general agrees.However, the pass is only for a few days and despite Skvortsov insisting he could make it home in a day or so, there is a war on and it takes so much longer to get home than he anticipated. In fact, he is taken from touching vignette to touching vignette--all told marvelously and with such heart. One soldier who sees him heading away from the front begs him to stop on the way home and bring some soap to his wife and tell her he is okay. How this all works itself out was amazingly honest and touching. Even more touching was the one-legged veteran he meets who is also on the way home. The guy doesn't believe that his wife would like him back--particularly with the injury. But, Skvortsov is such a decent guy that he takes time out of his leave to force the guy to go home and not run away. This leads to one of the most touching reunions you'll ever see. Additionally, the young soldier also happens to meet a pretty young lady on a train and falls in love with her (reminiscent of the film THE CLOCK). Ultimately, he does arrive home for an all-too-brief moment where you'll likely shed a tear or two.The film is marvelous and honest. Instead of the jingoistic propaganda film this would have been had it been made during the war, a few years had passed and the film has a more realistic focus. The extreme bravery, fear, decency and bad in people are all explored and as a result the film seems so real. Also, the whole look of the war was achieved so well. The German tanks are actually German tanks (thanks to countless tanks abandoned by fleeing Germans during the war)--something you just don't see in American films because they aren't available. The battlefields look stark and vivid. And, in a good nod to realism, one soldier eats canned meat that clearly has an American label on it (something Stalin NEVER would have allowed in a film--since he ALONE is why the Russians prevailed, or so it would have been portrayed if the film had been made before his death in 1953).I can compare this film favorably to many of the great war films that explore real human beings--such as THE BEST YEARS OF OUR LIVES or the recent film ENEMY AT THE GATES. A masterpiece of honesty and humanity. "},{"Title":"Affecting Soviet WWII story","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is a simple story. Alyosha Skvortsov, a private in the Soviet Army during WWII, destroys two enemy tanks and, in exchange for receiving official recognition for his accomplishment, asks for leave to see his mother and repair her roof. After some hesitation his commanding officer is taken by Alyosha's innocent sincerity and grants him a six day leave; the rest of the movie details Alyosha's journey home. Given how difficult travel was at the time, and the distance to be covered, it was not clear to me how Alyosha ever figured he could make it home and back in six days. I think it would have helped non-Russians to have had a map.Alyosha travels by hitching and by hopping trains. In some of the most affecting and believable scenes Alyosha meets a depressed man who has lost a leg and is convinced his wife will not accept him on his return. It is Alyosha's genuine, gentle good nature that helps this man to have the courage to continue his journey, and the last we see of him he has been happily reunited with his wife.The main event of the trip has Alyosha meeting a young woman on one of his train trips. Their relationship develops slowly and tenderly, but I ultimately found it too romanticized. The swelling music and soft close-ups were too conspicuous in trying to achieve their goal. And after the couple's unfortunate separation, their chance reunion seemed highly improbable.There is some remarkable black and white cinematography. Director Chukhrai has taken a page out of Bergman's book by filming black figures silhouetted against gray skies and lonely backgrounds. The film stock does not seem up to the quality of a lot of black and white films of the time, it lacks in contrast and sharpness.The reunion of Ayosha with his mother at the end tears at your heart, knowing from the beginning of the film that this will be their last brief meeting. The message of the toll that war takes on average citizens comes across clearly--there is no happy ending here.I liked this movie, but it did not seem to touch me as deeply as others have testified to. "},{"Title":"Stylish and exhilarating...","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Ballad of a Soldier is an exciting tale of a young soldier's adventure while returning home on leave. The cinematography is reminiscent of Truffaut or Bergman, and the pacing is excellent. Although not as shockingly realistic as Come and See, this film portrays the pain Russia was dealt during WWII. There does seem to be a good bit of propaganda for the Russian Army (the way all the commanding officers are big softies and frequently bend the rules), and this does seem rather disingenuous. Unilke the kindness and respect portrayed in Grand Illusion (Renoir's account of prison camp civility from WWI), Ballad of a Soldier leans a bit more toward Triumph of the Will in its seemingly unrealistic depiction of authority figures. Having said that, I thoroughly enjoyed this film and would say its criticisms are dwarfed by its triumphs. "},{"Title":"A Great Film For A Traveler, Otherwise Just a Curiosity","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" SPOILER ALERT It's always interesting for me to come across a world war two movie that I have not seen, and I can appreciate watching one from a foreign country even more. This is my fifth or sixth eastern European made war film dating from Battleship Potemkin, there just don't seem to be many available to the American market, a couple of those that I saw (overseas on foreign TV not American), were way over the top comic book war movies, which I do not place this movie in. The Russian movies all seem to tug at the heart strings and it's good, it adds a human factor, but they usually over do it. With this one I was really expecting a very dramatic ending, I wont say it was a let down as I had lost a lot of interest in the film by then, but to see all these 10 star reviews does seem a little overrated. If you read who the reviewers are and where they live it gives you a better clue on who would totally love this film, I have to think they are travelers, it's all good, but I'm just saying; this is not a movie I'm going to tell everyone I know to go see right away, it was good, but not great. Then again, I'm not a traveler (I joined the military to help protect the USA from Soviet aggressions in the 1980's) so take that into account. If I can make a critical thought without offending comrade, it reminded me of the movie's Planes Trains and Automobiles crossed with The Clock (Judy Garland and Robert Walker), except it was in Russian and the ending is patriotically a sad one (although the ending is not shown, just a narrative like in the movie Bataan). 6 of 10 for some tender moments and a cool battle scene in the beginning, it's no Aleksandr Nevskiy and why it's ranked higher at IMDb.com is because it's obscure and not widely seen. "},{"Title":"a different but not a great war movie actually.","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The Ballad of a Soldier is not exactly a war story. A Russian soldier destroys tow German tanks When the general sees that supposedly brave soldier he asks how he destroyed these two tanks he simply answers I did it because I was afraid. When he has been told that he will be given a medal for his braveness he just wants to go home to repair the roof of their home which his mother mentioned on in her letter. During his travel on the train we witness the romantic love of a young couple, the committed love of a married couple, and a mother's love of her child. It is a different movie because it generally focuses on individual itself not not on masses on people during war or heroic sides of war but losses and misery of individuals. In that sense it is different but the war scenes at the start of the movie is not realistic. Vladimir Ivashov as the young soldier performs well but I can't say this for other players. Not too bad not that great I think.Something in the middle. "}]