[{"Title":"A must see for horror fans","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Far superior to the Brendan Fraser version, which relies too heavily on sterile computerized special FX. Comparing it to the classic 1932 Boris Karloff version, as so many people are doing, I feel is unfair. Karloff is not seen much in bandaged form choking people, but instead, in the Ardeth Bay persona. The Hammer Mummy has a lot more in common with the four Mummy movies Universal made in the 40's, (bandaged mummy chokes people out, the high priest out for revenge, etc.), and while those movies are fun, they don't compare to this one. Simply put, Tom Tyler and Lon Chaney, Jr. are not given the chance to pantomime with as much emotion as Christopher Lee, (kind of ironic when you consider the latter's father was the king of pantomime). Through all of the muddy bandages, there are still glimpses of human expression in Lee's eyes.Beautiful color and well paced, I highly recommend this movie.............. "},{"Title":"The best Mummy movie ever made","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy is the Rodney Dangerfield of classic monsters -- he gets no respect. But Hammer's sumptuous, beautifully filmed and acted treatment is as good as your going to find. It is also the most detailed mummy film around, with the recreation of its Egyptian tomb gorgeous and authentic. Christopher Lee is little short of brilliant in the thankless title role, actually managing to giving a compelling and at times touching performance through only his eyes and body language. Peter Cushing is superb as always (and was it a deliberate decision to make his character's lameness a wry twist on the fact that Kharis the mummy was always lame in the old Universal movies?), as is Hammer semi-regular George Pastell in the stereotypical mummy-controller-in-the-fez part. The supporting cast is also classier than usual for Hammer Sir Felix Aylmer as Cushing's father is wonderful, aging amazingly convincingly and establishing himself as one of the great gibberers of the cinema; while Raymond Huntley is solid as Cushing's sensible uncle (and as London's first stage Dracula, one wonders what conversations he must have had on the set with Lee). Hammer regular Michael Ripper also has one of his best parts as a sodden eyewitness to the mummy's activities. Director Terrence Fisher (another Rodney Dangerfield) contributes many memorable touches, though probably none so effective as the agonizing sloooooooowwwwness with which the stone door of the secret chamber concealing the cursed Kharis closes, which emphasizes the horrific agony of living burial. Everything in this film works, and some elements, such as the photography and the excellent music score, exceed even Hammer's usually high standards. The Mummy might be the British studio's best film. It is certainly one of their best. "},{"Title":"Visually Beautiful, Very Moody--and a Lot of Fun","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" England's Hammer Studios existed primarily as a distributor--until the low budget 1955 THE QUATERMASS EXPERIMENT suddenly put the studio on the map. Sensing an untapped market, Hammer began to develop similar titles and by the early 1960s developed a style that mixed Victorian sets and costumes with bouffant hairstyles, bared breasts, and lots of blood. The films were largely responsible for jolting the horror genre back to life on both sides of the Atlantic, as popular in the United States as they were in England.Released in 1959, THE MUMMY was among Hammer's earliest color films and helped lay out the visual style that come to dominate Hammer Horror for more than a decade. Drawing from Universal's 1932 THE MUMMY and 1940 THE MUMMY'S HAND, it opens with a band of Victorian-era archaeologists in Egypt, where they discover the lost tomb of Princess Ananka--and in the process unleash a mummy cursed to guard her throughout eternity. It is a curse that follows the men back to England, where they are stalked to their deaths one by one.Director Terence Fisher and cinematographer Jack Asher worked a number of Hammer films, including the earlier HORROR OF Dracula and REVENGE OF FRANKENSTEIN. Although some of the lighting may give you pause--judging from all the backlighting and colored filters it would seem the ancient Egyptians had mood lighting installed in their tombs--their efforts result in a series of truly arresting visuals; in their hands, bright color is no obstacle to moodiness. The cast plays it out extremely well, with the lovely Yvonne Furneaux a classic Hammer beauty, Peter Cushing as her archaeologist husband, and (yes, the posture and bearing really is unmistakable) Christopher Lee under wraps for the title role.The DVD contains no extras beyond the original trailer, and although the transfer is not pristine it is nonetheless very good indeed. Hammer Horror may not save the world, but it is often a lot of fun--and THE MUMMY is easily among the studio's best. Recommended.GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"influential and fun cheapie from my buddies at Hammer","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Mummy capped off an impressive initial run of horror movies from Hammer Studios. Believe it or not, it was mostly downhill from here; the company's subsequent efforts tended to be tackier and cheesier. But the big three (Curse of Frankenstein, Horror of Dracula, The Mummy) are all solid horror flicks with, oddly enough, some of the most crisp and colorful photography I've ever seen.There are some weaknesses here, though. The Egypt flashback waffles on for quite a while, and then we get ANOTHER flashback when Banning Sr. resurrects the mummy. However, the beginning and ending are well-paced and exciting, so most sins are forgiven. Lee's Mummy is spectacular; he's goddamn huge, and it's very impressive to watch him crashing through doors and French windows, absorbing shotgun blasts as if they were pinpricks (I hear Lee actually got injured several times making this movie; I can't say I'm surprised!)My favorite scene is the ideological debate between the Egyptian badguy (a very cool performance by George Pastell) and Peter Cushing's snooty archaeologist character. Their heated exchange adds a bit of texture to the story and even makes me sympathetic to the villain's POV. However, subtext goes out the window again for the violent final confrontation.On a side note, the exceedingly brilliant BBC show Doctor Who practically remade this movie twice. The episode Tomb of the Cybermen features Pastell as a guest star in a story involving an ill-fated archaeological dig, and Pyramids of Mars once again pits a hapless poacher against killer mummies. Just thought I'd mention it.  "},{"Title":"Gorgeous & Creepy Hammer Horror Winner.","Date":"7 April 2010","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hammer Film Productions rework some of the classic Universal Studios mummy material to great effect. Directed by Terence Fisher, this is not a remake of the seminal 1932 movie of the same name. Starring Peter Cushing (John Banning), Christopher Lee (Kharis/The Mummy), Raymond Huntley (Joseph Whemple) and Yvonne Furneaux (Isobel Banning/Princess Ananka), the film is written by Jimmy Sangster and was filmed at Bray & Shepperton Studios in England. Tho listed as being filmed in Technicolor, it was actually shot in Eastman Color using the Technicolor process. I mention the latter because Eastman Color has a different hue to it, something that makes this movie all the more affecting as a horror piece.The plot sees three archaeologists (Stephen & John Banning & Joseph Whemple) desecrate the tomb of Egyptian Princess Ananka. This awakens Kharis, Ananka's blasphemous lover who was buried alive for his unlawful deeds. Taken from the tomb to London by Egyptian priest Mehemet Bey (George Pastell), the three archaeologists find they are being hunted down by the vengeful Kharis. The only salvation may come in the form of Isobel Banning who bears a striking resemblance to Princess Ananka.This Mummy is adroitly directed by Fisher, his choreography for the action scenes is stunning. Lee's incarnation as the mouldy bandaged one is swifter than most, thus Fisher has him stalking around Victorian England one minute, then the next he's crashing thru doors or windows with brute strength. With murder his (its) only goal. It's a top performance from Lee as he really throws himself into the role, with his dead eyes ominously peering out from gauze swathed sockets sending those little shivers running down the spine. Technically the film belies the budget restrictions that was a staple of Hammer productions. The sets are very impressive with the Egyptian tomb set original and authentic looking, and the swamp based set-up nicely constructed. The latter of which provides two genuine horror classic moments. As first we see the Mummy for the first time as he rises from a foul bubbling bog, and then for the dramatic swampy finale. It's also atmospherically filmed by Fisher, with Jack Asher's photography utilising the Eastman Color to give off a weird elegiac beauty.This is not about gore, Fisher and the makers wanted to thrive on atmospherics and implication. Something they achieve with great rewards. The Mummy would prove to be very successful in Britain and abroad, thus ensuring Hammer would dig up more Mummy's for further screen outings. None of which came close to capturing the look and feel of this first makeover. Crisply put together and with another in the line of great Christopher Lee monster characterisations', this Mummy is essential viewing for the creature feature horror fan. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Spell binding remake of a horror classic!","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Director Terence Fisher and crew at Hammer Films revives life in the MUMMY. Horrific color and a much livelier and threatening wrapped menace is the modern slant on the 1930's original.Boris Karloff was almost mystic in the title role decades ago. Stealing some of his thunder is Christopher Lee. Lee is down right wicked and relentless. And in his own way, just as scary as Karloff.Peter Cushing brings a double whammy to this movie. More shakes and shivers. Also in the cast are Yvonne Furneaux, George Pastell, Raymond Huntley, David Browning and Michael Ripper.What a way to spend a rainy night. Curl up with this and the original. Yikes! "},{"Title":"Another success for Hammer studios!","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After their first successes with takes on famous stories, hammer's finest trio teamed up again to make this delightful take on the legend of an Egyptian mummy, imaginatively titled 'The Mummy'. Peter Cushing is an actor that needs no introduction as he has carried many a Hammer horror production and forever engraved himself in the minds of horror fans across the globe. His performance in this film isn't his finest ever (or even his finest under Terence Fisher), but it's more than solid and, to be honest, Peter Cushing is one of the few actors that could just spend the running time doing nothing and still have this horror fan riveted, such is the power of his screen presence. Christopher Lee has proved himself as the successor to both Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi on a number of occasions with his portrayals of the classic monsters, and although he's never surpassed the great masters; this is another of those occasions. Of course, the one and only Terence Fisher direct the film. Fisher is an under-appreciated director in the horror genre as, although he hasn't done much outside of Hammer, the films he made for Hammer are what have gone on to be some of their most respected classics. This is another one.The film looks great, and despite the fact that it's low budget and was shot well over forty years ago, the colours and locations still bode well, and give the film a fresh feel. The Hammer style camp feeling is very much on display in The Mummy, and for the Hammer fan; that can only be a good thing. The Egypt setting marks a nice departure for the team, as up until this point, audiences had only seen them together in more urban settings. To be honest, aside from Boris Karloff's performance, I didn't much like the Universal classic. I don't hesitate, therefore, to label this film superior in every respect other than the lead. This version of the story is handled in a way that is much easier to like than Karl Freud's version. The story itself is a more than interesting one, and ties in the intrigue of the Egyptian civilisation, with themes of modern society breaking their sacred code to have a museum full of relics, which is really quite thought-provoking. "},{"Title":"Hammer's Beautifully Haunting Mummy","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Egyptian Mummies are fascinating creatures - yet I am sure that I'm not standing alone with the opinion that their representation in Horror cinema is a bit weak compared to other Horror creatures. And I don't mean to say that there were too few Mummy films made, but that great Mummy films are quite rare. The only Mummy film that I would really consider an absolute masterpiece is Karl Freund's brilliant The Mummy of 1932 starring Boris Karloff. While no other Mummy film has ever come close to the brilliance of the Karloff film, Hammer's 1959 re-telling of the story is easily my second-favorite of all Mummy films I've seen. After the success of The Curse Of Frankenstein (1957) and Horror Of Dracula (1958), two true Classics which revolutionized British Horror cinema, Hammer's dream-team, Horror-icons Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee, screenwriter Jimmy Sangster and director Terence Fisher reunited for The Mummy (aka. Terror Of The Mummy) in 1959. And while this is not quite as brilliant as the two aforementioned films, in my opinion, The Mummy is definitely a great and wonderfully picturesque Horror film that can easily be considered a Hammer Classic.When British archaeologists, one of them John Banning (Peter Cushing) discover an ancient Egyptian tomb, they open the grave of a priestess who died 4000 years earlier. The desecration of the grave of the priestess unleashes a curse, which awakes the vengeful guard Kharis (Christopher Lee) who had been buried with the priestess... And what could be more entertaining for a lover of Gothic greatness than seeing a vengeful Egyptian Mummy haunt a Hammer-style Victorian England, even more so if this vengeful Mummy is played by none other than the all-mighty Christopher Lee? Lee himself once stated that this was his personal favorite of his Hammer films. It is hard to say why, as the role that initially earned him his status as one of Horror's all-time greatest was certainly that of Dracula; my guess is that he must have gotten tired of the Dracula role after a while. Yet it is more than understandable that Lee was fond of this film. The Mummy has a unique elegance in settings and colors, and some of the scenes, which I won't give away, are truly immortal moments of Gothic greatness. The equally great Peter Cushing is, as usual, brilliant in the role of the scientist John Banning. Director Fisher once again delivers the great trade-mark Hammer elements (foggy grounds, eerily luscious colors,...) in a particularly beautiful manner and Franz Reizenstein's score intensifies the gloomy atmosphere. All things considered out of Hammer's three original re-tellings of stories that had already been told in Universal Pictures in the 30s, The Mummy is not quite as essential as Curse Of Frankenstein and Horror Of Dracula. It is, however, nonetheless a highly atmospheric, haunting, beautiful and downright great Gothic classic that no Horror fan can afford to miss! "},{"Title":"An Atmospheric And Political Horror Film From Hammer","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a rather forgotten horror film from Hammer . It's much better than the 1932 version from Universial Studios which was static , stilted and suffered from a cast who were either totally wooden or ridiculously over the top . It's also better than most of the films in Hammer's franchise featuring Dracula or Frankenstien It's obvious this version of THE MUMMY whether it be set in the deserts of Egypt or the fenland's of England were all filmed on a studio backlot but this isn't necessarily a criticism because it adds to its atmosphere . It's certainly a charming little film devoid of any gore that Hammer horror films were quickly gaining a reputation for . Of course the bar for  gore  has been raised highly over the past decades but atmosphere of whatever decade still remains intact to a degree and one wishes film makers would remember this One thing an audience might like to remember nowadays is the historical context that THE MUMMY was made in . Three years previously in 1956 an Anglo- French invasion of Egypt to secure the Suez Canal led to a political debacle for both nations with America forcing both countries to withdraw . It's easy to see the political subtext in the final third of the film as English gentleman John Banning visits the home of Mehemet Bey in a scene that almost screams  You can't trust these Egyptian types at all . They'll stab you in the back  which is what Bey literally does in a later scene . It's not so much racism , just a case of sour grapes that the Brits have lost an empire No one was expected to win any Oscars appearing in this movie but everyone manages professional performances . Peter Cushing was always excellent at playing mild mannered , affable gentlemen and he continues this type of role as John Banning . The underrated George Pastell as Bey is a striking contrast to Banning and that's deliberate but he never becomes a cartoonish villain . Christopher Lee unlike many of his Hammer roles gets a chance to do some acting and doesn't disappoint whilst the supporting cast do a fairly good job in thankless walk on roles This is certainly Hammer at their most restrained and ( Sorry to use the word again ) atmospheric . It's certainly one of their most enjoyable films and that the fact that it's so forgotten might have a lot to do with the historical context from when it was made "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This forgotten Hammer classic is wonderful. I like it better than the 1932 version and much better than the awful 1999 version. The start of and end of the movie are very solid. They did a great job building suspense by holding back the appearance of The Mummy until well in the movie. Christopher Lee's Mummy costume was a sight to see. It was very well done. Peter Cushing did a solid job as John Banning and Yvonne Furneaux was lovely.This movie was not very campy but it had just enough. I loved watching The Mummy's first appearance.The Egypt scenery was a nice touch to the film. It was clean and bright. This made it look almost like a fantasy sequence.The only negative is the flashback scene. That was way too long and got a little boring. This movie is a slight drop from Horror of Dracula and Curse of Frankenstein, but it is still very good and a worthy addition into the Hammer family. "}{"Title":"Almost as good as Universal's 'The Mummy'. Features a terrific performance from Peter Cushing, and Christopher Lee makes a menacing Mummy, even more powerful and threatening than Karloff's.","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When Hammer started making horror movies in the 1950s that were inspired by some of the classic Universal movies of the 1930s they had to tread carefully. Universal threatened legal action if they copied the makeup of their Frankenstein's monster for example, which is the reason the Monster (played by Christopher Lee) looked quite different to Karloff's in Hammer's 'Curse Of Frankenstein'(1957). By the time they made 'The Mummy' two years later some kind of understanding had been entered into and this movie, though it isn't credited as such, and the characters names have been changed, is pretty much a remake of the 1932 Universal classic which starred Boris Karloff. Once again Lee plays the Karloff role, except a second character played by George Castell has been created for this version, so we don't get to see Lee without his bandages, apart from a brief flashback sequence. Peter Cushing plays the leading man role, an archaeologist who is initially sceptical but soon must accept the existence of the Mummy. Yvonne Furneaux plays Cushing's devoted wife who is also a dead ringer for Princess Ananka, the woman the Mummy loved centuries earlier. Furneaux is probably best remembered for playing Catherine Deneuve's sister in Polanski's classic 'Repulsion', and also appeared in another sixties art film classic Fellini's 'La Dolce Vita'. Cushing gives a terrific performance as usual. I've yet to see a Hammer movie where he didn't. Lee makes a menacing Mummy, even more powerful and threatening than Karloff's. Though I still love the original version of 'The Mummy' this one is almost as good. In fact it's very difficult to choose one over the other. Both come with my highest recommendations and wipe the floor with the recent tongue in cheek versions starring Brendan Fraser et al. It's a pity that Hammer didn't make more Mummy movies starring Cushing and Lee. I do however highly recommend Hammer's 'Blood From The Mummy's Tomb', even though it has no connection to 'The Mummy' and doesn't feature either actor. "},{"Title":"Another Great Horror Movie by Hammer Directed by Terence Fisher","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In1895, in Egypt, the British archaeologists John Banning (Peter Cushing), his father Stephen Banning (Felix Aylmer) and his uncle Joseph Whemple (Raymond Huntley) discover the tomb of Princess Ananka (Yvonne Furneaux). Stephen finds inside the tomb The Scroll of Life and reads it, awaking The Mummy of Anaka's keeper and former lover Kharis (Christopher Lee). He has a heart attack and goes insane. The Egyptian Mehemet Bey (George Pastell) that worships Ananka steals the scroll and controls The Mummy. Three years later, in England, Stephen is an intern in a mental institution and John has married his fiancée Isobel. However the fanatic Mehemet decides to use The Scroll of Life to revenge those that have desecrated Anaka's tomb. The Mummy attacks Stephen and Joseph; however, when The Mummy attacks John, Isobel that resembles Ananka saves her husband. But will she be saved from The Mummy?The Mummy is another great horror movie by Hammer directed by Terence Fisher. The remake of the 1932 Universal's The Mummy is creepier, with the dirty bandages since he has fallen off into the bog. In addition, the beauty of Yvonne Furneaux is impressive as well the lack of chemistry with Peter Cushing. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Not Available on Blu-Ray or DVD "},{"Title":"Magnificent  rendition  of the ¨Mummy¨ legend from Hammer Productions","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Archeologists seeking lost tomb of Egyptian princess when a mummy is revived after thousand of years . An ancient Egyptian mummy is awakened from his centuries-old sleep when a royal tomb is desecrated . The very deadly mummy (Christopher Lee) takes avenge on some archaeologist (Felix Aylmer and his son played by Peter Cushing) who desecrated the tomb of his beloved princess (Ivonne Furneaux in double role ) . They go back to England and those consequences , to everyone's regret . The mummy slipping into English swamps where soon strangling people , meanwhile a Police Inspector(Eddie Byrnes) is investigating the strange deeds . However , the mummy attacks and suddenly stops when believes Furneaux is reincarnation of ancient sweet heart .Horror Hammer classic with effective atmosphere , sense of awe and wonder along with fine performances . Entertaining blend of thrills , chills , drama and action . Remarkable makeup and eerie scenes make it chilling and frightening . Peter Cushing is terrifying as obstinate archaeologist who is attacked by the mummy incarnated by Christopher Lee holding a heavy makeup. Colorful and atmospheric cinematography by usual Hammer cameraman Jack Asher . The motion picture is well directed by Terence Fisher . Rating  Better than average , it's high-power entertaining . Superb atmosphere , flavorful music , make this one of the best terror movies from Hammer , using intelligence and interesting dialogue rather than guts and blood to horrify its audience . In spite of its age this all time classic has lost none of its qualities. It's followed by ¨Mummy's shroud¨(1967) also produced by Hammer Films, directed by John Gilling with Andre Morell and Elizabeth Sellars.Other pictures about Mummy character are the following  the Universal classic (1933)¨The mummy¨ by Karl Freund with Boris Karloff and David Manners , that ahead many follow-ups as sequels as ¨¨Mummy's hand (1940) with Dick Foran and Cecil Kallaway . And modern updating full of computer generator FX as ¨The mummy¨(1999) by Stephen Sommers with Brendan Fraser , Rachel Weisz , John Hanna and ¨Mummy returns¨with similar players. "},{"Title":"One of the best Hammer classics ever made.  The best of the Mummys","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was the best of all the Mummy movies ever made. It was crafted with the finesse so lacking today. Regrettably, it the sort of film most likely to be dismissed, because it wasn't made in the 1930's or recent times. Lee's Kharis was incredible, and very scary, esp. with his first appearance.Great movie. All the characters were very well cast and directed. This had the same quality as the previous two Hammer remakes, on Frankenstein, and Dracula.Unfortunately, what would follow in the years to come would not have the same quality. "},{"Title":"A true gem of mummy/horror movies","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As I said it before, I do love a good scare from a horror film or just watch retro horror films. And also I do have a flare for the Ancient Egyptians. And one thing I never knew that Christopher Lee was a horror film actor back then.The film is about a man name Stephen Banning, who with his father and uncle were on archaeological expedition, and had excavated the lost tomb of the long-dead, Egyptian princess Anaka. But once the princess is in the museum, a killer mummy is out to kill the Banning men - including Stephen!I found Mr. Lee's Mummy is so very sympathetic, especially during the flashback when you see him alive. The way he says those lines, with such deep feeling in them, and the pain in his eyes every time he looks at the dead princess are truly moving...well GAH! he had a crush on the princess. And, of course, when he sees Isabel Banning who looks like the Princess Anaka - DUH! same actress. Well anyway, his eyes immediately soften to Isabel and he gets that longing look back in them. He's brilliant, absolutely brilliant; as is this film, a true gem of horror movies.I do love this movie, with one notable exception the misuse of the name 'Karnak'. Karnak is a location in Egypt, the modern name of the ancient Nesut-Towi, or variably, Ipet-Iset. It is one of the most impressive temple complexes in Egypt. Karnak is not, and never has been, the name of a god of Egypt. There are plenty of Egyptian gods to choose from; why not actually pick one of them instead of incorrectly using the name of a place? And what was the animal use for the god satute? a rat or a badger? or something? So overall, this mummy movie is very good, and has remained extremely watch-able and entertaining, even now. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although my initial though was that i twas going to be a bad movie, it turned out very good. It is set in the late 1890's and there are many antiques and artifacts that make it seem like it was filmed in the period. The acting was also surprisingly good and I commend Peter Cushing on his acting. This is a must see movie, especially for those who love old movies. The plot is rather original, although the hit movie The Mummy made in the late 90's copied many of its ideas. It is one of those classic movies, that anyone from any age would love to watch. A great movie to watch when Halloween is approaching. You will be on the edge of your seat the entire time. "},{"Title":"all wrapped up","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hammer Films continued its streak of monster movies with The Mummy, featuring Christopher Lee as an ancient Egyptian priest who comes back to life after his tomb gets disturbed. Sure enough, there's a woman (Yvonne Furneaux) in Victorian England who looks exactly like an Egyptian princess from 3,000 years ago.The Hammer movies were some of the most fun from this era. Yes, they were corny, but they were blatantly corny (that's a lot more than anyone can say about a Disney flick or Doris Day movie). Much like the slashers in the '70s, '80s and '90s, anything starring Christopher Lee and/or Peter Cushing was guaranteed to have something cool in store. Such is the case with this one. Really good. "},{"Title":"One of the key classic Hammers","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE MUMMY was one of the major A-productions from the burgeoning Hammer Studios. Flush with the huge success of their remakes of the equally classic Universal horror films, FRANKENSTEIN and Dracula, Hammer turned their attention to another famous monster of the 1930s - The Mummy.In this instance, the colour remake was with the agreement of Universal, so Hammer were able to call their mummy Kharis, but the resemblance pretty much ended there. Gone was Karloff's suave, persuasive undead mummy impersonating a living being and in was the marauding, destructive beast as portrayed by Christopher Lee.At this point in his career, Lee was prepared to trust the Hammer bosses and appear in another non-speaking role. And to be honest, Lee wasn't given much to do as Kharis, except maraud and scowl a little. But he did it well.Compared to later films like PLAGUE OF THE ZOMBIES, which I also saw recently, the production values of THE MUMMY mark it as a lavish, big-budget affair. The Egyptian sets are lush and convincing. The acting is focused and terse, especially from the always delightful Peter Cushing. Lee is great in his Egyptian High Priest role. And there's excellent support from character players like Michael Ripper and Raymond Huntley.THE MUMMY, along with (HORROR OF) Dracula and CURSE OF FRANKENSTEIN (and to a lesser extent CURSE OF THE WEREWOLF), is one of the key movies of the Hammer canon. Next time it shows up on cable or satellite, make sure you catch it.. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"By far the most superior version!","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Forget that new CGI piece of trash (and its lame sequels)!  This is the best rendition of the classic tale.  Peter Cushing is amazing (as usual) as the protagonist, delivering a very sympathetic portrayal of a character who is swept up in events beyond his control.  The budget is clearly low here, but the special effects deliver, making Hammer's version much more exciting than the 1932 original.  Christopher Lee, as the mummy, busts through doors and windows, is torn apart by shotguns, but still persists, strangling the men who disturbed his rest.  Make sure to go out and rent this if you are a fan of classic creature horror.  Also, check out Hammer's excellent versions of Frankenstein and Draclua (titled The Curse of Franklenstein and The Horror of Dracula).Score 9/10 "},{"Title":"Gorgeous and fun - best Mummy movie of all times!","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy (UK, 1959). From 1950's to early 1970's British Hammer Studios produced marvelously Gothic horror films that mixed classic monsters with Victorian sets and rich colours. Written by Jimmy Sangster and directed by Terence Fisher, this classy flick was one of the first. Mummy (Christopher Lee) creates havoc and murders archeologists in Victorian England of Gone with the Wind colours and ornate sets. The film looks wonderful (thanks to photographer Jack Asher and production designer Bernard Robinson who created the traditional Hammer look) and music score by Franz Reizenstein is just beautiful. Peter Cushing's John Banning is very sympathetic hero, taking care of his mentally ill father, and her pretty wife Isobel (Yvonne Furneaux) with her beautiful dresses add feminine touch to the cast of characters. Followed by excellent Curse of the mummy's tomb, this is, like many have said, distinctly better than 1999 remake - better visuals, script, characters, everything. "}{"Title":"The mummy goes Technicolor.","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the fine tradition of other horror remakes, Hammer studios decided to make the Mummy also based on the Universal Studios series of horror films but in color. The script was quite close to the original and starred what was rapidly becoming the greatest team of horror actors Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee. They had already been together in Dracula and Frankenstein movies as well as a remake of Conan Doyles Hound of the Baskervilles This is a stylish telling of the mummy story, with outstanding performances by the entire cast but especially Lee as Kharis. He manages to almost make the mummy a character that you sympathize with. Cushing is as always excellent as John Banning, a role which actually should have gone to a younger actor, but he made it all his. for real fun watch the 1932 film, then this one and the 1999 version in one sitting. "},{"Title":"great! old hammer flick! WARNING!!!!!!!!! SPOILERS","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  great old hammer flick is moody and has lots of good atmosphere throughout also has some GREAT photography and some sharp interesting dialog it is pretty slow paced but it still is quite fascinating  not to mention the beautiful set pieces it is quite stylish and has some great costumes and an exciting finale with a neat ending the acting is AWESOME! Peter Cushing gives a wonderful performance here and his character is very well written and he is also really likable and plays a good hero Christopher Lee is AMAZING as the Kharis the Mummy his walk is quite creepy and he is very convincing he is just astonishing here  Yvonne Furneaux is okay here as Banning's wife she is very pretty and gets the job done George Pastell is great here he creep me out  several times Eddie Byrne is great as the inspector and i found him likable there SPOILERS!!!!! there is a couple of chilling scenes when the mummy rises up from the swamp it gave me chills also a really tense moment when the mummy breaks into the nursing home SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!! and kills John Banning's Father overall a wonderful remake to the classic original and is an absolute must own or see ***** out of 5 i also recommend you see Horror Of Dracula "},{"Title":"Great Mummy movie!","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This Mummy film is very good! Perter Cushing and Christopher Lee are excellent in the film! Also Eddie Byrne was good. All of the other actors were fine. I like the great color and music in this mummy film as well! Christopher Lee is awesome in the picture! His walking is very neat! I think he did a great job! I thought the designs of his character (past and present) looked great and fixed up nicely too! In his mummy form his eyes look scary! This is one of the best mummy films to watch in My opinion! If you like the cast members above, mummy movies, and horror then I strongly recommended this!Movie Nuttball's NOTEIf you love mummy films I recommend the following The Mummy (1932), The Monster Squad (1987) The Mummy Lives (1993), Tale of the Mummy (1998), The MuMmy (1999) The MuMmy Returns (2001), The Scorpion King (2002), and The MuMmy The Animated Series (2001)!  "},{"Title":"Hammer strikes again with a superior remake of the Universal classic","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  THE MUMMY was one of the three classic Hammer remakes I saw when I was 9 years old. The others were HORROR OF DRACULA and CURSE OF FRANKENSTEIN. All got me hooked on horror and I still love them to this day. I strongly recommend watching them all, but if you choose to watch this first, it is a good choice.Christopher Lee is an Egyptian priest who has his tongue cut out and buried alive for performing a ritual of life on the dead Pharoah's wife. Hundreds of years later, an English expedition unearths the tombs of the dead and unleashes the priest's mummy by reading the scroll of life. The mummy is exported to England, where he escapes and kills the men who unearthed him from his slumber.THE MUMMY is filled with vivid visuals and brilliant use of bloodshed which still proves startling and effective. Alongside Christopher Lee is Peter Cushing, another leading men of the Hammer films, and both are wonderful here. Yvonne Forneaux provides for a beautiful damsel in distress. The music, which was just recently released on CD, is appropriately gripping. Hammer's brilliant use of color photography makes this a dream to watch. But impatient viewers will not enjoy the gaps between mummy action filled with talk. On another topic, some viewers find the Mummy too athletic, but that is a personal preference. I myself like that the mummy is more athletic than in his other films, yet it is also pretty illogical.THE MUMMY is a great place to start for the beginning of a curious Hammer fan's search. While I would recommend HORROR OF DRACULA over MUMMY, I still think you can't go wrong with this film either. Strongly recommended, even to those who are not horror fans. "},{"Title":"The Mummy","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An archaeological dig unearths the ancient Egyptian burial tomb of High Preistess Princess Ananka. Inside a secret burial chamber is the mummified corpse of Kharis(Christopher Lee)imprisoned for blaspheming the laws of their god in his attempts to bring Ananka back from the dead using the sacred Scroll of Life, because of his devoted love for her. John Banning's(Peter Cushing)father, Stephen(Felix Aylmer)doesn't heed the warnings of Mehemet Bey(George Pastell)regarding the desecration of his Princess' tomb. Stephen, who removes the Scroll of Life from it's place, doesn't realize that in doing so opens the burial chamber door. Making matters even worse, Stephen reads text from the scroll which bring life back to Kharis as he exits his chamber. While Stephen is overcome with hysteria at what he just saw, Mehemet Bey takes command of the scroll and Kharis, vowing to kill the three who entered the sacred tomb of his goddess, removing precious artifacts that belong where they were placed.Returning to England, John's father slowly awakens from his emotional plight while resting in a nursing home, to inform his son of Kharis. Thinking his father still ill, John is concerned but bothered by such a statement. When placed in a padded cell after a frightened outburst, Stephen is attacked and killed by Kharis, ordered by Mehemet Bey, when the mummy intruded through a heavily shielded window. Later, John's uncle is strangled right before his eyes after Kharis explodes through his front door. John realizes that his father wasn't just raving madly, and faces the fact that he's next to die. While his testimony of his uncle's killer being in a comatose state of living death to the police makes him sound loony, John will attempt to face off with Kharis, only to be saved by his wife, Isobel(Yvonne Furneaux)who is the spitting image of Ananka. After the attack, Inspector Mulrooney(Eddie Byrne) will inform John about an Egyptian who lives not too far from the asylum where his father was murdered. Mulrooney tells him of a crate falling into a bottomless bog, carrying relics to the home of this Egyptian, for which John will take it upon himself to meet the man who is indeed Mehemet Bey. Bey will this time follow Kharis to the home of John in one last attempt to fulfill the goal of repairing the honor of his people for the desecration.It was finally cool for me to sit down and check out Hammer's take on the Universal Mummy series. Obviously, being a major Cushing fan, I enjoyed his starring as the archaeologist, with a bum knee he didn't get repaired, having to use his wits to defeat the much stronger undead foe. I was equally pleased with Pastell as Cushing's true foe, Mehemet Bey, who is actually controlling Kharis as a killing device. There's a great scene where John and Bey meet at the Egyptian's English home..John attempts to ruffle Bey's feathers by attacking, in a wonderfully sophisticated manner, his beliefs which will incite his anger leading him to act against his nemesis, exposing his guilt. While the sets and props used for the Egyptian tomb and people look like exactly that(..which, unlike purists, didn't bother me the slightest, understanding Hammer's limited budget), I found Lee(cutting that tall imposing figure as he bursts through doors and windows, strangling smaller victims with ease)as the mummy, swathed in bandages and covered in bog mud, quite effective. Sure Jack Pierce's detailed mummy wraps for Karloff are superior to those in Hammer's film, but Lee still looks quite menacing(..and, a credit to his performance, where we can see only his eyes, he brings extra emotion during the scenes where Kharis sees Isobel, obeying her commands, the presence of love and sadness echoing what he felt as a dashing Egyptian servant so long ago)and his bandages are decent enough. It's a tall order for anyone to match the Pierce design, whether it be werewolf or mummy, so I cut Hammer some slack. As far as the premise for this re-imagining, basically Hammer takes the best elements from Universal's Mummy series, combining them to create this entertaining effort. You have Kharis being controlled by a shadowy Egyptian hiding in secrecy as he orders his weapon of destruction towards unbelievers who dare desecrate the tombs of his people's civilizations. You have John's wife Isobel baring a striking resemblance to Ananka which the archaeologist will use to save himself from harm. You have the Mummy killing members of an archaeological dig with English police baffled as to what kind of fiend could commit such murderous deeds. But, ultimately, the success can be contributed to the big three, Cushing/Lee/Fisher joining forces once again bringing us yet another thrilling horror tale. The film provides a flashback to Ananka's burial and Kharis' fate at trying to resurrect her(..with us getting to see a human Lee in Egyptian garb and face paint)as John reads through his father's notes, speaking about their ways and beliefs. "},{"Title":"Well-Made, Enjoyable, Scary And Fun Classic Hammer Horror Flick Of Egyptian Evil","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1895 a trio of archaeologists find the tomb of Ananka, an ancient Egyptian princess, but one of them sees something which sends him mad with shock. Years later in England, the three are pursued by a mysterious evil force which seems determined to punish them for profaning the sanctity of Ananka's rest ...This is a great straightforward Mummy movie with a simple but engrossing love story at its heart, plenty of creepy scenes and spooky moments, a good cast and an atmosphere rich in Egyptological lore. It's essentially a remake of an old 1940 Universal picture, The Mummy's Hand (which was inspired by the spurious Howard Carter / Tutankhamun curse legend), and is an enjoyable tale of desecration, resurrection and eternal love. Kharis the Mummy is both a figure of dread - the scene where he smashes into the asylum and kills Aylmer is particularly horrible - but also tragic and sympathetic, a puppet with no will of his own, cursed to live forever. The story is a touch laborious, with a lengthy flashback in the middle which interrupts the action, but it's full of intriguing details and handles the scientist/historian vs acolyte/zealot theme very well; the lengthy dialogue scene near the end where Cushing and Pastell circle around each other politely exchanging beliefs filled with hidden meanings is a highlight. Everybody is good in it, but kudos must go to the inimitable Lee, who is both hypnotic as Kharis the priest and terrifying as the bandage-swathed, mud-drenched, living dead monster. Brilliantly made by the classic Hammer Films writer/director team of Jimmy Sangster and Terence Fisher, and a creepy treat from start to finish. This makes a great Mummy double-bill with Hammer's later but equally enjoyable Blood From The Mummy's Tomb. "},{"Title":"Three in a row from Hammer...One more to go!","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Movie Monster Dom's easiest target is given the Prestigious Hammer Production and revived the slumbering Mummy from its Universal Tomb. It's a Trifecta for Hammer following Curse of Frankenstein (1957) and Horror of Dracula (1958). The deserved successes from the beloved Studio would inspire the next obvious reincarnation, Curse of the Werewolf (1962).Fans can argue which Movie is the best, but that is an exercise in futility. They are all Fantastic. We have here another pristine Picture that delights the senses. It looks Great and the Hammer staff deliver another Low-Budget Gem.This one, again, is Costumed and lit with adoring attention to Detail. Lee and Cushing spark once more and Director Fisher's Vision is striking. The Flashback Scenes are a Wonder and the Star, The Mummy, somehow steals the show without speaking a word.Although there were many sequels and forays into other Fun Stuff, with varying results, it is the aforementioned four Movies that was a Grand Slam from our friends across the Pond. "},{"Title":"Anyone for Molly Grady's?","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy may well be the best-looking film Hammer ever produced. The sets are wonderful, the cinematography gorgeous, the colour rich as an artist's pallet. Hammer's behind the scenes crew were truly amazing, making relatively low budget films look like top-whack A pictures for many years.It's Christopher Lee this time who walks away with the acting honours in the title role. He may be a murderous super-fast rampaging killer, but for just about the only time in Mummy movies Kharis is a terrifically sad and emotionally bedraggled creation. Karloff, of course, spent most of his time out of the bandages in the 1932 version. Apart from a flashback, Lee has to get by on using just his eyes and body language. And he is quite brilliant.Peter Cushing is also on hand as John Banning, and the script cleverly gives him a badly healed broken leg in a neat reversal of all those Lon Chaney limping Kharis movies of the forties. While he's holed up in a tent nursing his injury Banning's father and uncle open the newly-found tomb of Princess Ananka, who, it turns, out, has been left a guardian...The movie kicks into gear when the action moves to England 3 years later. George Pastell's Mehemet Bay takes on the high priest of Karnak role this time, guiding the Mummy to England (they never explain in any of these movies how he gets through customs!) and setting him off on a rampage of destruction.The plot, as you can probably guess, is a bit old hat even for 1959 - it's basically the same as all the Universal 1940s Mummy sequels, and at times the pacing is slightly off. But the moment when the Mummy rises from a spectacularly gluey swamp (which earlier the crate transporting him has fallen into) is startling even today.Hammer (or the censor) toned down the gore and violence this time out. Today the movie has a PG rating, and it's the atmosphere and excellent use of colour you'll remember. And if you see my summary line above look out for a truly classic joke involving Michael Ripper's mad-eyed poacher.A fine addition to Hammer Horror, only the uneven pace and slightly bitty script disappoints. "},{"Title":"A First-Rate Hammer Remake!!!","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Curse of Frankenstein director Terence Fisher teamed up again with Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee in the Hammer Films' remake of the Boris Karloff classic The Mummy, but this Warner Brothers release, like all other Hammer horror epics, was lensed in blood-curdling Technicolor. British archaeologists discover the Egyptian tomb of Princess Ananka in 1895. Moments before they enter, a fez-wearing native, Mehemet Bey, warns Stephen Banning and Joseph Whemple that they will pay the consequences for desecrating the burial place if they enter. Naturally, Banning dismisses Bey's warning as a hollow threat and ventures within the tomb. While he is surveying the tomb interior, Banning removes a sacred scroll from a case and reads it aloud. What Banning doesn't realize as he reads it is that the words that he is uttering have awakened a 4000-year old mummy. The sight of this heavily-bandaged individual creates so much anxiety that Banning suffers a nervous breakdown and winds up in a British mental asylum. Banning's crippled son John (Peter Cushing of Horror of Dracula) knows nothing about this incident until three years elapse and they have returned to England. Nevertheless, Bey refuses to let the crime of their tomb robbing to go unpunished, and he brings the mummy, Kharis (Christopher Lee of Curse of Frankenstein), to England with him to exact revenge not only Stephen and John Banning, but also Joseph Whemple. We learn during a flashback narrated by Cushing that Kharis was sealed up in Princess Ananka's tomb because he tried to use the Scroll of Life to bring her corpse back to life. Actually, you can see Ananka's eyelids flutter. The authorities cut out Kharis' tongue so that the Egyptian gods would not have to hear his blasphemous words, and they lock him up in the tomb. Imagine Kharis' surprise when he tries to kill John Banning and the dead, spitting image of Princess Ananka--John's wife Isobel (Yvonne Furneaux of The Master of Ballantrae)--orders him to stop. This Hammer remake of the Universal Pictures' classic is almost as good as the Boris Karloff version. Chiefly, the best thing about the Hammer version is that Kharis appears as the mummy repeatedly as he exacts the revenge that Mehemet Bey has revived him to do. "},{"Title":"From Hammer's Golden Years","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hammer Film's golden years went from the mid 50's through the early 60's. This version of The Mummy was made back then and, in my opinion, is the best version of the revengeful reborn Egyptian high priest story ever made and a very good horror sample too.Terence Fisher, and experienced and talented director of the genre, brings a very simple and at the same time entertaining and enjoyable movie. He keeps the story's interest all along the way and not a minute in excess. The film delivers a sort of sordid atmosphere with not too bright colors and most of the scenes taking place at night. The mummy's make up is excellent for the 50's. Settings are very accurate too as well as the action scenes with the reborn priest doing his job.But what I think really improves the film a lot is its well selected cast. Peter Cushing has always had the virtue to give everything to his characters even those I'm sure he knew perfectly where not believable or even ridiculous; this movie is no exception and much of its credit belongs to Cushing's fine performance as one of the archaeologists the mummy is after. Though Christopher Lee spends most of the picture under heavy make up in the title role, he exhibits his impressive screen presence and somehow manages to reveal some clear emotions in a splendid job too. The rest of the cast is correct and includes Fleix Aylmer and George Pastell probably the real villain of the story as an Egyptian religious extremist (though some of his points of view are most logical and even convincing). Ivonne Fourneaux adds the feminine presence in a role of importance and she is also good.I'm completely aware of the film's aging, but it still remains as a most enjoyable -if not scary- product in its kind. "}{"Title":"Hammer takes a stab at another Hollywood Legend.","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In Egypt in the late 19th century a group of English archaeologists discover the tomb of a princess, and one of them awakens a mummy who guards over her. From that incident, one of the man goes crazy claiming he had awaken a mummy, but as it is no one believes him. So the expedition packs up their find and takes it back England. Although, a Egyptian who wants to exact revenge on those her disturbed the princess's tomb, brings the mummy to England to knock off the remaining archaeologists.Typical, but impressive Hammer. They give us an interesting reworking of the Mummy legend and for me it truly matches the '1932' Universal film. What lifts the film is its classy leads who both have a strong screen presence and exceptional direction by Terence Fisher. Sure it's a fairly low-budget film, but that didn't take away from it, actually it was more expansive than it probably should have been. With the likes of Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee, who was rather relentless and grand in appearance as the Mummy/Kharis, they make a film like this watchable, but also add a touch of professionalism. While, the supporting cast was rather solid and did a perfect job. But then again this was the Cushing and Lee show, uh&#133; you probably have to lean more towards Cushing, as it seemed to centre more on his character John Banning, but really the scenes with Lee's Mummy were the highlights for me.The plot seemed to lean more on the revenge process of the mummy knocking off the archaeology team, than really sticking to the tragic love story that flowed in '1932' film. So this one took a different perspective, which was fine by me. There's even some good social points mentioned about the western world's hypocritical views on disturbing the holy places of the dead. Maybe there was too much talk and it was incredibly slow to get going, but the speed picks up for a wallop of a finale. This is when most of the action occurs, with most of the mayhem being kept to a minimum, until then. We even get an extended narrated flashback by Cushing to Egyptian times which explained the legend of Kharis. Although, the slow plodding nature of the film wasn't particularly dull, but rather interesting in building up the story and tension, which was a relief. The direction had exceptional flair in its Gothic state and staging some fairly inventive sequences that stick in your head. In a refreshing change, even the violence wasn't cheaply done, nor relied on buckets of red blood. Plus what we all come to expect from a Hammer film, but a drowning score that packs oomph. What can I say, but simply a well executed feature.Memorably gratifying horror from Hammer Studios and by far my favourite Hammer film. "},{"Title":"truly a classic","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Over christmas I was reading a DVD review magazine and amongst them was a collection of 3 classic Hammer Horror films, Dracula, Curse of Frankenstein and finally The Mummy.  having recently been in a stage version of Dracula I wanted to see the first one with Christopher Lee in, as in the later efforts he was visibly bored with the role.After seeing the remake with Brendan Fraser and co. (and enjoying it) I thought I'd watch the Mummy here.  I didn't regret it, this one is incredible.  It didn't need any clever effects in it.  It showed great levels of subtlety in the horror (as was later used in Jaws) and although obviously misses some of the scare factor it originally had.This film just blew me away, it wasn't the best of the group, but with competition like that it's understandable.  Some great acting by Lee, both verbal and mime.  Truly a great film, if only a little under-rated.9/10 "},{"Title":"Hammer collector","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I think this movie is the best Mummy even the latest mummy with Brendan Fraser, Peter Cushing's work is terrific, the environment in the movie is perfect, Christopher Lee is great in the mummy's role.  Definitely this dvd is perfect to start a horror collection. "},{"Title":"Excellent Mummy film","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you think most Mummy films are dull and slow, I encourage you to check this movie out. Hammer Studios once again delivers a stylish looking, well written and adventurous film. This movie succeeds in keeping your attention, where other Mummies would put you to sleep. Peter Cushing is superb as Banning and Christopher Lee does an excellent job as Kharis. Great sets and background score. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Hammer rules the horror world !!","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Peter Cushing...Christopher Lee... Terence Fisher to direct...Hammer to produce. Voilà, this already should be enough reasons to WATCH THIS FILM !!! A few years ago, the concept of a mummy became very popular thanks to the rather decent films by Stephen Sommers starring Brendan Fraser. Call me old-fashioned but I prefer this more magical version from the golden age of horror ( 50's - 60's ) And I do mean magical cause you don't actually have to be a horror buff to enjoy this movie. My sister, for example, hates the genre but she loves the mythes of the ancient Egypt. So she loved the movie as well. It's really accessible to all kind of people. The famous archaeologist Stephen Banning and his son are on an expedition in Egypt and they discover the grave of a high female priest. They open the grave but do not realize that by doing this, they've awoke the powerful guard of hers, Kharis. ( the almighty CHRISTOPER LEE ) Back in England, a true believer of the Egyptian beliefs has came to look for the archaeologists to avenge the soul of the priest. He brought Kharis with him who answers to his commands. Kharis kills Stephen Banning and his assistant and now goes after the son, John ( the also almighty PETER CUSHING ) His only rescue can be his wife, Isobelle. She seems to have great impact on Kharis.... I've said it before, a great movie !!! The atmosphere hanging around you will stay in your head long time after you saw it. All things about this film are very memorable so it's hard to pick out a few. I'll just end by stating again that you should SEE this film. whether you're a horror fan, a classic fan or just an admirer of good films...you'll all have a great time. My humble opinion  8/10 Stephen Banning and his assistant "},{"Title":"Cheesy Awesome Hammer Goodness!!!","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I wanted to watch the TCM Christopher Lee Hammer horror marathon they were having in honor of Christopher Lee recently passing away. I've always been curious about these films, and figured it would be the best time to watch them. I first started off with 'The Mummy' I have really only seen Brendan Fraser's 1999 Mummy film. I've been meaning to watch the 1932 film, so I watched this without really comparing it to anything. The movie had a great look, cinematography, great sets, and awesome makeup for the mummy. In 1895, some archaeologists dig up the tomb of Princess Ananka, the high priestess of the god Karnak. Angered that they have desecrated the tomb, an Egyptian reads from the Scroll of Life and awakens Kharis, an imprisoned mummy who protects the tomb. Three years later, the mummy is again resurrected to get his deadly revenge against those who entered the forbidden tomb. It's great cheesy fun and right to the point. It's old school horror at its finest. I would recommend THE MUMMY!!! "},{"Title":"Excellent Hammer horror","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Anything that stars Peter Cushing, Christopher Lee and with them together, plus with Terrence Fisher as director always promises a lot, and The Mummy sure doesn't disappoint. I do agree that the flashback is too talky and goes on for too long, otherwise The Mummy is excellent, for a Hammer film(one of their best in my opinion along with 1958's Dracula) and as a film in general. And from personal view it, although the Boris Karloff film from Universal is great and the 1999 film was enjoyable, is the best of The Mummy films.It looks great for starters. It may have been low-budget and done on studio sets but they don't show, the film is shot absolutely beautifully and the colours used are sumptuous but also eerie, the sets are handsome and much is done to make the film as atmospheric as possible like with the foggy grounds. The music score is wonderfully ominous and fits the mood perfectly while never being too obvious and although wordy the script is intelligent and fun with padding thankfully kept at minimum, the flashback excepted. The story is paced well on the whole and is nothing short of enthralling, it doesn't feel too long, it doesn't feel like it's over stretching itself and it doesn't try to do too much. Even better is the atmosphere created, the film is beautifully moody, but the scares that any scene with the Mummy creates makes one's hairs stand up on the back of their necks even from a young adult perspective.Peter Cushing plays his mild-mannered role with marvellous crispness, Yvonne Furneaux is beauty personified and George Pastell is a cool villain without falling into cartoon territory(for a character that was in danger of doing so). But Christopher Lee walks away with the film, he oozes with imposing authority as the high priest and is just terrifying as the Mummy, even the look of him freaks you out, a brilliant performance that ranks among his best in a Hammer horror. Terrence Fisher directs adroitly. To conclude, an excellent Hammer horror that has Lee as the main selling point. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The Mummy's Revival; or, Why Kharis Couldn't Care Less","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Another enjoyable foray by Hammer into horror, getting round to updating the Universal Mummy series which Abbott & Costello had only finally concluded four years prior to this one. Maybe finally interred would be truer though, the journey from Karloff's classic in 1932 to 1955 was all downward. With this the franchise was given a new lease of life, reanimated and reactivated.Victorian archaeological dig in Egypt opens up an untouched ancient tomb and its can of worms, in the shape of an ancient mummy buried with the ancient Princess he fancied. Along with uncle Raymond Huntley, Felix Aylmer and Peter Cushing play the rather demonstrative father and son scientists responsible for the desecration of the tomb all of whom the rather energetic mummy Christopher Lee is programmed to kill. For saying the mummy was speechless, motionless and presumably thinking the way of the transgressor was hard for two thousand years he looked as if he was ready to cut a rug with gusto. But he'd had the means to learn English in that cupboard because he reacted badly - and with some vim - to Aylmer bringing him back to life in English which is how all the modern trouble began. Hammer reprised Universal's interminable idea to show a flashback explanation of how the ancient trouble had begun, except it was taken far more leisurely with Hammer; like we'd got all night. Michael Ripper was especially twitchy in this one. The modern English are shown to be natural desecrators of human tombs but Johnny Foreigner and their ancestors are as usual shown to be natural desecrators of human lives. There's nice economy scale production values with an atmospheric use of colour and brooding ancient Egyptian music to go with the mainly convincing serious acting and dialogue; and no cgi cartoonery taking it all over.It's an excellent and engrossing fantasy for all kinds of reasons and I thoroughly enjoyed it yet again (maybe the tenth time now) and recommend it - although for perspective I better own up and state here I preferred the Karloff original and thought the four sequels to it pretty good too while Fraser's sterile updatings were all watchable but far too mechanical. "},{"Title":"Excellent entry to the series","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Returning home from an expedition, a rash of strange deaths points to a revived mummy brought back to avenge the team's entrance to a sacred Egyptian tomb and must try to stop its' controller from finishing the rampage.This is one of the better entries in the genre with a lot to like. One of its better features is that there's a lot of screen-time given to the mummy itself which prompts a lot of good parts along the way. Besides the fact that we get to really feel for it's dangerous actions as well as the spectacular make-up for the being, there's some really well-done action scenes that are rather enjoyable. The initial attack at the nursing home, as the mummy breaks into the room of one of his victims who has seen him coming and is desperately trying to get away only for a savage assault before the inevitable happens, the back-story fill-on flashback on the father where we see the creature coming to life in grand fashion as well as the first assault in the study where it sneaks up on the victim who's completely unaware of it's existence and then starts a vicious brawl before being distracted by the wife each provide this with rather enjoyable moments that keep this going along nicely. The nursing home sequence gives it a sense of ruthlessness, there's a great nod to the history of the culture by showing what really happened on the trip and the several attacks in the study not only give this a pretty rousing series of attacks but also display the kind of emotion and heart which is required for these kinds of stories as, despite being caked in layers of muddy bandages, his frame and body language combine into one perfect image. As well, the extended and prolonged mummification flashback here is simply marvelous, far more detailed in here than in the original version as well as a little more bearable in that it has new ideas in it that helps separate this one as being not just another remake and gives this a different identity. As well, the set design is perhaps the best part of the film, as is the case with so many of the mummy films simply because of what has to be done to the set to make it believable. You would have to create artifacts, sculptures, tools, paintings, and other sort of details in the tomb, and what's seen here in the detail and design as being the most striking part of the film. While this one does tend to revert too often to the clichés of the franchise and never really does anything too original in that regard, far too much here overcomes that.Today's Rating/PG Mostly off-screen Violence and implied Nudity. "},{"Title":"Hammer Does It Again","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ignoring warnings, a team of British archaeologists open the tomb of Egyptian Princess Ananka and set loose the mummy Kharis (Christopher Lee). Several years later back in England, Kharis is killing off the expedition leaders. When he comes for archaeologist John Banning (Peter Cushing), Kharis sees that Banning's wife Isobel (Yvonne Furneaux) bears a striking resemblance to his lost love Ananka. Another classic Hammer updating of one of Universal's famous monsters. This is not a remake of the 1932 Mummy film, but rather based on the 1940s series of Mummy films featuring Kharis. As with those films, the emphasis is on a mummy who is controlled into going after these tomb raiders and killing them. The best of Hammer is here with Cushing, Lee, director Terence Fisher, and screenwriter Jimmy Sangster. Just a fun horror movie with no pretensions at being anything other than entertaining. "}{"Title":"Superb Hammer Remake","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Terence Fisher directed this superb Hammer Studios remake of the classic Universal Studios film with Boris Karloff. Here, an archaeological team led by Stephen Banning(played by Felix Aylmer) discover the tomb of Princess Ananka, but also accidentally revive the mummy of Kharis(played by Christopher Lee) driving Stephen into a catatonic state. Three years later, an Egyptian high priest(played by George Pastel) brings Kharis to England to avenge the tomb desecration, first by killing Stephen, then by going after his son John(played by Peter Cushing) who was also present at the dig. However, his wife Isobel(played by Yvonne Furneaux) is the spitting image of Ananka reincarnated... Fine cast, direction, score, and script all combine to make this one of the best remakes ever made. "},{"Title":"really  good","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" the story, the performance, the atmosphere. all at high level. a classic horror who preserves the virtues of genre and who can be brilliant model for theme. it is more than an old movie but a lesson about exploration of a subject with precision and delicacy. archaeologists, discovery of a tomb, error and revenge. and interesting manner to do force to a lot of nuances. a film who can impress or seduce. not only for the clear story - that is a basic point - but for the manner to create terror. and for the tools, far to be extraordinary, to give sense to a well known subject. a story like many others. but a little wise, perfect refuge behind the wave of contemporary adaptation of a special theme. "},{"Title":"I've seen the likes tonight that mortal eyes shouldn't look at.","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The team of Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee are responsible for some of the best horror films put out by Hammer Horror, and this film is no exception. One thing you will notice right away is the crisp color; amazing for a film in 1959.Who was better at Imhotep Boris Karloff (1932), Christoper Lee here, or Arnold Vosloo (1999). I'll leave that to you, but say that Christopher Lee was fantastic here. I do not know how accurate the pomp and ceremony was that accompanied the Princess' burial, but it was impressive, and something I have not seen in any other mummy movie.Of course, Isabel (Yvonne Furneaux) plays a crucial role in the story, as one would expect.Great movie. "},{"Title":"Can't Hide from this Mummy","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although this Hammer film combines Universal's The Mummy's Hand and The Mummy's Tomb it surpasses them by making the mummy a true menace. Universal's mummy in the 1940's was so slow its victims had to trap themselves in a corner and wait to be killed. Here, one victim sees the mummy crash through the door only to have it on him before he has time move. The acting is excellent throughout the film. The only fault is in the rather dull flashback, which just goes on way too long. There are two things for the nitpickers out there - first, John refers to the mummy killing my father and his brother, yet the credits list the names as Stephen Banning and Joseph Whemple. Finally, at the end Isobel orders Kharis to put her down, but how is it a 4000 year old Egyptian mummy is able to understand a command given to him in English, a language which didn't exist in his time? Somehow, oddities like that just add to the fun of watching. "},{"Title":"You've been around to Molly Grady's again....","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1895, a team of archaeologists uncover the tomb of Princess Ananka, an Egyptian high priestess. They are warned not to disturb the tomb but in doing so, inadvertently bring to life the mummy of Kharis, the high priest who loved the Princess. While in the tomb alone, something happens to frighten the leader of the expedition. Three years later an Egyptian transports the mummy to England to seek revenge against those who desecrated the Princess' tomb.Another camp Hammer movie, and although it has many flaws, its very scary in parts, and tramples all over Stephen Sommers effects mess.Cushing and Lee prove they are a force to be reckoned with when it comes to tally ho British horror, and though Lee looks like a New Romantic in hi human form, it's his titular character that really shocks on screen.It's probably the best incarnation of the Mummy legend, more exciting than the 1999 version, and just the right side of camp to better the Karloff version. "},{"Title":"This desecration shall be avenged!","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE MUMMY (1959). An awful lotta people seem to think this was a remake of THE MUMMY (1932), but it's not! It's more like a combined remake of THE MUMMY'S HAND, THE MUMMY'S TOMB and THE MUMMY'S GHOST, all in one! Instead of a Dracula-like guy who comes back from the dead seeking the reincarnation of his lost love, it's more the religious fanatic controlling an indestructible killer to avenge the desecration of the tomb. Watching the Universal Kharis movies, it hit me they were probably the real inspiration for Michael Myers-- the guy never talks, and you can't stop him! Peter Cushing is great as always, and Christopher Lee gets a lot of dialogue-- in the flashback scene-- then, later, despite the heavy make-up, you can really see his face & expressions in head-on shots, and lots of emotion & sadness when he noticed that Cushing's wife is the exact image of his lost love (but no hint of actual reincarnation here). So cool when the guy bursts thru glass doors and gets shot or run thru and it doesn't even slow him down. I also got a charge when Cushing deliberately defied the advice of the detective and visited the Egyptian-- and after a bit of friendly chat, started deliberately provoking him by saying those who believed in this ancient religion weren't of very high intelligence... (I kept saying OH MY GOD!!!, just knowing he was trying to set the guy off.) What a fun horror movie! George Pastell as the Egyptian played a vaguely similar role (though in fact a much more malevolent one) in the DOCTOR WHO story Tomb Of The Cybermen which was a sort-of sci-fi take off on this. Despite being the villain here, he's kind of sympathetic. I mean, never mind the original desecration-- when those guys decided to re-seal the tomb-- and used high explosives to do it (!!!) I was flabbergasted! I mean, WHAT kind of archeologists would EVER do such a thing? It's like, they were just asking for it! Although Hammer did 3 more Mummy movies, none were sequels to this-- or, in any way connected with each other. But then, the Universal Kharis films had no real connection with the Im-Ho-Tep film, either. Strange business... "},{"Title":"Wrapping Good Fun!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Terrence Fisher began recreating the great Universal horror films for Hammer studios with The Curse of Frankenstein and the Horror of Dracula.  His next task was to take on the challenge of the Mummy...a challenge he took on and did well with.  Fisher's Mummy differs greatly from the Universal mummy both in style and story.  Whereas the Universal film is very suggestive and almost hypnotic, Hammer's Mummy is more of an adventure film.  It certainly is a great deal more lively.  The story this time around opens with some British archaeologists opening a tomb they have been warned not to open.  Three men are responsible for opening the tomb and each is cursed.  Peter Cushing plays the youngest of the three men being avenged by the mummy for their desecration.  Cushing is as always marvelous in his role.  Christopher Lee plays the mummy and does a great job both as the bandaged creature and as the priest in the expository sequence about why he was bandaged.  The rest of the cast is also quite good with George Pastell as Mehemet Bey turning in a real nice performance as the high priest who controls the mummy.  In fact, the scene between Pastell's character and Cushing at his home is a highlight for me.  Wonderful, lush cinematography, sets, and typical Hammer style make this fine entertainment. "},{"Title":"Classic Hammer Horror","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Mummy was one of several teamings of Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee during the late 50s and early 60s. It is one of their best. Essentially a remake of the 1932 Karloff classic, this version differs in that the Mummy remains bandaged throughout.Lee plays the title character that will scare the yell out of you. Cushing is one of his intended victims.Director Fisher,years before Steven Spielberg employed the same technique in, Jaws(1975), builds the suspense by not actually showing the mummy until well into the picture. We know that he is out there and will be coming after those who violated his princess' tomb, but we do not see him. Who can ever forget when the mummy does appear, his ripping off of the bars and protective screening and breaking through the window to attack his helpless victim.A classic horror film from the folks at Hammer.If you liked this and the 1932 original, avoid the 1999 remake. "},{"Title":"Much better than you'd expect","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So let's face it - it definitely is an old movie. But it all depends on the way you watch it, you either respect and understand the fact that it's 45 years old and you try to see it as if you lived then or you just frown and smirk at every bad (read-old) effect and acting & storytelling.This one was actually quite a surprise for me. First, it was in color which I didn't expect at all, second, it had all the true spirit of the mummy franchise so to speak, and it had Christopher Lee who's acting abilities just over shone everyone else's attempts. He was the true star and protagonist, making the pathway to acting as we know it today. The movie altogether looked like it cost a penny or two back then and it was just nice to see one of the first mummy movies ever made I guess, it had all the elements the newer ones only copied. Recommend to anyone who likes old movies "},{"Title":"NOT A Remake of the Universal's The Mummy","Date":"11 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A pretty good mummy movie about John Banning (Peter Cushing) and Kharis (Christopher Lee) - fun to watch.This is NOT a remake of Universal's The Mummy 1932 with Boris Karloff. Karloff's mummy was Imhotep NOT Kharis. There was bits and pieces of this film that were reminiscent of the Karloff classic but NOT a remake of it. This film is NOT a remake of Universal's Mummy Kharis series either. Tom Tyler played Kharis in The Mummy's Hand followed by Lon Chaney Jr. in 3 of the Universal Mummy films (Tomb, Ghost, Curse). The film is almost a mixture of all of the Universal mummy movie stories rolled into one - not exactly but almost.I would have rated this one higher if the ending made more since. John Banning shot Kharis in shoulder and looked like close to the stomach but the mummy Kharis survived. The ending Kharis was shot and went down in swampy waters. I'm guessing Banning didn't hit a vital organ but the other shooters at the end did hit a vital organ. Also the movie ended abruptly - seems like just a bit more at the end with John Banning and the other guys summing things up would have really been nice.7/10 "}{"Title":"He who robs the graves of Egypt dies.","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With a recent spate of Hammer Horror Films under my belt, (Dracula Prince of Darkness, Frankenstein Created Woman, Frankenstein Must Be Destroyed) I'm quickly becoming a fan of the British studio, but maybe not for all the expected reasons. For starters, a lot of the sets they use are very brightly lit and display richly saturated colors that don't particularly lend themselves to a horror venue. This intrigues me a lot, but sometimes this works against the story as in the flashback funeral sequence of Princess Ananka. Every prop used in that scene looks like it was brand new, in other words, made specifically for the movie thus making it look out of place and time.Additionally, with the stories generally taking place during Victorian times, the homes on display contain furnishings of elegant refinement and sophistication such as we see here in both the Banning home and that of his neighbor Mehemet Bey (George Pastell). In my case, this sometimes proves to be a distraction because I'm busy admiring the pictures hanging on a wall or gazing at a well stocked library book case, thereby losing concentration on the main story. Thankfully we have pause and rewind buttons which I use quite freely for films like this.With this version of The Mummy, I'm having the same reaction to a casting decision made by the studio as I had with the Mummy sequels from Universal. Of course you wanted Christopher Lee in the lineup for his appeal as a draw for your picture, but just as with Lon Chaney under wraps in his appearances for Universal, did it ultimately make any difference knowing who the bandaged one was? You could have anyone disguised as The Mummy performing the same stilted walk and no one would have been any the wiser. On the flip side however, Lee's eyes as The Mummy were quite expressive for each situation he found himself in, so maybe there's something to be said for his inclusion in this project.While watching I think I picked up on a couple of goofs in story continuity. When John Banning (Peter Cushing) relates the story of Ananka to Police Inspector Mulrooney (Eddie Byrne ), he states that she died four thousand years ago. However in the depiction of her burial scene I mentioned earlier, it was stated that it took place two thousand years ago. Also, in an early scene of the British pub in the story, the camera reveals that it's The Gardener Arms Pub, but later on in the story, Inspector Mulrooney called it The Red Lion. "},{"Title":"Best Left for Dead","Date":"28 October 2015","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Hammer horror films of the '50's - '70's hold a special place in the hearts of those who love the classic genre, but the reality is that they truly are outdone by the original Universal Pictures predecessors in every way.With this version of The Mummy (1959) we are treated to a re-imagining of the story of the eerie, and macabre love story of an ancient Egyptian priest who will sacrifice everything for the forbidden woman of his desires, ultimately becoming the undead creature that is the (movie) Mummy. As it happens, it is a fairly mundane and hackneyed plot that has seen itself used many times before and since with one monster or another transposed in the lead villain role. This is the just first sign of a studio looking for a quick buck, in my opinion.Where the film succeeds is in the wonderful sets and vibrant, Technicolor film process. Artifacts from ancient Egypt look real, the swamps dank and dreary, the interiors and costuming are wonderful with everything popping for the eye of the beholder. Unfortunately the same cannot be said for the main character's performance or physical image.Christopher Lee's portrayal of the Mummy flat out stinks. It's nice to know that by the time he was making films with Lucas, Burton and Jackson he had attained that level of consummate and revered acting, but he certainly did not have it here. Putting aside the fact that he had several mishaps and accidents on the set of this film which supposedly impeded his performance I don't buy that that is what you are seeing in this film; he was hired for his menacing height and little else. His movements come off not only as awkward but laughable at times, his make-up leaves almost no room for emoting and even his eyes seem to emit little of the inner turmoil he is supposed to be going through. (Yes, he has to be somewhat stiff and undead but let's be honest here, really.) This is the director's fault; you shoot scenes until you have something believable, not just to get them in the can. Peter Cushing gives his usual, reserved and genuine performance, but the Mummy's role itself is a mess.The worst part of the whole thing is that the Mummy costume and make-up are just terrible. Whereas the make-up used on Boris Karloff in the original The Mummy (1932) still holds up even by today's standards for authenticity, ghoulishness and wonderment, Christopher Lee's character is given something that looks like a kid smeared a concoction of mud-pie and plaster over his head. The details are negated and lost in rudimentary form. The bandages that should have wrapped his body for 4000 years are quite obviously a dirt-covered body-suit all fitting comfortably into separate legs, torso and arm pieces ---- you can even see a zipper-seam in the back! Preposterous.This version of The Mummy will remain a classic by default, whether for time-won nostalgia or the simple love of the title character amongst the pantheon of old-time movie monsters, in general. Having seen it though, I can't recommend it or re-watch it knowing there have been superior versions both before and since. "},{"Title":"The best of Hammer's Mummy cycle... though periodic longueurs hold it back from being one of their very best.","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When thinking about Hammer films which actually form part of a series, the obvious ones are the Dracula's and the Frankenstein's. There were, of course, other occasions when they made sequential films in their long history, such as the Jurassic classics (their prehistoric series) and the Mummy cycle. Even the most ardent fans of the studio accept that some of the Mummy movies are a little dull, and the main cause of this I feel lies with the 'monster' itself... mummies are just too slow and lumbering to have much shelf life as the bad guys in a whole series of bloodcurdlers. One film, yes, why not? But a whole series? Perhaps not. For me, the best of Hammer's Mummy cycle is the first - The Mummy from 1959, directed by the ever-reliable Terence Fisher, featuring yet another collaboration of the studio's favoured star duo Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee.Egyptologists Stephen Banning (Felix Aylmer), Joseph Whemple (Raymond Huntley) and John Banning (Peter Cushing) discover the long-lost tomb of of the ancient Queen Ananka. Against the dire warnings of Egyptian villain Mehemet Bey (George Pastell), they enter the tomb. Something happens to Stephen inside the tomb which leaves him in a vegetative state, driven out of his mind by some nameless fright. Later, it becomes clear that he was attacked by the still-living mummified figure of Kharis (Christopher Lee), the Queen's high priest and secret lover... and when Mehemet Bey brings the mummy to England to finish off the others who desecrated Ananka's tomb, the scene is set for a final battle to the death.Lee's mummy, a gruesome and unstoppable automaton, is actually a rather interesting monster for this type of film. Powerful and frightening, yet strangely pitiable, it's a testament to his acting that he creates empathy from beneath so many layers of make-up. Cushing is good value too as the gammy-legged scholar trying to defeat he creature. What hurts The Mummy somewhat is the rather long-winded set-up, involving heavy-going and repetitive recap sequences narrated by Cushing. At its best colourful and exciting, at its worst dull and long-winded, The Mummy is a decent enough genre picture but not really top-tier stuff from the folks at Hammer. "},{"Title":"All bandaged up","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The boxer Muhammed Ali in the build up to his fight and afterwards once compared George Foreman to the The Mummy. He did not have in mind Christopher's Lee lithe athletic performance as the Mummy a world away from Boris Karloff's lumbering monster.Hammer's remake of the Mummy might be low budget which you can tell from the studio bound shots supposedly set in Egypt but comes across more of a mystery adventure film than horror. Its also has a wonderful set production, art direction and is in glorious colour.A team of British archaeologists have been cursed for desecrating a tomb of a princess which they have been warned not to disturb. Two have died. Peter Cushing plays the last of the three men being pursued by a mysterious Egyptian and the Mummy he has brought over.The film might feel a little slow here and there, it has some lapses of logic, not actually scary but it was at the time a refreshingly different adaptation of the Mummy legend. "},{"Title":"All bandaged up","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The boxer Muhammed Ali in the build up to his fight and afterwards once compared George Foreman to the The Mummy. He did not have in mind Christopher's Lee lithe athletic performance as the Mummy a world away from Boris Karloff's lumbering monster.Hammer's remake of the Mummy might be low budget which you can tell from the studio bound shots supposedly set in Egypt but comes across more of a mystery adventure film than horror. Its also has a wonderful set production, art direction and is in glorious colour.A team of British archaeologists have been cursed for desecrating a tomb of a princess which they have been warned not to disturb. Two have died. Peter Cushing plays the last of the three men being pursued by a mysterious Egyptian and the Mummy he has brought over.The film might feel a little slow here and there, it has some lapses of logic, not actually scary but it was at the time a refreshingly different adaptation of the Mummy legend. "},{"Title":"Decent Hammer film","Date":"7 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I wouldn't call The Mummy one of Hammer's BEST movies, but I was reasonably entertained by the end results. Despite its flaws (which I'll get to shortly), the movie has enough merit to make it worth a look. The cast does a professional job, particularly Christopher Lee in a challenging title role where he does not utter a word. The mummy attack sequences are well executed, and the makeup job on Lee is very well done as well. Most importantly, the movie is never boring.However, there are some significant flaws that prevent the movie from reaching classic horror (Hammer or otherwise) status. Some parts of the movie come across as dated in this day and age, like the unconvincing indoor sets depicting various parts of the Egyptian desert countryside. The main problems come with the script. There are a few noticeable plot holes (How did the villain get into the tomb when the hero's father was in it? Why did the mummy not kill the Cushing character the first time it visited the hero's home?), and while I said that the movie never gets boring, there is some obvious padding here and there (like with some flashbacks). The movie could have also used a few more mummy attacks, and the swamp climax is resolved in a somewhat abrupt manner.The movie is still worth seeing despite these flaws. Just don't have your expectations too high and think you are going to see a Hammer horror classic. "},{"Title":"Stage-Bound Yet Gothic Version of the Famous Tale","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Produced during the halcyon days of Hammer Films, with the customary duo of Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee in leading roles, Terence Fisher's film offers an interesting perspective on the story's colonial elements. By uncovering the untouched tomb of Princess Ananka Stephen Banning (Felix Aylmer) has in a sense desecrated the past and deserves to be punished for it. In a sense the Egyptian Mehemet Bey (George Pastell( has a point what right do British archaeologists have to come to Egypt and raid a tomb, just so that they can take the artifacts back to their country of origin on the pretext of wanting to learn something about the past? Mehemet has a dialog with Stephen's son John (Peter Cushing) on this very subject; John tries to justify his work, but cannot really understand the depth of Mehemet's religious belief.Having said that, Terence Fisher's film is not without its strong colonialist elements. In the studio-bound sequences at the beginning, ostensibly set in Egypt, the locals are represented as slaves and/or coolies simply serving the interests of Banning, his associate Joseph Whemple (Raymond Huntley) and John. They carry the coffins, lay the explosives to blow up the tombs, and carry out the Europeans' wishes without question. There is also the issue of mimicking Lee has a largely silent role as the Egyptian mummy, save for a flashback scene set in the past where his enduring love for Princess Ananka (Yvonne Furneaux) is revealed.Shot in lurid color, this version of THE MUMMY emphasizes the story's Gothic elements. There are numerous sequences set in the wilderness outside Banning's house, where Mehemet and the Mummy come in pursuit of their victims. The final sequence is straight out of James Whale's FRANKENSTEIN, as the Mummy carries off John's wife Isobel (Furneaux) who bears more than a passing resemblance to the Princess. And there are also two swamp sequences that suggest quite literally that the protagonists are consigned to oblivion - a dark and sludge-like state that houses the living dead.As with all Hammer films, the story unfolds at a brisk pace, with plenty of time allowed for cameos from many of the studio's favorite repertory of performers - Michael Ripper, George Woodbridge. The stately home that served as the studio's offices also serves as the main setting for much of the drama. Little attempt is made to disguise the staginess of the film - especially at the beginning - but there are more than a few shocks to compensate. "},{"Title":"Hammering in the Point...","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In a way, I'm almost glad that that misbegotten piece of celluloid otherwise known as the Mummy remake (which, if there is any justice in the universe, will one day be chopped into mandolin picks, never to be heard from again). It lead me to the original Universal classic of the same name and to Hammer's version of the tale. The imbeciles who made the 1999 effort would have done well to study this early Hammer classic. It doesn't truly scarify (at least, it didn't me), but it is a taut, interesting story. Nothing very original in terms of the standard revenge motif, but it's never dull. The players who hold things together, as they would in many Hammer films to come, are Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee...though I would argue that Lee makes the better impression. As Kharis, Lee is extremely watchable, whether bellowing out the Egyptian version of last rites (it would be interesting to know if the screenwriters used actual Egyptology to give the film a feel of authenticity) or silently bowing his head to the woman he believes is his lost love. This may be the only Hammer film that utilized both his oh-so-distinct voice (used to great effect as Count Dracula or, to cite a more recent example, the Burgomeister in Sleepy Hollow)and underacknowledged gift at mime (which was only used on one other Hammer film, The Curse of Frankenstein). Cushing is believable as the last male of the family trying to stay alive, but not very interesting. It feels a bit like a prototype for his later work in the Dracula series as Van Helsing. Maybe I being a little too hard on him; who knows?While not the equal of the original Universal, it is a film that is more worthy of your hard-earned bucks than other versions of this tale.  "},{"Title":"an excellent mummy film--about on-par with many of the Universal mummy flicks","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In many ways, this film reminds me of the Universal Mummy films of the 1940s. It really can't be compared to the Boris Karloff film of 1932, as this is THE best of the genre to date. Instead, it is more reminiscent of the 1940s Universal Mummy movies with only a few differences--the primary one being that this was not a black & white film. The pacing, special effects and story line itself is what make it a very close copy of these earlier films--plus, the creature dies the same way in this film as it did in the swamps of the Southern US like it did in one of the Universal film. And, while this means that new ground isn't broken in THE MUMMY (1959), it certainly won't offend fans of the older films and is sure to entertain. While it isn't an Earth-shattering film, for old-fashioned horror films it is excellent. "},{"Title":"old fashion B-horror","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is 1895. British archaeologists John Banning (Peter Cushing), his father and his uncle discover the tomb of Princess Ananka. John stays in his tent after injuring his leg. Egyptian Mehemet Bey warns them not to go in. Once inside, his father finds the Scroll of Life, reads from it and gets struck down in a catatonic state. Mehemet is able to steal the Scroll. Three years later back in London, his father revives to tell John that the mummified high priest of Karnak, Kharis (Christopher Lee), was reanimated. John doesn't believe him and then Mehemet unleashes the mummy on his father using the Scroll.This is B-horror done relatively well, which means that this is still a minor bore. The dialog and the staging is stiff but the acting is better than most. It's helped by some good British actors starting with Cushing. The mummy emergence from the mud is a good idea. He looks much better dirty and muddy. The kills are done off screen. It's still the old way but it's done well. "}{"Title":"The new, but not improved Mummy.","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My favorite Gothic horror film has always and forever will be the original Boris Karloff film The Mummy that Universal did back in the early Thirties. For me it is almost sacrilege that British Hammer would attempt to remake the film with Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee. Even these two talented gentlemen don't come close to what Karloff and the rest of the cast did not only creating a horror film, but a film of almost unyielding sadness.Some aspects of the Karloff classic are retained, but Hammer also used material from the later Mummy films that Universal did. Cushing plays the son of the archaeologist who discovered the previously hidden tomb of an Egyptian princess, the secret love of a high priest of one of the minor deities. Lee plays the high priest in a flashback sequence and The Mummy during the story set in 1898.Yvonne Furneaux plays the beloved of both Lee in ancient Egypt and Cushing in Victorian Great Britain. If you've seen all the Mummy films you'll recognize the scenes redone.If you're easy to please you'll like this Hammer film. But give me Universal every time. "},{"Title":"Compared to the Original it is Stinko","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Let me start by saying that I LOVE Peter Cushing, Christopher Lee and Hammer films.But, this movie takes a decent story and turns it into a bad-tasting stew of bad effects, bad script and mediocre acting.The film is cheaply shot, on a sound stage. Christopher Lee looks less like a mummy and more like the victim of a car crash or bear mauling. Bandages do not a mummy make. Giving Peter Cushing a gamey leg was a nice touch; but, they really didn't go anywhere with it. The villain had no real magic skills and seemed forever sneaking up on oblivious policemen and stabbing them.The Brits looting a tomb, then BLOWING IT UP, kind of kept me from caring about their well- being in any way.The woman is perhaps a reincarnated priestess or maybe not. She wasn't around for very long and when she was in peril, I hardly cared. They probably panicked early in the film because they tried to make it like Dracula, complete with crazy person yelling out the madhouse window to his master. Very disorienting...If you want a good version of this movie, see the original. Hammer did great with vampires and Frankensteins, but they hit a big zero with the Mummy. "},{"Title":"It delivers.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hammers are the finest purveyors of horror and pulpy movies ever, and this is no exception. I didn't think Chris Lee would suit the part but he did. One thing though, everything looks, well, fuzzy! But this is a film that I will watch again and again. plum. "},{"Title":"A Boy's Best Friend.","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hamer Films hired an Egyptologist to serve on the staff of this one and he did more than just pick up his paycheck. The art department and wardrobe are convincing. More than that, the rituals and mythology of Ancient Egypt are pretty accurate, at least as far as I can tell. The writers knew, for instance, that the body was soaked in a solution of natron, a drying agent that occurs naturally in Egypt. We get our chemical symbol for salt (Na) from the Egyptian name. Without someone having done his homework, the script could just as easily have used embalming fluid or something. The script includes canopic jars, although they're not named, and leaves out the very curious method of extracting the brain from the inside of the skull. But then you get references to the Egyptian pantheon -- Anubis and the rest. The make ups are fine too.But it's not an epic movie. It's all shot in a studio and the story is ripped off from the original The Mummy with Boris Karloff from 1932. Somewhere in between, there was an Abbott and Costello farce built around the same idea.Peter Cushing does a decent job as the threatened Egyptologist whose father dared open the forbidden tomb and read the Script of Life aloud. Cushing was an interesting actor, probably better than most of us think of him as being. He was a gay impresario in Olivier's Hamlet. He suffered greatly at the death of his wife.Christopher Lee, still identifiable under all that dirt and make up, is a much faster mummy than other living mummies. He moves really quickly. He practically skips. And he has the power of ten men.All in all, not a poor effort, if you don't demand too much of it. "},{"Title":"Slow Moving Monster and Movie","Date":"19 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Another night, another mummy movie. This entry was far better than The Curse of the Mummy's Tomb, which I saw the same night.The difficulty with assessing any mummy movie, at least the older ones, is that the creature is not a major threat. He's pretty slow moving. He's the kind of monster you could just run away from.Granted, this mummy is a little faster. He can bend steel bars and take an iron rod through the chest, which are nice touches. But he's still a mummy, who doesn't bother to wander beyond the confines of the neighborhood swamp.The Mummy does have some great sets, save ancient Egypt which looks like it was constructed out of cardboard. The acting is generally excellent. Peter Cushing is a joy to watch. The colors are bold, especially during the swamp climax.I do have to warn viewers that there's not a lot of mummy for your buck. There's a lot of talk. A whole lot. By the time the mummy comes stumbling into the picture, you may already be asleep. "},{"Title":"One of Hammer's lesser horror flicks","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hammer Films' The Mummy was released in 1959 and stars Christopher Lee in the eponymous role stalking an archaeologist, played by Peter Cushing, because he was part of the party that desecrated the Egyptian tomb of his beloved, Ananka.If you're a fan of Hammer's horror line, like I am, you'll naturally want to see (or own) this one, but it's definitely one of their lesser films. On the positive side, Lee is very intimidating as the towering mummy and Cushing always makes for a worthy protagonist. In addition George Pastell is effective as the offended Egyptian and Yvonne Furneaux as Isobel/Ananka is stunning, although they don't do enough with her; in fact, her role is limited to portions of the last act.So what's the problem? For one, the entire first act takes place in Egypt, but it's an indoor set in England and looks like it. Remember those cheesy studio sets of the original Star Trek TV series? The Egyptian sets in this movie aren't much better -- the outside sets, that is; the tomb sets are actually good. Speaking of the tomb sets, how is it that there's proper lighting in a tomb that's been shut for 3000 years? It's never explained. Roll-your-eyes factors like this don't make for good movies. Thankfully, the locations switch to England in the second act.Secondly, there's just too much Egyptian ritual and citation of sacred scrolls. Some of this is understandable, of course, but there's so much in the movie that it feels like it's padded by at least 12 minutes. Lastly, it doesn't make sense that the Egyptian guy is adamant about having the mummy slay Cushing's character because he was laid-up in a tent when the tomb of Ananka was desecrated. He justifies it on the grounds that Cushing was a member of the party that broke into the crypt, but it just doesn't seem like he has a good enough reason to go through all the trouble when Cushing wasn't even near the tomb. Also, why not go after all the workers that helped the team break into the forbidden crypt? Why just go after the white dudes?The film runs 86 minutes and was shot in England.GRADE C "},{"Title":"The Mummy","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I know there is a Boris Karloff original, and of course there was the Brendan Fraser film followed by two sequels, I was interested to see this offering from Hammer (Horror) Studios, directed by Terence Fisher (The Curse of Frankenstein, (Horror of) Dracula, The Hound of the Baskervilles). Basically in Egypt in 1895, archaeologists John Banning (Peter Cushing), his father Stephen (Felix Aylmer) and his uncle Joseph Whemple (Raymond Huntley) are searching for the tomb of Princess Ananka, the high priestess of the god Karnak, John has a broken leg so cannot accompany his father and uncle when the tomb is opened. An Egyptian named Mehemet Bey (George Pastell) warns them not to enter, or face the fatal consequences of the curse against desecrators, they ignore him and discover Ananka's sarcophagus, Joseph leaves to tell John the good news, while Stephen finds and reads from the Scroll of Life, he is heard by the others screaming and is found in a catatonic state. Three years later, in England, Stephen is in Engerfield Nursing Home for the Mentally Disordered and out of his catatonia calls for his son, he tells him that reading the Scroll of Life he unintentionally brought back to life Kharis (Sir Christopher Lee), the mummified high priest of Karnak. In flashback we see that Kharis had a forbidden love with Princess Ananka, and following her death he attempted to use the Scroll of Life to bring her back to life, but he was arrested before being able to complete the reading, he was punished to be mummified and entombed alive to serve forever as the guardian of Princess Ananka's tomb, in the present day Stephen warns his disbelieving son that Kharis will hunt down and kill all who desecrated Anaka's tomb. Mehemet Bey is revealed to be a devoted worshipper of Karnak, he comes to England to wreak revenge on the three archaeologists who disturbed the Egyptian tomb, he hires drunken carters Pat (Harold Goodwin) and Mike (Denis Shaw) to transport the slumbering Kharisin a crate to his rented home, but their drunken driving causes the crate to sink into a bog. Later though Mehemet reads from the Scroll of Life to summon Kharis to rise from the dead and out of the mud, he sends the Mummy to murder Stephen Banning, and the following night the Mummy is sent to murder Joseph Whemple, right before John's eyes, he shoots the walking corpse at close range with a revolver, but to no effect. Police Inspector Mulrooney (Eddie Byrne) is assigned to solve the murders, being skeptical he deals is cold hard facts and does not believe John's story about the killer mummy, even being told he may be Kharis's third victim, while the investigation goes on John notices his wife Isobel (Yvonne Furneaux) bares a striking resemblance to Princess Ananka, meanwhile gathering testimonial evidence from others in the community Mulrooney slowly gathers that the mummy may in fact be real. Mehemet Bey sends the mummy to kill his final victim, but when Isobel rushes into the room to help John, Kharis sees her, releasing John and soon leaves, Mehemet mistakenly thinks the mummy has completed his task and prepares to return to Egypt, John suspects Mehemet of being responsible for the resurrection and controlling of the mummy, and to the Egyptian's surprise he pays him a visit. After John leaves Mehemet Bey sends Kharis for a second attempt to kill him, while Mehemet deals with other police officers guarding the house, Mulrooney is knocked unconscious, Kharis finds John in the study and starts choking him, Isobel runs in to help again, but the mummy only recognises him with her hair down, and he releases John. Mehemet comes in and orders the mummy to kill Isobel, he refuses, Mehemet attempts to murder Isobel himself but Kharis kills him, unconscious Isobel is carried by the mummy to the swamp, John, Mulrooney and other policemen follow, John shouts for Isobel to wake and tell him to put her down, she reluctantly obeys, he moves away and the policemen open fire, the mummy sinks into the ooze, taking the Scroll of Life with him. Also starring Worzel Gummidge's Michael Ripper as Poacher and Willoughby Gray as Dr. Reilly. Cushing is crisp and charming as the archaeologist who goes against the threat from Ancient Egypt, and Lee is creepy both in the flashback pharaoh look and bandaged up and limping around, it is a simple enough story, you can tell the 1999 remake borrowed elements of the same storyline, there are only mildly bloody moments and the good old fashioned talkative scenes, it may not be as great as the other Hammer films, but it is a worthwhile classic horror. Good! "},{"Title":"Stagey but Christopher Lee is the best mummy in Hammer's series.","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the year 2000 BC, the beautiful young princess of Egypt, Ananka (YVONNE FURNEAUX) died while on a pilgrimage to her god Karnak. The high priest Kharis (CHRISTOPHER LEE) was in love with the princess, but the rules set down by their religion meant that it was a forbidden love. However, when Ananka was entombed, Kharis attempted to revive his love using the sacred scroll of life and for this he was sentenced to have his tongue cut from his mouth, mummified alive and then cursed to become the guardian of Ananka's tomb forever more. In 1894, archaeologists Stephen Banning (FELIX AYLMER), his son John (PETER CUSHING) and Joseph Whemple (RAYMOND HUNTLEY) discover the tomb of Ananka while on an expedition in Egypt. As they prepare to enter the tomb, a mysterious Egyptian called Mehemet Bey (GEORGE PASTELL) warns them that whoever robs the graves of Egypt dies. Ignoring his warnings they enter the tomb and Ananka's mummy is removed and put on display in the British museum. However, Stephen suffers a mental breakdown after he discovered the scroll of life. He read the words and brought Kharis back to life. This meant that as soon as he returned to England he was confined to a home for the mentally disordered. Four years later after they have returned to England, Mehemet Bey follows bringing both the mummy of Kharis and the scroll of life with him. Using the scroll, Bey brings Kharis back to life and orders him to murder the three men who desecrated the tomb...Having enjoyed tremendous success with their colour remakes of Frankenstein and Dracula, it was rather inevitable that Hammer would turn their attention to the mysteries of ancient Egypt with this remake of Universal's THE MUMMY'S HAND (1940). The film was successful enough to warrant three sequels. They were CURSE OF THE MUMMY'S TOMB (1964), THE MUMMY'S SHROUD (1967) and BLOOD FROM THE MUMMY'S TOMB (1971). But these more or less ran the same storyline over and over again and as a result their box office appeal rapidly declined. THE MUMMY isn't one of Hammer's best horror films by any means as the sets are more stagy than usual and Jack Asher's photography is so bright that it robs it of any Gothic mood. However, it is still made worthwhile by the intelligent handling of director Terence Fisher who wisely opted to concentrate on Kharis's love for his princess. In the story John Banning's wife Isabelle (also played by YVONNE FURNEAUX) bares an uncanny resemblance to the long dead princess. There is one particularly moving sequence where Kharis is strangling John for his desecration of the tomb. Isabelle rushes in and begs him to stop. Kharis turns and sees the resemblance and this saves her husband's life. Kharis turns and goes to who he thinks is his long lost love and you can see the emotion in the mummy's eyes. Christopher Lee's performance is really amazing as he manages to convey all of his character's emotions such as the love for the princess and the anger for the desecration of her tomb behind all that heavy make-up and bandages where there is only a slit for his eyes. Whereas in all the company's follow-ups, the mummy (not played by Lee) was a totally emotionless creature who just went on a rampaging murder spree as none of the other actors who took on the part could convey that same emotion. Add to that the entire cast all give first rate performances notably Aylmer and Cushing as father and son and George Pastell is suitably restrained in a sinister way as Mehemet Bey the guardian of the tomb. THE MUMMY may not be one of Hammer's classics, but is certainly the best of a franchise that would wear itself out sooner rather than later. "},{"Title":"Mummy movies never has been the best horror movies around.","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For some reason mummy movies never have been the most suspenseful or atmospheric creepy movies around. Not this version, not the 1932 and also most certainly not the 2001 version, for obvious reasons. It's the reason why mummy movies aren't that well known as other genre movies as for instance Frankenstein and vampire movies. This Hammer take on the mummy story is no exception. It's a well made movie but overall a too simple one, that lacks suspense, mystery or even a good main plot line.Like all Hammer movies, this movie is perfectly entertaining and watchable but fails to make a big lasting impression. It's a movie that has its moments, which helps to make sure that this movie is an above average one and because of that an also perfectly watchable one.Real problem I had with this movie was its simple story. Basically this is the main plot line of this movie is the mummy and Mehemet Bey taking revenge on those who opened the grave of the mummy's 4000 year old lover Princess Ananka. This is basically all that happens in this movie. The story is filled with some missed opportunities and bad executed moments. The character of Isobel Banning is completely underused in the movie and they could had used her character to make the movie more interesting and provide it with some more depth, with her relation between John Banning and the mummy. Her character now instead pops up every now and then, without even properly introducing her into the story. With a better story this movie would had definitely been a better one.Still the movie still has plenty enough to offer. All of the scene's with the mummy are a delight. This is mainly thanks to the fact that he is being played by Christopher Lee. He has the perfect body type to play the character. It also is thanks to the convincing and great looking make-up effects. Another great sequences is the gentleman stand-off between John Banning (Peter Cushing) and Mehemet Bey (George Pastell), in which both try to lure each other out, without revealing their true identity and motivations in words. It reminded me of the sequences between Bela Lugosi and Edward Van Sloan in the 1931 Dracula movie.It's thanks to Peter Cushing's acting that this movie doesn't descent to a lower level of cinema. I admit that this is one of his best roles, in terms of his acting. Like I said before, Christoper Lee is also perfectly cast but the rest of the cast is rather disappointing, especially Eddie Byrne as Inspector Mulrooney.The movie is rather good looking and does its very best to build up a suitable atmosphere. Yet due it's simplistic story the atmosphere never really works effective enough.Perhaps best watchable for the Cushing/Lee fans only.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"horrifying film from my childhood hasn't aged well","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Christopher Lee's portrayal of the centuries-dead mummy brought back to life was one of the key reasons this Hammer production scared me so much as a child (long ago, the Turner stations used to play these films regularly on Saturday mornings); but, unfortunately, The Mummy hasn't aged as well as the studio's other productions.  The film unravels at a slow pace, much of the dialogue is nonsensical (but the actors do make it credible), and, for a guy who's been in a tomb for over 4,000 years, the mummy's wrappings look like they were applied yesterday.  The movie does, however, have some intelligent things to say about 'the process of belief,' and Peter Cushing, as usual, is the epitome of class as the archaeologist targeted by the mummy.  As a whole, the film is good, old-fashioned horror entertainment, but also outdated and paced like an Egyptian funeral procession.6/10 "}{"Title":"Worthwhile but lacklustre Hammer","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm going against the majority of views expressed here and not raving about this movie although its certainly better than the 1999 remake.Not one of Hammers best despite good performances by Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee - it never really develops any tension until late on.  Much of the camera work/editing is turgid and the atmosphere nosedives when Cushing/Lee are not onscreen.  The poor indoor 'outdoor' sets also spoiled the atmosphere.  Hammer did a lot better both before and after this one. "},{"Title":"Corny movie with some atmospheric scenes","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am not so satisfied. Personally I thought some of the corny Egyptian stuff fell pretty flat for me. I think Hammer films are more at home when dealing with British style vampire flicks or other thrillers. Not some movie about a mummy. Christopher Lee doesn't have many lines but that is fine. I agree that he is suited for this role because of his height. But the corny Egyptian rituals and the scenes towards the end were a little irritating for me. Again and again, Peter cushing's character is close to death and finally because of some ridiculous likeness, he gets away. It got a little stupid towards the end because of these factors. And how did the mummy die anyway? I thought he couldn't die? He was shot at close range by the protagonist previously. George Pastell as Mehemet was also quite annoying. There are long scenes with rituals and descriptions which we could do without. Sure that is important for the story but the scenes themselves made me cringe. So cheesy. I think maybe my greatest problem was with the concept itself of mummy coming to life or whatever. It may be done better if they had a bigger budget or whatever. There are some atmospheric scenes like the scene when Kharis comes out of the swamp. For that I need to give it credit but overall I was unsatisfied. It didn't bore me though so that is a positive aspect.5/10 "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Mummy, The (1959) ** (out of 4) Incredibly slow moving title creature chases Peter Cushing through the swamps. I hadn't seen this one since I was very young and it was every bit as boring as I remembered. It actually took me four shots to make it through because it kept putting me to sleep. Christopher Lee looks good as the mummy but he doesn't do too much with the role. Cushing is usually wonderful in anything but he's rather mediocre here. The ending packs a nice punch if you can stay awake that long. Beautiful locations and sets though. "},{"Title":"Perfect MST3K Fodder","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Too bad Mystery Science Theatre 3000 isn't around anymore; they'd have a BALL with this. My partner and I caught it the other night on Turner Classic Movies, and we were dubbing in funny dialogue left and right. I love horror movies, I have a healthy respect for Hammer horror, Christopher Lee & Peter Cushing, etc. ... but what can you say about a movie that makes Egypt's Valley of the Kings look like a tropical rainforest, complete with birdsongs? A location shot probably would've been too expensive, but a JUNGLE? Not to mention that audiences in 1959 probably came out of the theaters convinced that Muslims were good for nothing but riding camels and re-animating the dead. I try to keep such films in perspective, but I really had too hard a time taking this one seriously. "}]