[{"Title":"very British, very arch, very enjoyable","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This delightful film's script is a descendant of the sort of archly witty portrayals of British upper-class life that came from the pens of Somerset Maugham and Noel Coward (one of whose songs serves as musical lead-in, and at least one of whose tunes Mad About the Boy - listen for it serves as background music to comment on the action). The atmosphere of this sort of comedy may be a bit foreign to American tastes (the whole topic of infidelity is discussed in such a civilized and gentlemanly fashion among the parties- Stiff Upper Lip and all that -  where Americans would be screaming at each other and going for weaponry) but as a devotee of British drama I enjoyed the movie hugely. It's a stellar cast - everyone shines, right down to Moray Watson in the small but delicious part of the befuddled butler Sellers. Jean Simmons is especially enjoyable in her out-of-character portrayal as the  outspokenly vampish Hattie. Despite opinions below to the contrary, the incomparable Cary Grant fills the part of this down-at-the-heels English Lord like old brandy fills a crystal decanter. The sumptuous setting of the baronial manor and the high production values make the film beautiful to look at, to boot. (The fact that the unfortunate Lord is forced to open his manor to paying visitors to support his lifestyle is based on the historical truth of the confiscatory tax policies imposed on the British hereditary gentry by post-WWII Labor governments; everyone is entitled to their own opinions on these policies, but be assured the film makes no political comment). It does stretch the imagination a tad that Victor could treat the whole issue of his wife's infidelity - going on right in front of his nose - in such a dispassionate manner, but that is a characteristic of this genre. Further, Grant manages to convince us that, beneath his outer imperturability, his wife's disloyalty has pained him deeply and he could not stand to lose her. This is a not-well-known film whose appeal might be a bit specialized, but I think it's a minor gem. And I could not omit mentioning the charming opening credits with their bevy of delightfully cavorting babies.  "},{"Title":"Cast Sparkles","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drawing room comedies seem to be a thing of the past.  Their demise was apparently one reason Cary Grant decided to thin down his late career his kind of parts just weren't being written anymore. By the time this film version of a stage hit came out in 1960, the genre had just about run its course. How fortunate to have four full-fledged stars take on the leading roles.  What is Robert Mitchum doing in an English castle, interacting with upper class royalty?  For one thing, he plays a Texas millionaire--an impressive entree most places.  Then, the rest of the cast are all transported Brits, so long established in America as to be de facto Americans. They can still deliver their clipped English lines, thought, with great flair.(So, now you're a millionare, and I'm growing mushrooms . . . oh well, that's the way the world wags.)Deborah Kerr is bright and vulnerable, Jean Simmons, pert and sophisticated, Robert Mitchum, cool and crafty, and Cary Grant urbane and witty.   It's fun to see this quartet trading double entendres and quaint quips. Stanley Donnen does his best with a stagy script, relying on his experienced cast to carry off the humor and action. It succeeds nicely, and its downright fun to follow their stylish jousts.Tea, brandy, or champagne?  "},{"Title":"Bad title, good movie","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I'm a film buff, I was unaware of the existence this delightful,sophisticated comedy until I saw it recently on TV in Buenos Aires, of all places. Grant, Kerr and Simmons are splendid, as usual, and Mitchum is, well, Mitchum and that's good enough for me. The plot offers the conceit of Mitchum taking Kerr away from Grant, her fusty husband, because Mitch is hot and Grant's not, a rather daring concept for 1960. Grant, of course, has a trick or two up his sleeve and alls well that ends well. The witty dialogue and snappy direction (Stanley Donen) puts to shame the witless, charmless crap churned out by Hollywood hacks for the past 25  "},{"Title":"Ahead of its time","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This delightful morsel is even more impressive given the bare post-Eisenhower era of its release. While we tend to view 1960 as the beginning of the JFK cultural renaissance, in fact the decade dawned with Ike in the White House and Nixon on the horizon. Extramarital hijinks, dealt with adult sophistication, tolerance and forgiveness are rare enough, but the Bible-thumpers must have bust a gut on this one. I disagree with those who chastise the title, I think it's perfect. That such a topic is explored without losing the light comedic magic of Grant, the earnest angst of Kerr, the irreverent sexuality of Simmons and the brooding strength of Mitchum is testament to the ability of Stanley Donen to guide without herding. It all fits, wonderfully, in a movie that glows brighter with the passage of time, and the tsunami of trash that was to follow. "},{"Title":"Static but entertaining nonetheless","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Enjoyable cast and often deliciously witty dialogue succeed enlivening this otherwise rather static comedy. It can't shake off its staginess, which results in occasional moments of slight weariness, but for the most part, The Grass Is Greener is classy and quite entertaining. There are some splendid scenes between the four leading actors that make you smile. Really big laughs aren't guaranteed, but the film leaves an overall good feeling. "},{"Title":"Somewhat Indiscreet...","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fine, funny and recommended. It has its weak points, the storyline is the least important with these fine actors and brilliant direction. Cary Grant and Jean Simmons' first scene together is absolutely wonderful. Deborah Kerr is also good; Robert Mitchum, maybe intentionally, is a bit of an odd player here. Familiar to the Grant-Ingrid Bergman split-screen telephone scene in Donen's Indiscreet, there's an adorable scene with all four leading actors here. Very very nice. "},{"Title":"Bright, funny adult comedy set among the titled class in England","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The cast is obviously the star of this film, with headliners Grant, Kerr, Mitchum and Simmons each doing a fabulous job in a movie that depends very heavily on intelligent, witty dialogue strewn with double-entendres. The subject is adultery, and whether one (Grant) should make a public fuss when his wife (Kerr) is being swept off her feet by a rich American (Mitchum). Mix in a beautiful, if somewhat dotty, friend (Simmons) who makes sly observances throughout. Although set in England of the late 50s, the film doesn't show much countryside and occasionally feels a bit claustrophobic as the action takes place on a very few sets.  The film feels like it has stage origins, and it plays much like Neil Simon's better film adaptations (e.g. California Suite, Barefoot in the Park).  If you are a fan of any of these stars, this movie will entertain you. "},{"Title":"mature whit","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has a very mature whit, it is not an adult film but young people just won't get it.  I watched it the first time in my twenties but did not appreciate it as I did when I saw it in my thirties and had been married for many years.  Cary Grant's character is caught with the possibility of loosing the wife that is the center of his world.  He must choose between making a fuss or letting her go quietly.  He feels if he makes a fuss the choices are she will stay and they will both be unhappy or she will still go and he will have lost his stiff upper lip. The plot is added to by his wife's best friend that would be very happy to console him if his wife leaves. (hey I would be happy to console Cary Grant)  The script is a hoot the dialogue lively and cunning.  The only real action is a duel at thirty paces that shows who is willing to give his life for the love of his life.  The set is a little constraining but the stately homes of Britain are pretty stuffy in real life.  The casting of Robert Mitchum as the American millionaire is perfect, he is very American and everyone else is so very British his is really the odd man out.I enjoy this movie every time and recommend it for a relaxing, amusing evening. "},{"Title":"Attempt at a Sex quadrangle at one of THE STATELY HOMES OF ENGLAND","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a film that does try to be good - and it is actually amusing at points. The central story about the aristocrats finding interest in an American millionaire (Mitchum) and an old flame of Grant's (Simmons) had potential. But the problem was that the screenplay is too talky and too cerebral, but not (paradoxically) as complete as it should be.There are pages and pages of the dialog which are (frankly) long winded. Cary Grant is not amusing when explaining his behavior to people, even Deborah Kerr. Whatever emotional chemistry worked for them so wonderfully in AN AFFAIR TO REMEMBER is cut down considerably here.The additions of Robert Mitchum and Jean Simmons does not really help. Mitchum's growing interest in Kerr, and her growing response to his seeing her in London is okay, but Simmons' relationship regarding Grant is not developed. We know they had an affair before he married her friend Kerr, and she has remained a friend of both, and she is funny regarding her open interest in sex, but why Grant's rejection of her is never really gone into. Also, at the tale end, there is the suggestion that Simmons and Mitchum might find each other a worthy lover. But nothing in the film really builds up to that final look between them! There are good moments - Grant and Mitchum going fishing, and muttering under their breaths about each other, and the business about the fur coat gift that Mitchum buys Kerr, and she tries to hide (and Simmons ends up wearing as her own). But the good moments are fragments. The duel scene towards the end is analyzed to death. It says a lot that the use of Noel Coward's song THE STATELY HOMES OF ENGLAND on the soundtrack at the start and end of the film is one of the highlights. One wishes Coward wrote the screenplay here - it might have been brighter or more consistent.Because the cast really tries I have given it a 7, but it is not as good a film as it should have been. "},{"Title":"Quite a Weekend","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lord Cary Grant and Lady Deborah Kerr as nobility have fallen on hard times and now they show their fabulous estate off to the tourists for pin money. One of those tourists is American millionaire Robert Mitchum who thinks the best sight he's seen is Kerr. He sweeps her off her feet and her marriage is put in danger.Cary's not going to take this lying down and Mitchum is invited to the estate for the weekend. Along for the ride is Jean Simmons, a friend of Grant's and Kerr who wouldn't mind getting Cary on the rebound. It's quite a weekend.Cary Grant and I assume Deborah Kerr's parts according the recent biography of Robert Mitchum were originally intended for Rex Harrison and Kay Kendall. When Kendall died, Harrison dropped out. Cary Grant's part probably would have been better in Harrison's hands. But you can't say that Grant didn't learn a lesson. He was widely quoted as saying after he turned down My Fair Lady that he wouldn't even by a ticket to see the film of Harrison didn't play Henry Higgins.Simmons does come off the best in this comedy of manners. She's full of wisecracks and is no hypocrite about her life.You know when you think about it the same premise was used for Sleuth with much more serious overtones. It's sometimes a small margin between comedy and drama.Not the best work that any of this talented quartet has done. "}{"Title":"Worth watching anyway..","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is a glittering cast (Cary Grant, Deborah Kerr, Robert Mitchum and Jean Simmons), a witty script  and  beautiful  scenes of the English countryside in superb colour. So why is this film so flat? Whether it is a movie, a play or a novel one has to believe in the characters. Unfortunately Cary Grant is not believable as an English lord.   Deborah Kerr is not believable as an unfaithful wife. Robert Mitchum is believable as an American tourist but , seemed uncomfortable in the role. When he walked into the private apartments of Lord and Lady  Ryall in their Stately home he looked as if he should have been walking into a Chicago speakeasy. Only Jean Simmons seemed to fit her part.   It was a funny script which was wasted.   Still, anything with Cary Grant in it is worth watching.  See what you think. "},{"Title":"I'm not a promiscuous trollop!","Date":"8 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Grass Is Greener is directed by Stanley Donen and stars Cary Grant, Robert Mitchum, Deborah Kerr & Jean Simmons. It's adapted by Hugh Williams & Margaret Vyner from the play of the same name which they had both written and found success with in London's West End. Music is by Noel Coward and Christopher Challis is the cinematographer.Struggling financially, the Earl & Countess of Rhyall (Grant & Kerr) start giving tours around their stately mansion. Enter Charles Delacro (Mitchum) & Hattie Durant (Simmons), whose appearance at the mansion sets in motion the wheels of love, jealousy and machismo fuelled duelling.Considered too talky on its release, The Grass Is Greener, it's fair to say, is more for those who are either into the star wattage on offer, or for those who are romantics at heart. Upon first viewing the film doesn't appear to have much in the way of comedy, in fact when Grant is either off screen or out of ear shot there's a hole as big as the implausibility factor in the plot. However, further viewings (well listenings really) reveal a sharper script than the one critics gave credit for back in the day. There's plenty of nudge nudge winkery going on, while the portrayals of the rich American & British characters (could they get any more polar opposite than Grant & Mitchum?) has a nice glint in the eye to them.On the cast front, Grant is as smooth and classy as he always is, with his sometimes undervalued comedy timing here in full force. Kerr & Simmons look attractive, with the latter benefiting greatly from some outrageously punky Dior costumes. While Mitchum, tho no master of comedy, works his laconic low tone charm to great effect off of Grant's well spoken aristo verbality. However, look away from the big four heading the cast and you find much comedy value in Moray Watson as the Butler. He, along with Challis' photography inside of the house, are arguably the stars of the show. A fine film for the patient to enjoy, even if it's not the masterpiece that its cast list suggests it should be. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Almost too sophisticated for its own good","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the films Stanley Donen directed during his long sojourn in England. His previous one with Cary Grant, Indiscreet, also starred Ingrid Bergman, and the two of them repeated their impeccable chemistry from Notorious ten years earlier in a very romantic and yet sophisticated comedy. The Grass Is Greener is, if anything, more sophisticated, almost stultifyingly so. It's obviously based on a stage play, fitted out with a handful of cinematic tricks that stick out like sore thumbs.This cast could do no wrong, as far as I'm concerned, and they just about manage to make it work. Robert Mitchum is probably miscast, but he doesn't let it show, and his scenes with Deborah Kerr (the two of them made many films together and enjoyed one another's company) work beautifully. Cary Grant is impeccable, as always, although I can't help thinking that this really is Rex Harrison territory. And Jean Simmons is delightful - she really is a fairly underrated actress. Moray Watson also shines as the butler.One question why didn't the doctor every show up? (You have to watch the movie to the end to find out what I mean.) "},{"Title":"Light entertainment worth viewing.","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Most points have already been made - a sub Noel Cowardesque script but still stands up as light entertainment. (Maybe my age is showing). Supposedly set in the country but actually filmed at Osterley Park under the flight path to Heathrow airport!!! I am not sure that the outdoor shots could be filmed there today with all that noise! Anyway - it still looks good! Google- National Trust UK Osterley ParkI have some snaps of the livestock munching away in its the fields but I guess a herd of cattle, horses or a flock of water fowl looks much the same another somewhere else. Worth a trip if you have the time (but it sure costs a lot more than a half-crown nowadays!!!) "},{"Title":"tres amusant","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This adult drawing room comedy is a bit of fluff. Light and inconsequential but funny. Deborah Kerr is excellent in her role as the bored and under appreciated wife of an English aristocrat, Cary Grant. They are struggling to keep the family estate intact by charging for guided tours. Can one really be bored with Cary Grant? Mitchum is the rich, virile American tourist who sweeps her off her feet. Jean Simmons plays the beautiful but rather ditsy friend of Kerr. Kerr tells her, You can't play Scrabble, not with adults. The mink coat scene is worth watching as is the fishing scene. America versus England with a happy ending. "},{"Title":"Jean is the true star!","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first watched TGIG about a year ago, as a Cary Grant fan and ONLY a Cary Grant fan, and I positively hated it, and when I saw it was coming up on TV again I just ignored the listing. Then, two days beforehand, I for some odd reason watched a Deborah Kerr documentary (odd as I'm not a fan of hers) and they showed two small clips from TGIG, and I straight away knew that I had to give the film a second chance!The first 15 minutes or so started off rather slow, but once Jean Simmons graces the screen, you won't want to switch off! As a Cary Grant fan, I must nobly admit that he doesn't really do much for this film. His role, while not bad, is just a bit bland and not up to the calibre of other roles he has played. So it's a nice touch to have him there, but really it could have been any fella. The real star of the show was definitely Simmons, making Hattie by far the best character. She's sly and witty and can't help making every second comment naughty; she's oh so terribly frightfully grand dahling, very cheeky, exceedingly silly, and plays off Kerr so well with the air-kisses and light banter. The funniest scene in the film was by far the one right near the end where Kerr holds up Simmons at gun-point to get her to take the mink coat off!Oddly though, the scene that I saw on the documentary, the split-screen phonecall, was not in the movie. The phone scene was there, they were all speaking at the same time, but it wasn't done split-screen style. A little odd!Overall, this is a fine treat for any Jean Simmons fans. I kept thinking Ingrid Bergman might have been a better choice than Kerr, possibly following on from the lovely Indiscreet. But the guy playing Sellers the Butler - he was wonderful! And don't forget the old saying, because sometimes the Butler DID do it... "},{"Title":"Very sub-Noel Coward","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An all-star cast just about manages to give this flimsy, unlikely comedy a lift though why the likes of Cary Grant, Deborah Kerr, Robert Mitchum and Jean Simmons ever agreed to do it is something of a mystery. It's based on a play by Hugh and Margaret Williams and it's all very sub-Noel Coward, (his song 'The Stately Homes of England' is used on the soundtrack).Grant and Kerr are the lord and lady of the manor and Mitchum, the rich American who sweeps Kerr off her feet five minutes after meeting her. Simmons is the scatty friend and she's wonderful, (it's a great supporting part). Grant is magnificent. It's a great, understated performance and he's far, far too good for the material. It's not unlike the martial comedies he made in the thirties but at least they were American and funny; this is terribly British and isn't in the least funny. On the other hand, it is very stylishly directed by Stanley Donen, though again I have the foggiest idea why he would want to make it in the first place. "},{"Title":"Great comedy!","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Being a huge Deborah Kerr fan and a minor Robert Mitchum and Jean Simmons fan I looked very much forward to watching this movie. My expectations were not disappointed! I had a lot of fun! The great dialogs as well as the actors managed to crack me up several times. Cary Grant is perfect typecasting. He has to deal with his beloved wife's infidelity. Mitchum and Kerr are rather unusual compared to their previous roles. He is very charming and straight-forward. When he sees something he wants, he takes it. She is truly funny! They have a great chemistry and you can tell that they were good friends in real life. But pay also special attention to Jean Simmons as the gin-drinking, all-knowing Hattie. She is hilarious! All together , the movie is great fun! Very British and very 50s/60s! "},{"Title":"Scandals of the well-mannered set.","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's very appropriate that the song heard over the post-credit and pre-final credit sequence were written by none other than Noel Coward, England's 20th century gift to the theatre. In most of his plays, the sexual exploits of England's upper crust were spoofed and gently ridiculed. Here, four very well mannered people (three British, one American) misbehave while being oh, so dignified and show that you can resolve marital strife and infidelity without tantrums, fisticuffs or a slapfest between two women. What you need is a duel.The four people are Cary Grant, Deborah Kerr, Robert Mitchum and Jean Simmons, and they are all totally different, if still attractive mature adults. Grant and Kerr are a long married couple who live in one of the many country estates that tourists trample through while on vacation in Europe. One of those tourists is American millionaire Mitchum who accidentally opens a door on Deborah Kerr in one of the private rooms and opens a can of worms. They briefly spar, but it is very apparent that the very bored Kerr has taken a fancy to the suave American. Before you can say Pip Pip, Cherrio, Kerr has escaped to London for a rendezvous, and Kerr's acerbic friend (Simmons) pays a visit on Grant to help him pick up the pieces and reminisce about their old affair. Soon, the foursome are spending an oh, so civilized weekend at the estate where chaos is sure to ensue.All four stars are excellent, extremely likable, and hysterically funny. A very intelligent screenplay provides plenty of innuendo and moments for each of the stars to shine. Even funnier is the way the screenplay expresses the character's thoughts while another character in a different setting is either expressing the same thought or the exact opposite. Simmons, usually more gentile in such films as Hamlet, So Long at the Fair and Guys and Dolls, is delightfully flirtatious, while Grant is wonderfully droll while insulting Mitchum by singing Yankee Doodle (you know the version with a feather being called macaroni). Kerr, always the lady, gets to be a bit more naughty here than normal, and Mitchum is fun as the sole non-Brit who didn't come to London riding on a pony. It should be also noted that Simmons looks incredibly sexy in her negligee. You get the feeling that once everything is wrapped up that the foursome might become bi-continental visitors and get a lesson in American customs from the very suave Mitchum. "},{"Title":"The lowest rating I've ever given a Cary Grant film","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An aristocratic British couple (Cary Grant, Deborah Kerr) allow tourists to visit their castle because of financial difficulties. On one of these tourist trips, an American millionaire (Robert Mitchum) puts the moves on Kerr and she wastes no time falling for him. Grant doesn't discourage her affair, instead trying to come up with a way to win her back. How pathetic.A dry, dull, stagy film with unlikable characters played by likable actors. Five or ten years later it might have been more risqué but this is all very sedate and mannered. There's no fun to be had here unless you're someone who likes these sorts of tired old movies where screwing around on each other is seen as a harmless and natural part of marriage. Dated plot aside, the characters are a mess. Mitchum's character is an obnoxious bundle of clichés. Jean Simmons is not part of a love triangle or quadrangle, as some plot synposes online tend to say (as well as the misleading DVD cover). She's just an ex of Grant's who is only in the film to be a pot stirrer. Kerr tries harder than anybody else to make this thing work, which just makes her character all the more insufferable. Cary Grant is badly miscast and dresses like Mister Rogers in this. I wasn't surprised to find out Cary didn't want to do this movie. He turned it down initially and then Rex Harrison was cast. But when Harrison had to withdraw at the last minute, Cary stepped in to help out. It's a part that is a better fit for Rex Harrison. Cary may have been born in England but he was never suited to playing these stereotypical stuffy Brit roles. Also, despite his age at the time, it's a hard sell to believe him the kind of man women would throw over for Robert Mitchum (no spring chicken himself by this point). I like Mitchum as much as the next person, but no...just no. To date, I believe this is the lowest rating I've ever given a Cary Grant movie. He's one of my favorite movie stars so it takes a lot for me to hate a movie he's in. But this is one that I don't see myself ever watching again. "}{"Title":"Musical Score","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some had mentioned Noel Coward and the drawing room comedy. I think it should be mentioned that the entire score was completely based on the songs of Noel Coward. I feel the film was an homage to Coward and his light plays of the 20's and 30's. Actually, if you know Coward's music, it forecasts things in the plot.For example at the beginning of the film when Grant and Kerr are having their first conversation, she reads a poem, and the music being played is I'll Follow My Secret Heart. It is not too long after this she meets the third person in the triangle. I think it's quite an enjoyable movie, and it is nice to see people enjoy performing light banter. "},{"Title":"Stately Home Run","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hugh and Margaret Williams turned out several successful stage comedies in the 1950s almost, as it were, in defiance of the Angry Young Man school that had all but decimated the breed and this was one of the more successful. Three of the principals had and/or would co-star several times as in Grant-Kerr (An Affair To Remember), Mitchum-Kerr (Heaven Knows, Mr. Allison, The Sundowners) so were thoroughly at home with each other and Jean Simmons had no trouble fitting in as the gooseberry. A definite bonus is the background music, what amounts to an extended medley of Noel Coward favourites from Sigh No More, to I'll Follow My Secret Heart to Poor Little Rich Girl to Dance, Little Lady etc and for good measure The Stately Homes Of England is sung over both front and end credits. Essentially tourist Mitchum turns up to scratch a ten-tear itch that Kerr was unaware of, hardly surprising when hubby is Cary Grant. This paves the way for some sophisticated banter, anti-American jokes before it all ends happily. Even almost sixty years later there is still a large dollop of charm clinging tenaciously. Catch it if you can. "},{"Title":"Cary Grant and Robert Mitchum","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The sleepy eyed Robert Mitchum gets to team up again with the nun of 'Heaven Knows Mr. Allison' (Deborah Kerr), as well as Cary Grant teaming up with the leading lady that dominated his films in the 50's. Jean Simmons fresh from 'Spartacus' gets to rub shoulders with all of them, and the final product is a delightful film with an all star cast. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorite movies","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A witty and, for its time, unusually mature treatment of marriage, affairs, and the choices we make.  Both Deborah Kerr and Cary Grant deliver wonderful performances, and Jean Simmons is a scream.  I've seen this movie several times and enjoyed it more each time. "},{"Title":"A very good film indeed.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a cracking film! A top notch script and a fantastic cast combined to create a funny, moving film that seems to have been overlooked by most. Cary Grant is always worth watching, and the entire leading cast made this an easy film to like. I didn't find this film flat at all; I found the screen sparkled with the interplay and the script. A fine film; catch it on the telly if you see it on! "},{"Title":"You'd expect a movie to be able to upstage . . .","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" . . . the stage play upon which it's based, but such apparently is not the case with THE GRASS IS GREENER. Except for a brief men-in-waders scene, this verbose exercise in talking sex to death might as well have been filmed on Broadway. Sure, there's a few touches of window dressing with have-and-have-not automobile comings and goings, as well as a walk-through of a couple high-ceilinged rooms. However, these scant minutes' worth of real life hardly provide an adequate antidote for what seems like hours of grueling repartee that may have sounded scintillating in a playwright's mind, but generally fall flat on stage, and pancake to paper thinness on a Big Screen. As a supposedly accommodating husband, Cary Grant looks particularly long-in-the-tooth, making his willingness to settle for his wife's sloppy seconds entirely reasonable (if not very convincing). However, Deborah Kerr's wayward wife Hilary character comes off as more gauche than a family's new mutt, who debuts by humping everyone's leg at an important dinner party. Any right-thinking household immediately would have such a nuisance pet fixed, which is what most GRASS IS GREENER viewers will be hoping for Hilary. "},{"Title":"Erudite and Delightful","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A few previous reviewers seem to have viewed this film with a very weird set of expectations. In fact, 'The Grass is Greener' is exactly what it wants to be a clever little drawing-room comedy. Slightly mannered, slightly stylized, very upper-crusty. And utterly delightful, on all counts.The cast is a dream come true. Grant plays slightly against type, to great effect. He's not the strong leading man, for once, but a rather repressed, befuddled and sorely taken-for-Granted husband. Mitchum makes a perfect foil straightforward, brash, emotional. They're a perfect match, and their conflict is worked out... perfectly. With never a harsh word spoken, and only a very genteel amount of violence.The ladies make a great backdrop for all this. Deborah Kerr has never been more charming, or more effortlessly natural. She has the film's broader comedic moments, and handles them beautifully. Jean Simmons is always a delight, and she plays her catty best-friend role to the hilt.But the real star is the dialog. Underplayed, yet always literate and obliquely witty. Grant's references to Dun-dee cake always make me laugh, since cake is so obviously not what he's talking about. The dramatic aspects of the story are equally clever. The central concept of *not* confronting an errant spouse seems particularly wise.Of course, if you're looking for a typical Hollyood-style romantic comedy, or a broad farce along the lines of Donen's later 'Charade,' you do need to adjust your expectations. This is a very different kind of film, a far more British - or perhaps simply more erudite - type of comedy. More along the lines of 'Blithe Spirit,' or the original 'Pygmalion.' And easily on a par with the best of its kind. A film to be savored, not devoured. "},{"Title":"Excellent !","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Personnaly, I had a lot of fun watching this. Event though I have a hard time understanding British accent, it was well enough performed so that I could get into it. I found the characters very believable, and I loved the 60ies quality of the whole thing. 'En vrac, it all reminded me of Breakfast at Tiffany's, the De Funès movies, some Cassavetes (I'm not kidding), something like the libertine atmosphere of these times. Of course, the theatrical dimension of the directing is overwhelming at first, you think it's going to end up in a car chase in a zoo or something, but no, in the end there is a beautiful reflexion on man's generosity in love, and about a faithful woman's charm. I'm all for it! "},{"Title":"Great movie to watch on a rainy afternoon","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" this is a spectacular movie, where one sees Cary Grant and Kerr and Mitchum having some of the best screenplay to work and a supporting cast such as the character Sellars played by Moray Watsun. Despite what the other comment that was made about the film this comedy is about a couple that deals with adultery and lies but stick it out comically, through thick and thin, rags or riches. beautiful movie and the other person who made a comment on it was wrong, obviously he/she had not really watched the film. Deborah Kerr has an affair, they don't talk about swapping partners, Jean Simmons is not dating or married to Robert Mitchum. What version was this person watching, huh? anyway people should not be allowed to make comments if they are going to lie in them. "},{"Title":"Pandora's Box","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bookmarked by a cheery chorus extolling the joys of the stately homes of England, Stanley Donen's The Grass is Greener at first promises to be a pleasantly rich, thoroughly British comedy of manners, repartee and archly subtle barbs ready to go. The film elicits so comfortable a viewing state, in fact, that it takes some time to clue into the slow, inextricable escalation evolving on screen. The final result is an impressive transformation indeed a sly, witty affair (pun intended) that, while unpacking the virtue of old-fashioned sensibilities, demonstrates a markedly modern undercurrent of risqué subtext and the place of tradition and posterity in the twentieth century. Donen's film is a charming and sophisticated satire, without ever becoming stuffy or unengaging. Most importantly, it highly enjoyable through and through.The film's clever script by Hugh Williams and Margaret Vyner, nimbly repurposing their own play, keeps the plot plugging along at a slow but subtly rising pace, with an opening poking fun at vacant tourists and the upper class elite stubborn enough to cling to the antiquated decadence of their heritage while begrudgingly opening their historic homes to the riff raff for sustainable income. However, as the conflict settles in, enough genuinely surprisingly twists and turns and pockets of action pop up for the film to never feel excessively talky. It's also impressive how cavalier the film is about its central infidelity conflict and (arguably more controversial) the motivations behind sustaining a strained marriage. Mercifully absent is the implicit judgement in many comparable narratives released in the thick of the Hays Code, making the film feel much more like a story than an ideologically spring-loaded cautionary tale.Unsurprisingly, the film's main draw is its trifecta of Hollywood mega stars comprising the central love triangle, the allure of whom Donen cheekily demystifies by introducing them as squabbling babies over the opening credits. However, rather than awards-baiting scene-chomping, Cary Grant, Deborah Kerr and Robert Mitchum all turn restrained, deadpan performances - this is a British comedy of manners, after all, and acting out would be intolerably uncouth. Nonetheless, all three possess such natural star magnetism that, when armed with the script's arsenal of clever zingers and double-entendres, makes them eminently watchable throughout.An uncomfortable situation unwound to its full satirical potential, The Grass is Greener unpacks social performativity with deft ease. Fans of the stars, or those seeking an old-fashioned jaunt with a slyly contemporary edge are cordially invited to experience the distinct pleasure of visiting this stately home of England.-8/10 "}{"Title":"Talky but Witty","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Royal British couple down on its luck raises funds by giving tours of its castle. It's fun watching the star quartet in this light comedy, amiably directed by Donen, who was right at home in this sort of material. It features some witty dialog that the stars deliver effortlessly. What keeps it from being better is that it is a bit too talky and stagy and it takes a while to really get going. The finale featuring a duel between Grant and Mitchum over Kerr is funny. Simmons seems to be having a ball in the role of a divorced woman in heat. Also amusing is Watson as the butler. Parental Warning The opening credits include nudity! "},{"Title":"Can't see the humor","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Victor (Cary Grant) and Hillary Rhyall (Deborah Kerr) are a struggling British earl and wife who needs money for their vast estates. They open it up to tourists. Charles Delacro (Robert Mitchum) is a wealthy oil tycoon visitor who takes a liking to Hillary. They start going off together. Hattie Durant (Jean Simmons) is her talkative best friend. Victor and Hattie schemes up a get together.The tone is a little too light. It's hard to get into the infidelity seriously. There is a mismatch of style. It would work better if we could somehow laugh at Cary Grant's character. He's mister nice guy and I don't really get the humor in the cheating. It probably would work better as a serious drama, but I just don't know why any of this would be funny. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this film and recently bought it on DVD. I had not watched it for many years, and it's wonderful to see it again. Since I last saw it I've visited Osterley Park in Middlesex - it's on the Piccadilly Line and easy to get to, and I was fascinated to see the changes that have taken place there since this film was made. Apart from the filming locations, which are excellent, the action is well worth seeing again. This is a comedy of manners, worthy of Noel Coward or similar authors, which challenges our assumptions about how people might behave. It's supposed to be the upper classes behaving in a civilised manner, but that is rather difficult to believe. You have to suspend disbelief and go along with the premise that people could behave like this. All the performances are excellent and it works, even in 2014. I wonder what people thought in 1960? My interpretation is that the Earl (Cary Grant) is hurt that his wife appears to have chosen to be unfaithful to him on a whim, and he has to decide what to do. He decides to be civilised, but he plays a very clever game to get her back and it works. Beneath all the civilised talk there is a very primal contest going on, and the emotional blackmail works. The bond is too strong to break, but he had to fight for her or face losing her. The desperation of his position is not obvious, but it is there nonetheless.I'm not sure that Robert Mitchum was right for this - he was the least convincing, but the other 4 main players were completely right. How anyone could consider leaving Cary Grant in the first place is beyond me. "},{"Title":"Incredible cast, forgettable flick...","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cary Grant, Deborah Kerr, Robert Mitchum, and Jean Simmons in a comedy from Stanley Donen...and its a dud? English couple, having had to turn their estate into a tourist spot, have their marriage tested when the wife falls for an American millionaire. Extremely odd picture serves up infidelity as something chic, with the inevitable apologies all around at the end. Donen directs this play-into-film uninventively, with stagy action and camera set-ups. Kerr retains her dignity with a schizophrenic role (her cheating spouse remains saintly!), and Mitchum is droll, but Grant phones his performance in (it seems the older he got, the more he relied on his patented charm). Some cute lines are pretty much buried in the lightweight script; there's no depth to the emotions played out, and no truth in the characters. ** from **** "},{"Title":"A total fizzer","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" With a cast boasting Cary Grant, Robert Mitchum, Deborah Kerr AND Jean Simmons, you would expect a real treat, right? Wrong. This one is a fizzer, and utterly boring. If it wasn't for the obvious chemistry of Mitchum and Kerr (why aren't these two more recognised as one of the greatest screen teams ever), even in roles where they flounder, and Jean Simmons saving the second half single-handedly from being even worse, I would have fallen asleep. It's very English, and perhaps as an Aussie I don't get the humour. It's meant to be a witty take on marriage and the upper classes. There were a few nice lines, mostly delivered by Simmons, but other than that it was just a pointless talk-fest. Grant is usually one of the most watchable of all screen stars, but here he's barely noticeable. Perhaps he is keeping in character, but he just exhibits no personality here. The opening titles are cute, but what relevance do they have to anything in the film? Yeah, I pretty much hated it. "},{"Title":"Dated, but very good cast makes it worthwhile","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While some parts of this movie from 1960 will make someone in  2000 cringe, the fine job by the four stars, (and also Moray Walters as Sellers, the butler) makes this a movie worth seeing. Jean Simmons, in particular, is a joy to watch in her role as Hattie. Watch it for the cast and the fine job they do playing off each other.  "},{"Title":"What a dull, dull dull film","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Had I gone to see this film in 1960 (when I was 14), I would have felt cheated, it was so boring, wordy and lacking action that I could hardly wait for its end.All I saw was a bunch of actors - Grant, Kerr, Mitchum & Simmons (who were in the autumn of their screen careers), mainly sitting around doing nothing in particular, making small talk endlessly about marriage, fidelity and this and that.Even for 1960 the screenplay seemed very dated and contrived while the actors drank copious quantities of liquor and alcohol.None of the characters seemed to have a useful job or do some service to society so I suspected this was the influence of the idle rich from the 1930s, but since then there had been a world war, penal taxation to help repay Britain's war debt, the need for women to do a job of work and a social revolution in Britain with the new wave of films like Look back in Anger; this film seemed curiously dated even for 1960.What an advert for the perils of drink and dipsomania!I noticed that the majority of the USA based user comments seemed in favour of this film while European comments were more critical.I have seen many films when each of the above actors starred individually in more worthy films but I am afraid that here too many cooks spoilt the broth.I voted it 4/10. "},{"Title":"overwhelmed by star power","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Odd little movie about infidelity in the 50s. It begins with the 50's most leaden homage to heteronormativity; a collage of adorable infants under the credits. I was rolling my eyes. The 50s are a tiresome heap of propaganda for reproduction and the family; resulting in dozens of rotten on-screen performances by insufferable moppets (An Affair to Remember, The Man who Knew Too Much, Picnic, etc.). But it eventually becomes a droll, sort of dirty (though very polite) piece about getting a little on the side (in 1956!!). The whole thing is too slight for the overamped starpower they've cast. By the time Cary Grant is striding into a gun duel, you might even conclude as I did, 'Wow, even Grant is miscast here.' Jean Simmons, playing a bimbo, is slumming. And she wears some hideous outfits that even Endora on Bewitched might've said No to. "},{"Title":"despite the cast, it's a dull little film","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You would think that with this cast you would get a much better movie. Instead, the talents of four excellent actors are pretty much wasted in a tepid bedroom farce that is sure to please very few.Cary Grant and Deborah Kerr play two English nobles who are forced to sell admission tickets to their estate to make ends meet. During one of these tour group visits, Robert Mitchem breaks away from the group and tries to put the moves on Ms. Kerr. And then, the three of them are soon joined by old friend Jean Simmons (not the guy from KISS, though THAT would have made the movie REALLY interesting). The four of them talk a lot about sex and swapping partners but never really get around to doing anything (some would say this is because they are English). Then, everyone goes their merry way and the movie concludes. Quick, get me the No-Doze! "},{"Title":"Tepid Brit comedy","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not exactly boring, but mighty close. With the exception of Father Goose, I've never seen a Cary Grant film that I really appreciated, and this one follows suit. I found parts of the picture amusing and even somewhat interesting, but the longer I watched the more dull I considered the entire affair. Perhaps a limey would go for this stuff more than I, a simple southern country boy. "}]