[{"Title":"Surreal fantasy masterpiece","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"91 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Georges Franju's atmospheric masterpiece is a tapestry of contradictions. Eyes Without a Face is a compelling tale of sadism that has an astute tenderness at the same time. A film that will disgust you with it's macabre imagery, yet simultaneously mesmerise you with it's beauty; a seething tale of love, fashioned by extreme guilt. Through the Gothic confines of a grandiose mansion, Franju has taken ideas from classic stories such as 'Frankenstein' and constructed a dream like surrealistic fantasy that has inspired legions of filmmakers since from obvious inspirations like Jess Franco's The Awful Dr Orlof, all the way to the full blown Hollywood action fest, Face/Off; Eyes Without a Face stands out as one of cinema's most important, yet most overlooked films. The central story is a deliriously simple tale of vanity, guilt and redemption; yet one that is lent a great depth from it's cast of central characters. Doctor Génessier, guilt ridden over a car accident that left his beloved daughter, Christiane, with a destroyed face uses his assistant to kidnap young girls in an attempt to reconstruct her ruined features. The good doctor peels the faces from his victims and grafts them over the ruined features of his young daughter. However, the experiments are a continual failure but, motivated by a strong sense of guilt, Doctor Génessier must keep trying. The doctor himself is a masterpiece of horror film villainy. Unlike many mad scientists since, the doctor here is firmly placed within reality which makes his motivations easy to believe and therefore the horror all the more fascinating. He is supported by his assistant, Louise; a fellow web of intrigue. Louise isn't the normal mad doctor's assistant; she isn't deformed, or demented but rather a cunning, malevolent and cerebral predator; gathering her victims to aid the doctor's latest experiment. The real masterpiece of characterisation, however, comes from the central character; the disfigured tragedy herself, Christiane. The scenes that see her float around in her mask gown are some of the most memorable ever brought to the screen. While wearing her mask, Christiane represents both life and death. The mask itself is stagnant and lifeless, but the eyes beneath the mask are full of life's beauty, giving the young girl a surrealistic look that epitomises the film in that it's hard to place; is it beautiful, or revolting; good or evil? This film is a rare treat in that it's actually frightening. Eyes Without a Face taps into the viewer's fears by presenting us with a situation that is terrifying because it involves a central character living with horror. You can have all the maniacs with all the weapons you can think of; but it doesn't compare to having to go to bed every night with a face that is scarred beyond redemption. A fate worse than death, I'm sure you'll agree. This premise is given conviction through a stark and constantly foreboding atmosphere, which comes as a result of Eugen Shuftan's magnificent cinematography. The film has a crisp and clean look, which brilliantly offsets the macabre scenes that it is capturing. Thankfully, Georges Franju also seems keen to keep the focus on the surreal horror aspects of the story, which is shown by the way that he rushes through the police investigation that stems from the doctor's experiments. The film also features a striking and memorable musical score. The music sounds like it wouldn't be out of place in a carnival or circus, which fits the movie brilliantly as it covers the weird and wonderful imagery that we are treated to on screen.Overall, Eyes Without a Face is a magnificent expression of the horror genre. The creativity and beauty of the film are sure to delight anyone who encounters it, and this is as important and as breathtaking as anything cinema has to offer. All I can say is that the word 'masterpiece' was added to the English language with this film in mind. "},{"Title":"Dark, desolate and diverting","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"39 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This film is dark and somber with a spare, eerie music score that suits perfectly the macabre, surreal story. A brilliant but deranged surgeon, having caused his daughter's disfigurement in a car accident, loses touch with reality and tries to restore her beauty in a most repulsive manner. Undeterred by failure, the mad doctor continues his gruesome work, hoping to find a miracle cure that will reconstruct the girl's facial features and also relieve him of his tremendous burden of guilt. The once-lovely girl realizes that she will never enjoy a normal life or see her beloved fiancé again, and her mute telephone calls to him just to hear his voice show how empty and lonely her life has become. There are some scenes that are horribly graphic but quite well done and a few moments that are poignant and touching amid the cruelty and butchery of the movie's central theme. Each character in this grim, unhappy feature is victimized in some fashion, but in spite of its subject matter, this cult classic is lean, first-rate storytelling. "},{"Title":"A classic, providing real chills","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  An early French chiller that set a benchmark in horror film making, with its unflinching depiction of horrific acts of surgery. The films sole purpose is to shock you in revealing things never before seen in 1959. Unfortunately, we are now in the age of cheap teen horror flicks and action films that feel the need to throw gore in our faces at every possible moment thus diminishing the impact of this film when watching it. Especially now we're in the 21st century, many of the scenes are comparatively tame. This does not mean, however, I disliked the film. Quite the contrary. Eyes Without A Face contains some truly terrifying images that make the hairs stand up on the back of your neck. The use of a woman in a white mask (a technique used so well in films such as Halloween and Friday the 13th) provides the films more memorable and spine tingling moments. It's the clever use of shade and light that make this possible as the director and cinematographer provide us with long -lasting images to chill to the bone.The pace of the film is also worth a mention. Franju (the director) keeps us on the edge of our seat as the rich upper class couple lead young women into their house in order to remove their face! For some the pace could prove rather too slow - as in truth it did for me once or twice. But the payoffs from the slow pace offset any problems posed by it. It actually comes as a relief from the many directors who, in this day, believe that quick cuts and loud noise provide terror. Maybe it's time they delved back into the likes of this film, Halloween and Psycho to provide them with a few inspirations. I can think of only a handful of directors that have provided me with any real fright in the past ten years - M. Night Shyamalan (The Sixth Sense and Signs), Daniel Myrick and Eduardo Sanchez (The Blair Witch Project) and Wes Craven (Scream) are some of the few I can mention. Other films like the truly awful Jeepers Creepers and Thirteen Ghosts, which served no real purpose what-so-ever, provided me with quick cuts and loud noises - neither of which particularly endeared me to their cause. Call me an old fuddy duddy, but it's time they made more horrors like they did in the old days - films with real suspense and images which truly frighten; films like this one.Well, that's my moan over with. I gave this film 8/10, for those that care. "},{"Title":"Another opinion","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"37 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Eyes Without A Face is a groundbreaking and trendsetting artistic nightmare! The plot of this film has often been copied but never has it been done in such an eerily effective style. The sight of the masked daughter playing with the dogs evokes many emotions in the viewer. There are shots in this movie that will stay with you long after you have seen it! Heavily recommended! "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of horror and poetry","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"36 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Along with THE SHINING, THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN and PSYCHO, the best horror film ever made.  Franju forsakes the usual signifiers of the genre - hurtling pace, quick editing, signalling music, hysterically scary scenes - in favour of a pace as funereal and petrified as its heroine's face.  A soul-chilling film, seeped of all emotion, its scientific subject matter belies a timeless, complicated, non-judgemental Gothic fable about the destruction of innocence, the carelessness of masculine authority and the exploitation of women (especially in art).  The many paralells with VERTIGO (the source novel was written by the same writers), the startling tree and animal imagery, the suspended dream logic and the perverse comic sense ensure this film as a classic, and makes one yearn for more Franju. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of the genre","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  George Franju's Yeux Sans Visage is extremely slow yet absolutely riveting. The direction is masterful and Pierre Brasseur is superb as the dedicated doctor whose love for his daughter leads him to commit unspeakable crimes.The cold, sinister atmosphere of the film will seep into your bones and you may find it hard to look at the screen when the central skin-removal operation takes place - this is an extraordinarily grisly sequence for its time, lent all the more power by the cold, matter-of-fact direction and acting.In a film full of haunting images, you will find the last one unforgettable.Why can't modern directors make horror films as good as this?  It deals with a potentially lurid, gory subject-matter with masterly subtlety and skill. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Horror","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"33 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" At the time 'Les yeux sans visage' was released, the film was not very popular and faced common rejection by the critics. Regardless of those dis-affirmations, it raised to the position of a classic in the horror genre. Franju - one of the founders of the legendary Cinemathèque Française - succeeded in an intriguing way to make film history sensible as a source of inspiration of an entirely peculiar vision.The clinic of Dr. Génessier (P. Brasseur) is located not very far from Paris. Famous as a specialist in skin grafting, nobody foreshadows that the scientific ambition of the surgeon is incident with a horrifying secret Since an accident has destroyed the face of Génessier's daughter, Christiane (Scob), the doctor does everything to reconstruct her beauty. With the help of his assistant Louise (Valli) he clucks young women in his remote mansion, benumbs them and makes them a victim of a macabre surgical operation. In a hidden operating room in the basement of his house, Génessier removes the facial skin and transplants it on Christiane's face. Without lasting successes.That Franjus film has not suffer losses from its immensely disturbing effects is because of, if nothing else, the camera work of Eugen Schüfftans. His brilliant black and white shots resurrects the bright dark of the expressionist German silent film. It imparts Villa Génessier a threatening life of it's own, transmutes it in a mazy horror house which seems like one can not escape. The shadows of the stairway handrails lay on everybody who enters the building like grids and makes him optically a prisoner of Génessier's delusion, mostly his daughter Christiane. Cut from a real life she haunts through the paternal ruins, the garbled face concealed behind a white porcelain mask, whose sad expression seems to nail the doom of the young woman.Christiane's mask also points out a central principle of formation of the film It's suspense results substantially from the interaction of visible and invisible things, of showing and dissembling. Franju subtly creates a nightmarish atmosphere that evokes the horror of Génessier's actions, but never makes it explicitly in the first instance - only to show it the viewer more pitilessly When the surgeon unprovided cuts into the juvenilely beautiful face of one of his victims. This moment of shocking intensity reminds of the razor blade cut through the woman's eye of Bunuel's surrealistic classic 'Un chien andalou' (1929). With the same zest to provoke, Franju also presents the result of an ostensibly succeeded operation A sober sequence of photographs shows, commented by Génessier off-stage, at first Christiane's angelically delicate face, then how the transplanted skin becomes patchy a few days later, splits open and two weeks later dies off. The cruelty of those two sequences exposes Génessier as a perverted, pestilent doctor and his paternal love as brutal obsession. The attempt to give his daughter a new face means at the same time to erase her identity, to create the ideal woman.'Les yeux sans visage' remains in the memory of the viewer as one of the rare places on the imaginary continent, phantasmagoric and exigent with ample suspense and shocking details, a perfect alchemy of horror and allegoric poesy whereby one of the most beautiful horror films came into being. "},{"Title":"Poetic Horror","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Georges Franju's version of a mad scientist trying to play God tells about a brilliant but controlling and obsessive doctor who is trying to restore the face of his own beloved daughter that was horribly disfigured in a car accident caused by his reckless driving. He requires tissues of recently deceased young women that look like his daughter and he is not going to wait for them to die in an accident - he creates the accidents with help of his loyal secretary/nurse/lover/former patient Louise (Alida Valli of The Third Man) who kidnaps the unsuspecting girls and brings them to the secluded mansion in one of Paris's suburbs where Doctor Génessier is ready to perform the fascinating and horrifying surgeries.Eyes without a Face is a very impressive, classy picture that has inspired many later horror movies. The music by Maurice Jarr adds to the uneasy and creepy atmosphere - it makes you feel like on the never-stopping ominous merry-go-round and you can't get off it. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and hideous at once","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is one of those oddities that makes an interest in cinema worthwhile. Like the equally atmospheric Carnival of Souls, it was made by a director whose primary activity lay in documentaries, and can very much be regarded as a 'one-off'.Franju's vision is at once beautiful and emetic on the one hand, we have the stunning face of Edith Scob, the weird sight of her masked figure running into the night, the sequences which are held for longer than seems natural; on the other hand, arguably the most nauseating operation scenes committed to film (and somehow more unpleasant for being in black and white). The atmosphere is one of quiet poetry, but the juxtaposition with horror makes it unusual and effective. A connoisseur's delight. 9 out of 10. See it, if you can stomach it. "},{"Title":"one is held in awe and horror right to the stunning finale","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Still powerful after all this time. I remember, when first seeing this in the early sixties, being outraged that I was asked to pay to see what I compared to watching people have their teeth pulled. Not having seen it since till now I have always remembered that scene, but also the poignant lead in the lifelike mask that floated about the palatial dwelling like some surreal being and always that dreadful sound of the caged dogs barking. Much emphasis on the sounds of things being dragged, scraped and dropped - steel and stone and a dark menacing outside from whence young girls are brought in the name of science and in particular a new face for the masked one. Extremely strong central scene and always the threat of more. The police and routine hospital scenes give brief respite but for most of this masterpiece one is held in awe and horror right to the stunning finale. "}{"Title":"How odd I should have to comfort you. You still have some hope, at least.","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Les yeux sans visage (AKA Eyes Without a Face) is directed by Georges Franju and collectively written by Franju, Jean Redon, Pierre Boileau, Thomas Narcejac and Claude Sautet. It stars Pierre Brasseur, Edith Scob, Alida Valli, Juliette Mayniel and Francois Guerin. Music is by Maurice Jarre and cinematography by Eugen Schufftan.Dr. Genessier (Brasseur) is wrought with guilt over the car accident he caused that saw his beloved daughter Christiane (Scob) suffer horrendous facial injuries. He has a notion to perform xenograft surgeries on female victims and transplant the face onto that of Christiane&#x85;It sounds like a classic mad scientist movie, the sort where Peter Lorre stalks around the place with a devilish grin on his face, only the French version! Eyes Without a Face isn't that sort of horror film, haunting? Yes, but there is no killing for joy or sadism here, it's done for love, to assuage guilt whilst advancing science. Oh it's still madness, but there's a real sadness to Dr. Genessier's actions, touchingly so, and with Franju a master of hauntingly lyrical splendour, it's a film as beautiful as it is troubling.Christiane is a living doll, a slow moving angel forced to wear a porcelain mask to hide her badly burned face. As she glides around the Gothic halls of the Genessier house &#x96; and the lower tier corridors of the hospital that's annexed to the house - Franju never wastes a chance to poeticise a scene, using slow and long takes in silence that imbue the story with a sense of the foreboding. Even when there is dialogue, it's always in hushed tones unless it involves the police, who are naturally suspicious of the good doctor Genessier.A number of evocative scenes are truly arresting, gorgeous in construction and meaning, none more so than the very final scene that closes the pic down. But the most talked about scene is the one of horror, the surgery procedure that we actually see, a magnificent breath holding sequence, gruesome but once again, done in the name of love! The tragedy of which is palpable. From the opening of the film as Louise (Dr. Genessier's assistant played by Valli) drags a dead body to a lake, to a moving sequence as Christiane visits the caged dogs that serve as guinea pigs for her father's experiments, the blend of horror with fairytale like sadness is beautifully rendered.Tech credits are very high. Schufftan's photography is graceful and sombre, whilst Jarre's musical score, particularly the macabre carnival tune he uses, is coming straight from the aural chambers of the surreal. Brasseur is terrific as Genessier, again playing a doctor (he was wonderful the year before in Head Against the Wall), Genessier is a tortured soul with ice cold blood running through his veins, and Brasseur nails it. The French Laird Creager? Yes. That's a justifiable compliment. In truth all performances are high in quality, with props to Scob who has to wear the immobile mask and act just with her sad puppy dog eyes.As the doves fly, this is what it sounds like when dogs &#x96; and a porcelain angel &#x96; cry. Indeed. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Bizarre plastic surgery horror film  with magnificent acting and excellent imagery","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Moody terror movie about a mad doctor who removes the faces of gorgeous girls and attempts to graft them onto the ruined head of his disfiguring daughter . It deals with a prestigious but crazed surgeon/scientist named Dr. Génessier (Pierre Brasseur), feeling guilty over his intimate daughter's (Edith Scob) facial disfigurement is helped by his assistant Louise (Alida Valli) to kidnap beautiful young women , one of them is Edna (Juliette Mayniel). His beloved daughter is called Christiane (Edith Scob), whose head has been entirely spoiled in a car accident and whose face is so horrible that she wears a mask . All the experiments fail, but he attempts , without success , to transfer their faces and the victims die, but Génessier keeps trying again , but his guinea pig turns out to be his own daughter . Meanwhile , some Police Inspectors (Rignault and Claude Brasseur) are investigating the grisly killings .Austerily marvelous terror film that contains thrills , chills and haunting poetic fantasy . In this wonderful as well as terrible flick , George Franju established his uniquely poetic and visually striking style . This splendid picture is generally characterized by unforgettable images that owed a great deal to early cinema in general and German Expressionism in particular and results to be a symbolic attack on the ethics of science . Although the film passed European censors upon its original release in 1960, the disturbing facial surgery scene still caused controversy . It was reported that several audience members fainted during the surgery scene . Originally released in the US in an edited version titled The Horror Chamber of Dr. Faustus , an odd title considering there's no one named Dr. Faustus in the film . Director John Carpenter once suggested that selecting the mask that Michael Myers wore in Halloween (1978) was influenced by Edith Scob's mask in this film and equally in recent movie (2011) by Pedro Almodovar titled The Skin I Live In . Good acting by Pierre Brasseur as a brilliant but demented researcher/scientific/surgeon haunted by past tragedy who abducts girls removing their faces and tries to graft them onto the head on his beloved daughter . Evocative and imaginative cinematography by Eugen Shuftan . Enjoyable musical score by Maurice Jarre , composing in his usual and agreeable style .This classic terror motion picture , a classic in some circles , was stunningly directed by Georges Franju who never considered the film to be a horror story, but instead felt it was tale of anguish . Initial releases of the film were met with negative reactions from film critics , while the general critical reaction had been poor , however ,today is considered to be a masterpiece . One French critic stated the film was in a minor genre and quite unworthy of Franju's abilities . Franju responded by saying that the film was his attempt to get the minor genre to be taken seriously. Rating  Better than average , well worth watching .George Franju was a magnificent filmmaker but one of the underrated directors of French cinema , being his feature debut was Head Against the Wall(1959) . His reputation was strengthened with the Eyes without of face (1960); Judex (1963), a tribute to French film serial pioneer Louis Feuillade in 1963; and the Jean Cocteau adaptation Thomas l'imposteur (1965), though in the last 15 years of his life he was sadly neglected. "},{"Title":"Deeply Creepy - another Valli triumph","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" **DEFINITELY CONTAINS SPOILERS** Director Georges Franju speaks in the interview feature (on this Criterion DVD) about the structures the studio asked of him no blood, no mad Doctor. He also talks about the horror found in the everyday. He achieves his goal. This is the creepiest movie I have ever seen. The concept of the story (a Doctor who kidnaps girls to remove their faces to graft onto his disfigured daughter's face) is a good start, but this is an actor's horror film. Pierre Brasseur's totally controlling and impassive scientist plays on our fear of surgery. Alida Valli - a simply brilliant actress - is perfectly used here as the mother who lures these girls into this horror. (Many do not realize her character is the mother, but the script is very well crafted, it is subtle, but clear.) Valli is at her strength when portraying someone superficially cold, but with other things going on underneath, and this coolness and detachment work here perfectly. Edtih Scob as the disfigured daughter, wearing a stiff quilted robe becomes a disturbing combination of walking skeleton and Christmas Tree Angel. It is this kind of visual that brings the horror to life. It is ultimately her story, which gives this film unexpected depth.The visuals are haunting and beautiful like that. The room where the dogs are caged is very pretty, the cages are designed in a stylish and elegant way, yet we notice how small each cage is, how trapped those animals must be. It is the humanity of the victims and the kidnappers which make this realistic. It is the realism of the emotional motivations which make it creepy. Just like Jeffrey Dahmer, these people are very normal... they are upstanding citizens. They just happen to kidnap young women and disfigure them - they actually believe they are doing it for a good, and loving reason. This is early for the technical aspects of horror films, so the surgical procedure can be forgiven for being less realistic than modern techniques could have made it look more real, but it is good enough. The necrosis of the facial graft is just wonderful conceptually, and is believably done. Much of this film would not work as well if it had been done in color. The musical score adds a brilliant touch of freewheeling insanity. And the ending is a blending of the uplifting and the odd, to make it feel perfectly right. Goodness may triumph, but it may be tough to look at. "},{"Title":"Night of the Hunter","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A classic of French cinema, Georges Franju's Eyes Without a Face was based on a novel by Jean Redon. Dreamy and at times terrifying, the film stars Pierre Brassuer as Genessier, an arrogant plastic surgeon. When his daughter's face is destroyed during a car accident, Genessier resolves to repair the damage.For most of its running time, Genessier's daughter, Christiane (Edith Scob), wears a face mask. This mask hides her disfigurement, but also provides glimpses of her sad, soulful eyes. Driven by guilt &#x96; Genessier is responsible for his daughter's accident &#x96; Genessier thus attempts to restore his daughter's face. He has no luck. Christiane's face seems to reject each skin graft.This is where the film becomes increasingly demented Genessier has begun murdering women in order to use their bodies to repair his child. Part serial killer, part Doctor Frankenstein, and part vampire (he drains blood from organs), Genessier thus spends most of Franju's film ferrying corpses back and forth, a futile loop which speaks to the dead-endedness of his own life. Even more macabre is the collection of dogs which Genessier keeps nearby, animals upon which he also conducts experiments. These dogs will later devour Genessiers, exacting revenge on behalf of the doctor's numerous victims.Also caught in a grim death-loop is Louise, Genessier's assistant. She owes Genessier her life, and so slavishly serves him. The film is renowned for a long, queasy sequence in which Genessier and Louise surgically remove a woman's face. Horrific sequences like this clash oddly with the jaunty carnival music (by Maurice Jarre) which runs throughout the film. This music, though, points to the film's thin vein of satire; all Franju's characters believe in a farcical form of love, everyone trapped in perverted adoration, Louise dementedly attached to Genessier, Genessier to his daughter, and vice versa.Eyes Without a Face was shot by cinematographer Eugen Schufftan, who did memorable work with Fritz Lang (Metropolis), Robert Rossen (The Hustler) and Max Ophuls. In Face, Schufftan paints a world of icy whites and deep blacks. Together with Franju, he captures numerous powerful images, most notably the sight of young Christine, ghostly and porcelain-faced, floating through a mansion in how flowing robes.8/10 &#x96; Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"The mask","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Watching Georges Franju excellent horror film of 1960 one can only realize what Dr. Genessier was going back then, would have been possible with the advance of science. Les yeux sans visage, his ground breaking horror film, proves to be one of the most satisfying pictures of this genre. Mr. Franju was an unusual talent whose main interest was not to shock, but entertain and tell a different story. He achieved what he set out to do in this classic that doesn't seem to age thanks to the great transfer the people at Criterion DVD did with the original material.Right at the start we watch Louise, Dr. Genessier's assistant, drag a body late at night and dumps it in the river. The discovery of the body, brings the doctor to identify it as that of his own daughter, a young woman that was disfigured in a car accident. After the burial, we are taken to the doctor's mansion in a secluded area where we meet Christiana, the real daughter, who is afraid to show her face. With the help of a mask that Louise urges to wear, she appears to be a lifeless doll floating around the house.Louise, who acts as the procurer for her boss, follows an attractive young student, who she happens to hear needs a place where to stay. Louise befriends her and lures her back to the house where the macabre experiment will be performed on her by Dr. Genessier. Her face is going to be transplanted in Christiana's face. The operation, which at first is considered a success backfires on the doctor as he watches in horror how his daughter rejects the transplant.We also get to see how Dr. Genessier is experiment with the dogs he keeps hidden in another part of the house. Dr. Genessier is doing evil things to the animals. Christiana understands she will never have a life again and decides to deal with her father and Louise in the only way she knows how.Georges Franju directed with sure hand. He doesn't go for the cheap theatrics that other men in his position would have fallen for. Instead, his narrative is linear with scenes in which one watches the horrors this doctor, who loves his daughter dearly, will go into any extremes in order to make her recover the beauty she lost in the car accident. Maurice Jarre's musical score enhances the action.Pierre Brasseur underplays the evil doctor to surprisingly good results. The same can be said of the Louise of Alida Valli, who is never in anyone's face as she plays the link between the victims and her boss. Edith Scob is seen as the fragile Christiana. Francois Guerin and Juliette Maynill have key supporting roles.As a final note, Jean Redon, the author of the novel in which the film is based, was a man of vision. Writing more than forty years before the first actual, and legal, face transplant that was done in France in 2004, he pointed to the possibility of a total face replacement, something that was only fiction when he wrote his book. Imagine his reaction upon learning the recent medical achievement if he were still alive. "},{"Title":"Haunting.","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" What an incredible experience this is. A story that deals with such revulsion and bleak desperation emerges as a haunting thing of beauty. This is largely due to the performance of Edith Scob as the gracefully tragic Christiane, whose face is destroyed in a car crash caused by her father. She is condemned to flit through the prison her family home has become, equally imprisoned by the mask she wears to hide her ravaged features. The mask itself is simplicity itself, yet almost appears to emote at times &#x96; it is quite incredible how lifelike it can be in some scenes, and coldly sinister in others.The music is a major factor in this film's feelings of unease. Some scenes &#x96; such as Christiane visiting the latest 'victim' strapped down in her father's surgery &#x96; are accompanied by nothing except the howls of the many guard-dogs caged outside. Other scenes, including the story's opening, are scored with a deceptively jolly carnival suite. This deeply inappropriate music could rob the film of any horror atmospherics, instead it enhances the feeling of perverse unease.Filmed with slow deliberation, fitting for a story involving the intricacies of surgery, the style is reminiscent of other films of the time, notably Hitchcock's Psycho (another major horror contribution from 1960). It also brings to mind the more recent horror shocker The Human Centipede, which caused a similar reaction in cinemas in 2009. Two scenes stand out as being remarkably, repulsively powerful. One is the unflinching sequence involving the removal of a human face, and other is the gruesome attack on Christiane's father, Doctor Genessier (Pierre Brasseur), by the dogs &#x96; ironically rendering his face to pulp too.As for Christiane's fate &#x96; who knows? She frees the dogs, and drifts off into the night like a ghostly apparition, framed by the flitting of the pet doves she has also freed. We can only imagine what becomes of her &#x96; throughout, she has longed for death, sickened by her father's attempts to save her face, so her future is bleak. We will have to make up our minds. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Well it's dated, for sure, but the thing that bugged me was the score. It's by Maurice Jarre, quite rhythmic and avant-garde. But who cut it with the images? From the first scene I found it irritating, relentless and inappropriate. Later there's a long, slow scene when the doctor enters the garage and pursues one of his victims upstairs, and the music just keeps banging on and on, when all I really wanted was a few cuts between hunter and prey and some minimal sound effects, maybe even some silence. And what was with the continuous barking of the dogs? Were they trying to unsettle the audience? Just irritating.I enjoyed the simple story, but I don't understand this film's reputation. It has original touches but it's not a patch on, say, Carnival of Souls from around the same time. There's no reflection on beauty and the nature of masks. In the end they don't even resolve the involvement of the junior doctor and the detectives.I was watching a poor quality, dubbed version, so maybe I missed the point. "},{"Title":"One of the best of its kind!","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Eyes Without a Face is the first french horror film I watch and it's certainly a very memorable one. This is the kind of psychological horror flick I find to be the most effective, making you feel really creeped out simply by its basic premise of having someone's face removed in order to restore another one that is absolutely destroyed. There is a gory scene involving this surgical procedure, being quite realistic and disturbing. I liked how director Georges Franju maintained the suspense of what Christiane, the girl with the damaged face, looked like and I thought it was very fitting and powerful the moment he chose to reveal her true identity. Also, I admire how Franju ended the film in such a poetic, brutal and mesmerizing note. Eyes Without a Face is a fantastic horror film and it definitely needs to be seen by more people. "},{"Title":"Horror Classic","Date":"15 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A brilliant surgeon, Dr. Génessier, helped by his assistant Louise, kidnaps nice young women. He removes their faces and tries to graft them onto the head on his beloved daughter Christiane, whose face has been entirely spoiled in a car crash.The mask was really good. The way it is blank, but clearly fits to the contours of her face... it completely destroys her identity, makes it like she does not even exist as a person. I would not go so far as to say she looks worse with it on than off, but it makes her less than human for sure.While some of the story is a bit slow, it is overall a quite strong story... part horror, part drama and part detective story. I am not surprised that many horror historians consider it among the greatest films ever made in the genre. "},{"Title":"Great combination of beauty and horror","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The last few scenes are stunning. Great mix of the horrific and the beautiful throughout the film, reflecting the plight of the girl at the heart of this story. Some of the scenes are still moderately shocking now, and there were several times when I was expecting the camera to cut away and it doesn't. I can only imagine the effect it would have had in 1960. Franju also does a very good job of humanising the villains, and showing sides to their characters other than the monstrous ones. The only thing that lets this film down are the two cops at the end who act in a bafflingly incompetent way.The beautiful and strange imagery among the horror reminded me of some of the better films of Dario Argento, and the Aronofsky's recent Black Swan. There are too few directors around willing to take a chance on bringing a strongly artistic sensibility to horror. "}{"Title":"Nothing too complex. Just a beautiful effective little movie.","Date":"26 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" It's hard to know what to expect from a French 1960 horror/thriller, since there is very little material to compare it to. It makes this movie already an unique one and it's also quite fascinating to see how the French director Georges Franju dealt with the genre.To be fair, it's hard to regard this movie as an horror now days. A dramatic mystery/thriller would be a better way to describe it, since the movie just doesn't feature any ghost like creatures or brutal killings. It's a movie that's more about its atmosphere and build-up, like you would also expect from a French movie. And also as you would expect, the movie does this quite well.In its essence this is actually being quite a simplistic movie, that doesn't put too much complexity and distraction in its story. There are just an handful of characters and all of the events are all quite straight too the point, without any dancing around them. It's an approach that works for the movie its concept but at the same time I wished for some more depth and perhaps some more focus on the movie its other characters and to see things from their perspective. It would had definitely enhanced the movie its thriller aspects. To me, this was the movie its only flaw. But the movie remains above all things a beautifully done one and also an effective one, that uses only small touches to build up a certain atmosphere and tension for the movie, so well. It's an unique watch, that also is simply a great and beautiful looking one.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Haunting and nightmarish","Date":"18 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A plastic surgeon removes the faces from a succession of young kidnapped women and grafts them onto the face of his daughter, who was badly disfigured in a car accident. All the young women die and the grafts don't take. So the daughter spends most of the movie walking around in what appears to be a plain white porcelain mask that would greatly influence John Carpenter when he made HALLOWEEN almost 20 years later. The doctor is quite mad, obviously. This film was years ahead of its time, coming well before Darios Argento's BIRD WITH THE CRYSTAL PLUMAGE, and definitely made an impression on me when I saw it in the theater in 1960, at age 10. I just rewatched it for the first time in years, and it still carries quite an impact. Watching it now, I can see the director was influenced by another French classic, BEAUTY AND THE BEAST, from the 1940s. And to my knowledge, there would not be a better face peeling scene until Stuart Gordon's DAGON. A must-see. "},{"Title":"The Europeans have always excelled at the horror genre","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I don't know why this is true, but they do. We owe the birth of the horror film genre in the U.S. to great silent films from Europe such as The Golem, Nosferatu, and The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari. American horror has long since lost its luster, usually preferring to center on the totally illogical wanderings of the lone maniac as he hacks teenage girls to pieces. American films show the worst possible outcome as being loss of life or money. European horror knows that isolation and hopelessness can be very horrific for the person suffering it, and the good ones yield a well-told tale with lots of atmosphere. This is one of those films.This film probably has similarities to Frankenstein, but it is far from a take-off on that film. A megalomaniac doctor has had a car accident in which his only child - a young woman - has been horribly facially disfigured. She literally has no face. Feeling responsible for her fate, the doctor seeks a cure which involves transplanting the facial skin of another young woman to the face of his daughter. In the meantime, he is experimenting on a large kennel of dogs that he keeps. He mentions that anything seems to be possible with the dogs, yet he keeps failing to repair his daughter's face. It is interesting that the doctor seems disturbed more by his failure than by his daughter continually having her hopes raised then dashed, not to mention the fact that she knows the human cost in his unsuccessful operations. It is especially poignant to see the disfigured woman wandering about the large castle that is her home, only her eyes visible behind the mask that she has been given to wear, looking at her portrait prior to the accident, and calling her fiancé, who has presumed she is dead, just to hear his voice.This film never really found a following because it was originally released as an art house film, but the art house crowd found the surgery scenes hard to take. Thus it was rereleased as a horror film, but the film does not have much of what is traditionally thought of as horror scenes, thus it failed in that niche too. At any rate, I highly recommend this one. "},{"Title":"MASTERPIECE!! That's all there is to say about this film!","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Many other reviewers here, several of which their opinions I respect a great deal, already stated it with great arguments and I can only second them Les Yeux Sans Visage is a sensational film that single-handedly proves how brilliant the horror genre can be, if only it's handled with care, competence and intelligence. Les Yeux sans Visage unquestionably is one of the most influential movies ever (we can't even begin to list all the films that never would have existed if it weren't for Les Yeux) and it still is as genuinely frightening as the day it got released (well, I reckon it had quite a scary impact upon audiences in 1960 but I wasn't there). The music is haunting, the cinematography is beautiful and the groundbreaking plot fascinates you from the first second until the very last. It's like a bizarre but enchanting combination between horror and a nightmarish fairytale. It's the story of an eminent surgeon and his devoted assistant kidnapping young, attractive girls and using them as donors for Dr. Génessiers own daughter who got severely mutilated in a car crash. The doctor feels guilty because he caused the accident and providing his daughter with her previous beauty again quickly becomes an obsession that drives him insane and makes him really dangerous. There are many aspects that determine the brilliance of this film, and one of them certainly is the terrific acting performance by Pierre Brasseur as the doctor. He's not your typical mad scientist and yet he's ultimately frightening because of he's oppressed and restrained behavior. Les Yeux Sans Visage naturally relies on atmosphere but still the operating sequence is truly unsettling and hard to look at. The highlights are impossible to number but especially the ending will be burnt on my retina forever in this magnificent example of pure cinema-genius the daughter looses the dogs from her father-doctor's vivisection dungeon to turn on their common torturer! A finale that leaves breathless! "},{"Title":"For Our Eyes","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I saw this with Lower Detphs, a good match in some ways. Like that film, this is profoundly cinematic. All the narrative is in the images. It isn't framed as perfectly as Renoir's work. In fact it lacks temporal economy, as if the filmmaker was so in love with his images that he wants you to take twice as long with them as you normally would. Not all of them deserve this.But all the scenes with the daughter surely do. She is the subject a beautiful young woman with an accidentally disfigured face. Her experiment surgeon father just happens (!) to be experimenting with face transplants. The story itself is too ordinary to mention.What's remarkable is the way this woman's face is used. She usually is wearing a mask that looks eerily real. Then we see her reconstructed face, and then the mask again. First, the woman without the mask. She is an Audrey Hepburn type, actually to my mind, very much more graceful and poised. She must be a dancer, something you can see in her work with Orson earlier. Viewers at the time would have been familiar with her beauty and her off- screen scandal involving the murder of her husband's lover. She would have come to this, in other words, with one of the most famous and storied faces in the world.She has possibly the loveliest neck I have seen an actress use as part of her character. Its often all we see of the real her other than her eyes.And the mask! It is her face and fits so closely and naturally that when you first see it, you believe is must be just paint. But it does seem expressionless, at least in a given scene. Later, we can see the lips move. And if you look closely, you will see that different masks are used when the drama heightens. We've had masks in films recently. Open your eyes and V, the former clearly inspired by this. The mix of realism and lack of emotion in the skin focuses attention on the eyes and neck, and the carriage of this woman. Its remarkable. She knew what she had, and so does the filmmaker, and we could go for hours with her like this, in those designer gowns.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Okay, but Nothing Spectacular","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Yes, Franju's film was beautifully shot and was dramatically serious for a horror, but there was nothing spectacular to warrant a slew of accolades.The acting was strong and the cinematography was flawless, but the story did drag a little. Most importantly, the reality of the surgical procedures was way off the charts, leaving one with the fervent notion I don't think so.It's a good movie, but not a great one.If you get the Criterion DVD, look for Franju's phenomenal Blood of the Beasts. It's a short documentary of a Paris slaughterhouse shot in 1949. Once again, the photography is amazing and the subject matter will leave you feeling quite disturbed for certain.As horrors go, Eyes Without A Face is far more intelligent than the B-movie trash churned out at the time, but the end result is something short of anti-climactic. "},{"Title":"Film Without Pace","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" In search of a suitable replacement face for his disfigured daughter, a mad doctor murders young women. The plot is ridiculous and the execution is rather dull. This low grade thriller would be regarded as a total turkey if it were made in America, but because it's French and it's old, it is regarded as some sort of classic. The pacing is extremely lethargic, with much screen time devoted to people walking from one place to another or driving from here to there. Given the time of the film's release, the scene depicting the surgical removal of a victim's face is surprisingly graphic and disgusting. The ending is quite predictable. "},{"Title":"Overrated but still watchable","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" After his daughter has been found, a surgeon's efforts to fix her mangled features lead to a series of kidnappings to experiment on providing her a new face and bring the police into the investigation in order to stop his delusion ideas.This one is a slightly overrated classic. Among the few enjoyable aspects here is the rather free and easy-going the themes are here which makes for a wholly decent enough time. The fact that this one has a really spectacular surgery scene is a big part of that in the film, being long, graphic, brutal and very detailed as it features the pre-surgery, the actual cutting into the skin and several aftermath shots of the bloody face. This is a really strong sequence, and that it's so long and features a lot more graphic moments, even goes as far as it does in the aftermath shots than most other surgery scenes at the time is something to be applauded. The few times where it's shown, the mask actually gets a little unsettling at times which is quite shocking with the angular, slick features and completely deaden face make it really disturbing while getting some chilling moments from the mask. As well,there's the pretty tense and chilling stalking scenes throughout here where they happen upon the victims in the middle of town, while the last good factor is the finale where she lets the dogs loose in the facility where they overrun the others left there which are the only good points of the film. This one here doesn't have very many flaws, but they are pretty big ones. A really big problem here is the fact that the film doesn't feel like a horror film at all as despite the surgery scene, this one provides nothing else for horror fans. Instead, this plays out as a traditional drama about a doctor's struggle to get his daughter to approve of the realities of the surgery while attempting to hide this factor from his everyday professional abilities rather than a horror film, as there's a huge series of scenes that basically aren't even played out to be chilling. That is a major problem, since it never really tries to be scary or chilling for most of the film, and that is especially damaging as if the film fails for the fact that it never tries to begin with as instead this play out like a completely different genre rather than what it really should. This is reflected in the next flaw, the film's terribly slow pacing as this one drags on forever it takes longer to get started, has a penchant for going off into plots that mean nothing and doesn't seem concerned with much going on rather than opting for conversations stating the obvious. Moreover, none of what's left to concentrate on seems important anyway due to the fact that there's such little urgency in anything that it really feels like no one cares so it falls onto the viewer as well.These two big flaws are incredibly damaging to the film and really make it seem overrated.Today's Rating/PG-13 Violence. "},{"Title":"Crazy scary","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I had a tremendous amount of difficulty getting through this terrifying and creepy film.The stage is set for a skin-crawling experience from the first, as we watch the amazingly visaged Louise (Alida Valli) driving a corpse to a river for dumping. The squirm factor mounts inexorably How odd for this immaculate woman to be gripping a body chest-to-chest, its bare legs dragging, on the way to the water's edge...Peirce Brasseur is well-cast as a cold-as-ice surgeon who will stop at nothing to try to ease his conscience While out driving one day, he crashed his car and disfigured his daughter's face. Paying the ultimate price in his scheme is the lovely Edna Gruber (Juliette Mayniel), a naïve college student who is lured into Genessier's lair. The doctor and dutiful Louise are the ultimate horror couple -- looking respectably bourgeois but bearing chloroform and scalpels. Edna's desperate flight is gut-wrenching.The sound in this film greatly adds to its power. The beginning theme music, with its tinny percussion, reminded my son of Curb Your Enthusiasm, yet there is no mirth here. Cognitive dissonance rules! I was reminded of the music from the also-chilling Suspiria, from 1977, which, strikingly, also featured Ms. Valli in its cast.Director Georges Franju's casting here is spot-on. The young woman who plays Genessier's deeply traumatized daughter keeps one steadily on edge, and, in my case, hiding behind my fingers. Her mask will creep you out!We caught this film on TCM and took hours to get through it. I have rarely been so relieved to see the word Fin. And while one can enjoy a sigh of relief, there is no happy ending at the edge of this dark wood... "},{"Title":"I have caused so much harm to perform this miracle.","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" After a fellow IMDber recently mentioned the Peter Cushing film Corruption to me,I started to remember seeing ads for a BFI DVD/Blu- Ray of a title that I've been meaning to take a look at for years.With the October Horror Challenge taking place on the IMDb Horror board,I decided that it was time to finally unmask the face.The plotEver since causing a car crash that led to his daughter Christiane Génessier's face being disfigured,widow Dr. Génessier has been trying to repair the damage that he has done.Faking Christiane's death with help from his loyal assistant Louise, (whose face Génessier repaired,with the only sign of the surgery being a scar on the neck that Louise covers with a necklace) Génessier decides to keep Christiane in his house,and get her to wear a face mask,whilst he searches for a way to fix her face.Since the method worked for Louise, Génessier decides to repair Christiane's face by kidnapping similar looking women,and cutting their face off in order to graft it onto Christiane.Unlike Louise, Génessier finds his daughters body rejecting the new tissue,which leads to Louise & Génessier having to kidnap more women,in the hope of finding a perfect match.As the police start to fear that they have a serial killer on the loose who is making similar looking women disappear, Christiane decides to disobey her dad and call Jacques Vernon,who along with working at her dads hospital,is also Christiane's fiancé.Picking up the phone, Vernon discovers that Christiane is not as dead as Génessier led him to believe.View on the filmBefore I get to the title,I have to praise the BFI for an extraordinary transfer,with there not being one spec of dirt on the print,and the soundtrack being presented with a shimmering clarity.Carefully balancing the blunt brutality of reality with a surreal flight of fantasy,director Georges Franju & cinematographer Eugen Schüfftan look back to the allegorical films made during the Occupation of France,by basing Génessier's operation room in a basement sunk deep in the darkest part of humanity,with the sterile appearance of the room,and the wearing of masks by the Génessier's completely dehumanises them,as none of them display the slightest sign of remorse from the dying screams of the experiments/patients.Opening with a body being dumped in a lake,Franju stubs the title with a brittle Film Noir atmosphere,with the long,lurking shadows covering Dr. Génessier with the stench of death,and the unflinching gaze at the horrifyingly (but impressively made) facial transplants.Giving the movie a precise touch of surrealism,Franju gives the title an underlying line of fantasy,with animals matching the behaviour of their owners,with Génessier dogs showing sheer brutality,whilst Christiane's doves break free into the world,and allow Christiane to symbolise her late mother.Keeping Christiane locked in a mask for most of their superb adaptation of Jean Redon's novel,the screenplay by Pierre Boileau/ Thomas Narcejac/ Jean Redon/ Claude Sautet & Pierre Gascar draw deep marks of Christiane's personality on the mask,by making Christiane's exchanges with her dad become increasingly blunt,as she starts to desire to break out of his cage.Holding back from releasing a facial operation on the screen for almost an hour,the writers cut a horrifically tense atmosphere into the title,thanks to Génessier and Louise kidnapping/murdering presented in a chilling,matter of fact manner.Limited to her blue eyes being the only facial feature visible, Edith Scob gives a brilliant performance as Christiane,whose fragility is expressed in Scob's petite walking manner,with Scob's stilted body movements unravelling the psychological breakdown that Christiane is experiencing.Showing no emotion during the facial operations, Pierre Brasseur gives an excellent performance as Dr. Génessier,with Brasseur giving Dr. Génessier a warm,wide smile that shows a real sense of care towards people,which turns into total darkness with the blink of an eye,as he looks into the eyes without a face. "}{"Title":"Eyes Without a Face","Date":"26 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A surgical genius (also a physician of a successful hospital) and his assistant secretly abduct, drug, and take the faces of certain girls who have specific characteristics similar to a girl considered vanished by the police after a horrific car wreck that mangled her face. This girl is the surgeon's daughter, and he was the reason the wreck happened in the first place. Feeling a strong guilt for ruining his daughter's face, it drives him to use his own grafting techniques in the hopes of giving her a new face, at the cost of other girls who look like her. When a victim's body turns up in the Sienne (dumped there by the assistant), the surgeon claims it is his daughter, providing him room to continue his work unabated. When one kidnapped girl's face is removed (a Swedish girl visiting Paris in the hopes of making something of herself), there's hope that this will be the success that has eluded the surgeon; when the victim jumps out of a window as it appeared she would never escape without further harm, once again the police are confronted with the idea of a serial killer. A third woman, similar to the two other victims, caught shoplifting, is essentially blackmailed by the police to help them catch the killer; the detail of a pearl necklace by a witness (friend of the window-leaping Swedish girl) initiates an eye on the assistant of the surgeon (who wears the necklace to hide her neck scar; she herself was a facially-scarred patient that had successful repairs by the surgeon, explaining her devotion to him).The white mask and glassy eyes, and how Christiane (Edith Scob) has movements of a spectre, very mannequin like in appearance, nearly a lost soul due to all she has endured (pops responsible for taking the faces of girls unapologetically; the flesh not taking to her face and staying healthy without deterioration; having to hole up in the home, not allowed to leave), her character and look is very iconic, very distinctive and memorable. The final act (with irony in regards to her father's face, and how the release of dogs and pigeons mirrors her own newfound freedom), where it is Christiane who stops the killers, her father (Pierre Brasseur) and his assistant, Louise (Alida Valli; Senso), not the police, is fitting. Edna's chapter is just heart-breaking. The image series where the flesh of the replacement face taken from Edna for Christiane itself is unsuccessful further emphasizes just why the poor girl is driven into madness. She is in her own personal hell that gradually affects her mental wellbeing, causing a decline that erupts at the end. A surgery of Edna is shown in some grisly detail; matter-of-fact and coldly detached from how horrible it is, the surgeon commits totally to the process. The opening drive by Louise with a dead body in her car's back seat, intently focused on finding just the right dumping ground is quite an unsettling beginning due to how business-as-usual it feels&#x85;as if a routine that Louise has done before. Score is at times whimsical almost as preparing us for a Buster Keaton silent comedy, quite unexpected when compared to what scene it is applied to is actually developing before us. Valli's devotion to Brasseur is one of the disturbing details that proves that a repaired face could be perhaps a fair trade for helping to dispose of bodies. The surgeon's stone-faced, clinical behavior and ability to cut himself off from his misdeeds shows that no matter what crimes he commits, his grafting expertise for his daughter takes precedence over a few lives taken. "},{"Title":"The start of the tradition of quality in horror films","Date":"26 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The opening of Eyes Without a Face (Les yeux sans visage) shows a young woman named Louise (Alida Valli), the assistant to the brilliant, renowned surgeon Dr. Génessier (Pierre Brasseur), dumping a body in the river, who Dr. Génessier later identifies as his daughter Christiane (Edith Scob). Christiane's face was horribly disfigured following a car accident, and following her funeral, we realize she is still living under the care of her father, with a plain, white mask over her face. Her father, who owns his own clinic right next door to their home, is trying to restore the beauty of Christiane's face by sending his assistant to find and befriend young, attractive women so that they can be kidnapped, taken to his clinic, and stripped of their own face to be surgically placed on Christiane's. One day, Louise finds Edna Grüber (Juliette Mayniel), an attractive, young Parisian woman who looks to be a perfect match for Christiane. Upon drugging her and taking her back to Génessier's home, the process of stripping Edna of her face and applying it to Christiane's begins in a horribly gruesome way.From that premise alone, many potential viewers of Eyes Without a Face will be turned off and never look in the film's direction again. What they'll fail to see, however, is how remarkably beautiful of a film this is. Despite its grotesque premise, director Georges Franju keeps the film on a quiet scale, conducting everything in a softly poetic manner, relying on the essences provided by Eugen Schüfftan's black and white cinematography to carry the film. This atmosphere makes the film a decidedly artful venture, showcasing the lavish scenery and costume designs of those involved rather than making the film entirely about shock and awe.Admittedly, there is gruesomeness to be found in Eyes Without a Face, and the level in which it's employed is pretty strong, especially given the time period in which it was made. Franju handles the gore in a way that makes the film more about the process than the actual shock; with such a frightening and depraved premise, one expects the film to be filled to the brim with completely nonsensical ugliness and gross-out schtick. Thankfully, the driving force behind the film knows how he wants everything to be executed, and that's not in the way of bargain basement shock. Franju creates an impact that's potentially everlasting on the viewer, creating a film that's equal parts carefully-executed French drama and classic American monster movie.I liken Franju's film to an American monster film not only because of its atmosphere, but its buildup and execution. At only ninety-minutes, Eyes Without a Face is conservative in its narrative pacing and relatively slowburn in its structure. Franju hooks us early on by painting the picture of a clearly intelligent and thoughtful doctor, but one who is also not mentally stable. We then see Franju change gears to give his daughter's perspective on her treatment, living a now secret life confined to a white mask and her father's clinic, struggling to keep her own mental stability. Then we cut to Louise's manipulative, thankless task, and so on; Franju structures the film in layers, giving us suspense before providing us with an execution similar to a monster movie. We get a lot of tension before the instance we've been waiting for finally occurs, and through that, the same kind of emotions and feelings arise.Eyes Without a Face comes at the pivotal time in French cinema when a new wave was underway. The longstanding tradition of quality, where older directors made films for an older crowd, reiterating common values and traditionalist principles, was being demolished by younger, more radical directors who were motivated by watching a great deal of subversive films from all over the world and wanted to profile the kind of ideas they beared and they felt. These ideas were often politically-charged (a great deal of the 1960's work of Jean-Luc Godard), autobiographical works (several early works of François Truffaut), and films that simply broke every convention in French cinema at the time (specifically Godard's Breathless). Franju previously was a documentarian, making films concerning Paris industry, one about a slaughterhouse and another about the modernization of the city. Eyes Without a Face was his first film to deviate from his forte, and what amounted as a result was a great deal of critical indecisiveness about what kind of path Franju was attempting to forge with this new direction. Despite all of the criticism he received, Franju responded quaintly, saying the purpose was to give simple genre films like this some credibility, showing that they can break new ground and give us something to talk about just as much as any documentary could.Eyes Without a Face is a masterclass of suspense and terror, and remains a revolutionary work of not only French horror, but French cinema in general.Starring Pierre Brasseur, Edith Scob, Alida Valli, and Juliette Mayniel. Directed by Georges Franju. "},{"Title":"Time has not tamed this brutally desolate piece of cinema","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I think this is less horror than it is a drama of existential anguish in which horrifying things happen; all of the characters in some way are struggling to hold together or discover a certain reality and the truthfulness of what is happening, with little to no result. Doctor Génessier, the father who has grievously wounded his daughter in a car accident and desperately seeks to repair his daughter's face is a brilliant play on the 'mad scientist' archetype he has a realised goal to which all of his energy is channelled, but he doesn't flail around with typical melodramatic ambition. His eyes are haunted and distant, and when he communicates with the outside world it is often brief philosophical responses. In all his preoccupation he seems to exist restlessly in a purgatory. But this purgatory is beautiful though; a subdued monochrome world built on fairly quiet visuals that are sharply punctuated by moments of horror which are surprisingly gruesome for 1960.One of the most disturbing scenes in the film comes at a moment when the Doctor presents a slideshow charting the gradual failure of a skin graft operation. We see pictures of his daughter's face as the body slowly rejects it and it becomes more deformed, and we wonder what he is willing to do to achieve success, and how much she has to suffer in its pursuit. There are moral ambiguities here, but his goal is not as unreasonable as it is his methods. He coldly buries someone's daughter under the pretence that it is his own, he ensnares young women in his house, and he keeps dogs and birds locked away somewhere in his cellar like a fairy-tale villain, the said dogs cruelly confined in these odd, almost space-age pens. But the ultimate emotional pain comes from his daughter, Christiane, who is the final victim of all this, as she to carry the weight of everything her father does, which is supposedly for her. Her introduction is marvellous, using the striking mise-en-scene and confusing spatiality of the mansion to great surreal effect. It reminded me of The Shining, which uses a similar effect in the geographical discrepancies of the Hotel to maintain a sense of isolation and discomfort. We follow Doctor Génessier as he arrives in the dark, obscured cellar of the mansion, his arrival greeted only by the endless barking and howling of the dogs. He then slowly begins to ascend through the levels of the house; at first quite foreboding with the high windows and cage-like chandelier, and then quite comforting in the final floor of the house, which is soft and serene with its white corridors and crackling fireplace. This is almost a hell to heaven transition, but Christiane's situation is too painful for this to be heavenly. She is locked away like a princess in a tower, and her rescue is not imminent. One of the most singularly beautiful and yet haunting images is the mask she wears to disguise her face. This is a testament to the ability of Edith Scob who has to convey almost entirely through the eyes, the striking emotion of which is painfully juxtaposed against the inhuman stillness of the mask. I wonder how Keanu Reeves would emote if he were to wear a mask like this. When she calls her fiancé (who is believes she is dead) but cannot bring herself to speak is now probably the single greatest silent phone call I've seen, which is refreshing because the call-but-not-a-call can be an insufferable cliché sometimes. I wish the two Policemen had been given a little more development. There was perhaps a little comedy that could have been found in the veteran/rookie pairing, which could have lightened the load of all the melancholy, if only briefly, but if not that just a little more character to heighten the dramatic value of their investigation a little more. I look to The Exorcist for an interesting secondary story, in which the Policeman character creates a conflict between our need to see him succeed or escape harm and our interests in their MacNeil family and their wellbeing. The eventual plan of the Police in order to ascertain the guilt of Génessier felt a little weak though, as they use a decoy to try and prove their suspicions, yet don't do anything to make sure they are nearby and could intervene if her safety is compromised. But maybe that's just a misguided attempt at trying to suggest 'improvement'. This film is a stunningly poetic look at the longing for identity, a theme which finely presents itself in the characters. Louise, Génessier's assistant, is the only one to have had a successful face transplant, yet despite this sense of self she fails to integrate into society, and instead helps Génessier with his crimes. Her presence is always accompanied by this slightly menacing fairground-esque music, or something echoing a carnival, which is appropriate because she is a freak-show, presenting the dire moral implications of Génessier's pursuit. In the end, Christiane, who like a Snow White, complete with the birds fluttering around her shoulders, is almost beautiful, yet the physical sense of self has not been reconciled with the soul. The eyes are considered windows to the soul, but how much of that soul remains if those eyes are without a face? "},{"Title":"My face frightens me.","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This picture has the look and feel of an American made Forties or Fifties horror flick but it's actually a French film made in 1960 and directed by Georges Franju. I don't know what single word might best describe it, but the one that immediately comes to mind is creepy. Everything about the picture tends to horrify the viewer, established with the opening scene as we see the images of passing skeletal trees against a sky of night time darkness. We learn that a middle aged woman (Alida Valli) is on her way to dispose of a body in a nearby river, another failed experiment at the hands of a gifted surgeon named Genessier (Pierre Brasseur). From there, things take an even more frightening turn, as the story explores Genessier's obsession to restore the face of his daughter, horribly disfigured in a car crash for which he was responsible.The story uses some of that pseudo-scientific babble I love to come across in these types of films, that stuff about a 'heterograft', whereby radiation is a requirement to biologically modify a host body to receive a donor transplant. Because radiation is too intense in the required dosage, exsanguination is deemed the next best available strategy for the type of procedure explained by Professor Genessier to his attentive audience. Funny, but none of that was going on when the good professor got down to the real nitty gritty of his work on daughter Christiane (Edith Scob).You know, it's hard to describe, but there was something of an ethereal beauty in both the masked and newly engineered face of Christiane following the operation. Didn't you think for a moment that the new face of Christiane would be that of victim Edna Gruber (Juliette Mayniel)? Instead, you had this beautiful face appear, rather astonishingly to convey success for the questionable transplant operation. It's best described by the professor - There's something angelic about you now in a cautious appraisal of his daughter's beauty. However things take a disastrous turn as the operation proves fruitless; the girl's body rejects the new face and the mask is required once again.But you know what I found to be truly outrageous? What was with that police scheme to insert Paulette Merodon (Beatrice Altariba) into the professor's den of horror? There didn't seem to be any control in place to monitor the girl's movements, and she could have been another goner in the doctor's twisted scheme of things.Well I don't know if modern day viewers of a young age would be affected by the story as much as I was. I think the real terror for them would be watching Christiane use that ancient contraption known as a dial telephone. And then, as if to totally confuse the present day techie, boyfriend Jacques has to answer the phone without benefit of caller ID. Oh, the horror! Well in any event, I thought this film was a genuine creepfest, heartily recommended to genre fans, particularly as I mentioned earlier, to fans of classic horror films of the Forties and Fifties where the mad scientist reigns. In iconic fashion, the evil doctor gets his in the end here, as we learn the answer to that age old question - who let the dogs out? "},{"Title":"Just Brilliant","Date":"21 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A reworking of the classic Hawthorne tale, The Birthmark - or something close to it - Eyes Without a Face - is ultimately about the soul-sapping effect of turning human life into a subject of scientific ambition and control. In the end, it is this which provides the true horror behind the horror of the allegorical fable the way the cold, harsh clinician's light disfigures the true beauty of human life, which is poetic in its essence, not scientific. This renders the film still relevant (even more so) today, than when it was made, at the end of the 50's, and gives the film a universal appeal beyond the sub-genre into which it is lumped.Beautifully and touchingly acted by the lead personnel, and given the full treatment by the scenarists, the film is a tour de force in the Gothic horror vein, but with a healthy modern skepticism of the claims of science thrown into the mix, and a forceful advocacy for the romantic and poetic view of humanity as against the scientific.The film concludes with a symbolic apotheosis that is as moving as any scene I've seen on screen. IMHO, the movie ranks amongst the greatest of it's genre or any genre see it and tremble. "},{"Title":"MY REVIEW Creepy Faces!!","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Eyes Without A Face. A black and white atmospheric French creepy drama about a surgeon who kidnaps young women, takes their face-skin off to graft it on his daughter's damaged face. Lasting less than 90 minutes of run time, it takes the hell out of you in few key scenes. It's a well scripted, powered by good acting and very well narrated story. Grafting scenes are shown in full detail and the character of daughter is used as a medium to depict the emotional complexity of human nature. With only three key characters, movie works an a reminder that it is always about the story and the characters whenever you are watching a movie. All elements in the movie are used very intelligently. The climax may seem rushed but it sums up everything smoothly and leaves you with some sort of satisfaction. Must watch, if you don't mind your cinema to try some absurd ideas. "},{"Title":"A French-Horror Classic!!!","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This disturbingly atmospheric French horror classic tells the story of a mad doctor who is trying to perfect the science of heterografting- the transplantation of skin from one person to another. He usually experiments with his collection of stray dogs, in an attempt to perfect the procedure, so that he can harvest and transplant a face for his faceless daughter- who has been horribly disfigured in a car accident (which she may or may not have been subjected to purposefully by her nutjob father).Doctor Génessier uses his secretary- his only successful human experiment- to kidnap beautiful, young, blonde, blue eyed girls from the community, so that he can steal their faces- with hopes he can transplant them onto his daughter in an attempt to restore her face and former beauty.After killing one of these young women in the process of removing her face, the Doctor has his secretary dump the body; reports his own daughter has gone missing; then identifies the faceless body as his daughter- even though it's not- so that no further investigation progresses. Pretty clever.Well, except for the fact that his daughter, Christiane, isn't dead. Rather, being held captive. Christiane is driven to keep a connection with her lover (prior to the accident), Jacques- a young doctor who works with her father. She is constantly calling him without saying anything- for he thinks she is now deceased.After calling Jacques one night, and whispering his name on the phone, the young doctor starts to get suspicious that something bizarre is going on. He contacts the police and reports his suspicions about the mad Doctor to them.Meanwhile, Génessier and his Secretary are out kidnapping another young woman. This time they successfully manage to remove her face and replace it upon his daughter, restoring her to her former-looking self. The now-faceless victim manages to survive, but when she catches a glimpse of herself in a mirror during an escape attempt, she hurls herself to death from an upper story window. To cover this up, the Doctor dumps her body in his daughter's (really, his last victim) grave.This all seems to be for nought though, as his daughter's newly acquired face does not last for long. After a few days, the transplant is rejected by her body and begins to undergo necrosis- rendering her faceless once again.While this has been going on, Jacques has started to work with the police. Together, they plan to use a beautiful young thief as bait to lure and entrap the monstrous Doctor in his own web of deceit.They send this woman to the hospital, where she fakes symptoms, so that the Doctor will see her. Their plan works. Whereas he does release her from the hospital, he also sends his secretary to kidnap her from the street.But of course, the cops operation wasn't very well though out. They failed to actually monitor the situation...so when the girl goes missing, they can't actually prove the mad Doctor was responsible. Typical police! The girl- who is now strapped to a gurney and about to have her face removed- wakes up and starts to freak out.Luckily for her, Christiane witnesses this, and decides that it's time to end the horrors that are being carried out for her sake. She releases the girl, and all the animals that have been held captive and tortured by her demonic father. Leading to the conclusion...With this, the whole film becomes a metaphor for the archetypal concept of the subjugation of good by evil; and good's ability to overcome that evil when willing to confront it.The inclusion of the police element at the end is revelatory of Franju's subversive nature (also evident in Blood Of The Beasts, which is included extra feature alongside this film on it's Criterion release). Here he sneaks in a criticism of common police tactics; commenting on how they risk the lives of moles, while often leaving them out to dry when the situation goes awry (something prevalent to this day, showing it has retained it's validity).This Franju classic is both dark, disturbing, and would go on to greatly influence the whole subgenre of experimental (mad) science horror, and beyond. The special effects seem pretty meager compared to nowadays (the faceless faces of the women are only ever shown through blurred camera shots or fade outs because of this), but you've got to respect that it was 1959...and that this was among the first times that blood was allowed to be shown on screen. Considering this, the story was pretty innovative for it's time. Clearly inspired by the horrific actions of the Nazi's and Japanese during WWII, and commenting on their sanctioned absorption into the societies who fought against them.Having been restored and re-released by Criterion, this film has since become accepted as one the all-time classic greats of the genre- regularly listed as one of the top 50 horror films ever made. It's a must see for horror fans of all stripes.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A flawed but virtuous tale of guilt, alienation and sacrifice","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Most movies I watch seem to draw their strength from either great concepts or great executions of something that's been done before. 'Eyes Without a Face' on the other hand seems to boast both of the aforementioned virtues as it aims to construct an intriguing and disturbing tale of a desperate doctor struggling to repair the damaged face of his daughter; a damage he himself caused I might add. To reach his goal he exploits the gratitude of a previous patient of his who kidnaps young beautiful women for the necessary skin collection. Sounds grotesque right? It certainly is; whilst the movie patiently waits to show off some of its disturbing images of repulsive face removals and disfiguration, it eventually escalates into a, by contemporary standards, explicit shock feast with surprisingly good special effects. As much as it's nauseating though, the movie never descends quite as far down into the realms of its concept that one might expect and chooses to maintain at least moderate levels of decency.This is first and foremost a tale of alienation and disfigurement and whether it's worth sacrificing the well-being of others to redeem it. The daughter of the doctor is by far the most interesting character who spends most of her time isolated at home equipped with a mask to cover her facial features; initially accepting the deeds of her father in hopes of reclaiming her beauty but growing more and more skeptical for each failed surgery. Her original lack of sympathy as well as the gruesome actions of some fellow characters proves firmly that this is no moral tale where you're supposed to root for the characters that are good. Such ambiguity is more often benevolent than harmful and so is the case here with an ending doomed to be perceived differently by different viewers. I'm sure this could have been a masterpiece if it weren't for certain flaws.As much as the concept is intriguing, the act of performing a face transplantation that leaves little to no scars is laughably unrealistic for a doctor in the 60's to achieve. Let's not forget though that this is horror and certain realistic inconsistencies are easily forgiven. What's not on the other hand is one of the major plot points in which an innocent woman is turned into a sacrificial lamb as part of a police scheme; in every single regard imaginable that entire part is incredibly illogical and turns into a damaging force for the movie as a whole. Fortunately enough, it picks up by the end to provide a satisfactory conclusion.There are other problems, but bringing them up might border on nit- picking; one example includes the priority of the director. Many scenes are reserved for rather event-less but character-building strolling that drags quite a bit whilst the introduction of new victims seems hurried, almost forced. Furthermore, unlike most people I won't pretend to be qualified to judge the acting in a foreign movie all too accurately but several lines seem to be delivered almost indifferently when matters are at their most serious. Don't let that stop you from watching it though!'Eyes Without a Face' wastes a lot of its potential but is still an impressive achievement in the horror genre; with a beautiful sense for cinematography combined with a harrowing story of interesting turns and details, not even logical inconsistencies can stop it from being truly memorable. A surreal movie filled with enough poetically haunting images to give Tim Burton a heart attack. "},{"Title":"A must see","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I have never seen this film before, how I do not know, but after watching Robert Osborne and Anthony Bourdain discuss it on TCM prior to its showing, my interest was piqued. From the first scene I was blown away by the films haunting beauty. A women driving in the night on a dark, shadowy road with an unidentified figure in the back seat makes the hairs on the back of your neck stand up and that is just the first scene. The story that follows is disturbing.Dr. Genessier(Pierre Brasseur) is trying to fix his daughters face after it was deformed in a car accident. He does this by kidnapping young women and removing their faces with the help of his companion Louise (Alida Valli), he then tries to graph the victims face to Christianes(Edith Scob). Dr. Genessier's experiments fail but he is determined to fix his daughter and restore her to the beauty she was before the accident.First off this is in French and subtitled but please do not let this turn you off watching this film. Secondly, this film is disturbing in a way that makes you wary of dark places so if you are prone to nightmares you may have them following your viewing. Thirdly, if you like horror/suspense films, you have to watch this.The first time you see Christiane's face, adorned with a mask, is bone chilling. The mask is so simple but horrifying and it is an image you will have difficulty releasing from your mind as the film bombards you with scene after scene of beautifully shot nightmares. This film is well acted throughout but Pierre Brasseur is a perfect mad scientist, calculated and cool under pressure.Eyes Without a Face is dark in all aspects, from story to cinematography but director Georges Franju makes the horror poetic and serene. The use of shadows, music, and silence are perfectly manipulated to create an underlying beauty that is difficult to explain but you will certainly understand as the film marches along at a perfect pace. Franju's direction is very much like Alfred Hitchcock in that he builds suspense through layers and silence. This film was great from start to finish well acted, well written, well shot, well scored and well received by me. This is a must see Like what you see here? Then check out our full site at 3guys1movie.com "},{"Title":"Interesting but Flawed French Horror Film","Date":"13 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Franju's 1960 horror film, Eyes Without a Face, is a strange film, closer in tone to Hammer's output than what one would expect from the French.Offering little in the way of real scares, it instead depicts a bleak world of science that seeks to achieve compassionate outcomes (saving a daughter's face) through callous means (removing the faces of various victims for use in the transplant operation). Of course, it is tempting to read post-1945 horror films as reflections of the horrors of the Nazi concentration camps and Dr Mengele's experiments but, in more general terms, this film is a critique of the arrogance of academics and their disengagement from humanity.In this sense, the scientist figure embodies all of the arrogance of the academic clever in his own field but insular and so focused on a goal that he cares not who he hurts in the process. Fortunately, he does not simply go down the path of delivering a hammy mad scientist performance.Like many horror films, then, there is a rejection of the excesses of the extreme fringe of the enlightenment in the sense that when the pursuit of knowledge comes at the price of compassion and human understanding it is no longer worth the cost. indeed, the caged dogs the doctor keeps for his experiments shows that it is not just his daughter's face he is trying to save but he is also intent on the pursuit of knowledge at the cost of these animals' suffering.At the same time, he is able to save lives at his hospital and it is the power over life and death and the notion of valuing one life over another that are also at the core of this film.His hospital/manor residence, set at a distance from Paris again symbolises academia and the idea of the ivory tower. The fact that the experiments occur in a basement symbolise his fall into depravity and the hellish nature of what he is doing. Whilst the life-saving hospital is above ground, the hidden world of unethical experiments lies below, hidden beyond the walls of the garage. Perhaps this is also a reflection of ideas that a human is merely a machine with replaceable parts as easy to fix as any automobile.The female characters are mostly marginalised. They invoke sympathy as victims of his experiments but it is, of course, the faceless character who takes vengeance against the man who is, ironically, supposedly doing it all for her. Scob's performance is a strong one with her face hidden behind a mask, her eyes and body language must convey her emotions. Largely mute, her motivations are never clearly defined beyond her clear compassion for her father's victims.One could read the idea of her as a faceless person, locked away from society in terms of female dis-empowerment, that without beauty they are worthless (in fact, she is even denied access to a mirror, symbolising loss of all self-hood.) These ideas echo the motif of the imprisoned woman without a voice found throughout much Victorian literature, most famously Jane Eyre. Indeed, this was a key focus of Gilbert and Gubar's seminal academic work, The Mad Woman in the Attic. However, this notion is subverted by the fact that this woman is in fact the moral heart of this story; though she has no face and rarely a voice it is her ambiguous final action, compassionate to the trapped females and dogs and yet brutally violent towards her father, that brings the film to its resolution.Perhaps the director is saying that female solidarity is stronger than loyalty to one's father or perhaps this is just a reaction to the horror before her that she has slowly uncovered.The quietness of the film lends to its mood as does the slow pace. The bleakness, again, is reminiscent of much British and American horror of the period, relying less on gore than a feeling of the uncanny.Beyond Scob though, this film is marred by its weak performances, its unadventurous cinematography and uninteresting use of settings and lighting. The suspense never really builds and the ending, whilst a case of poetic justice, when the dogs are set free by the faceless girl, turn on their master and mutilate him in turn is extremely predictable and telegraphed from the outset. Overall, one can therefore only consider this a weak film by French standards though fans of the horror genre and feminists are likely to find it of much more interest. "}{"Title":"Think Not I Am What I Appear.","Date":"10 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I'm not sure why this is generally considered a horror movie. There's nothing supernatural about it -- no demons or zombies. It's not a slasher movie. There's only one scene that has any blood in it, and that appears during an operation. Rather it seems like a drama with scientific overtones.A cosmetic surgeon (Brasseur) has turned his daughter's face into hamburger in the course of an auto accident. With the help of his aide (Valli), he begins to kidnap beautiful young women, lift their faces off in his secret operating room, then dumps the dead body that's left over. He identifies one of the cadavers as that of his daughter, so she's considered dead and gone. Once he gives her a new face he can supply her with a new identity and she can begin life over again.The daughter (Scob), who has retained her own eyes, is meanwhile suffering from moral scruples. She submits to the transplants, which have all failed, but she wants only to die and be rid of this burden.Now, for most of the film, Scob wears a mask that resembles closely the face of the actress underneath, and it's not bad. It's not the mask of a gargoyle. It's the mask of an attractive, delicate, and intelligent woman. And, okay, granted a rubber mask isn't likely to be very expressive one way or the other, but frankly the rest of her doesn't look in the least bit damaged.The cops and another doctor might be a little unsettled by the goings on but everything looks sufficiently kosher that they don't pursue the matter, so they play a very little part in the story. It's not about the police.The ending is superb. The desperate Scob kills Valli and sets a horde of experimental dogs loose on her father, whom they tear apart. Then, still wearing her mask and a flowing gown, she released the cage of experimental birds and drifts out into the darkened garden with doves fluttering around her, one perched on her arm, an ethereal figure in the shadows. Free at last, I guess. It's a poetic image.If it's a horror film, it's a horror film for grown ups, not kids. The kids might enjoy it if it were in gaudy color, if there were blood spatters all over the walls and draining down the scuppers of the operating room, and if the doctor's head were bald and had a thousand pins sticking out of it, and if we got to see that original accident, which would have to climax in an exploding fireball. But it's black and white, and it has French subtitles -- the kiss of death for many in the American audience. They're missing a lot. "},{"Title":"A Nice Slow Burn","Date":"22 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The final section of this review contains spoilers, including a discussion of how the movie ends. If you haven't seen the film, and wish to, stop reading at the ALERT.Eyes Without a Face (Les Yeux Sans Visage, aka The Horror Chamber of Dr. Faustus) is from a time when it was okay to take time in telling a story. In other words, in this age of quick edits, I don't think the kids will like it. It does take its sweet time. But that's a good thing in this case; an atmosphere of slow dread suits some scenes very well, and adds to the beauty of others.The story is simple. Dr. Genessier (stout, bearded, stoic Pierre Brasseur) tries to reconstruct his disfigured daughter with, let's say, unconventional means. Brasseur plays the doctor with the right touch of amorality, doing dastardly things just to meet his ends. The daughter, Christiane (round-eyed Edith Scob), while technically not the lead, is the most fascinating element of the picture. Scob more or less floats through her scenes giving essentially a silent performance, all eyes and body language, absolutely lovely to watch. The rest of the cast is good but not what you'll remember when it's over.Although tame today there is one graphic scene and a general theme I would consider unsuitable for the very young.***spoiler(s) ALERT*** I really like this film but it does have a rather large flaw. If you don't see the ending coming you've probably never watched any older thrillers. As soon as I saw the kennel I knew the doc was gonna be Puppy Chow. Sure enough, although it does redeem itself with a nice final scene of Christiane. With a cleverer ending I would justify giving this film a 10.One more thing. Scob is masked through most of the movie, or made up as as Scar(tissue)face. In only one scene do you see her actual face and it's as screen-photogenic as nearly any actress you'll ever see. I understand she did more films with director Franju and would like to see her in something else.Don't let the weak ending hinder you if you like classic horror/suspense and great b&w movies. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Compelling movie for strong stomachs has subtext to spare, works on every level!","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The plot of the movie is quite simple, Dr Génessier, a prodigiously talented surgeon, attempts to reconstruct the face of his daughter Christiane, who has been severely disfigured in a car accident. To do this he uses his assistant Louise to help kidnap and murder young woman to act as facial tissue donors. Ever since I saw Virna Lisi play a Machiavellian Catherine de Medici in Patrice Chéreau's La Reine Margot (1994), I thought that there is something quietly hideous about French spoken with a rasping Italian accent (maiz catholeeks ait maiz proteshtants vs may catholique eh may proteston). Alida Valli's crooning of french is just one of Georges Franju's masterful touches in Eyes Without A Face. All sorts of clever little things likes this get thrown into the soup by Franju when a woman is chloroformed, Génessier throws the pad onto a nearby fire where it bursts into flames, and this touch means you can feel the fumes, feel the dampness on your face, because Franju has broken the clichéd image. He was very good at this, in Judex, three years later, there's a bit where a man is stabbed in the small of the back and his pitiful struggling to reach round to retrieve the blade brings alive the agony.The gender conflict in the movie is perhaps the most fascinating thing about it. All of the main male characters are cold authority figures, the women all victims of men. The policemen place a naive young lady in harm's way in return for quashing a minor offence, a fiancé treats the funeral of his fiancée as if it's a chore, Génessier uses his assistant as an accomplice. A woman's beauty is the only thing of consequence about her, her identity treated as trivial, as Louise says, she can have a whole new invented personality one she has the graft, it will be joli.In an otherwise outwardly unblemished existence, Génessier has been brought low by seeking to rebuild his daughter. Perhaps all the evils of the world are created by love for and consequent partiality towards offspring. It's been the failure of almost every Utopian project. In 2007 it was reported that 90% of China's billionaires are the children of high-ranking party officials. Something that I found particularly spooky about the movie was the ornate design of Christiane's bedroom, including a lifeless portrait of a young girl with a doll. It speaks of a father's love, but also of coddling, artificiality, and smothering.Génessier's criminality is however pointed out by his daughter Christiane, as being just another extension of his lifelong domineering attitude. As a doctor he has always had the attitude that he is next along in line to God. Kate Ince pointed out in her seminal book on Franju that La Tête Contre Les Murs, this film, Thérèse Desqueyroux and Judex all contain musings on the limitations of patriarchy. For me the two most chilling moments in the film concern trapped women, Louise wishing she was on an air-plane she sees flying overhead, and an escaped victim, committing suicide instead of living without that prized asset, her face.And there is an element to this film that defies summation, Christiane's wanderings through the house, and, at the end of the movie, into the open air, are flawless segments that have all the magic of Dorothea Tanning's famous painting Eine Kleine Nachtmusik. "},{"Title":"Wow.  Just Wow.","Date":"28 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I'm so glad that I took the time out to watch this gorgeously grotesque film!!! I'd always heard it was good, so when I ran across it, I was anxious to see if it really was as good as its reputation. Boy, was it ever! The Gothic creepiness is terrifying. The cast, especially the daughter, are amazing...how she can convey so much through that mask with just her eyes is just wonderful and tragically scary at the same time! Most importantly, the story is well thought out and presented. I love films that make me at least feel a bit of a connection with the 'bad guy'. The doctor, while being a serial killer, is still kind of pitiful. I mean, he's doing all this for the sake of his daughter who he obviously loves more than anything. The scenes of him consoling her are actually quite sweet. Course next thing you know, he turns around and knocks off some random girl for her face! But he's doing it for his poor disfigured little girl!! The ending is beautiful. Slightly grisly, but beautiful. This is a fantastic film! Go see it!! You won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Mystic french horror ...in need of a little more character development","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Recently, I have been starting to watch French dramas, crime movies and thrillers. This one caught my attention one late Saturday night, and I wanted to give it a chance. Overall this movie is a good one. Though I don't think it deserves the high rank (7.8). Here is my review As a mystery horror movie it works well. The scenery and environment chosen for these events emphases the atmosphere and mood of the movie. You get to see a short prologue that set you up with some clues about where this film will take you. So far so good. But when you get to know the main character, Doctor Génessier's beloved daughter Christiane, I think this movie is starting to turn a bit confusing. I personally think this film lacks in character development. OK, Christine, is clearly in a weak status after a tragic accident that destroyed most part of her face, and you get to see a girl in grieve having her faced covered by a mask. The doctors mission is to restore the face of his beloved daughter with any method necessary, meaning going to the extreme, sacrificing both people and experimenting on dogs. He has discovered a method to remove faces of young women and apply them or part of them on his daughter instead. She stays in her room in the mansion for most of her time in great grieve. But it is not explained how and why she lost touch of her human side. Her pre-accident story is left out from movie too. When people being sacrificed for her behalf, she hardly reacts about their suffering, even knowing about it. She is clearly mentally ill, but you get no explanation of how she was turning into a person that is not even reacting and trying to rescue the people sacrificed, before the procedure. Maybe she had a long time breakdown (this movie misses to explain how much time has passed also), or was ill already before the accident. But there is no explanation revealed. I will not give away more details that will spoil the outcome of the movie. Taking into consideration the lack of main character development as explained, and some other minor flaws, it is not perfect. But I still recommend you to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"The Revenge of the Systems","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Since the origin of science, science is strongly connected with systematic thinking. However, there is an oddity about systems The more we try to subsume under an unifying theory, the more, it appears, the unified data sashay away like fishes. One famous example is the big tarpaulin that is used in the circus when you spread it out in order to flatten it equally, you will always find an edge which resists to the flattening. As it seems, there is a moment in systematic approaches that contradicts to itself and leads to unexpected faults, accidents, paradoxes, or even worse. So, sentences about the truth or falseness of sentences of first-order logic cannot be proved in first-order logic, hence Gödel's Incompleteness Theorems. From physic Heisenbergers Uncertainity Principle is well-known. Chomsky's intentions from the Fifties to generate all correct and only the correct sentences of a language have failed - his research lead to the systems of artificial computer languages,but not the production of natural ones. In all cases, perfection is defeated by incompleteness rising mysteriously out of itself. When Dr. Génessier causes an accident, his daughter who is with him, suffers first-order face injuries. The physician, a specialist for transplant medicine, tries to give her a new face, but in order to do so, he needs first faces ... . The question is Will nature let him interfere? This movie is one of the most terrifying illustrations of the chronically failing of systematic approaches, but also, at second view, of the triumph of nature who refuses to be pressed in systems. It is possibly one of the scariest movies made ever, with a score that never leaves your ears and surrealist pictures which will come back in your dreams ... . "},{"Title":"The Twisted Beauty of Horror","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Judging by it's concept, Georges Franju's Eyes Without A Face was begging to be another one of those Grindhouse B-movies, and indeed, it was released in the US as if it was. No wonder it wasn't very successful, because Eyes Without A Face is anything but a sleazy garbage, as a matter of fact, it's one of the most beautiful and poetic entries in the genre - a powerful character-driven drama about how a man's obsession to save his daughter can drive him to madness. Pierre Brasseur and Alida Valli both give excellent performances as the tormented souls capable of anything to save a loved one, and Brasseur of the most symphatetic mad scientists in cinema. The last, but certainly not least participant of this dysfunctional family is Edith Scob as Christiane, the girl with the eyes without a face. Her performance is truly heartbreaking, and it's incredible how she can say so much through her eyes alone. The ghostly images of her wandering aimlessly around the crumbling villa and the dark woods with her blanc, expressionless mask are guaranteed to haunt you for life. Overall, a masterpiece not only of horror, but also one of the finest examples of the French New Wave, so much so it's much more closer to the works of Luis Bunuel, in it's dark, twisted beauty and dreamy atmosphere, highlighted by the surreal B&W cinematography and the nightmarish soundtrack. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Really fine horror-art film in Black and White, from France.","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is one of the movies Natalie saw for extra credit in her Sight, Sound, and Motion course. I managed to see it via streaming video from Netflix.This is a French movie, set in Paris and the surrounding neighborhoods. As the film opens we see a woman driving a car at night, occasionally looking into her rearview mirror, at a person apparently asleep in the back seat, in overcoat and hat. But as she gets to a location near a canal, we see that it is a body, that of a lady, and she dumps it into the water. It looks like that is not the first time she carried this out.It turns out she works for a brilliant doctor, often referred to a professor, who lectures on his research in human transplants. As he says, the difficulty is rejection of foreign tissue.It also turns out that the professor's daughter was badly injured in a car accident, while the doctor was driving. This resulted in most of her face being lost, but with eyes remaining, thus the title of the movie.As we know, every doctor takes an oath to heal people, to never do harm. But this doctor is so distraught with what he views as his role in his daughter's injury, he goes to extraordinary measures to restore his daughter's face. And his nurse is a willing accomplice, because he had earlier restored her face too.This is a very well made film.SPOILERS Young blonde ladies are targeted, and the nurse in one manner or another ends up offering them a ride somewhere, but they end up in the doctor's hidden clinic, where he sedates them, removes their face for transplanting to his daughter, then kills them. But in the end, when one more victim is staged, the daughter finally gets enough of the sham, in the process releasing all the dogs that the doctor had practiced on, and they end up attacking and killing the doctor. "},{"Title":"A Visionary Thriller","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Georges Franju's Eyes Without A Face is a perfect horror thriller. Only 90 minutes long, it relies on concise storytelling with few elements and characters, and on power visuals that explain characters' motivations without words. It's focused and never loses track of what it is about.So what's this movie about? Renowned surgeon Dr Génessier accidentally disfigures his daughter, Christiane, in a car crash. Deranged by guilt and love for his daughter, he and his assistant, Louise, kidnap young women who look like Christiane, remove their faces and try to place them on his daughter.The premise is unsettling. Louise gains the trust of the victims and takes them to Dr Génessier's house, where they're drugged. The tension in the movie is high most of the time because of the slow pacing with which Franju shoots everything. Later, when they remove the victims' faces, he doesn't shy away from explicitly showing the operation. For the time, these sequences must have been visionary for their gore, so much poorly imitated by mindless slashers nowadays.The cast is excellent. Pierre Brasseur, whom I didn't know, plays a wonderful mad doctor torn plagued by guilt and failure in helping his daughter. Monstruous as his deeds are, he nevertheless projects a sense of regret about them.Edith Scob is hidden most of the time under an expressionless white mask, which gives her a corpse-like appearance throughout, but her clear, large eyes express everything she feels.Finally, Alida Valli plays the loyal assistant, a woman indebted to Dr Génessier for restoring her face. She looks like a kindly middle-aged woman, but underneath her smiles is a ruthless killer capable of anything to please his master.Wonderfully shot in black and white, this movie is also worth watching for its visuals, full of games of light and shadows. Maurice Jarre's score, a mist of carnival and horror music, is also lovely to watch, however most of the movie relies on natural sounds to create atmosphere.It's a pity Franju never made many movies. Eyes Without A Face is the work of a master storyteller, on the same level as any Alfred Hitchcock movie. "},{"Title":"Beauty Amidst Horror.","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Eyes Without a Face, or Les yeux sans visage in its original French language, follows Doctor Génessier, a brilliant but obsessive surgeon who lives in a remote mansion outside of Paris. His daughter, Christiane, whom is thought to be dead, has a horribly disfigured face that was burned in a car accident that was her father's fault. She wanders around the large mansion, alone, donning a blank, porcelain-like mask to cover her scarred, ruined face. With the help of his assistant, Louise, Doctor Génessier begins kidnapping young women from the city and grafting their faces in an attempt to restore his innocent daughter's beauty. But the consequences of his actions of redemption and destruction of human life begin to catch up to him, as the police begin investigating and Christiane comes to realize the wrong of her father's ways.I had never heard of this film until I spotted it in the Criterion DVD Collection, and read that it was one of the series' few horror films. After watching it, I was stunned by it, and surprised that it wasn't more known of. I believe that it is safe to say that Eyes Without a Face is an understated masterpiece of the genre. It's a quite interesting film, primarily because of how it manages to be so poetic and lyrical while simultaneously shocking and disturbing. There were times when I was watching the film where I questioned its validity as a horror picture, because it seemed like something more like a twisted drama/moralistic tale about life and its values. And yet, one cannot deny the horrific content that is present in the story - the ghostly figure of the masked Christiane (and the even more disturbing, blurred revelation of her face to one of her father's kidnapped victims), the spooky mansion, and the unabashed yet sufficiently motivated murder of young women for their visages.The characters themselves play a large role in the story as well. Audiences are able to sympathize with Doctor Génessier, as it is understandable for a parent to want to help their child, and at the same time we are able to recognize the absolute wrongness of the lengths he goes in order to help Christiane. Christiane herself is an enigmatic figure and character in the story. There's nothing scary about her. Despite her phantom-like appearance and disfigured face underneath her mask, she's an incredibly damaged, tormented young woman who only wants a normal face. And while she doesn't stop her father from doing what he is doing initially, it is obvious she is not in whole agreement with it, which is made clear by the end of the film. And then there is Louise, who is probably the least empathetic of the characters. She lures the innocent girls to the mansion, and is the least forgiving for her actions; and yet, she is also quite interesting because she can relate to Christiane, because Génessier restored her formerly-disfigured face.Director Georges Franju, who previously had done nothing but documentary work, does a sufficient job with this film. The camera-work is smooth, the set designs are atmospheric and oddly similar to those in Robert Wise's The Haunting, and the dialogue and script are fantastic. The film is also surprisingly violent for the time period, and while the scenes are few and far between, there a quite a few squeamish bits. Most notably, there is the infamous surgical face-removal scene, which is quite convincing, especially for the time the film was made. The special effects are tastefully done, but just gruesome enough to make you want to look away. Pacing wise, I thought the film was great. It may be a bit slow-going for modern audiences, but the overall ambiance of the movie pays off everything. Personally, I found the film to be almost entirely flawless. The ending is worth sticking around for as well, and is probably the strongest and most stunning scene in the film. Christiane's actions are shocking and yet entirely understandable, and her final walk into the dark forest, surrounded by the freed doves is exquisite, uplifting, and most importantly, heavily symbolic.Overall, Eyes Without a Face is a fantastic horror film. It walks the line between beauty and terror with grace, and is captivating all the way up to its striking finale. The character dynamics and repercussions of their actions are what I found particularly interesting, as well as the crisp cinematography and picturesque imagery. It's surprising to me that more people don't know about this quaint, artsy French shocker, and I hope that more and more will see it, because it is a near-flawless piece of (horror)cinema. Worth watching, and perhaps owning, if it is your cup of tea. 10/10. "}{"Title":"Holy Grail of horror cinema","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A restored, complete version of Georges Franju's creepy masterpiece has been regarded as a kind of holy grail of horror cinema. It's available now in the pristine condition for which Criterion is noted.The uninitiated could be forgiven for suspecting that it belongs in the cult category alongside Carnival of Souls, Night of the Living Dead, or any number of European horror films from the golden era of the drive-in movie. It has that kind of following. Furthermore, the film's status was not exactly enhanced by the edited, badly dubbed American version titled The Horror Chamber of Dr. Faustus, which made the drive-in circuit during the early 1960s. Thanks to Criterion, the original version, by every measure with which a film's value is determined, completely belies its cult status.When his daughter is horribly disfigured in a car crash, a surgeon attempts to reconstruct the girl's face with skin grafts from young women he has kidnapped. He has had some success with similar experiments on stray dogs he has captured and stored in the basement of his secluded mansion in the wooded suburbs just outside Paris. He has even mended the face of his strange and lovely assistant (Alida Valli, best known as the cool brunette in The Third Man), who trolls the universities and lures the doctor's victims to his home. Every attempt to salvage his daughter's lost beauty fails. Her misery, guilt, and resulting madness lead to a tragic yet liberating demise of the doctor's house of pain.That's grim subject matter for a picture that critics invariably describe as magical, beautiful, or poetic. Such descriptions are accurate, as Franju provides the ambiance and structure of the Gothic tale, while employing a pitch-perfect, disturbingly calm narrative and visual style to remind viewers that they are watching a different kind of grim fairy tale, or, as Jean Cocteau was fond of saying, a beautiful nightmare. Recall the brief glimpse of a ghostly figure passing undetected through a corridor in The Innocents, or the indelible image of Norman Bates calmly standing in silhouette before the old house in Psycho, and you have some idea of Franju's restraint and elegance. It doesn't hurt that the screenplay was adapted by Pierre Boileau and Thomas Narcejac, the duo responsible for Diabolique and Vertigo.There is also a faint echo of the dream-like qualities of Jean Cocteau's Orpheus and Testament of Orpheus. Indeed, the influence by (and comparison to) Cocteau are part of the film's mystique now. Cocteau himself greatly admired it, often citing its photographic style as a lesson in maintaining what he enigmatically termed the realism of fantasy. Even if he was a poet, he's onto something essential with that observation. Such realism, to the point of clinical matter-of-factness, is the hallmark of this amazing picture.This is horror without histrionics, and events progress in a methodical manner only slightly less rigid than the doctor's surgical procedures. Maurice Jarre's haunting score (those chilly notes on the vibraphone accent the wintry setting) provides some carnival-like melodies that suggest madness and chaos, but more often the only sounds are the dogs' barks and howls echoing from the dark chamber beneath the house. The doctor displays a maddening arrogance and a stunning indifference to his victims' suffering. His daughter roams the house in a pale, expressionless mask; her satin gown almost glows, hiding her legs so that she seems to float along the corridors as she contemplates her father's awful obsession.Franju cleverly combines the naturalism of the acting and photographic styles for one bravura sequence in which a documentary-like montage the girl's declining condition is accompanied by her father's detached, scientific narration. That's not to suggest that all of this realism depends upon a cumulative effect; in fact, it works right out of the gate. The opening shot of Alida Valli adjusting her car's rear-view mirror to reveal what is in the back seat might be almost banal, if it were not so manifestly creepy. Or gorgeous. "},{"Title":"the movie was eerie and mysterious, but had some surprisingly beautiful aspects","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The movie Eyes Without A Face is an eerie and mysterious horror film. It starts off seeming very slow with a lot of open-ended questions, drawing you further into the story and what's about to unfold. The setting is dark and gloomy everywhere, giving it a haunting feeling. Although, some shots between the father and daughter are more warmed, so as to indicate the love he feels for her, or in the scenes where she longs for a man named Jacques. Some scenes tend to feel drawn out and long, as every thing the characters are doing is actually happening without editing. Although the beginning is uncanny and confusing, as the film progresses, it becomes more evident of how the murders are occurring and hence more disturbing. I almost wish that it would have been longer so as to go into further debt about all of the characters; I felt like I knew very little about them, but wanted to understand them better (like what happened to cause the car accident and more about what happened between the daughter and the man she admired so much). Also, the ending was too abrupt and strange how the father was killed by his dogs and the secretary stabbed, all so suddenly. Although, it was nice to see the girl feel a sense of freedom at the end as she walked out into the night with white birds and almost emitting a light. Overall, it had a troubling horror story, but there was compassion and beauty behind it all. "},{"Title":"The Dead Should Learn To Keep Quiet","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The absolute best opinion that I can offer (in regards to this 1960, low-budget, mad scientist picture from France) is to say that Eyes Without A Face was OK.Directed by French film-maker, Georges Franju, unfortunately, this occasionally laughable horror story (with its out-of-whack musical score) was just a bit too dry, slow-paced and, yes, tame to deliver a substantial enough wallop to truly satisfy the tastes of today's fans of the fantastic.Mind you, Eyes Without A Face (I think that's a great title for a horror story, don't you?) certainly did contain some genuinely creepy moments, especially when Christiane was on camera, wearing her expressionless mask, while aimlessly wandering around the big, old house.And when Dr. Genessier (with razor-sharp scalpel in hand) proceeded to surgically cut off a young woman's face, well, that was quite enough to get yours truly here feeling somewhat queasy.Anyways - I'm not at all disappointed that I watched this moldie-oldie. It was at least worth one viewing.Needless to say, Eyes Without A Face has been credited as being a fairly influential film when it comes to so many other horror movies that have subsequently followed it. "},{"Title":"Shocking and Disturbing, But Also Thin and Repetitive","Date":"28 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Creeping, poetic French horror that wears classical inspirations on its sleeve while trying to nudge the genre along in bleak new directions. It's a mixed bag, really. The superficial elements - framing, effects, visual themes - are top notch, real cutting edge stuff for the period. The sympathetic lead, a young woman whose face was ravaged by a violent car accident, wears a fragile, unsettling China doll mask to conceal her disfigurements. It's an especially powerful effect when combined with the rich black-and-white film stock, which makes it difficult to determine where the mask ends and her flesh begins. Late in the picture, as the girl's mad surgeon of a father graphically peels the skin away from an unwilling donor to fix his daughter's wounds, it's tough not to flinch. The scene, and the concept, is that convincing, that unnerving. The plot suffers from a serious lack of depth, however, retreading the same territory several times before making any progress, and the film plods along for too long as a result. A terribly loud, mismatched score further sours matters, flooding the room with brow-furrowing carnival music at regular intervals. It's a curious relic, one which clearly influenced a whole new generation of filmmakers in the years after its release, but probably works better as an exercise of original theories than a complete picture. "},{"Title":"The Eye of the Beholder","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" In the recently released Criterion edition, director Georges Franju comments in a supplementary interview that he strongly disproves of being labeled as a master of the fantastic form of cinema. Rather, Franju argues, he prefers to be known as the master of the unusual. What is the difference between these terms, and is Franju simply cowering behind obscure semantics? The director argues that the fantastic is an artificial creation that lacks resonance or plausibility, while the unusual is simply derived from everyday reality. It is in this sense that Eyes Without a Face is unequivocally an unusual rather than fantastic picture, choosing to forgo fabricated concoctions in favor of identifiable abnormalities. Franju prides himself on being able to bridge the often insurmountable gap between the audience's perception of feasibility and the intrinsically absurd nature of typical horror film-making. The reason that Eyes Without a Face is so undeniably effective and lasting is because it never ceases to stray into exaggeratedly improbable situations, whether dealing with the progression of the plot or the actions of the characters. Franju's film clearly takes great pains to avoid the fantastic stretches of the imagination that most horror fare tends to require from its audience. Consequentially, what emerges is a work of art that is both terrifying and profound in its implications, evoking conflicting images of confounding beauty and untempered depravity, inspiring thoughts of pure repulsion and morbid curiosity.In this same interview, Franju further expounds upon the distinction between the two forms of the mad scientist. One of these types is characterized by the abnormal actions of an abnormal individual, while the other is characterized by the abnormal actions of a normal individual. The former is indicative of the fantastic style of film-making that Franju wishes to distance himself from, while the later is clearly more representative of the unusual style that Franju readily advocates. Eyes Without a Face is centered around such an unusual character, Dr. Genessier, who appears to be a perfectly ordinary individual, but clearly possesses unfathomably atypical traits carefully hidden beneath his unsuspecting facade. As the audience slowly begins to realize that all is not well with the good doctor, they are suddenly pulled into an unanticipated underworld of the most irresponsible and destructive immorality, signifying an abrupt tonal and thematic revolution that begins the viewer's descent into the realm of the unusual. This transition, while unexpected, transpires absolutely seamlessly, eschewing the need for any extensive suspension of disbelief from the audience, and thus allowing Franju the freedom to continue on without the assistance of any unnecessarily overwrought explanation. The transformation into the unusual is impulsively abrupt but perfectly understandable, and most importantly, tangibly identifiable.What are some of the most prevalent themes within Eyes Without A Face, and what importance should we attribute to them? As was mentioned previously, Franju's film is not only an instinctively repulsive piece of shock cinema, but it is also a considerably sophisticated film undoubtedly intended to arouse questions and concerns from the audience. There are many compelling moral dilemmas that the film proposes, as well as some noticeable social criticisms dealing with the importance of physical appearance and the potential destructiveness of pride and vanity. Perhaps the clearest question that the film proposes deals directly with the unpardonable undertakings of Dr. Genessier. Does he commit such acts out of love for his daughter or out of a selfish desire to successfully fix what he considers to be his own responsibility? Are his actions guided by a concern for his daughter's happiness, or a twisted combination of guilt and egotism? More importantly, are his actions justifiable if they are committed with the interests of his daughter in mind? Could any person honestly say that they would never consider resorting to such tactics to ensure that their loved ones would not suffer needlessly, even if alleviation came at the expense of several perfectly innocent strangers? These are just a few of the ambiguous ethical inquiries that dig beneath one's skin and uncomfortably settle there, forcing the audience to unconsciously confront such difficult scenarios in their own respectively hypothetical contexts. Perhaps one could not foresee themselves regressing to such a state of extreme debauchery, but could one categorically deny the possibility without any reservations whatsoever?More abstractly, but no less realistically, lies the obvious criticism of society's largely superficial obsession with physical attraction. Christiane is no less of a human being despite her tremendous disfigurement, she only perceives herself to be an unapproachable figure. Unfortunately, her loved ones do nothing but reinforce this self-fulfilling prophecy, risking their very lives to vainly restore Christiane to her previous state of incomparable beauty. To make matters worse, the only individual who could possibly empathize with such a tragedy, Christiane's fiancée Jacques, is left completely oblivious to the quandary. In a futile effort to restore a sense of normality, Dr. Genessier seeks out a series of attractive young women to be selfishly used simply for their physical beauty, with no concern for their thoughts or feelings whatsoever. Their physical allure is viewed as the ultimate reward, as well as the ultimate purpose for their being. Dr. Genessier feels no ethical regrets for his actions because he views these unique patients as lowly means to an end, possessing no unique or enduring traits beyond their easily separable grace and fairness. In this respect, Eyes Without a Face proposes many significant questions with regards to our own considerations on the importance of physical appearance. Just how much emphasis do we place upon our personal attractiveness? How far would we go to ensure that we maintained or improved upon those standards of beauty? Is there such a thing as a beautiful person who is forced to hide behind a mask, or does our own superficiality preclude such a possibility? These are legitimate questions that require individual answers, and what may hold true for some most certainly may not hold true for others. "},{"Title":"horrific and beautiful depiction","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Franju's Les Yeux Sans Visage is a magnificent horror film. It is extremely disturbing at times, but the film has an affecting storyline that makes one feel for certain characters. The doctor is not a stereotypical mad scientist, but one that is trying to give his daughter back the life she once had. We pity Christiane after watching her walk around the house with a blank mask. She can see everything, but cannot show her face to anyone, or even bare to look at her own face. She'd rather be blind or dead than in the condition that she is in. Oddly enough, the doctor commits sins in order to help the one he loves. This causes the viewer to contemplate whether the doctor is really corrupt and unethical.The film's shadows, lighting, and sound design are immaculate. There is a lot of intense shadowing that adds to the eerie storyline. There is often one object or individual that is lit, while the rest of the environment is left in the dark. This also adds to creepy feel of the film. I noticed that when Louise, the doctors sidekick is about to kidnap another girl, there is a distinct musical theme that always plays in the background. It is an evil and sinister tune that lets the viewer know that this woman is doing an immoral deed. Les Yeux Sans Visage is a frightening film with a great storyline that keeps the viewer permanently engaged in the action. "},{"Title":"Give it a chance","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Many film goers these days, especially those who are horror buffs, consider older horror films to be cheesy and dull. Eyes Without A Face definitely breaks away from this common thought. Unlike the average horror movie its scare factor is not determined by massive amounts of gore, quick camera cuts, or startling noises. Franju takes a more subtle approach to horror. He establishes the 'scare factor' for his movie through the development of his characters. One of the most frightening things is how unvillainous the villain Doctor Génessier seems. He is not a stark raving mad lunatic looking to obliterate man-kind or anything like that. He is just a man who because of both guilt and love wants to restore his daughters beauty. Franju's disturbingly realistic view of human nature is what really makes this movie scary. "},{"Title":"Bizarre but memorable","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I've just seen this in a brand new just-in-time-for-Halloween print at Film Forum in NYC.   I'd not seen it before but felt that a new print on the big screen was JUST the way to see it for the first time.The film was a somewhat uneven experience for me.  First the assetsIt is photographed with an intensely rewarding consistency of dark personality.  The shots are framed almost universally with rich inventiveness and quirkiness.  There is a real link between the visual intentions here and the highest type of German expressionism -- from Lang (M, Mabuse, Metropolis) to Murnau (Nosferatu, Faust).Lighting is truly bizarre, though part of the film's visual fascination. There is a lot of almost documentary lighting, where certain subjects are lit very harshly with the surrounding set or environment being more in the dark (think Hitchcock's THE WRONG MAN).  The film is full of forced shadows -- so much so that it becomes impossible to ignore this element after just a few minutes of the films. Harsh shadows which most films would work to eliminate are not only obvious in this film, but seem to be part of the strategy, as a visual subtext.  As a result, you often see not only the characters in the shot, but their shadows (which probably represents some kind of moral commentary); or (perhaps a bit more cliche, but still striking) the shadows of a staircase becoming like bars of a cage as Bresseur walks up the steps, etc.  There's also a marvelous shot of the young daughter with a bunch of doves, with the harsh enlarged shadow of the wings of one of the doves appearing behind her on the wall to suggest angelic wings for her, etc.   Visually this is a HIGHLY creative film in every way.The sound design is also very detailed and eerie, especially for a film in the 1950's.  There is a conspicuous use of bird and dog sounds in different portions of the film to add to a general sense of uneasiness.  One thinks of Hitchcock's later The Birds sound design during an early graveyard scene. A lot of scenes are left in a kind of stark hyper-realism in terms of sound and foley, making scenes like the famous face surgery scene unfold in total silence except for the sounds of the doctor's labored breathing and occasional request for a medical instrument.The performances by Ms. Scob and Alida Valli are very striking, even haunting, and Alexandre Rignault gives a tremendous performance, even a picture-stealing one by certain criteria.LiabilitiesI'm sorry to say but I find Pierre Brasseur's performance as the father/doctor wooden and unsatisfying. He delivers almost zero sense of interior life or moral complexity, despite the role obviously created to symbolize (in part) these issues of moral ambiguity/obsession/hippocratic irresponsibility, etc.  I LONGED for someone else in the role who wouldn't have been such a one-dimensional cartoon character, especially when so many other actors were bringing plenty of effective complexity to their performances.   There is a scene where Alida Valli drives up to the surgeon's darkly imposing house with a young girl.  The scenes leading up to this moment are among the creepiest in the films (in certain ways), but then when the front doors open and we see Bresseur standing there, the seriousness, the sense of reality and creepy danger that we've been experiencing up to that point gets sabotaged because we can't really experience Bresseur's character there as a real human being...he is more a symbol for something.  This is clearly Franju's fault/responsibility though -- obviously he cast Bresseur and brought this stoically wooden performance out of him for some purpose. We know that Bresseur has more range than this role shows.I'd also put Maurice Jarre's score in kind of a liability category, though it certainly doesn't ruin the film.  The opening famous scene of Ms. Valli trying to dispose of a mysterious body has almost laughably inappropriate music.  Later, when she's out stalking for new prey, this theme almost works, but during the beginning of the film before we know anything about her role or her character, it seems unforgivably flippant.  There really isn't a single remarkably effective cue in the score.  The music seems generic, not particularly spotted, etc.  Again, Franju is probably somewhat responsible for this too, but one can imagine the film being even more effective and creepy and filled with greater psychological/moral subtext with a really good score, which this is not.But I recommend it, as a unique document of a type of rare expressionist horror-movie making increasingly rare in the second half of the twentieth-century.  It belongs in the same category with Clouzot's pictures (though not QUITE as good) and with such other earlier aberrant ground-breakers of the horror/melodrama genre as MAD LOVE, MURDERS IN THE RUE MORGUE or the Val Lewton horror pictures. "},{"Title":"Horror as a casual, everyday manifestation","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  There is, beneath the surface of this film, a very potent anti-vivisectionist message the endless search to put right that which has gone grievously wrong, and how, in pursuit of this seemingly noble and altruistic end, mankind is prepared to tolerate unspeakable cruelties and atrocities. The final scene, in which the animal victims of the experimenter's lab are released into freedom by the very person who had most to gain from work inflicted on them, is a powerful and potent symbol. As Bernard Shaw once said, The arguments used to justify vivisection are those which could be used to justify any atrocity, and Franju seems to want to bring this message home through this truly atmospheric and moving film. It should perhaps also be remembered that Franju made an earlier documentary, 'The Blood of Beasts' which simply confronted us, without comment or judgement, with what exactly goes on before flesh food reaches our tables. 'Eyes Without A Face' is a film that has many parables in it, and is a valuable and worthy addition to French cinema history. "},{"Title":"brilliant and beautiful expressionist horror movie","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A brilliant film about a father who will do anything to restore his daughter's beauty. Docteur Génessier is a brilliant plastic surgeon who is on the verge of a breakthrough in skin transplantations. His daughter, Christiane, was terribly disfigured in an automobile accident with Dr. Génessier at the wheel of the car. Now, the doctor is kidnapping young woman and grafting their faces to try to restore the beauty of his daughter.This movie is very atmospheric with a terrific score. The choice for the mask Christiane wears is pretty brilliant. It is a very eerie mannequin looking mask. It creeps me out every time I see it. I also give Georges Franju credit for never giving a good view of Christiane's face. You get one out of focus view of it. This allows your imagination to assume the worst.I always have mixed emotions for Christiane in the film. It is sad about her poor face, but she allows her father to do hideous acts to try to restore it.Overall, this is a terrific piece of horror with is highly influenced by expressionist. It is a must see for classic horror fans. "}{"Title":"Atmospheric early French horror","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Georges Franju's beautifully grotesque film Eyes Without a Face has inspired many an imitator, most notably Jess Franco, with his films The Awful Doctor Orloff and the sleaze / gore epic Faceless.Dr. Génessier is a well-recognized doctor in the field of tissue transplant (he practices a lot at home on his dogs) so, when his daughter Christiane's face is mutilated in a car crash due to his erratic driving he feels a little guilty and he enlists his assistant Louise to go out and start kidnapping blonde-haired, blue-eyed beauties so he can slice their faces off and graft them onto his daughter. Although, so far it hasn't been going too well. Each transplant has been a failure and he (along with his daughter) is starting to loose hope.One day Louise brings home yet another young woman, ol' Doc drugs her up, breaks out the scalpel and gets to work - finally, success! the skin-graft holds and Christiane is no longer faceless. But after a few days her new face slowly begins to decay and by the end of twelve days her face is pretty much a decomposed mess. So the good Doctor procures yet another young lovely and prepares to begin the transplant process afresh. But this time his daughter has had enough of his disregard for human life and she sets the girl free, stabs Louise in the neck then releases the dogs on her father, whose face they promptly disfigure (karma's a bitch, huh?).Although a little slow in the beginning, the film definitely has its moments - from the ethereal figure of a surreally-masked Christiane gliding around the house to the films carnival-like theme song, to the good doctor peeling back girls faces - this flick is sure to leave you with some mindboggling imagery.Sadly we never actually get to see what Christiane's face looks like under the mask&#133; well, there is one shot but it's deliberately out of focus so the viewer imagines the worst I suppose. Overall a decent film for its time with some visually appealing imagery, but&#133; call me a brainless gorehound'' or whatever I still far prefer the tasteless sleaze 'n' gore of Franco's tribute'', Faceless. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Moody French Rumination","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I've seen this movie several times having stayed up very late to watch it on TV back in the 60s and last seeing it (sans subtitles) at The Public Theater in NYC in all it's wide screen glory about 10 or 11 years ago. Where to begin? In its day it was considered so outre and shocking that it ran at grind houses (not quite porno) under the name of The Horror Chamber of Dr. Faustus. I like to speculate as to who might have been in the audience for this movie back in its first run. This is a fairly sober examination of the ethics of playing God, which I guess is the essence of all medical dramas. The shadowy black and white atmospherics and the menacing, leather- trenchcoat undertones create a very tense mood which eventually gets punctuated by the case history photographs of the decaying face and the face graft scene, Pretty tame stuff by current standards but still very powerful if you are able to lose yourself in the flow of the imagery. Probably much more better known for the eerie image of Edith Scob (last seen in Brotherhood of the Wolf) in the blank white face mask which gives a much more accurate idea of what the film is really like. "},{"Title":"Ironic?","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I was tricked into renting this film because the description was of a supernatural thriller. Nothing supernatural about this film, but it was a semi-enjoyable piece of cinema. I'm sure that there's a social commentary in it, but i don't know late 50's France. I'm not familiar with the director, or anyone else connected with this work, but I felt that the cinematography, at times, was excellent. The film's pacing was a bit slow. I noticed that instead of using a voice-over for Christiane when she was wearing a mask, she tried a poor form of ventriloquism. Wasn't her fiancé as wooden as they come? However, wasn't it a bit ironic that this film comes from a country that hosted the first successful face graft? (Double irony-the woman that received the graft was mauled by a dog) "},{"Title":"A bit sluggish","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Great story from Boileau and Narcejac (Vertigo), but Franju doesn't quite pull it off here.  The takes are unnervingly long, and there are shots that serve no purpose and drag the film's pace.  At times, the film's campiness resembles an Ed Wood opus (re the graveyard), but it generally succeeds in creating an atmosphere of creepiness, especially in the form of Edna, the disfigured woman who wears a white, textureless mask.  And Maurice Jarré's score is eerily poignant.  So, what's the verdict, then?  Well, it's a curiosity piece.  Its elements are interesting in themselves, but don't add up to much as a whole.    "},{"Title":"The mystique, the legend, is bigger than the film itself","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A surgeon becomes a killer of women for the sake of his disfigured daughter. There are many haunting scenes in this French thriller, a justifiably famous surgery sequence, and a curiously detached mood that many American thrillers have attempted to duplicate and failed. The pacing is deliberately slow, the plot absorbing and intense though not frightening. As for the ending, it is quite artful and beautiful, a masterful touch, but it isn't there to bring the plot together in a logical sense. This is because the film exists on its own plane, with an otherworldly feel of cool indifference and detachment. It is neither a masterpiece nor a failed art-thriller, yet it does have flashes of interest and a classy production design. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"At least this doctor is in network.","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Eyes without a Face. The title is not a metaphor. It seems that a crusty old doctor, despondent that his daughter's face is, well, no longer present owing to a terrible car accident, has resorted to kidnapping young women, removing their faces, and grafting the faces onto his daughter. The results are not always optimal.Doctor Genessier (Pierre Brasseur) has already successfully grafted skin onto the face of his elder daughter, Louise (Alida Valli), with only a minor scar as evidence. But younger daughter Christiane (Edith Scob) has proved to be a more difficult subject, er, patient. Even when the doctor appears to be successful, Christiane's face begins to deteriorate, to the point where she is relegated to wearing a sculpted mask that completely obscures her marred features. Christiane is both ashamed of her condition and increasingly distressed at the lengths to which her father will go to restore his daughter's beauty.Given the French names of the characters, it's no surprise that this movie is actually in French (with English subtitles). But, as is often the case with well-done cinema, these subtitles do nothing to distract from the drama and horror on screen. And this isn't some cheap melodrama, either - it's a horror treat. Director Georges Franju never truly reveals Christiane's non-face face; she's either wearing her mask or is shown in very, very soft focus. This gets the imagination percolating - just how terrible does she look? We do get a sense of the extent of her injuries when we see Genessier operating on one of his victims, carefully slicing the skin off her face (with holes cut out for the eyes, nose, and mouth).In this day and age (more than 50 years after the film was released), it's not hard to imagine a serial killer or similar psychopath performing the same surgeries. We've had bad guys skin their victims and make clothes out of them. We've had cannibals with willing victims. Our imaginations are no match for real life. The barbarism of Eyes without a Face is such that the unscheduled operations do not always result in a sedated slip into the next world but rather a life viewed through scarred, trembling, naked eyes. "},{"Title":"Eyes without a Face","Date":"7 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I had heard a lot about this French film, and seen many clips of the woman wearing the mask for whatever reason, and it was featured in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book, so it was a film I definitely had to and wanted to see. Basically in Paris, the body of woman is dumped near a riverbank by Louise (Alida Valli), and when the corpse is discovered by the authorities Doctor Génessier (Pierre Brasseur) is brought in and identifies it as his missing daughter, he claims to recognise her face as disfigured, this happened after an automobile accident, so soon after a funeral is held for her. Of course we find out afterwards that the Doctor was in fact lying, in his large mansion house, adjacent to his clinic, his daughter Christiane (Edith Scob) is in fact still alive, he insists she wears a mask to cover her disfigured face, but he promises to restore her face by grafting a new one, the body dumped was that of a girl who died in a failed grafting attempt. Christiane not only longs to get her face back to normal, but having to hide from the world she cannot interact with people, and she misses her fiancé Jacques Vernon (François Guérin) who works at her father's clinic, one she even calls him on the telephone, listening to his voice for a minute, but hanging up without saying a word. Louise is the Doctor's assistant, and manages to lure young female student Edna Grüber (Juliette Mayniel) to the house promising accommodation, and she is chloroformed to be taken to the secret laboratory, and heterograft surgery is performed to remove her face and graft the skin onto his daughter's face, and afterwards the bandaged and faceless Edna is held against her will. Christiane's face seems to be back to looking beautiful, but slowly problems develop as the face grows worse, with the new skin tissue rejecting her body, and she must wear her mask again, and Edna wakes up realising what has happened to her, she tries to escape and falls from an upstairs window to her death. One day Christiane calls Jacques on the phone again, but this time she does speak his name, only for Louise to interrupt her, and he reports this call to the police, they have already been investigating the disappearances of young women with similar facial characteristics and blue coloured eyes, and they have a lead following a woman, who turns out is Louise. Investigating officer Inspector Parot (Alexandre Rignault) asks young Paulette Mérodon (Béatrice Altariba) to help with the search by going into the clinic of Dr. Génessier, she visits and is declared healthy, and leaving she gets picked up Louise and taken to the Doctor himself, and he is planning to do surgery on her on the same way when he is interrupted by the police turning up. While he is talking to the police Christiane, who has been disillusioned with her father's experiments for a long time, helps Paulette free, stabs Louise in the neck, frees the dogs and doves that have also been used for experiments, and when Génessier gets rid of the police and returns to the lab he ends up attacked by the dogs, they brutally disfigure his face, while Christiane slowly walks away into the woods. This is in the same kind of league as The Phantom of the Opera or some other well-known face oddity films, I was expecting at some point in the film that the woman would take off the mask and the audience would see how hideous her disfigurement was, but it doesn't matter, the mask she wears throughout makes her all the more haunting, the story is bizarre and the atmosphere is very creepy most of the time, it is a classic old-fashioned scary movie, a great horror. Very good! "},{"Title":"really GOOD!","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This was really a great watch! All the characters blended well together. The best acting I have seen so far in a old horror picture. Very graphic! Especially for a movie that was filmed in 1960. I wasn't expecting the scene where the doctor and his assistant slowly pull off the victim's face. And I'm not kidding when I say you actually see them pull the skin off the muscle! It was like watching a Saw movie. Too bad it wasn't in color otherwise it would have been 100 times more gruesome seeing the color of the blood dripping down the person's face.The actors really connected well unlike other movies I have seen that were out before this. The acting wasn't like listening to robots communicating. My only compliant was towards the end where the second victim wakes up and finds out she is binded by wraps on the medical table, to keep her from escaping. Her cries for help sounded like she was laughing at a bad joke. Very unbelievable, and very annoying since she kept doing that for over 30 seconds. I was hoping the woman without a face would walk over to her and gag her.Other than that I REALLY liked this. Had the gore and violence and interesting storyline I was dying for. Worth more than one watch. "},{"Title":"Classy horror!","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie did stand the test of time! It still can shock, especially because it sometimes opts not showing, the horrible thing, but rather let us imagine what it might look like! Not that it dodges make-up or bloody effects completely! Quite the contrary there will be some jaw-dropping effects! And if you watch it on the Criterion Colletion, be advised that the documentary called Blood of the Beasts on it, about a slaughterhouse isn't for the faint-hearted!! It's on the DVD, because it's from the same director, of course. Back to the movie, with one last thing I have to say If you're looking for a great psychological horror movie, than you have to watch this (even if you don't like one or two actors in it), it's great! "},{"Title":"Not a horror film, but a surrealist fantasy","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Eyes Without a Face has been acclaimed as a horror masterpiece, yet many people seem to end up being disappointed with it. My advice is when going into this, don't expect a horror film. Despite an unnerving atmosphere, there are few actual shocks, nor are there many attempts to scare the audience. The purpose of director Georges Franju was to fashion a surrealist fantasy in the style of Jean Cocteau. He succeeded admirably in that department. The storyline of a mad doctor looking for suitable donors for his disfigured daughter is cheap b-movie fodder and has been redone many times (many times by Jess Franco). However, Franju did it first and his version is wickedly intelligent.One of the main reasons why the film works is because of how believable the characters are in such fantastic situations. Despite the supernatural occurrences, their reactions and dialog remain completely realistic. This aspect is helped out by the performances, all of which are subtle and perfectly nuanced. Some have criticized this cold and clinical approach to the material, but it works perfectly. As much as I love vintage drive-in horror films, I love this film's more artistic style. Some may find it slow and I can understand that. The film is far from the schlock it's original title, the ridiculous moniker The Horror Chamber of Dr. Faustus. Not only is there no chamber, but this gives viewers the impression the film is a bloodbath. Sure, there's some shocking ahead of its time brutality (especially the infamous surgery sequence), but its filmed with the same poetic style as everything else. Its grotesque but not sensationalist. Others, such as myself, will treasure what may be the most beautiful horror film ever made. (9/10) "}{"Title":"Hidden jewel...","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A pretty nice hidden jewel of french cinema. The story of a honorable doctor whose daughter has his face disfigured and try to cure her at all costs, and that includes murdering, of course. A father would do anything for his beautiful little daughter.Les Yeux Sans Vissage It is a dark and disturbing film, so anguished, so Gothic. It has a superb soundtrack composed by the mythical Maurice Jarre that puts the icing on the cake.Well, now you give it a chance, it won't disappoint you, I swear. Only if you like classic cinema... otherwise, you can go straight past it... *My rate 8/10 "},{"Title":"Haunting, memorable, a tad slow","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The idea of this film and execution of the limited make up effects hold up well. As does the music score and the perfect design of the girl's mask--it's a sort of perfect beautiful but blank and normal look that is creepy, rather like the blank mask that is in the first version of Phantom of the Opera and the blank mas in Halloween. You can read things into the mask that in and of itself is disturbingly neutral. Especially here where the emotions all have to come from the eyes, which is also the case in Phantom of the Opera.There have been a number of rip offs and remakes to this film, none surpass it, though most of them try to be more exploitative the horror here tops those easily.What weights the film down is the editing, characters will walk out of a shot and we just hold on the dead frame. This in the middle section especially inside the house, it slows it all down right when it should pick up. It adds nothing to the story, few shows need to be cut just the heads and tails of them, just those lingering static moments that clutter up the otherwise greatness of the film. It makes you a big angry you want to call out cut over and over.The ending though when it comes is unforgettable the final image and music cue are among the best in the horror genre. "},{"Title":"Very dark eyes and a strong, own face","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Ok, you could call this movie Heads without a brain, when you look at the operation-scene for example (the skin is taken off the face in one part!). But this is not the point. Les yeux sans visage is a bizarre dream, a funny finger of the horror-genre, an absolute classic, as disturbing as unique! You smell the odour of the mask in every scene. One of the reasons for this mighty effect is the musical score All of the themes are composed in flowing three-four times; varied orchestrated flutes, bassoons, vibraphones... Powerful and sensitive. Just everything you need for a lovely, little film-music. But this is one of the most stunning and implicative soundtracks ever composed for a horror-movie!It was not very intelligent to show Edith Scobs real face in the two scenes after the operation. It would have been so much more mystical, when she had used her mask while the whole film.Yes the film airs slowly, very slowly, but not slothful! And when suggestive pictures and a haunting cast relate such a brilliant story, it is clear an unforgettable, obsessive movie-experience.And Alida Valli is outstanding!  "},{"Title":"Solid Film, However Slow It May Be","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The premise of this film surrounds a renowned physician obsessed with restoring his daughter's cosmetically mangled complexion, damaged in an car accident he blames himself for, at any cost. This movie is beautifully filmed, wonderfully musically orchestrated, and maintains a dark linearity throughout. I can't think of one shot that was wasted or poorly executed. The production standard is amazing. I'm so used to being force fed movies through modern Hollywood productions, that it was challenge to stay in tune to this film at times. But it's not the film's fault, it's my fault. So many of us are so used to the mindless drivel that is the main ingredient in modern day horror. Admittedly, it does start out a little slow, but it's worth the wait. It is an excellent film that blends poetry, art, and horror into a very classy production. This movie dares to go where the producers want to go; not adhering to formula-tic cinematic staples. This is a perfect film for college film studies, or to view at home, if your interested in challenging yourself and seeing something that isn't the typical garbage that your used to seeing in theaters. Yes, it could have had a slightly faster past, but it makes up for this in other areas, like the surgery scene. I do feel like some people have the tendency to over-rate it because it's a French based picture. But none the less, it's a film that should be viewed by serious horror film scholars. "},{"Title":"Poetry on film; a beautiful journey into the macabre","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Georges Franju's 'Les Yeux sans visage' (or Eyes Without a Face) is one of the most important horror films made. A genuinely creepy and disturbing film, this tells the tale of mad doctor whose obsession with getting his daughter a new face turns murderous. Story-wise, this is highly original and amazingly interesting. It is a story of love, obsession and murder with a rather poetic and surreal feel. The three main actors are brilliant, just perfect! Pierre Brasseur is Docteur Génessier, the father who is ridden with guilt after a car crash which destroys his daughter's face. Brasseur is so good in his role, he gives what could have been a clichéd mad doctor into a human with a conscience, with feelings, someone to pity. Edith Scob is Christiane Génessier, the daughter without a face. She is beautiful in her tragic role, the final scene is beautiful, a real tearjerker. Finally, Alida Valli is Louise, Dr. Genessier's assistant. She has this somewhat innocence and charm about her, although at times she conveys a rather sinister aura.However, it is not just these three amazing actors that make this film the masterpiece it is. The haunting score, which sounds very much like circus music, is a foreshadowing to the circus of horrors we are about to witness the doctor perform. Furthermore, the gorgeous cinematography (thanks to Eugen Schüfftan) gives the movie a serene and melancholy feel. But, in one or two scenes, it also gives the movie a eerie and creepy vibe. Black and white is used exceptionally well and complements the look of the film. Of course, Franju should get a huge mention, as his direction is smooth, focused and flawless.Last but not least, the special effects for a 1960 film are quite astounding really. The surgery scene is graphic and surprisingly made me very uncomfortable. Overall, I would recommend this gem to any fan of French cinema, surreal and expressionist horror or great movies! 4½/5 "},{"Title":"The Eyes Have It","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Eyes Without a Face, released in 1960 has the creepy quality of a tale told by a mad man with details that all seem perfectly ordinary to the teller of the tale but to the viewer are horrible and unsettling in the most seductive ways.It's been said that one of the most frightening things is when dastardly acts are committed with control and intelligence, when the doer of the deed has justified in his mind the logic and rightness of the act.The things we fear are pointed out to us as all very reasonable in this film. A brilliant surgeon, heralded for his research and medical developments goes about a planned activity of depravity.It is the quiet careful way that Director / Screenwriter Georges Franju shows us the horror that Professor Genessier and his daughter Louise plan and carry out that creeps under our skin and stays with us long after the last scene has faded from the screen.Eyes Without a Face retains a poetic quality that can only have come out of France in the 60s. The film presents the images as if they were the most natural thing in the world, and the film asks us to ultimately see the dysfunctional family of Doctor/Father raising his two daughters as a metaphor for parents to allow their children to make their own lives.Consider how Louise reveres her father for his medical expertise which has been successful on her but also is morally distresses at having to help him commit acts against others for the beauty of his youngest daughter Christiane. It is a love/hate relationship that connects with every child and parent- we love our parents for everything they've accomplished in life but disagree with them as well, and this divergence is what forms our own individual personality.The other daughter Christiane (Edith Scob) is an angelic figure who seems to float in and out of rooms soundlessly, and tells her immediate family that she wants to die because she cannot get a 'face' to successfully graph onto her to give her an identity. Christiane has a natural ability to quell the feral dogs that her father keeps for experimentation, dogs that represent the pent-up personal demons of the professor that struggle to get free.The metaphor of a surgeon father who physically takes the faces of young women and forces them onto the head of his own daughter is at once brilliant, unsettling and tragic. It's s beautiful film because it presents the most basic of family conflicts of the children who cannot free themselves of their parents in order to create themselves.The 'mask' that Christiane wears is an unemotional feature-less approximation of an average human face and a reminder that it is far more important for a young person developing her personality to have ugly features that are truly hers than to have something that doesn't belong to her.The haunting music of Maurice Jarre churns up our emotions as we are submerged into the eroding regret of the professor and the fear of the kidnapped young women as the story of the professor and his progeny creep along.The Criterion digitally remastered DVD is accompanied by some illuminating features, which will deepen the viewers appreciation of the culture that developed the talents that came together for the creation of Eyes Without a Face. "},{"Title":"An intellectual's idea of a horror movie","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" An art-house take on the mad scientist movie, with Pierre Brasseur as a doctor who, with the help of his assistant, kidnaps beautiful young girls in Paris and peels off their faces, so that he can graft them onto his daughter's horrifically scarred face (Edith Scob, quite winsome). It never quite works, and so he keeps at it.I've read descriptions of this movie calling him mad or deranged, but I think it's pretty clear from the movie's standpoint that though he's doing wrong (which he admits) he's not crazy. Indeed, he's quite sensible and methodical throughout. I think the movie views science itself (most especially the scientific method) as crazy, which is quite a different thing.My main problem with the movie is that it's not a mad scientist tale so much as a cinematic meditation/essay/commentary on the mad scientist tale. It's at one remove; it already assumes that you know something about the genre. As I watched the movie, I could feel myself ticking off the points okay, here's the part where the monster is seen as pitiable, here's the part where she's terrifying, okay, here's the part where the doctor is sympathetic, here's the part where he's terrifying. Etc. There's not a whole lot of story here; the movie seems more to be an attempt to dig behind the traditional motifs and make a lot of subconscious material conscious. It's a movie I ended up intellectually appreciating more than really liking.Which is a problem, because I don't really like movies that I end up intellectually appreciating more than liking. If you follow. I do typically like arty takes on genre material very much, you'd think this would be right up my alley, but no, surprisingly it's not. It feels far too clinical to me. An intellectual's idea of a horror movie. (Contrast with Jean Pierre Melville, a favorite director of mine, who was up to some of the same sorts of things but feels much more involved with the material.) I couldn't possibly imagine watching it again.Not that it's badly done, by any means. Some isolated bits are fantastic Scob's mask is striking, especially with the close ups of her eyes, wounded and alive behind it. The famous SPOILERS face peeling scene is a truly shocking bit of grue I was ready and prepared for it, but still found it tough to watch (the clinical, methodical aspects made it worse). The ending doesn't really make sense, even by the logic of the movie (I had expected her to kill herself, not wander off with the rest of the once-imprisoned beasts) but it's evocative. The changes that are rung are pretty schematic but the actors do a good job with them regardless.Saw it at the local revival house; Rialto Pictures has a new print. "},{"Title":"Eyes Without a Face (1959) ***","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Director Georges Franju has fashioned what I consider to be one of the most poetic and sensuous foreign horrors I've seen. This well-written French art film may be horrific in theory, but it unfolds with such artsy photography and style that it still manages to evoke a gentle sense of pity and understanding from the viewer; we even empathize a bit with the tormented doctor (Pierre Brasseur, who bears a striking resemblance to independent American filmmaker Joe Marzano) who must commit unspeakable acts to make amends for what he's done to cause his daughter's ravaged face.The idea of restoring a woman's facial beauty seems to be a recurring theme in many of these foreign horror movies, but this one's got a real gem of a face peeling sequence (in the uncut edition) and is the highlight of the picture. The carnival-like soundtrack music initially came across as kind of silly to me, but gradually it managed to fit the unnatural proceedings quite well. The chalky customized mask that's used to hide Edith Scob's deformity leaves a haunting impression, but one minor complaint would be that it doesn't look all that different from the actual face grafts she receives. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"French thrills","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Fantasy and horror movies have never been French director's forte.But,and this is crucial,there are exceptionsGeorge Franju's les yeux sans visages is among them.First of all,Boileau-Narcejac's screenplay (a couple of years after les diaboliques and vertigo) is first-rate,but it's fair to notice it's from a Jean Redon's novel.Then the actors are convincing to a faultPierre Brasseur,scary in spite of his bonhomie,acts as if he was practicing normal surgery.Alida Valli,his lover and his tout,is icy and terrifyingwe wonder how girlies can trust her!Her eyes stalk her prey like a snake.And then,there's Edith Scob,the surgeon's disfigured daughter,a strange doe-eyed actress ,with an unsettling beauty ,who's some kind of Mia Farrow's forerunner .Unlike her two protectors,she's completely innocent,a beautiful shot shows the unfortunate girl surrounded by doves.She's the only light in a very desperate and gloomy story.If you like this work,don't miss Franju's earlier movie la tête contre les murs. "},{"Title":"Sensational! One of THE greats.","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  'Eyes Without A Face' is sensational! This movie has to be regarded as a high point in the history of fantastic cinema. I'm suprised it isn't talked about more! The movie is a unique blend of b-grade sensationalism and surreal, nightmarish imagery closer to Cocteau or Bunuel. The fabulously talented writer Kim Newman evokes Cocteau when discussing this, as well as William Castle, 'Les Diaboliques', 'Peeping Tom' and De Sade, and he isn't exaggerating! This would appeal to both David Lynch fans and Roger Corman nuts. It's THAT unique. 'Eyes Without A Face' has been neglected for far too long. Seek it out. You won't regret it! "}{"Title":"Engaging, But Far from Great","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Obviously, based on user comments here, people LOVE this movie, and there is indeed much to admire. It's got haunting, beautiful visuals and a creepy fun house score by the terrific Maurice Jarre. It flirts with themes such as father/daughter guilt and doctor/God complex, but I guess ultimately my problem with the movie is that it only flirts with these themes; it doesn't fully flesh them out. The film has become eerily prescient in today's social climate in which everyone is in search of physical perfection--and will do nearly anything to obtain it--but it doesn't really explore this idea and come up with any conclusions about it. The whole film seems like set up for a finale intended to shock with its starkness and brutality, but it comes off instead as merely heavy handed. Not a bad movie by any means, just not a great one either.Grade B- "},{"Title":"It doesn't stand up to the test of time","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I could not get into the atmosphere of the movie and I know I tried. Not only is it black and white and has that silly accordion music that only a Frenchman could put in his movie, but the characters felt fake to me, mechanical, like robots playing people.Paradoxically, the girl seemed to be the best actor of the bunch, but maybe that is because her face was obscured by the mask. Yes, there are some scenes that evoke strong feelings, although I would not list the one where they show the faces being ripped off or the girl's scarred (missing?) face, since they are either blurry as to not offend or clearly pieces of skinny plastic.Bottom line for a French horror movie made in 1960, it was probably pretty decent, however now it feels like a bad no budget B movie. Sorry, for me it was a fail. "},{"Title":"Impressive, Stylish, Dark, Bizarre and Poetic Classic","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" In Paris, the brilliant and famous surgeon Doctor Génessier (Pierre Brasseur) destroyed the face of his beloved daughter Christiane Genessier (Edit Scob) in a car wreck. He becomes insane, trying to restore her face through successive transplantation of the faces of pretty girls abducted by his assistant Louise (Alida Valli).Les Yeux Sans Visage is an impressive, stylish, dark and bizarre movie about a deranged doctor that lives with the feeling of guilty, since he caused the accident that disfigured the face of his unique daughter. The simple story is presented in a very suitable pace and is very scary because all the characters seem to be normal people. The detailed surgery of the very beautiful character Edna (Juliette Mayniel) is amazingly perfect for a 1959 film. The cinematography recalls the German Expressionism and the music score is great, and the end very symbolic and poetic. The DVD released in Brazil by Magnus Opus distributor presents a restored version in widescreen and is full of Extras, including the short Blood of the Beasts. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Os Olhos Sem Rosto (The Eyes Without Face) "},{"Title":"Puzzling horror classic","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  If I'd seen this first in 1960, I'd understand its enduring power, I'm sure, but I didn't see it then and I wasn't too overwhelmed by it at all, actually preferring Franco's remake THE AWFUL DR. ORLOFF.Franju was certainly there first with this, I'll give him that, but its slight storyline moves at a snail's pace towards what is inevitably very little.Franco broke through the staginess of the premise with his version and that's why it works better for me. His film's fog-bound streets and river sequences took the drama beyond its limitations. Although there are some chilling, memorable images to be appreciated, I never bought into the film's emotions, either.I found the entire affair distancing. I realize how influential this has been and acknowledge that, but I'm commenting on the film here, not its impact on history.One opinion. "},{"Title":"Horribly overrated, frighteningly average potboiler","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" When people talk about lovers of foreign films being pseuds, I can't help wondering if Eyes Without a Face is exactly the kind of movie they mean. It's exactly the kind of film that if it were made in English - say with Vincent Price in the lead and Terence Fisher directing - that many of its supporters wouldn't hesitate to dismiss as pap, yet because its set in a foreign country and filmed in a foreign language is suddenly elevated to the status of cult classic when really its just a tatty piece of grand guignol that plays like what they used to call a 'quota quickie' in the UK.The French setting is about all the novelty this film has going for it. It's our old friend the mad scientist (ok, mad plastic surgeon) killing various bit part actresses so he can get the bits of them he wants - their faces - to rebuild his daughter's disfigured face. No pace, no thrills, not much striking imagery until a couple of shots at the end, just competent but uninspired film-making. Its watchable but nothing special in any way, although the daughter's mask is strangely expressive. Did they use More than one for different moods? Strange to see early credits for Maurice Jarre and Claude Sautet here, but not worth it for their admirers. "},{"Title":"Science and (In-)Sanity","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Eyes without face and The third man have nothing in common but that each movie has a wonderful score that will stay in your ears until the end of our days.Not only the score, but also the dramaturgy is rather scarce and concentrated. The most frightful scenes develop in the mind of the watcher on the basis of the hints that are shown to him. There is no blood, but he nausea of what a human can achieve. The castle of Professor Génessier is a gigantic ghost train with long underworld corridors crowded with the angst-cries of the imprisoned dogs who know that they soon will end their lives in another failed experiment of the famed professor and mad scientist. However, the character of Professor Génessier does not belong to those B-picture-physicians anticipated by Dr. Caligari and continued by Béla Lugosi, but to the new type of a conscience-less, unethical, border-less and basically stupid experimenter who is convinced that medicine is allowed to do everything.The immediate motive for Eyes sans visage may have been the early drawbacks of plastic surgery, but the movie goes way beyond that turning the protagonist into a very modern successor of Dr. Faustus who seeks for immortality by crossing the borders between human power and the power of nature and thus God. The irresponsibility and non-reflection of his doing are also the topic of George Fréju's film The Blood of the beasts, included in the supplements of the international DVD-version of Eyes sans visage. Unperturbed by compassion, heart-feeling or even a ghost of doubt in their own capacities, people in the slaughterhouse kill like other people write rapports, sell vegetables or handle machines.I always tell friends of mine that there are two truly frightening movies It happened on broad daylight (1958, Ladislao Vajga) and Eyes without face (1960). And this has not changed for me in the decades since I have seen these movies first - despite many modern achievements of allegedly advanced horror. "},{"Title":"maybe the only film (as opposed to B movie) to take seriously a mad doctor performing horrific operations","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" You know you've seen this kind of premise before, from the likes of super B horror (or Z horror) movies where there's a mad doctor performing a crazy experiment on someone; maybe Boris Karloff or Bela Lugosi or someone starred and was directed by an old pro at doing hokey special effects with creaky old music slapped on. I imagine the filmmaker George Franju saw some of these too and decided, in the Godardian New-Wave tradition (Franju, after all, was the co-founder of the Cinematheque so he too must have been a vociferous film buff), to make a movie as criticism, to make a film about a highly respected doctor in France who has a daughter without flesh on her face and takes the skin off of many girls (because if you at first don't succeed, try, try again) to graft on to her face as a new one, as seriously as anyone might take a film of the most prestigious kind. This is one of those stories for grown-ups, or just anyone looking for a superb rendition of horror made personal, straight-faced, creepy as f*** and unforgettable.Part of it is just the direction, as it never does anything too crazy to sensationalize or make gimmicky. There's consummate professionalism going all the way for Franju. But at the same time he's also interested in a certain eerie, Gothic approach the opening scene with Alida Valli (of the Third Man) in the car driving with the other dead woman in the backseat in a trench-coat and hat is about as horrifyingly shot as any scene I can think of in movies of the past 50 years. There's other scenes like that, or ones that just subtly pile on the atmosphere like when the doctor's daughter, played by the beautiful and perfectly sensitive Edith Scob, just walks around the house or around the dogs used for experimentation. But maybe most effective of all is how he doesn't turn away or cut much during a really harrowing scene at the mid-point when we see up close the process of cutting off the skin of a sedated woman. For a movie from 1959 it's still shocking, for its deliberate pace and its need to avoid senseless shock value. What is there does the trick.And while the performances are all very good, particularly from the actor playing the doctor who barely ever raises his voice unlike so many mad scientists and PHD's in these kind of horror movies, and from Valli and from some of the supporting players (at most, for conventional sake, we get the one girl who screams at the sight of Christiane's real face at one point), it's the dark and doom-like atmosphere that really make Eyes Without a Face stand out as a classic. Not to mention, of course, the music by Mauriece Jarre. This is music that would give chills to the most hard-bitten genre fans; Maurice Jare goes from notes of a bizarre carnivalesque nature to more sad passages with Christiane, like when she's just walking around or when we see her with the mask on. In fact it's one of those scores that is so good that you cannot picture the music without the movie, or visa-versa (the same can also be said of his Lawrence of Arabia score).And yet the director is also wise to only use the music when it fits best, and so the film takes on an oddly and daringly realistic tone at times. The camera-work takes some liberties with style (I mean that as a compliment), but it's never too over-the-top, never too much with the hey, look at me, I'm doing a creepy horror movie! It also helps that he has some fantastic writing to work from- two of the writers also wrote the original Diabolique and Vertigo- as that element also is keenly aware of what makes horror really tick. You won't easily forget Eyes Without a Face, as a piece of pure cinema and as a not too dated piece of genre oneupmanship. And it's still, ultimately, a fun time to have even with all of the gloom and fatalism of the picture. "},{"Title":"The guilt caused by his error causes a doctor to try to reconstruct his daughter's face","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is one of those movies that I do not think I will ever get out of my head. The music, though at the beginning, seemed weird to me. Too comical-like, but once the movie got going, and the music is repeated, you realize that the music fits in perfectly with what is going on. Kind of surreal. It's not a true horror, but a psychological thriller with a few horror elements, with the really good horror scene blurred. The time we get to see the daughter's actual face. What I found the most eerie, and really creepy, of all the scenes was the mask she wore. It seemed so real, yet so not. There are some discussions about why Edna threw herself out of the window. First, go back and watch the movie again and pay attention to when we see the portrait of Christiane. It's a fleeting glance at what she used to look like (obviously altered enough to be different than Scob's real face). I have a simple reason as to why Edna jumped out of the window. Edna breaks out of her room and tries to escape, heading upstairs where she eventually ends up in Christiane's room. What she sees is her own face on Christiane. This is what causes her to jump. At least this is what I interpreted, even though we do not see her in C's room, but obviously was, since she jumped out of the window. Overall, a very good psychological thriller. "},{"Title":"So beautiful and horrifying","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This haunting French black-and-white horror film manages to be both grotesque and beautiful in its imagery at the same time. This film is truly unique, and best enjoyed at midnight, when your imagination is free to soak it all up. Doctor Genessier's (Pierre Brasseur) beloved daughter Christiane's (Edith Socb) face has been horribly disfigured in a car accident, in which he was the driver. With the help of his strangely devoted assistant Louise (Alida Valli), he kidnaps other young women to try and perform a skin graft transplant surgery on. As the first two experiments fail, we wonder if Genessier actually wants to helps his daughter, or keep her as an experimental guinea pig, similar to his poor caged dogs, in the pursuit of perfection. Christian's identity is dissolve so that when the second attempt appears to work, and the face of the actress is finally revealed, we barely notice her sweet beauty, and think only of the ghostly, smooth white mask she is condemned to wear. The sequence where we are shown the rejection of the facial transplant is horrifying, as we are witnessing a woman's identity being swallowed up. Yet Genessier and Louise are difficult villains to assess. Genessier does appear to love his daughter, and Louise has a strange, motherly characteristic to her. And are the investigators who willingly place a new young woman in the doctor's chair, in order to work out what is going on his house of horrors, any better? The final moments of this film will forever haunt me. "},{"Title":"Extremely Gruesome","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Have viewed many Horror films with lots of blood and gore, but this film in black and white really got to me in many ways. The director, Georges Franju was famous for his gruesome tales of horror and some of his pictures were banned from the general public. Dr. Genessier, (Pierre Brasseur) had a strong desire to capture young pretty gals, who did not have a family or they lived far away from Paris, France. Louise, (Alida Vali) was the doctor's assistant and lover who would approach these girls and bring them to the doctor's large mansion, where he would remove their faces. It is the way this director portrayed how this removal was performed is what really upset me and I was quite surprised and horrified more than any other Horror Film. Alida Vali was a famous movie actress in France and she gave an outstanding performance as well as, Pierre Brasseur, I dare you to watch this film ! ! "}{"Title":"Horreur Magnifique!","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Haunting, creepy, beautiful and staggering beyond comparison, George Franju's Les Yeux Sans Visage (aka. Eyes Without A Face) of 1960 (some sources say 1959) is an absolute masterpiece of European Horror that is not only one of the most influential Horror milestones of the 60s, but also one of the most fascinating ever made. Director Franju actually accomplished to make a film that is incredibly intriguing, genuinely creepy, morbid, disturbing and beautiful at the same time with this mesmerizing gem. A French/Italian co-production, Les Yeux Sans Visage has everything one could possibly desire in Horror - a supremely haunting atmosphere, spine-chilling creepiness and genuine shocks, a brilliant and eerie score, wonderful performances and an ingeniously morbid plot. The film is excellently photographed in black and white, throughout the film the cinematography bears brilliant details, even in the less important sequences. In one sequence, quite in the beginning, for example a tree reflects in a car's front lid. This may not sound spectacular, and the sequence is not of particular importance to the storyline, but it is a very good example for what an excellent eye for detail director Franju must have had. See the film and you'll know what I mean.Ever since his daughter Christiane (Edith Scob) was deformed in a car accident, the brilliant scientist Dr. Génessier (Pierre Brasseur) is looking for a way to restore her face, a task at which he is helped by his assistant Louise (Alida Valli). Louise lures young women into the doctor's mansion, where they are intoxicated, and have their faces surgically removed...The storyline is very macabre, and for its time, the film is also outrageously gory. Especially the face removal scene is disturbing and very graphic for 1960. The British Hammer Studios as well as a range of Italian Horror productions also showed gore around the same time (and even in color), but I can assure that the scenes in Les Yeux Sans Visage are incomparably more unsettling than those one will see in contemporary Hammer flicks. The photography is, as stated above, exceptional, the score is brilliant and eerie, especially the main theme, which somehow resembles the melody of a merry-go-round in an amusement park, is unforgettable and creepy as hell. The performances are superb. Pierre Brasseur is brilliant as the depraved scientist Doctor Génessier, whose unique villain character alone makes this film a masterwork. His motivations sometimes even seem comprehensible, which makes the insanity and vileness of his actions even more horrifying. Edith Scob is fantastic as his young daughter, the unforgettably haunting image of whose mask-covered could almost be described as iconic. Particular praise has to go to the great Alida Valli. Valli has proved herself to be a brilliant actress on many occasions. As a young actress in her 20s, she became known for roles in Hitchcock's The Paradise Case and Carol Reed's The Third Man in the 1940s. To my fellow Horror lovers, she will always be most remembered as the sardonic dancing teacher in Dario Argento's 1977 masterpiece Suspiria (another all-time favorite of mine). In Les Yeux Sans Visage, a 39-year-old Alida Valli delivers yet another brilliant performance, in another masterpiece that will leave the viewers breathless. Astoundingly shot, highly atmospheric and incredibly creepy Les Yeux Sans Visage is a fascinating and unforgettably haunting film that deserves praise in all aspects, and that furthermore highly influenced a variety of films to come. This is an absolute priority for every Horror-fan, and a film that no cinema-lover in general could afford to miss. In Short An out-and-out Masterpiece that ranges among the most fascinating Horror films ever made! Fantastique! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Eyes Without a Face","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Eyes Without a Face (1960) *** (out of 4) Georges Franju's highly influential horror film about a plastic surgeon (Pierre Brasseur) who starts murdering women so he can transplant their faces onto his disfigured daughter's (Edith Scob) face. I've seen many remakes of this, including Jess Franco's The Awful Dr. Orloff and Faceless but this here was certainly the best of the bunch. Those Franco films come off more as exploitation, although there's still some controversy about which film really came first. Franju comes up with some wonderful camera-work and creates a wonderful atmosphere. The buildup to seeing the daughters face is also very nice.Blood of the Beasts (1949) **** (out of 4) Georges Franju's brilliant documentary that examines French slaughterhouses and their means of killing the animals. Seeing horses, sheep and cattle being slaughtered isn't going to appeal to very many people but this is a very fascinating look at how it's done. There's some brilliant camera-work and the mood created perfectly captures the death in the air. This might be hard to watch but it's certainly worth your time. "},{"Title":"The perfect horror film.","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A mad--no, not the right word--an overly innovative scientist (Pierre Brasseur) feels guilty after his beautiful daughter's face is horribly disfigured. With the help of his ruthless female assistant (the inimitable Alida Valli), he comes up with a way to help his masked little girl. This is a beautiful and haunting film all the way around. While 50s American horror was overrun by creature-features and mysteries that are neatly solved with cheesy music and a return to normativity, this French film challenges, provokes, frightens, shocks, and, most surprisingly, repulses! The performances are all perfect and the cinematography is lovely. The final sequence is breathtaking and tear-inducing. "},{"Title":"Does not star Billy Idol","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Eyes Without A Face is a very macabre nasty little thriller that reminds me of so many other later thrillers. So I am sure this influenced other thrillers, even though this is not really a widely known movie, and actually, seems to been influenced by an old Bela Lugosi movie called The Corpse Vanishes. The plot is about a mad doctor who is obsessed with replacing his daughter's face which was mangled in a car accident. While she waits for this new face she is shrouded in a strange mask (which makes her look like Mia Farrow), and she's basically trapped in a big foreboding castle (the best kind) complete with non-stop barking dogs that that the doctor has experimented on to torment her (and us as well). The whole thing is just NASTY, even without the scene. The doctor is 10 shades of scum, and it really is one piece of atmospheric and fun film-making. "},{"Title":"Eyes Without A Face (1959) ****","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Up until 1998, this was one of those holy grail movies I was destined never to watch (and only to read about) in my lifetime. I knew there was that overpriced BFI PAL VHS but I kept hoping that it would get shown on late-night Italian TV. Then I read Tom Milne's ecstatic review on Time Out and just had to give in; since then I've watched the film FIVE times (4 on VHS and 1 via Criterion's fine if unspectacular DVD) and it has rocketed itself to a place among my all-time favorites as well as my Top 10 Horror films. No matter how many times one watches them, the chillingly realistic skin-grafting operation sequences still manage to make one's skin crawl. But the film is much more than your average exploitation fare in fact, Eugene Schufftan's stunning camera-work gives it a uniquely poetic feel, neatly underscored by Maurice Jarre's haunting music and three exceptional lead performances.EYES WITHOUT A FACE led to a spate of similarly-themed films - THE AWFUL DR. ORLOFF (1961), THE BRAIN THAT WOULDN'T DIE (1962), THE DIABOLICAL DR. Z (1965), FACELESS (1988) &#x96; which, although understandably inferior to their prototype, make for some fascinating comparisons.I've also managed to catch two more of Georges Franju's films &#x96; his fabulous 1963 version of Louis Feuillade's serial JUDEX (via a horrendous VHS dub) and the interesting melodrama LA FAUTE DE L'ABBE' MOURET (1970) on Italian TV; I'd love to watch Franju's first feature-length film, LA TETE CONTRE LES MURS (1958) which is almost as well-regarded by film critics as EYES itself. "},{"Title":"The Eyes Without a Face","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This horror movie was filmed with an eerie essence that encompassed not only the scenery, but also the characters themselves. The black and white pictures and mystifying music amplified the feeling of horror. Edith Scob's portrayal of the faceless young women is not only disturbing, but it powerfully expresses her emptiness as she wears the blank white mask. The ending of the movie is the most satisfying as the doctor is mauled by the dogs he experiments on. The innocent young girl is set free after she got mixed up in the case. Christiane realizes the mistakes of her father and is left all alone in the woods as she will be all alone forever. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I am not a person for horror films, but this one was very good. The plot reminds me somewhat of the film MAY in which a women murders many different men for their multiple body parts and sews them together to make her perfect version of man. It also reminds me of Silence of the Lambs in which the murderer is making himself a woman suit of of his victims skin. Although in this film the Doctor is not a psychotic murderer but a loving and guilt ridden father. Even though chills ran though my whole body at the sight of the skin being removed from the woman's face, I had an over-all fascination with the film.I probably would not see it again only because I don't really truly enjoy horror pictures and once was enough. But if you like a little gore and can stomach it, I would recommend it. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have EVER seen!","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A friend lent me this film, he said he thought I would like it. I had never heard of this film before, so when i viewed it I had no preconceptions whatsoever.He was RIGHT! This film is an absolute MASTERPIECE! The film relies on atmosphere rather than gore to deliver chills, a craft that seems lost in today's 'every film is a blockbuster' climate.Doctor Genessier is truly one of cinema's most macabre characters. An obsessive genius, he is driven to restore his daughter's disfigured face at any cost (under the pretense of advancing science to create a boon for mankind), even if it means depriving innocent families of THEIR daughters as he continues his cruel experiments.And Christiane his daughter. Played by Edith Scob (or more correctly played mostly by her eyes). You can't help but feel for this tortured soul, a prisoner in her own house, dead to the world and trapped behind a stark, featureless mask. Scob manages to convey this using only her eyes! A great film, truly one of the best I have EVER viewed. "},{"Title":"This movie is a mixture of good intentions gone bad, and lovely sadness that is uplifting when seen.","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  It is a joy to see a director and cameraman so sure of where they are going with the shooting script. Images are interesting and yet sparse. No unnecessary camera movments, nor let-it-all-hang-out, maniacal acting. Subtitles are short but tell the story. This was a movie made by professionals. "},{"Title":"Cold and clinical but fascinating","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Disturbing story about a doctor who tries to fix his daughters' scarred face (his fault) by kidnapping young girls, removing their skin and grafting it on his daughters' face.As you can probably this is NOT an easy film to watch. The tone is very bleak, it's shot in black and white and there's no humor to lighten the story. It's very cold and clinical. Still, this is worth seeing.POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!!It's quick (88 minutes), well-acted by mostly everybody and includes some (for the time) shocking gore--a stabbing in the neck, a very hard to watch operation and an attack by killer dogs. The operation especially is unpleasant.Despite all that, this film has a lyrical, fairy tale-like feeling to it. The house looks like a castle, the doctor is the evil villain, there's a heroine in crisis and her boyfriend is the handsome prince. Also the scenes of the woman wandering around with a mask to cover her scarred features are creepy.The acting--the man who plays the doctor is terrible--very stiff and lifeless. But everyone else is great especially Alida Valli as the docs assistant and Edith Scob as the scarred girl (she was on 16 or 17 when she did this!)So, well worth watching (especially for horror fans). "}{"Title":"The Superlative Stuff","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This film is dark and sad. It is commendably understated  musically, and in the acting. The photography is tastily noir. As to the possibility that it is camp, let me say, I consider the concept of camp THE most criminally intellectually lazy attitude of our time. See this film and understand why most Hollywood films are over the top, too wet by far, often downright fulsome. This is lean, clean, spare yet unsparing late 50s Euro-cinema at its best. Ignore the unearned cynic-wannabes and let this film get your mind right. "},{"Title":"stunning work of art","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  this is simply one of the greatest horror films of all time. opening up with maurice jarre's deceptively bouncy yet eerie opening theme to the mysterious little car driving down the highway with its two equally mysterious occupents it leads us on a wonderfully cinematographed and directed story that is alternately beautifully creepy and creepilly beautiful. it was groundbreaking for its time and still holds up today. a masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Intriguing mix","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Eyes Without a Face is a delicious mixture that puts folds in many disparate elements. The plot is pure pulp magazine, with a mad doctor abducting women to supply a face for his disfigured daughter. (And why were horror films of this period so obsessed with female facial mutilation?) The photography is glacial and beautiful, giving the story elements a beautiful veneer. The gore and violence, even by today's standards, is shocking and just a bit revolting. Contemporary audiences will be put off by it's s-l-o-w pace, but the film, although imitated, is clearly one of a kind.  "},{"Title":"Haunting, creepy poetic little masterpiece","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Eyes Without A Face is strangely poetic considering it's plot; mad doctor removes young girls' faces in order to restore his daughter's! People watching this in 1959 must've been totally freaked out by the gory facetransplant scenes. The film is beautifully shot in the best haunting film noir/expressionistic style and it also delivers a massive emotional impact. It's less exploitive than American films of that period (like The Brain That Wouldn't Die, They Saved Hitler's Brain etc.) but gorehounds shouldn't be disappointed. Newer film like Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 and Faceless have ripped off a lot from this French gem. The mood of the movie recalls Peeping Tom and Mad Love. Not to be missed! "},{"Title":"Haunting and beautiful French cinema that leaves its mark, indefinitely.","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" There is something a little bizarre here, where it concerns Georges Franju's (1912 - 1987) second main feature. While it tries, it seems to, at best, replicate the style of Hammer, with tone, content and drama, Les Yeux sans visage does in fact try very well to make it its own. With a unique style of atmospheric thriller mixed with a charm of tension and macabre theatrical proceedings, Les Yeux sans visage is a success of the new wave of the European thriller, horror, drama genre. Directors such as the likes of Roman Polanski, Luis Buñuel and Alfred Hitchcock and now Georges Franju who, with added anxiety, mysticism and romanticism too, is a welcome member to the flock, who has, also, added his mark on the traits of things to come.While shallow in content, Les Yeux sans visage succeeds on its depth of personality and the ability to endeavour the viewer in a sense of, at the same time, surrealism and realism. It is here, in this premise that the real and the supernatural worlds collide to give a haunting tale of a father's redemption toward his daughter's faceless figure.Franju's direction and Eugen Schüfftan's (1893 - 1977) beautiful cinematography have set us up to ponder the wrongdoings of this Doctor, with each momentary pause of the camera, each stillness of frame, each delicate light set against dark and a unnerving and personality driven musical score, we cannot help but delve into this world of moral and immoral sanctimonious divides.More a study in blind-faith and honourable intentions gone awry with visual aids than character development. Les Yeux sans visage is not a film with the time to explain the past but a film to project the two opposing points of morality that this is a human horror. Horrors of the heart and the bizarre yet beautiful manner in which it leaves us suspended in its wake is both a fitting gesture to its skill to thrill, to shock and to horrify the viewer. "},{"Title":"The Eyes Have It","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Over and above the technical brilliance, sure-footed storytelling and top-class acting on display here is the fact that this film was released in 1960, a defiant nose-thumb from a real filmmaker to those petulant schoolboys, Godard and Truffaut, so busy with their hand-held Arris, Sun-guns and Nagras, playing at being directors, that they had no time and/or inclination to stop and see how the Big Boys do it, this being a prime example and it's nice to think that it's quality product such as this that tsunamied the new wavelet out of existence. It's probably not just coincidence that Franju employed Eugen Shuftan as his cameraman. Shuftan's roots were in the German Expressionism which informs every frame of Eyes Without A Face and ironically in borrowing from an earlier era Franju has done what all good filmmakers do and created a world of his own replete with genius verging on madness, Gothic horror and the obligatory 'secret' room where unspeakable deeds are done and Franju has been imitated both in Art (Corps a corps) and Life - I write this as the tale of the Austrian monster who imprisoned his own daughter in a dungeon for 24 years is filling the headlines. He is well served by his actors, Pierre Brasseur, Alida Valli and Edith Scob and for good measure his son, Claude (now a respected actor in his own right and still going strong) has a supporting role as a flic. A key work in French cinema. "},{"Title":"A classic horror","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The new style of horror film in that time. But in completely different of for example, Hitchcock's point of view.This is written by the writers of Hitchcock's Vertigo. There are several important impacts in the movie, that have been followed by other directors after a long time. I would mention several points.The surgery segment is strongly horror. The director have been shown the details and in slow rhythm makes strong horror.A very good sample of using black and white color, to make sense. The idea of changing faces even used recently in Face Off, but in such a different point of view.If you are an film lover, it is advised to see as a classic. "},{"Title":"One of the most beautiful horror films ever made","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Les yeux sans visage is a masterpiece. If you haven't seen it, try to get a copy. Only Michele Soavi's Dellamorte Dellamore is comparable to it, in terms of the combination of beauty and horror (and the surreal ending). Maurice Jarre's music is excellent. The mask theme reminds me of Danny Elfman's Edward Scissorhands and other Burton Scores.****spoiler****The graphic display of a facial skin operation, a scalpel being stabbed into a throat and other scenes make this film an early example of splatter. Thus, it is equally attractive for fans of splatter as it is for fans of sad psychological drama. I agree that George Franju is a master of slow pace and intensity.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Ahead of it's time.","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  If there was a movie that I wanted to be remade for modern times, it would be this one. I found this movie to be disturbingly real of how far lengths some truly twisted individuals are to achieve beauty. And if you do not mind French subtitles and black & white then I say check this movie out. A definite gem in the genre of Foreign horror. "},{"Title":"thrilling !","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  A great movie, the more so as horror & suspense are not exactly a specialty of the French. Nevertheless in my view the features of 'Les yeux sans visage' certainly equal any Hitchcock-product.One can only admire its magnificent story-line. Both the quality of its acting and of its pictures are good. Its music-score, by composer Maurice Jarré, deserves a special mention. To go short, this movie is high-quality entertainment, not devaluated by any passing of time. "}{"Title":"Engrossing atmospheric shocker.","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Although we know that there is a macabre sense of humor behind Les Yeux sans visage, it still effectively gets under the skin.  The entire world of the film is so nightmarishly off centre that the result is a consistently unsettling film, elegantly staged and subtly terrifying.  The plotline concerns a doctor who's daughter has been horribly disfigured in a car accident.  To try and restore her to her original beauty he kidnaps several beautiful young women and removes their faces before killing them, leaving only their eyes.  This grisly premise is executed more in the mind than onscreen, wisely leaving most to the imagination.  But there are still segments which visualize the horror.  Overall a strong film, recommended for those who can stomach it and are looking for something different.  Based on a story by the writers of Diabolique and Vertigo. "},{"Title":"A classic...","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  A great moody horror film by underrated director Georges Franju. A classic about a crazed surgeon who does everything to give his daughters face back after a car accident. It's told with great images and a slow cutting pace that owes a great deal to the German expressionism. Not for fans of Steven Segal and MTV-cutting. Otherwise a must see. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Big disappointment. I've heard such great things about this French horror film, but it doesn't at all live up to them. Sure, it has its moments, but most of the time, it's fairly dull. An experimental surgeon (Pierre Brasseur) is trying to graft the faces of young women he kidnaps onto his daughter, who lost hers in a car accident. Alida Valli plays the assistant who carries out the kidnappings. The situation is definitely promising, but the film just plods along. Valli was never more bland, and Brasseur is weak, as well. The film only comes alive when Edith Scob, the daughter, appears. That mask, featured on the DVD cover, is very creepy itself. And when we actually see Scob's face, she's one of the most beautiful women imaginable. I like the fact that Franju gives us that pleasure halfway through the film, and then cruelly takes it away through a photo montage of the skin graft's deterioration. Which would be the best moment of the film, if not for the excellent ending. So I guess I kind of liked it. I only wish it were a lot better. If you get the Criterion DVD, make sure to watch the short The Blood of Beasts. It's better than the feature, though be warned it's not for the easily queasified. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Interesting...for its time","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Hmmm...I watched this film the other night and had mixed feelings about it. On one hand, it is fairly ahead of its time with somewhat shocking scenes, and a Bunuel/Lynch cinematography style. It plods along at times and some of the acting is really bad - especially the doctor, just plain terrible and annoying. But, the film is interesting, and short, which greatly helps propel the sometimes flimsy storyline. One thing I really hated about this film was the score, it just didn't fit very well. The score sounded like some sort of hyper active carnival music, and I thought the film could have been better if it had a more brooding, atmospheric, and minimal soundtrack. Films like Eyes Without a Face and Lady in a Cage really helped establish the modern day psychological thriller - at least in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Before its time?","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I recently saw this as part of an audience.  The film was projected via a poor-quality print at the Alliance Francaise in Chicago.  I liked some of the visual effects and shots, despite the quality of the copy we were viewing.  There was one scene where I had to close my eyes, and was glad I did. In the rest of the audience there was some nervous laughter at first, and then several people said Ewww!I can see why some consider it a classic.  It was ahead of its time in the suspense and gore departments.  However, I didn't think that overall it fit the definition of a classic.  One of the qualities should be that it can sustain multiple viewings.  I came away from the show never wanting to see the film again.Strangely, I have just heard that a few nights ago there was a similar  theme covered in a real-life setting on Dateline. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Lovely French horror film about a doctor who caused a car wreck that left his once-beautiful daughter's face mutilated. The doctor's assistant kidnaps beautiful women so that they doctor may restore the daughter's face. I can only imagine how shocking this must have been in its time, what with the glimpse of the scarred daughter and the skinning of one girl's face. But it's also very sad and poetic. The daughter is a prisoner, a victim of her father's ambition much like she must have been as a child. I'd love to see a re-working based more on her point of view. Still, Les Yeux Sans Visage is highly recommended for both horror fans and movie buffs in general since its been ripped off countless times in other works. "},{"Title":"Billy Ido's favourite MOVIE","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is a great FRENCH move that has SUBTITLES. I liked this movie for many reasons.1. The evil doctor spoke softly and eerie like 2. The dogs were super cool and they get even 3. The same CIRCUS music plays every time the psychotic NURSE kidnaps a donor. 4. The strange plot is just strange. I freaked out when the lady without a face showed how gross she was by taking off that Tom Cruise Eyes Wide Shut mask!! I mean, that was PURE FEAR. I am still kind of scared. John Travolta, eat your eyes out. This was way better than FACE OFF. This doctor was just so strange in how he carved off faces of various women to put on his daughter, whose face he disfigured in a car accident.The DOVE scene was magical. "},{"Title":"White","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Les Yeux sans visage is yet another case of a film re-seen after along time, of firsthand experience pitted against images remembered. (I've begun so many reviews with that thought that if I were somebody there'd have to a parody.) First in memory has always been the clinky -- reminds yet doesn't of the pianos in Shoot the Piano Player -- theme music, especially behind the dark nervous camera, the swaying near-white on black trees and white road highlights of the opening sequence. Once, thanks to careless planning, I spent a night near freezing in a groove atop Death Valley's Telescope Peak in wind so strong I couldn't stand at all. In a couple of my photos, the flash rendered the swaying trees as eerie as those caught by Franju's swaying camera.Besides the opening, I remembered Christiane's white mask and little else. The mask hovered in my memory alone, like those highlights caught by Louise's headlights. So I used this viewing to note just how much light, white, and brightness there is in this dark film. The film is nearly all light the mask; Christiane's dress; Louise's pearl choker; the hospital walls brighter even at night than ordinary bulbs ever make an interior, as bright as sunlit; the daytime cemetery that blends at the top of the screen into a white sky; the sunlit town streets and plaza where Louis stalks her prey; the white medical garb; the operating room; the operating masks. The victims begin clothed in the black-and-white equivalent of earth tones and end clad in white.But memory's tricking me again already. I watch again on fast-forward, and see less white. Or, this may mean little. I see less driving a road than when walking it.Random notes Early on I forget which character -- the doctor or a colleague -- announces the films tragic end The future is something we should have started long ago. Because the hospital's so unnaturally white inside, its stained glass looks grayed. Christiane's mask is like one half of the comedy/tragedy duo. Or is it those two merged, canceling each other? What of Christiane's familiarity with the dogs? Her identification with them as victims is too obvious. Does her passive complicity make her as vicious as they sound? Despite the beauty of Chistiane's final walk midst freed dogs and white birds, what happens to her beyond the film's end is almost certainly not good.An obvious touch point, of course, is Teshigahara's Face of Another (Tanin no kao), almost impossible to see just now. But Kobo Abe's novel, same name, is nearly identical to its offspring. "},{"Title":"Continental Horror","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  While living in Austin, me and my friends made it our mission to view every movie available in this little hole-in-the-wall video store we had discovered.  One of the first things we rented was this film.  I think the big draw for us was the campiness of a French horror film (something that none of us had experienced).  It was good for what we wanted, something to entertain and to make us appear continental (we were 18, what did we know?). The story line and movie itself were okay.  There were long drags and a few too many esoteric moments for a film meant to horrify.  However, it definitely had its moments and, for that, it is worth seeking out.  If nothing else, you, too, can appear continental. "},{"Title":"Simple structure, poetic movements","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Les yeux sans visage is actually surprisingly simple Georges Franju tweaks the rote familiarity with the Frankenstein narrative and turns it into a poetic look into obsession, beauty, and the Carnivalesque. After mad scientist Genessier accidentally ruins his daughter's face, he sets out on a search to replace it with experimental transplants from young beauties around the countryside. But since he's an upper-class doctor, a trusted man of the community, his journey is done in the basements and shadows of his Gothic mansion while the seduction of the unwary beauties is played out by an upstanding, and somewhat lesbian, associate.Franju plays for horror in a lot of different ways, mostly through emphasis of seemingly banal things. Stairs are climbed forever and ever, medical and over-sanitized shots of surgery are done in well-lit rooms behind heavily shadowed corridors, and Genessier is simply creepy as hell. But what gives Les yeux sans visage its elegant charm is the gliding, flowing, and powerfully emphasized mask-face of his daughter, Christiane. She haunts the frame in more ways than one the physicality of the acting and the expressiveness of the eyes provide a level of poetry to the film not seen in horror cinema since the macabre dance-movements of Conrad Viedt in Das Cabinet des Dr. Caligari; the blank, upsetting mask both allows the audience to project their own meanings and emotions onto the face while framing the eponymous eyes; and hints and echoes of the character rebound throughout the movie, most famously in the beginning when a car's headlights recreates the shadow of a mask over the frame, effectively setting the audience in the perspective of the eyes without a face structuralists have a field day, this movie is just as much about the audience as it's about its subject.Ultimately the details of the plot are almost inconsequential--the mad doctor, the seductress, and the entrapped bird all get their poetic justice in the end. It is the grace and acumen of the film-making itself that creates a memorable movie, a real classic of Romantic cinema.--PolarisDiB "}{"Title":"Pretty good and creepy, but certainly NOT for everyone!","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is a pretty good horror-suspense film--with a definite bent toward suspense instead of horror. In many ways it's like an old Hollywood B-movie horror film made in France years later with a more artistic and subdued bent. The influence of such films as THE RETURN OF DR. X and other earlier films is very definitely present, but the mood is somehow different.A seemingly normal facial surgeon is desperate to replace his daughter's missing face--partly because he loves her so and partly because he blames himself for her plight, since her face got ripped off in an accident where he was speeding. To do so, he and his assistant kidnap young ladies and surgically graft their faces onto the daughter. The problem (other than the fact they are murdering people) is that these transplants keep being rejected and must ultimately be removed.The acting is okay (neither bad nor especially compelling--since the script doesn't give them much chance to show off their acting skill). But the rest of the film (direction, cinematography, writing, etc.) is very good. Overall, while I am not quite as impressed by this film as the average IMDb reviewer, it was good and pretty watchable. HOWEVER, many will not want to see it because of the rather disgusting subject matter and because of one pretty realistic scene where they remove the face from a lady. This is NOT a film for kids or the squeamish. "},{"Title":"The Three Times Love I saw this Picture","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" First, let me tell you that I'm crazy. Why? Because I watched this movie three times. Let me tell you about those times, so you can form your own conclusions before I do.The first time, I saw this movie alone. I was shocked by the horror we don't see (that's the best creep effect, if you ask me). I really believed this was the best film France ever made (actually, I forgot movie milestones like 'La Cage des Folles', 'Les Parapluies de Cherbourgh and many other titles). I said to myself everybody should see this movie to make the world a better place without hate.The second time, I saw this movie together with my family. Yes, I know you're thinking right now I must be crazy. Perhaps... Who knows? You? Well, maybe I am a film freak, but I have a tender heart. That's the reason why I told my family they had to watch this to become more happy with the little problems we know. The past is over and done. Now we should be happy. Espascially thanks to this picture. But I had second thoughts about the value of the movie, because I saw it the second time.Now, the third time, I saw this picture together with my friends, and though they adored it just as much as I did the first time I saw it, now I became tired of seeing the same picture for the third time.So let's conclude this tale of love and misery with friends and family. I believe this movie has great value in movie history, but the story by itself doesn't have an important message. "},{"Title":"Nothing. No fear, no surprises.","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  To sum up what is wrong with that movie I would say everything is outdated. Especially the way everything is shot is outdated French cinema with no breath of a genius in the directing. It looks like the rather down to earth writing of Boileau and Narcejac directly brought to screen. There is a story but no life in it.One example is enough every character is shot on the same level. Everyone is more or less humane. Everyone is less and less interesting as we have nothing to learn about him. Thus the movie is quite boring on the whole except for the shock factor of a live plastic surgery scene. But it's a fact a shock factor is not enough to breathe life into a dying body. "},{"Title":"Eyes without a face review","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I just recently viewed the Film Les Yeux sans visage, or Eyes without a face. It is a French film with English subtitles. The motion picture is in black and white. It is a film that gives you a feeling that it was made very cheaply. The effects are very weak and the characters don't have very good acting abilities. It would have been a good plot line for a horror movie made in the 21st century, when it would have been possible to make it using more money and with better actors and actresses. The one part that I really liked was how the director used the same music every time something bad was about to happen. It made the anticipation better and more exciting. I probably wouldn't watch this film again if I had a choice, it wouldn't be worth my time. "}]