[{"Title":"Good Laughs, Interesting Cast","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" As with most movies from a different era, the attitudes are quite different. Feminists would hate this movie, if they saw it today. Hollywood would never make it now in first place, unless roles were reversed and men were made to look like sex objects. That would meet PC double standards.Nonetheless, agendas aside, there is a lot of good humor in here; the story is interesting, and you get a well-known cast with Cary Grant, Tony Curtis, Dina Merrill, Arthur O'Connell, Gavin MacLeod and Marian Ross. The latter went on to be big names on television more than movies, MacLeod on Mary Tyler Moore and Ross on Happy Days.This was Happy Days on a ship, at least when some attractive women board the vessel. Grant has the best lines in the film - speaking lines, that is. Good entertainment. Lots of laughs before the PC made it impossible to laugh at anything, including ourselves. "},{"Title":"We All Live In A Pink Submarine","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" In Tony Curtis's filmed tribute to Cary Grant for TCM he made much of his well known idolatry of the man who made him want to become an actor. As a kid growing up in the mean streets of New York, young Bernie Schwartz saw in Cary Grant all he ever wanted to be up there on the silver screen.During naval service on board a submarine in World War II he got to see Cary Grant in Warner Brothers Destination Tokyo. As Curtis said, life has a funny way of working things out. What happens; Tony Curtis gets to star with Grant years later in a World War II service comedy that is set aboard a submarine.Destination Tokyo was not one of Grant's best films, but Operation Petticoat definitely is. Right after World War II starts, Grant's new ship, the Tigerfish is sunk right in her berth in a remote Pacific Island. Grant persuades Admiral Robert Simon to make whatever repairs he can and try and get the ship back to Pearl Harbor for repairs.Among other things Grant gets is a new officer Tony Curtis who hasn't exactly seen much sea duty, but he's quite the operator. The two develop quite an interesting relationship on the voyage.And it's one thing after another on that memorable shakedown cruise back to Pearl Harbor. But Cary Grant is as unflappable and charming as ever, though even he seems a bit put out at times.There are some pretty hilarious moments in Operation Petticoat, the sinking of a truck, the painting of the Tigerfish pink and then having to leave it that way until Pearl Harbor. And who can forget how they are saved from friendly fire at the climax of the film.Operation Petticoat was one of the biggest commercial and critical hits that Cary Grant had in Hollywood. Coming right after North By Northwest it could well be argued this was the high point of his career.The film holds up very well today, I think today's audience would laugh just as hard as they did in 1959. "},{"Title":"Top talent makes this a winner.","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  There's really no reason to expect that this easy-going military comedy should hold up so well after almost 50 years.  While extremely popular as a Christmas release in '59, it then boasted two top box office stars to bring in the crowds, which most critics agreed were the primary attraction supporting some rather thin and predictable material.  But the merits are considerably more than reviewers originally gave credit for, and the film endures as a cleverly crafted entertainment on several levels.  Its uncomplicated premise accommodates humor less derived from incident than from character and situation, making it seem far less pretentious than most films of its kind.  Service comedies of this period tend to follow a pattern set by MR. ROBERTS, which was based on a hugely successful stage play and quite reverent to those origins.  PETTICOAT is far more spontaneous, so even if plot threads tend to be a bit familiar, its the delivery rather than the content which holds our attention.  Of course it doesn't hurt to have Cary Grant at the peak of his powers, hitting all the right notes, balancing the role of naval officer with innate dedication combined with his own charismatic charm and seemingly effortless humor, a  performance which is both naturalistic and funny.  Curtis, too, had found his groove at this point (he had just completed his tour de force for Billy Wilder, SOME LIKE IT HOT) contributing just the right balance of ingenuousness and star-of-the-month savvy to make his `second banana' role a success.  But the lion's share of the credit must go to Blake Edwards, then in the early stages of his most successful period as a master comedy craftsman,  boisterous yet sophisticated, among the last of a breed of Hollywood stylists on the rise at a time when the old studio system was nearing its end. "},{"Title":"I can't find enough good things to say about this movie","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" Directed by Blake Edwards (well-known for the Pink Panther series, Breakfast at Tiffany's, The Great Race, 10, Victor/Victoria, and many others), this is an expertly-executed comedy with plenty of visual humor as well a boat-load of dry wisecracks and suggestive innuendo for the veteran cast to exploit, seemingly presaging the early 1960's sex comedies. Apparently inspired by the real-life adventures of the American submarines SEALION, SEADRAGON, and SPEARFISH, as well as humorous anecdotes adopted from other submarines, and technically advised by retired wartime submarine commander Rear Admiral Lucius M. Chappel, in a funny and sometimes subtle way it may be the most realistic movie about US submarines in World War II ever made. Plot outline immediately following Pearl Harbor the Japanese prepare to invade the American-occupied Philippine Islands, and during an air raid on the Cavite naval base there, sink the almost brand-new submarine SEA TIGER. Nevertheless, her aggressive and professional yet equally human commander, Matt Sherman - played with admirable credibility by Cary Grant - is not about to take this lying down. After persuading the squadron commodore to give him the go-ahead, he and the remnants of his ship's company - diminished due to transfers made because of the boat's sunken condition - succeed in raising her from the harbor bottom and commence getting her seaworthy enough to escape to Australia before the pending Japanese assault. Unfortunately their repair efforts, already daunting enough, are impossibly impeded by an apparently bureaucratically-based shortage of crucial spare parts and supplies - even toilet paper (a gag in the film rendered nearly verbatim from the true-life experience of the submarine SKIPJACK). At this point Tony Curtis enters as Lt. Nick Holden (the character's name calling to mind actor William Holden's patented self-indulgent bad-boy persona). Having grown up in a neighborhood called Noah's Ark (you traveled in pairs or you just didn't travel), our Lt. Holden is an accomplished back-alley maneuverer who joined the Navy for the prestige of the uniform and what it can get him (in particular, a certain Miss Super Chief). Alas, having secured for himself a cushy job as an admiral's aid sent ahead to Manila to prepare for his admiral's later arrival, the sudden outbreak of the war results in the cancellation of the admiral's transfer and all Mr. Holden's carefully manipulated plans are sent completely awry. Thus being at loose ends he finds himself assigned as a replacement officer to the SEA TIGER. Faced with the alternative of being stuck on Bataan to endure the oncoming Japanese conquest, he sees it is in his best interest to make up for the seagoing experience he has managed to avoid up to this point in his naval career by becoming the boat's Supply Officer and securing everything the captain needs to get the . . . submarine out of there and to someplace where he can get a better deal. Although thoroughly uncomfortable with this new addition to the wardroom of his ship, Captain Sherman is so solidly dedicated to his responsibilities as the boat's commander that he is willing to make a pact with the Devil to get her going again and so Lt. Holden, allied with his handpicked detail of scavengers - Seaman Hunkle (Gavin McLeod), a sailor only known as The Prophet of Doom, and of course the trusty (or at least reliable and punctilious) marine Sergeant Ramon Gallardo (there isn't a burglar, swindler, pickpocket, or fence in the islands that doesn't know, love, and respect him) - commences a supply procurement program which might most charitably be characterized as unorthodox - or less charitably as just plain felonious. But he really hits his high point when he manages to scavenge five stranded Army nurses and convince the captain that he has to take them aboard. From then on the film becomes Cary Grant's battle to get his groaning, belching, backfiring, spit-and-bailing-wire-patched submarine safely to Australia while avoiding any exchange of information concerning the facts of life between the crew and their guests. His struggle is complicated all the more by his continual personal encounters with the almost terminally accident-prone but especially well-endowed young nurse Dolores Crandall (in the words of the Chief of the Boat, Malumphry - if you wanna know what you're fightin' for - there's your answer) who for all her blunders unintentionally winds up saving the boat and all aboard. As if to highlight the unconventionality of their situation along the way they manage to wind up with the vessel painted pink (don't ask me how - just try to believe I actually saw a performance nearly identical to Malumphry's in reaction to a similar problem aboard a real-life nuclear ballistic missile submarine around 1980), have to set up a maternity ward, complete with goat (the children will need fresh milk), and accomplish the unique induction of Seaman Hornsby into his brief but flavorful naval career. The plot is actually developed in the form of a flashback from about 1960 allowing it to end with a slightly sentimental and amusing bit of a twist. Clean and wholesome while still being thoroughly adult (when a man is tired and irritable you can be sure there's one thing he's not getting enough of -- vitamins and minerals), you can watch this one with your kids - maybe even after they've reached their cynical adolescent years.Note the use of the brackets  above in place of the stylistically correct square brackets was made necessary by some IMDb format change that made use of the correct brackets impossible. Hopefully they will not eliminate other commonly used symbols in future updates simply because the people they employ never got better than a C in junior high school English class and don't know what they are for. "},{"Title":"Works Quite Well as Light Entertainment","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" As long as you don't expect anything substantial, Operation Petticoat works quite well as light entertainment, thanks to a lively script with some pretty good material, two good leading performances by Tony Curtis and Cary Grant, and a solid supporting cast. While the whole story has very limited plausibility, it has its own internal logic and consistency, rather like the better of the more manic screwball comedies of an even earlier era.The submarine setting is used creatively, and it has just enough realistic detail to keep it from getting too silly. Grant and Curtis have rather different styles, yet they work well together in setting the right tone for everything, and in involving the rest of the cast. While it would be hard to single out any of the other cast members, since none of them have a particularly large or important role, they all do well enough, and they make the secondary characters a solid part of the story.There are plenty of amusing highlights, such as the pink paint and Curtis's scrounging expeditions. For all that it is just fluff, it fits together well, making for an entertaining, unpretentious movie. "},{"Title":"Curtis and Grant at their peak.","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  A wry and lighthearted look at the U.S. Navy in 1941. Cary Grant and Tony Curtis shine amongst a wonderful supporting cast in this fictional story inspired by an actual incident that occurred during WWII.  So many war movies are depressing, while others are completely ridiculous.  This film, while full of sexual innuendo and lighthearted humor, still manages to keep it's humanity, with one foot planted firmly in the reality of the Pacific theater.A jaunty tale of an injured sub, a few army nurses, a group of lonely sailors, and some pink paint. The direction is above par for the time period and genre, the writing is bright and witty, even for today's standards, and the performances are thoroughly entertaining.  This is a recommended must-see for fans of Curtis and Grant. Grab the popcorn and soda and enjoy!  I give this charming 1959 classic a 7 out of 10.    "},{"Title":"Great movie a must for your dvd collection a classic","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  I thought the movie was quiet delightful. A classic for the whole family Brought back alot of great memories as a child. Not a war movie for the serious war buff's. Two thumbs up. Glad I found this one!! "},{"Title":"Smooth Sailing","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  Be warned that this film has great comic dialogue delivered with fine timing by good actors, but if you are prissy about political correctness and hung up on gender issues, it might discomfort you.  But that's your problem, not the film's.  Most viewers can just come aboard and enjoy the voyage, appreciating the comic situations and energetic pace. Grant and Curtis are in top form, playing their contrasting characters with skill. Virginia Gregg's and Arthur O'Connell's characters' love/hate relationship is a clever use of classic gender issues to elicit laughs and sympathy. The women in this film are more than just sexy ballast. In any case, as a great French comedian noted, Vive la difference! Relax, enjoy, and anchors aweigh. "},{"Title":"Among the Finest Blake Edwards films made.","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" I have read this film called fluff with which I can most certainly not agree. I first saw in in first run forty seven years ago and it remains just as fresh and delightful today after many more viewings. Tony Curtis is at his very best in this picture as a shore-side con man reassigned to sea duty aboard the USS Sea Tiger in the opening days of WWII. Suave Cary Grant is as always flawless in his performance as the captain of the badly damaged sub, trying to keep it in the war with bailing wire and sealing wax. Edwards uses tight camera shots, well cut to maintain the illusion of the claustrophobic conditions of the sub, and witty dialog to keep the plot rolling. The chemistry between the principals and the supporting cast make this one of the best ever. That Edwars would go on to many other comedy triumphs is not at all surprising after seeing this film. I must see for anyone with a funny bone. "},{"Title":"A just sit back and enjoy family film!","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  This movie was made in 1959???!!!  My kids just love this movie and learned something of W.W.II, too.  Great fun and somewhat hysterical; uh historical. During Vietnam era we had some days as these.  A few anyway.  The best ones I remember.  Kind of takes some of the stress off real war tragedy.  Well made and edited.  Easy to follow and understand.  Can be watched repeatedly. Grant at his usual best with company as North By Northwest , Father Goose and the like.  Great, well made movies the younger fans can understand and enjoy.  "}{"Title":"Fun and amusement with two kings of comedy  ,  Grant and Curtis , demonstrating their hilarious talents","Date":"17 September 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" World War 2 comedy about a submarine commander (Gary Grant , though Jeff Chandler was originally offered the role that went to Gary) teams with a cocky wheeler-dealer (Tony Curtis, though Bob Hope always said it was his biggest regret that he turned down this character), both of whom to make the sub seaworthy . Captain finds himself stuck with a decrepit (and pink) sub . The sub's commander experiences a certain amount of surprises at the unconventional methods used by his first lieutenant . They are joined by a group of army nurses (such as Nurse Barbara performed by Dina Merrill and Nurse Crandall played by Joan O'Brien , though Tina Louise was offered but turned down the role) whose lingerie is put to some unusual uses and the gags begin .Agreeable comedy set in Pacific Ocean during WWII with plenty of humor, laughters , tongue-in-cheek and results to be pretty funny , though some jokes may be considered sexist these days . Top-notch performance by two masters of comedy , as Gary Grant was his hero in the genre and likable acting by Tony Curtis as a con-man executive officer . Great teamwork from Grant and Curtis keep things rolling . The whole film is a happy and at times comic vehicle for its wonderful stars . However , Grant himself was at first reluctant to take his role , knowing he was much too old to play a wartime captain . Some of the plot points of the movie were based on real-life incidents . Most notable were scenes set at the opening of WW II, based on the actual sinking of the submarine USS Sealion , sunk at the pier at Cavite Navy Yard, the Philippines ; Cmdr. Sherman's letter to the supply department on the inexplicable lack of toilet paper, based on an actual letter to the supply department by Lt. Cmdr. James Coe of the submarine Skipjack ; and the need to paint a submarine pink, due to the lack of enough red lead or white lead undercoat paint . Later remade , as nurse Barbara interpreted by Dina Merrill, the love interest for Tony Curtis' character, was played in the 1977 remake by Curtis' daughter, Jamie Lee Curtis ; furthermore TV series .The motion picture was well directed by Blake Edwards , as he directs with good pace and enjoyable sense of humor . Blake is a classic comedy filmmaker and director of his own dialogue , there's no doubt he knows what he's about . His stories are amusing and well-realized though uneven , but thanks to Sellers many movies stand out . He had successes with ¨Pink Panther¨ series who became him a world-wide celebrity as ¨A shot in dark¨ , ¨Return of pink panther , ¨Revenge of pink panther¨ , ¨Curse of Pink Panther¨ , ¨Pink Panther strikes again¨ , ¨Trail of Pink Panther¨ , ¨Son of Pink Panther¨ , among others . Since then , there have been many more hit-and-miss comedies , some wildly unsuitable vehicles for his second wife Julie Andrews as ¨The Tamarind seed¨ , ¨Darling Lili¨, ¨SOB¨ , ¨10¨ , ¨That's life¨ . His greatest hits were ¨The party¨ , the travestite comedy ¨Victor/Victoria¨ and of course the joyously ¨Breakfast at Tiffany's ¨. The flick will appeal to Gary Grant and Tony Curtis fans . This is arguably one of the Blake Edwards' best . This consistently fun comedy deserves 'Two thumbs up' . "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" Operation Petticoat brings Tony Curtis and his idol, Cary Grant, together for a very funny film directed by Blake Edwards. Curtis, of course, does a great Cary Grant impression in Some Like it Hot, and working with Grant was a dream come true for the 34-year-old actor. And nothing about the experience disappointed him or the audience. The film also features Dina Merrill, Gene Evans, Dick Sargent, Arthur O'Connell, Madelyn Rhue, Virginia Gregg and Marion Ross.The film is shown in flashback as the submarine Sea Tiger is about to be junked. Grant, as Lt. Cmdr. Matt Sherman, looks at his log book and reminisces to a time when he was trying to get the Sea Tiger back into the war after his sub is nearly destroyed in an air raid. However, it is next to impossible to get supplies. Assigned as a replacement officer to the Sea Tiger is one Mr. Holden (Curtis), a wheeler-dealer who got into uniform so he could meet the right people. Though he maneuvered a country club job as an aide to an admiral planning to go to Manila, the war intervened, and the admiral cancels his plans. Holden gets the Sea Tiger assignment. He promises that he can get supplies and presents one of his band of merry men, Ramon Gallardo, a prisoner whom he promises can travel on the sub. But he's a Marine, Sherman objects. There isn't a thief, pickpocket, or fence in the islands that doesn't know, love, and respect him, Holden answers. Holden gets supplies by any means necessary, including taking pipes from the bathrooms, part of the major's office wall, etc. He also manages to rescue five nurses who were stranded on an island, disrupting the entire sub. Though he finally confines Holden to quarters, Sherman realizes soon enough that if you can't beat 'em, join 'em, and calls on Holden for help again.Operation Petticoat has some hilarious moments, including Holden's stealing of a pig for New Year's dinner and the subsequent confrontation with the owner and military police on the sub, where Sherman and Holden refer to the pig as Hornsby. Unable to get the right color paint, the sub is painted pink and nearly bombed by a U.S. ship.Cary Grant is wonderful as the commander, authoritative, and then authoritative but frazzled as he is haunted by one of the nurses, a Jonah (Joan O'Brien) who causes disaster for him whenever she shows up. Tony Curtis is equally good, and he does not play the role for comedy; rather, he has the comedy come out of the character - a former street kid, ambitious to marry money, with his own agenda in the Navy.The rest of the cast is very good, with pretty Dina Merrill being the love interest for Curtis, only to learn that he's already engaged to a wealthy woman. Arthur O'Connell is funny as the frustrated mechanic as nurse Heywood insists on helping him run the ship, at one point using a girdle to connect some of the parts.Operation Petticoat is a real treat - a very funny film with good direction, script and acting all around. "},{"Title":"Pink Lady Down...","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" Though 'Gray Lady Down' is code for a downed sub, the boat itself doesn't play as big a part in the movie as one fears.The story of a WWII submarine crew looking to survive aboard their oft damaged ship moves briskly, with style and serves as a great war themed picture.Watching the crew work against the enemy, their own and the vessel itself is just some good fun. Teaming Tony Curtis with his film idol in Grant, the two have great chemistry and play wartime officers quite well, giving this comedy a battlefront appeal.Saturday afternoon fare, bring the popcorn but only take the bathroom break in case of emergency. "},{"Title":"Genial 1950s Comedy.","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" Cute and amusing. Cary Grant is the skipper of a submarine stuck in a remote Phillipine base at the beginning of World War II. Damaged in an air attack, the submarine barely gets under way, with Tony Curtis as a dapper last-minute replacement who shows up for duty in natty and immaculate dress whites. Curtis is a born social climber. He is also, however, a born thief and Grant appoints him Supply Officer for the boat.In some funny scenes, accompanied by some clever dialog, Curtis manages to steal enough supplies from various depots to keep the boat going. He also steals such luxuries as toilet paper and a pig for a New Year's luau. At one such wayside stop he manages to pick up five stranded Army nurses, one of them being the hypermastic Joan O'Brian.You can pretty much predict the gags that will follow -- five beautiful women aboard a submarine with a crew of horny young men. The men make a point of squeezing past O'Brian in the narrow passageways at every opportunity. The Chief Motor Mac improvises a piece of machinery out of somebody's girdle. Curtis gives up his dream of marrying his rich girl friend back in the states when he falls for the elegant, blond Dina Merril (who, in real life, probably had a fatter portfolio than Curtis's fictional girl friend). Cary Grant falls for O'Brian and after the war we see both couples, now friends, with Grant an admiral and Curtis the skipper of the submarine, a dedicated navy man.Some of the jokes now seem dated, the current Zeitgeist being what it is. An officer showing the nurses around the boat is embarrassed and stutters fiercely while trying to tell them that the loo is called the head. On the whole, though, the film is disarming enough to be pretty funny. Grant is fine in this light comedy. He grumbles a good deal at the disorder brought to his command, as if practicing for his later Father Goose, but he's done this so often that he could have done it all in his sleep. Tony Curtis is often criticized for his mannerisms but I don't know why. He's very good indeed at this sort of thing. He knows how to deliver a gag line without dwelling on it, almost running over it, so that if it's a clunker the viewer hardly notices. He's convincing in expository dialog as well and usually brings something fresh to his lines. He could do drama too, and better than Grant.The submarine winds up being painted pink. It is attacked by an American destroyer (DD 568, which should be USS Wren) and Grant desperately sends up the nurses' underwear. The destroyer picks up some of the debris and the captain holds Joan O'Brian's brassiere up, staring at the capacious thing, and mutters, The Japanese have nothing like this. You may or may not think you'll get a kick out of it, but you probably will. "},{"Title":"Sherman's march to the sea...","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" This is one of my very favorite movies. I now own the DVD, but have watched it who knows how many times since childhood. Operation Petticoat never fails to make me laugh. I don't have to give a synopsis here, since so many viewers before have summed it up nicely, but I wanted to throw in my two cents. This movie is a perfect illustration of the notion that funny and filthy are not necessarily synonymous. Parents can watch this movie with their children and not be afraid of what their children are hearing or seeing. The writers have produced a script that is funny, without pandering to the lowest common denominator. The humor is a cut above, but easily understood by most viewers. Other viewers have rightly praised Cary Grant's and Tony Curtis' performances. However, there are some other gems, not the least of which is Arthur O'Connell as the machinist's mate. Have a piece of pig, Major. Gavin MacLeod as the beleaguered clerk, Hunkle; Dick Sergeant's Ensign Stovall; and George Dunn as the Prophet, singing his plaintive tune You can't win, my friend and predicting the early demise of Lt. Holden as they go scrounging for supplies. It doesn't matter how low I'm feeling--this movie gives me a lift. It does not gloss over the deadly seriousness of war, but does show the truth that funny things often happen in the midst of the greatest chaos. In fact, to quote Nick Holden, In confusion, there is profit. And a great deal of laughter. "},{"Title":"Curtis's romantic style vs Grant's combat tactics","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  Curtis does turn in a strong romantic lead performance in this movie, probably one of his best, and does come very close to eclipsing Grant. However, for me the greater laughs were watching Grant's hand-to-nurse, umm, hand-to-hand tactics against the young woman Curtis sics on him early in the film.  Somehow, as competent a nurse as she appears in the rest of the films, she becomes all thumbs around Grant.Ah, yes, then there is the immortal line We just sank a truck! "},{"Title":"I just spotted a continuity goof","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" I just watched this movie for about the 40th time and bless me if I didn't spot something I'd never noticed before. When the nurses first come on board, the Joan O'Brien character gets her left heel stuck in the deck and Cary Grant pulls it out. A moment later she attempts to climb the conning tower and he advises her to take off her other shoe, which she does. Only the other shoe is her left shoe, which Grant had apparently removed a moment earlier.I'm not sure how much more I can write about this film. By way of noticing things I'd never noticed before, I noticed that Marion Ross played the fifth nurse, although she only had four or five lines. I thought that was quite a coincidence, see as I am Tivoing old episodes of the Gilmore Girls (I never watched it when it first came out) and Marion Ross played Lorelai the First (Lorelai's grandmother) in that show. Considering forty or more years had gone by, she looked remarkably the same. "},{"Title":"Blake Edwards and a Great Cast","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" World War II comedy about a submarine commander (Cary Grant) who finds himself stuck with a decrepit -- and pink -- sub, a con-man executive officer (Tony Curtis) and a group of army nurses.Apparently, the film was pitched by Curtis in an effort to work with Grant, whom he had loved in Destination Tokyo (1943), today a lesser-known film among Grant's filmography. Seeing as Curtis has no script credit, he seemingly offered no suggestion beyond putting Grant on a boat again.Curtis had previously worked with director Blake Edwards on Mister Cory (1957) and The Perfect Furlough (1958), another military film. The latter was written by Stanley Shapiro. If the story of Curtis launching Petticoat is true, it is no surprise he approached his most recent writer and director with the idea. Edwards was still relatively new at this time, not having made Breakfast at Tiffany's or The Pink Panther yet. This film sky-rocketed him to the A-list of Hollywood directors. The film was a huge box office hit in its day, making it the #3 moneymaker of 1960, earning $6,800,000. The only films beating it were Ben-Hur and Psycho -- the latter coincidentally starring Curtis' wife, Janet Leigh!The film, overall, has aged well. The humor is more subtle than the in-your-face comedies of today, and the role of women in society has certainly changed. But there is a timelessness to any Cary Grant or Tony Curtis performance that makes the films they appear in timeless. Curtis is a lovable con man, and to see him steal everything in sight -- even an office wall -- has a charm to it that is hard to match.Thanks to Olive Films, the movie is now available on Blu-Ray looking and sounding better than ever before. Unfortunately, the disc contains no special features (not even a trailer), but is well worth owning for any fans of Grant, Curtis or Edwards. This is a true gem. "},{"Title":"Lengthy but wry and amusing wartime comedy","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" A slightly overlong,sometimes stately,but amusing wartime comedy,OPERATION PETTICOAT is one of Blake Edwards' better comedies,lacking the occasional excesses and self-congratulation that marred his later work with Peter Sellers on the PINK PANTHER series,and further work post-1980.After some rather sluggish and verbose preliminaries,Edwards gets into his comedic stride assuredly (though the serious side of war is not always jettisoned)when the submarine begins it's operations,with a fine performance from Tony Curtis as a scheming,scrounging,but likable Navy officer,and a better one from the great Cary Grant as a taciturn submarine captain.Grant's expert verbal and facial dexterity are a delight to watch,both from a comic and serious point of view,and produce some deliciously telling moments.Curtis is almost as good performing alongside his long time acting idol,not being overawed and giving a convincing account of himself in the many scenes he shares with Grant. The two principals dominate to such an extent that the supporting cast are not given that much to do,though Arthur O'Connell,Dick Sargent and Frankie Darro have some funny moments between them.The addition of female navy ratings causing raised male libidos (with elegant blonde Dina Merrill most prominent)is treated in very mild fashion,but all the better for it,despite several slightly sexist jokes directed at the buxom Joan O'Brien.Edwards' habit of indulging in crude slapstick is fairly restrained here,though when he does it actually works better than usual in most of his films,the majority of these antics involving Miss O' Brien,though the funniest knockabout moments are reserved for Curtis and Gavin MacLeod with their successful if clumsy kidnapping of a pig while the sub is stationed on a pacific island.Despite taking a while to get going,OPERATION PETTICOAT is an entertaining and often very funny effort with memorable moments (who can forget the submarine being painted pink?),with another masterclass in screen acting from one of it's greatest stars,Cary Grant.RATING7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"silly and shallow but lots of fun","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" This movie is a wonderful example of a film that isn't particularly deep or important BUT that still works well because it's so much fun and the writing, though quirky, works. Of course I will admit that the plot from time to time gets really silly (culminating with the sub being painted pink and being forced to go that way into action). I guess it's just that this is a nice blend of acting by Cary Grant and Tony Curtis in a cute little war picture that ALMOST makes WWII look kind of fun. The end result is charming and silly and worth watching but with no real meaning or significance at all--and is that always such a bad thing? "}{"Title":"Touching Comedy-Satire; Attractive and Funny War Film","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" This is a film that is touching, large-scale, authentic and only a bit glossy about the edges. Only a director of Blake Edwards' peculiar sweetness, intelligence and positive sense-of-life could have handled so delicate and improbable a subject, perhaps, even nearly-as-well as he actually managed to do. so. The storyline involves females taken onto a ship of war, and not much of a submarine at that, during World War II and somehow the plot both capitalizes upon prior examples of this gimmick and itself has had this element imitated by successor filmmakers. That this film is very good and many others have not been so is a tribute to those who crafted it to be so luminous and understated a final product. The technical beauty of the film is not hard to understand. Bill Thomas's costumes are only one part of a very-well staged film. Ooccasionally leisurely, I suggest, it also does not rush a moment of what seems an improbable storyline at first glance but I suggest is more.That a captain would use his dog-robber second to equip a sunken and then raised submarine so he could get into WWII is improbable; that it would then be painted with both red and grey lead paint to a shocking pink and then pick up a large number of nurses, all beautiful and have to take them across a dangerous stretch of sea is even less likely. But the story is told in flashback, as the mature captain, played by Cary Grant, turns over duty to the ship's new skipper, who turns out to be his irresponsible dog-robber of the old days all grown up,and this is a very-successful presentational ploy. The logic of the story is so well carried out from start to finish that the improbabilities can usually be ignored by the viewer. Paul King and the other writers deserve credit for injecting verisimilitude into so frothy and light-weight a story idea.Yet they give many persons aboard a character, by means of some strengths as well as weaknesses. Of course all turns out well for the crew, male and female in this satirical comedy; but the performances are the other strong attribute of this film without question. Grant is very good as the skipper; it is arguably one of his best screen performances ever. He is paired with Tony Curtis, well-cast as a somewhat irresponsible young officer of promise. Dina Merrill is his lady and it is her best screen comedy part and performance ever. Joan O'Brien is given the part of a well-endowed but nervous young lady who wins Grant's heart the hard way, and she is very likable in the part. Others along for the ride include powerful Virginia Gregg and Arthur O'Connell as two engineers who overcome their differences, Gene Evans, Robert F. Simon, Gavin MacLeod, Richard Sargent, Marion Ross, Madlyn Rhue and Robert Gist. The memorable comedy scenes here include a submarine attack on a truck, the rounding up of pigs, a picnic disturbed by Japanese planes, the launching of a pink submarine and the interior scenes of life aboard the vessel which requires some accommodation by males to females and vice verse, particularly Gregg and O'Connell, Grant and O'Brien. This is a deservedly-popular and very fondly-remembered comedy, often shown at holiday time. It should be added,Ii suggest, to Blake Edwards' list of intelligently-made triumphs; it is one of those lovely-minded and reality-based comedy that he made as well or better than anyone has ever done them before or since. "},{"Title":"Interesting cast","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  Light comedy starring Cary Grant and Tony Curtis, who does a stunning caricature of Grant in Some Like it Hot. The picture boasts a very interesting supporting cast, some of whom continued with maritime adventures Gavin MacLeod (Ernest Hunkle) eventually became Captain of the Love Boat and Arthur O'Connell (Chief) was the chaplain on The Poseidon Adventure. Dick Sergeant (Stovall) became much more famous as Darin on Bewitched and Dina Merril (Lt. Barbara Duran), who with her present husband now owns RKO Pictures, is the daughter of E.F.Hutton and Marjorie Merriwether Post, whose first husband is actress Glenn Close's grandfather.  "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable and for the whole family!","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  This IS intended to be a very light movie.  It is not intended to be a serious or realistic portrayal of war, although it does give a small taste of fighter strafing attacks.  It is a wonderful movie that offers a glimpse of life aboard a cramped WWII submarine and the problems that would arise if a WWII sub became coed.Tony Curtis shines in this movie.  His charm is irrepressible.Finally, it is a movie the whole family can watch and enjoy together! "},{"Title":"A milestone in movie-comedy - war is not serious......","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  We had this movie at school on one of the first video-machines (video 2000 format, does anyone remember?) and watched it about a dozen times. Hornsby is such a poor fellow.... Anyway, if you don't know this movie I recommend you watch it for the reason of fun and comedy history. It gets 9 stars from me.  "},{"Title":"A one to remember","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  This is one of the movies I still remember even though I saw this when I was something like ten years old. That would be about fifteen years ago.A very funny movie, provides some good laughs for the technically interested and shows how a war movie can be funny. I would watch it again. "},{"Title":"Operation Petticoat","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" An hilarious comedy with a much higher gag quota than I was expecting.Very little actually happens in terms of the plot they repair the sub, they pick up some women en route to another port where they make further repairs, escape from an air raid and fall foul of an American destroyer in the final minutes. But it's the dialogue that matters, and the interplay between Cary Grant and Tony Curtis, the men and the women. These dynamics prove fertile comedy ground, and are mined for everything they're worth without ever overdoing it or becoming silly.The film looks fantastic. One of those where the full weight of military cooperation is evident on the screen, with planes flying low overhead, naval destroyers dropping dozens of depth charges in the spectacular climax, and an unexpected level of detail in some of the external shots of the sub. The resultant location shooting means the film is a lot less studio-bound than similar films of the era. Talking of the sub, I don't know if the interiors were shot on a real sub - I doubt there'd be room - but it feels very authentic and realistic.Most of the best material stems from Curtis' attempts to procure supplies for the sub, with the best scene in the film being the theft of a pig and the ensuing cover up. It's a riotous few minutes and as funny as anything I've seen in a film made in the '50s. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie; an alternative to today's drivel comedies","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" Another excellent example of Cary Grant's comedy capabilities. Jeff Chandler would not have done as well. Tony Curtis was O.K., but not believable as a prissy admiral's aide (may be redundant, all I met were prissy), and yet a scrounger that would do anything. Opening scene was weak; old sub, getting ready to go to it's demise, yet paint was perfect, bright-work like new...not in my navy (21 years). Still, it is a relief from today's drivel, and viewable by the entire family. Cary Grant never made a bad movie (my viewpoint)and was in good form in this one. You really need to see him in Father Goose to see the not-so-suave and cool version of Cary. "},{"Title":"Funny, Funny Movie","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"     I don't watch war movies unless they're actually comedies.Down Periscope, Stalag 17, Mr. Roberts and The Private Navy of Sgt. O'Farrell are two good examples and this one is the third. Tony Curtis shines as he matches wits with Cary Grant. A con-man and a scavenger, he holds their submarine and the movie together with a lot of sheer honest to goodness stealing and horse trading as Grant humors and even cajoles him. The movie really takes a wild turn as their sub takes on women and the men have to double up. Trying to get rid of them proves to be easier said than done, but eventually they save the day just when all seems almost lost. This is one movie that belongs in anyone's video collection.  "},{"Title":"Good old-fashioned fun.","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  Cary Grant shines in this classic WW2 comedy. Tony Curtis supplements him excellently as the suave lieutenant, and their flawless collaboration is a real delight to watch. Operation Petticoat also offers numerous slick gags and juicy pieces of dialogue.Good old-fashioned, genuinely enjoyable fun containing the famous pink submarine. "},{"Title":"Wonderful blend of comedy and romance!","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  Veteran Carey Grant stars in this war-comedy along with Tony Curtis(hello!) to project this wonderful blend of comedy and romance (on Curtis' part) on a WW2  submarine. A truly teriffic job for Curtis, who in my opinion, almost out-shines Grant with his hilarious antics of trying to woo a blond bomshell stationed there with her fellow crew-mates.  "}{"Title":"soon to become reality????","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  My entire family loved this movie when it first came out (I was 13) and I enjoy it still. A great comic premise is given a fine script, wonderful direction, and great performances - everyone works so well together here. Blake Edwards did not get his reputation as a master maker of comedies for nothing. Cary Grant is at his dry, exasperated best here as he copes with a bevy of unwanted WAC's, a broken-down sub, and a supply officer (Tony Curtis) whose light-fingered skills he is loath to acknowledge but which he desperately needs to stay afloat. There is plenty of old-fashioned sexist humor and risque  double-entendres - mild by today's standards, but wittier for being more subtle - as the eager sailors' natural drives are awakened by the unexpected distaff guests. As mentioned previously, this is good family entertainment of a sort we don't see much of anymore. It is worth noting that what seemed so obviously ridiculous in 1959 - men and women together on a submarine - is being proposed as standard operating procedure by some in the Navy bureaucracy who would like to institute coed crews on subs. The measure is, of course, loudly opposed by anyone with any first-hand experience with life on a sub. Perhaps this movie should be required viewing for the coed advocates.  "},{"Title":"Ramon?&#133;.oh Ramon!??","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  Blake Edwards in his prime, at his best, Operation Petticoat moves from one hilarious situation to the next, with excellent performances by an all-star cast.Cary Grant's Cmdr. Sherman plays straight man to Tony Curtis' Nick Holden and i'ts here where Grant displays all the qualities that made him one of Hollywood's biggest stars.The supporting cast is excellent, including, for you classic US TV fans, `Captain Steubing' (Gavin McLeod), `Darrin Stevens (II)' (Dick Sargent), and `Marion Cunningham' (Marion Ross).Maybe the funniest movie ever made, who knows? "},{"Title":"A downright hilariously entertaining movie.","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  Grant, Curtis, and O'Brien are a hit in this submarine comedy.  If the real US Submarine force had these problems, we'd have never won the war. Curtis is excellent as the thieving supply officer and O'Brien barely lets Grant out of the movie alive.  A must see for all Grant veterans as well as newcomers. "},{"Title":"All Pink on the Outside","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" World War II Navy commander Cary Grant (as Matt Sherman) wants to get his Sea Tiger submarine back in action, despite suffering serious damage during a Japanese air raid. He gets his wish, but has to take aboard some questionable crew members. Chief addition is wet-behind-the-ears Lieutenant Tony Curtis (as Nicholas Nick Holden), who comically clashes with Mr. Grant. When their laughs lines ebb, the ship takes on five female nurses, including shapely Joan O'Brien (as Dolores Crandall) and blonde Dina Merrill (as Barbara Duran). Then, having men and women share close quarters provides the situation comedy.Some films age well, and others don't. For evidence, consider that this one immediately followed Grant's North by Northwest and Curtis' Some Like it Hot. Though directed by the accomplished Blake Edwards, most of the comedy sinks like a stone. Still, Operation Petticoat was huge hit - and, with Grant and Curtis on board, it couldn't miss. The promise of sexy women implicit in the title didn't hurt, either. Today, the film's main appeal isn't sex, but the supporting cast - credit familiar TV faces like Dick Sargent, Gavin McLeod, Marion Ross, and Arthur O'Connell with keeping a Cary Grant-Tony Curtis film afloat.***** Operation Petticoat (12/5/59) Blake Edwards ~ Cary Grant, Tony Curtis, Arthur O'Connell, Dick Sargent "},{"Title":"Light-hearted military farce...","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" Operation Petticoat is yet another military farce directed by Blake Edwards. It is in pretty much the same military farce style that he used in other movies such as Operation Mad Ball, and What Did You Do In The War Daddy? He makes a thing as horrific and serious as the concept of war, and transforms it into something quite witty and jocose. Blake does this without causing any offense however, and therefore he did it well. Basically, the movie has an astonishing likeness to Down Periscope, or I should say that Down Periscope has a peculiar likeness to this movie. In essence, a naval submarine commander is given command over a broken down sub, and a motley, ragtag crew. The most rowdy crew member however, is the supply officer Lt. Holden. He displays a blatant disregard for rules, and yet still portrays as likable. Even more surprising is the fact that somehow, despite his various behaviors, Holden manages to get the job done and have some fun along the way.The commander encounters various obstacles because of his supply officer, but nothing that isn't purely entertaining. The commander is portrayed by Cary Grant, and Holden is played by Tony Curtis. Both Grant and Curtis do a fantastic job in this film, and play off of one another quite well. Grant, as you know, is an amazing actor, and has been in many classics like Arsenic and Old Lace, An Affair to Remember, North by Northwest, Only Angels Have Wings, To Catch A Thief, and The Bishop's Wife, just to name a few. This is a classic Grant performance, his style predictable, yet this litany is somehow appealing. Tony Curtis is also one of my favorite actors, at least in his older films. As of late, Curtis' movies have been losing a lot of their former luster. It's only one more reason that this light-hearted movie is enjoyable, seeing Curtis in one of his finer performances. I would put it right up there with his performances in movies such as Houdini, Spartacus, Some Like it Hot, not to mention the Boston Strangler, and Six Bridges to Cross. In some of their finer performances, Curtis and Grant dominate the film with their clever acting. However, the acting aside from Curtis and Grant was actually good, not specifically notable, but never was there a moment in which I was aware of bad acting. The only small exception was in some of the dialogue referring to women, in which the lines were rather cliché for war movies. Also, aside from the actors and directors of course, the camera work is as fine quality as it could have been. The musical score fit perfectly in with the style of the movie, and writing was well done on the parts of the writers; especially Maurice Richlin, who has worked with Blake on quite a few of his productions, including some of the Pink Panther movies, as well as the aforementioned, Daddy What Did You Do In The War? The situations that the writers came up with for a war scenario are ridiculous, but very entertaining. Overall, this is a higher quality film, and noteworthy in the long run. Despite this, it certainly was not amazing by any means. This movie in the end was a very appealing, satirical, and splendid production. A movie which is definitely worth a view, but not important to have seen. "},{"Title":"Operation Petticoat 7/10","Date":"23 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" This pink submarine farce is indeed an amusing adventure for a summer night in Shanghai. Made in 1959, the same year when SOME LIKE IT HOT came out, both stars Tony Curtis, but the latter is much more renowned for its groundbreaking intrepidity with sexual misidentification, which excels also in its narrative tempo and consecutive gags. Nevertheless, OPERATION PETTICOAT, on the other hand, is marvelous under another circumstance, a closed submarine, the female sex-appealing mingled with misogynous among male crew ensues a fistful of jests, which are under a proper temperature and tempo lest to engender antipathy.Cary Grant again reins the film using his comedic talent, compared with ARSENIC AND OLD LACE (1944), this round his performance is more unpretentious (it seems that a 15-year stretch does improve one's acting skills). Tony Curtis as the co-lead, whose lady-killer persona doesn't contribute any novelty here, but several intermezzi are memorably funny (in particular the piglet-snatching scene, which is hilarious)! All other female characters and secondary male characters mainly serve as props, which push the narrative heavily on Cary and Tony's charisma, but strangely enough the sparkle between these two are meager and insipid (please check SOME LIKE IT HOT if you disagree). Its Oscar nominated script can be regarded as a dearly pep talk, looking at the nomination lists of these years, a sad truth is that a mainstream comedy can barely be visible, not to mentioning directors and actors, even in the script category it is a null, god knows how tough to write a qualified script for comedies which must be all-demographically suitable. "},{"Title":"The Submarine","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" I liked the movie very much and thought it very funny especially the theft of the pig.However the submarine the Sea Tiger looked exactly like a W.W.II German Submarine with the characteristic structure behind the conning tower of a circular cage enclosed by metal bars usually for a machine gun mount of some kind. No, American submarine had this profile.http//www.pbase.com/larryrz/u505 check the profile out against the real thing U505. Off hand I can't remember if they told why or who painted the submarine pink. That would be an amazing feat to accomplish considering air attacks interrupted even a short party on deck. "},{"Title":"A Pink Submarine of Military Note","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" This is a light comedy which was done the same year Tony Curtis did his impression of Cary Grant in the movie Some Like It Hot. While this movie and the other are light comedies, this one is not quite as effective because in spite of a strong cast, it does not comes off quite as well as the other film.Grant is the Captain & Curtis is his second on a Submarine which somehow happens to pick up a group of women while on a combat mission. Before all is said & done there is plenty of sexual innuendo and a freshly painted pink submarine to be sailed.This is a sexual tension comedy which offers a light look at what happens when women were brought into this type of situation in the days before equal rights. While the stereo types have changed since this was made, the comedy is OK and who could argue with a talented list of support actors including Marion Ross & Gavin Mccloud that keep this film moving. "},{"Title":"Lotsa true WWII accounts behind this movie","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" The message Cary Grant, in complete frustration at red tape, requisitions toilet paper for the Sea Tiger is almost word for word from an actual sardonically-toned requisition from a USS sub commander in WWII to HQ (CINCPAC). I don't have the book nearby, but in Submarine, Commander Edward L. Beach (of Run Silent, Run Deep fame) recounts the famous incident.After this Skipper's message was received, he got his toilet paper. More than he may have expected. Every time thereafter that his sub returned to Pearl Harbor from patrol, instead of the mounds of meat, fruit, and ice cream that greeted the sequestered crews of other returning subs at the dock, there were disappointingly only mounds of rolls of toilet paper.Some viewers may see a double entendre in the context of the film where ladies are aboard on a pink submarine. Edwards and Blatty probably were also aware of this because sexual innuendoes abound in the film - and might I say in good taste - although in their other later collaborations, the taste may have gotten lost on a few occasions.But, do appreciate that an older USS sub (SS-23? 22? 21? 20? etc...) undergoing retrofit in the US Navy around December 1941 in the South Pacific did have a rust colored primer coat applied to it prior to its final coat of gray. However, after Pearl Harbor, the finishing gray paint became unavailable or the sub had no time to have the finishing coat applied, and had to enter war service with only its primer coat. Because of the rusty color of the primer, it often looked pink, especially in grand Pacific sunsets. Therefore, you actually had a US sub on patrol in the early days of WWII that was, in effect, pink.Blake Edwards also knew the Navy because he served in it during WWII. The characters, Sherman and Holden, Cary Grant and Tony Curtis respectively, might just be akin to Edwards' alter egos since Blake was in the fight as a swab jockey.Extra stuff Crews on USS subs were hand-picked for their advanced aptitude in engineering and mechanics. Collectively, on one US sub in WWII, you probably had quite a few geniuses in service. Each man could operate any function on the boat should one have become incapacitated. They CYA'd very well. Pig Boats is another great book to learn of the US Silent Service during WWII.Through Hell and Deep Water recounts the contributions of a Texas-bred submarine skipper to the Pacific campaign. Sam Dealey was renowned for his down the throat torpedo kills of Japanese destroyers, a major plot point in the film version of Run Silent, Run Deep.Dealey Plaza in Dallas, Texas was named after the family from which Sam Dealey was a member. Unfortunately, the main legacy of the name Dealey now relates to the location of the assassination of an American President, not to Sam's Silent Service.At highest rank an XO on the first Trigger, Beach's sub was also retroactively fitted with an ice cream maker by some of its crew. In those years, ice cream was a most cherished commodity in American society.A strange phenomenon would actually occur to some US crews of sunken vessels and left adrift for days asea. After their boats had been sunk, having been drifting in the merciless sun of the Pacific, air-blasted with sea salt, and suffering from hypothermia in Pacific warm waters still lower than their own body temperature, some sailors would begin hallucinating of mirages of islands made of ice cream, and set a swimming course to them. Some of their less-affected, but still exhausted, mates would try to stop them, but weakness prevented any action. These young sailors would swim to the mirage of ice cream, and eventually disappeared with it. "},{"Title":"One of the best military comedy movie","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" Cary Grant and Tony Curtis teams up in this one of a kind comedy about a submarine at sea during WWII.Submarine Sea Tiger docked at harbor gets attacked by the Japanese, and nearly sinks. The newly appointed executive officer Lt. Holden (Tony Curtis) knows nothing about seamanship, but knows plenty about how to get in the back door of the supply room. The sub is ready to ship out, but not quite shipshape. While going ashore on an island, they discover American women stranded there, and brings them aboard. Plenty of mishaps, and misadventure follows the crew of the submarine. This includes being hunted by US destroyer thinking that the submarine painted in pink is an enemy vessel.This frequently seen movie never seems to get old. The humor still works in the 21st century. Performance of Cary Grant, and Tony Curtis is one of the best. Scenery set in the south pacific is also beautiful.One of the finest comedy from the '50s and one of the best comedy Cary Grant and Tony Curtis starred in. "}{"Title":"Operation Boring...","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" I decided to watch this film because I love Cary Grant and eventually I want to see every film he made. Unfortunately, this one isn't even nearly one of his best. Far too much of the humor relies on the audience buying into those wonderful 1950's female stereotypes. I mean, we have female army officers, nurses, acting like silly little girls. It's quite revolting. In other words, far from being a classic, the film feels like an unintelligent, unenlightened piece of pop trash. Compare this to another Cary Grant film that came out the same year, North by Northwest; or Tony Curtis's Some Like it Hot which also came out in 1959. On an intellectual and artistic level, Operation Petticoat doesn't begin to come close. "},{"Title":"Standard Navy comedy","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" A sometimes funny, sometimes serious account of a damaged sub and its ragtag crew as they wend their way through the perilous waters of World War II. Cary Grant is the sub commander and Tony Curtis is a less than honest lieutenant who is great at stealing stuff needed on the sub. Along the way, the crew rescues several Army nurses, who make life aboard the sub difficult, to put it mildly. Lots of familiar faces pop up in the cast, including Gavin Love Boat MacLeod, Gene Evans, Virginia Gregg, Dick Bewitched Sargent, Marion Happy Days Ross, Arthur O'Connell and Dina Merrill. Beautifully photographed and nicely directed by a very young Blake Edwards, although the antics are on the mild side, which is what comes of having the Navy's cooperation. Interestingly, Grant was not the first choice for his part. Jeff Chandler, whose star was on the rise in the 1950s, was. The film was essentially remade 37 years later with Kelsey Grammar in the Grant role. It was called Down Periscope. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" This film works reasonably well because of the charm and charisma of Tony Curtis, an energetic actor who is prepared to do the most that he can with any material. It is not a particularly great film otherwise. Sure, it has some amusing moments, but the jokes only work half the time or less, the acting is generally rather dull, it is slow to get started, and it is not even especially well filmed. The continuity is a bit off at times, with jerky changes between shots. In general, it is shallow, silly stuff bound to get a few laughs, arguably sufficient for light entertainment, but Tony Curtis is the only real reason to watch it. "},{"Title":"Was the ship moving?","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  Having seen operation Petticoat numerous times, I happened to notice that when the destroyer threw out a grappling line to pick up the brassier, when it pulled the line back to the ship, there appeared to be no wake at all. It seems there should have been some kind of movement, because the ship was heaving depth charges at the submarine. If you look carefully, when the grappling hook is right next to the boat, there is no wake from that line whatsoever. Other than that, I found the picture to be one of the funniest that I have seen in some time. I especially like the line when Carey Grant first saw Tony Curtis and called him the Good Humor Man. Most kids of today won't recognize that term, but that refers to when we use to have little ice cream trucks come by the house on summer days,a nd the man selling the ice cream always wore white.  "},{"Title":"A quite competent comedy","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  This movie is very amusing. I would've probably enjoyed it more if I was in a more positive mood when I watched it. The film itself only raised my spirits slightly. It is interesting to note that in Operation Petticoat Tony Curtis (né Schwartz) plays the mischievous troublemaker while Cary Grant (né Archibald Leach) plays the 'straight' man. Of course movie lovers know that Grant himself played the troublemaker earlier in his career. As for the film itself, there are quite a few hilarious scenes where Grant and Curtis clash and when women in the tight confines of the submarine wreck havoc with the lives of the crew. All in all, a good diversion, 7/10. "},{"Title":"Cary Grant and Tony Curtis","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  After the success of 'North by Northwest', Grant no longer needed to prove himself because Hitchcock had got the best out of him. All he needed to do was to be Cary Grant and appear on the set, and that is exactly what he did in 'Operation Petticoat'. To some degree, 'Operation Petticoat' was a Tony Curtis film in the sense that it was a vehicle for him to rub shoulders with Grant. Originally, Robert Taylor wanted to act with Curtis (as his career was on the way up), but Curtis was a big fan of Grant (as seen in 'Some Like It Hot'), and just could not pass up on the opportunity to act with him. The film did more for Curtis than it did for Grant. "},{"Title":"Slight but very enjoyable","Date":"6 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" The story is very slight, and the film is a little long and sometimes suffers from uneven pacing. However, it does look wonderful, even now the cinematography still looks very handsome. I love the humour in Operation Petticoat as well. The script constantly sparkles and the jokes are very funny. The direction is competent, and the characters are likable enough.The cast is also great. Cary Grant is brilliant and Tony Curtis is also very entertaining and I had no problem at all with his mannerisms personally.In conclusion, it is slight and overlong, but Operation Petticoat is also very enjoyable and worth seeing for the humour and the cast. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Unsuccessful Operation","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" We all live in a pink submarine, a pink submarine...The Beatles song about a yellow submarine is more entertaining than this lame comedy. There are zero laughs until the women get on board about a third of the way through the film and after that there are a few chuckles here and there. Grant and Curtis seem to be trying but they get no help from the script or from Edwards, directing one of his earliest films. It is fun trying to pick out future TV stars like Dick Sargent, Gavin McLeod, and Marion Ross. In fact, an episode of Bewitched, Mary Tyler Moore Show, or Happy Days has a lot more laughs than this film, which goes on way too long at two hours. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining/insubstantial","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  If there is one thing that will guarantee an entertaining movie, it's the presence of Cary Grant. His ability to deadpan while giving double takes is unmatched. Tony Curtis is counter-balanced nicely by Grant and they make a good team.Although highly entertaining and amusing, there are no really good laughs, and there are the uncomfortable gender stereotypes typical of the 50s and 60s. Not quite as good as Father Goose, it does have its moments - like the perfectly plausible pink paint job. . "},{"Title":"Bra Beaten","Date":"23 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":" There's not a lot wrong with this unashamedly entertaining comedy which is exactly half a century old. In terms of Sound comedy, sophisticated as opposed to slapstick there was Wilder and Lubitsch and the all the rest but Blake Edwards isn't exactly chopped liver even if he is light years away from the two Masters. In terms of 'dog-robbers' James Garner showed Curtis how it was done in The Americanization Of Emily albeit the latter was better described as comedy drama and was a much better movie anyway you look at it but here we're looking for pleasant laughs rather than cynical laffs and overall it works even if we can foresee the ending a mile away. Cary Grant is his usual brilliant self and Tony Curtis tries to be good enough to play second banana though he was never going to come close. Highly enjoyable. "}{"Title":"Funny but not too much","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, War","Review":"  What with all the ideas the writers added to create situations of comedy it is not a delirium of a comedy. Jokes are good but it is not sufficient to have two hours of jaw-breaking entertainment. The result is to be put on a par with tv sitcoms except that Blake Edwards adds shots in between the jokes.Eventually both script and directing are too light. For instance neither Cary Grant nor Tony Curtis play more than gentle officers on duty it's a bad characterization that should have been improved.There was material to make it a screwball comedy -with a little ham acting- but there is only a forgettable movie. "}]