[{"Title":"B Movie Heaven!","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"40 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Tingler is the name that Vincent Price's likable scientist character gives to the creature that apparently is responsible for the sense of spine-tingling fear we all experience at some point in our lives. If we scream, The Tingler is rendered harmless. If we do not, The Tingler will get us!This is classic William Castle gimmick stuff. When this black and white masterpiece of schlock was originally shown in theaters, devices would be rigged up underneath theater seats which would tingle during a certain scene. The film would then seemingly stop, and the audience would be encouraged to scream! Scream for their LIVES! Of course, the audience was happy to oblige and the Tingler would be defeated. Man, how I regret having missed those days of cheesy ballyhoo.This film has some really nifty stuff in it. Highlights include Vincent Price's acid trip (reportedly the first acid trip ever seen on the silver screen), and a cool hallucinatory color sequence with a deaf mute woman menaced by a bathtub full of blood, among other things. The plot is clever and actually pretty well thought out for a B flick, and Vincent is superb, as he always is. This is an absolutely hysterical film that should not be missed. I can't say enough good things about it - it simply has to be seen to be appreciated. It's campy, seedy, bloody good fun! "},{"Title":"Classic '50s b-grade surrealism.","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  William Castle's 'The Tingler' is one of the most extraordinary horror movies ever made. Low budget, silly script, bad dialogue, uneven acting, gimmicky to the extreme (with or without percepto), but it STILL manages to amaze. It's a kind of trojan horse, being a cheesy b-grade thriller with a hidden core of surrealism almost worthy of Bunuel or Cocteau.Memorable performances from horror legend Vincent Price as the scientist obsessed with explaining the strange phenomenon he labels the tingler, and Judith Evelyn (who had a bit part in Hitchcock's 'Rear Window') as a bizarre deaf mute who owns a silent movie theatre, elevate this above most of Castle's overrated output. The classic acid trip scene (I think the first ever), the memorable short colour sequence, and the William Burroughs-like monster make this something really special. Not to be missed! "},{"Title":"Brilliant campy fun from William Castle and Vincent Price","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Tingler marks the second teaming for horror's greatest actor - Vincent Price, and horror's greatest showman - William Castle. This film was released later in the same year that their first venture - House on Haunted Hill - was unleashed upon audiences across the world, and the film sees the two men deliver more of what they did with their first feature. House on Haunted Hill was much loved then - and now - for it's ludicrous plot line and hammy performances, and The Tingler marks another successful fusion of these elements. The plot line is even sillier this time round, and it follows Vincent Price's scientist as he conducts his experiments into fear. He discovers that when we get frightened, a thing, which he called 'the tingler', manifests itself on the spinal column and the only way to rid oneself of this 'tingler' is to scream. Deaf mute's cant scream, however, and soon after discovering that his friend's wife suffers from that condition, and has an acute fear of blood, Price gets to work on attempting to isolate and remove the tingler.William Castle shows his flair and passion for entertaining his audience throughout this film, with the whole film being, basically, a metaphor for the horror genre on the whole. Castle uses several different methods of getting his audience to scream, and while this film isn't very scary by today's standards - watching this master of entertainment weave his magic is always delightful. Another thing that's delightful about this film is the fact that Vincent Price is in it. Price has an amazing ability to command to the screen, and while this movie doesn't feature his best performance - he's always entertaining, and it's always a pleasure to see him on screen. Castle's special effects are hokey, with the central monster - the tingler - looking rather silly, but that adds to the fun effect of the movie and if the effects had been terrific examples of how good special effects can be - the film wouldn't have been nearly as fun as it is. The Tingler is silly throughout, and it gets really ridiculous towards the end, but if you watch knowing that this isn't to be taken seriously, you'll enjoy yourself just like Castle intended. "},{"Title":"Spine tingling terror. Just scream.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Directed and hyped by William Castle. Proof he is a master. Vincent Price is a pathologist that discovers that, when in a state of extreme fear, an organism grows along a person's spine enlarging up to the neck. The only thing that will stop the growth is the sound of screaming.Along with Price are Darryl Hickman and Pamela Lincoln. This is a real gimmicky film, but still effective. Well acted by Price, one of his very best. Still creepy after all these years. "},{"Title":"Price Is Right, But I Liked 'Ollie' Best!","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Ollie was my favorite person in this movie. What a strange dude! He was full of surprises, including reactions to things, comments he makes and, of course, deeds he commits.Yeah, Vincent Price proves again what a fine actor we was, and is the star of the film, but I really enjoyed Philip Coolidge's (Ollie) performance. As for Price, watching this other day made me scratch my head and wonder how such a good actor could play in so many cheesy films?Whatever, those two along with Patricia Cutts (the tramp wife), Judith Evelyn (Ollie's deaf-mute wife), Darryl Hickman and Pamela Lincoln all did a pretty nice job, although Price's acting talents stand out among the cast. It also would have fun to see this in the theater 50 years ago when they rigged the seats to tingle during certain scenes! That really happened! Director William Castle really tried everything to get the audience. He even stopped the film and asked the audience to scream! It must have been hilarious. You have to give it to the man for his effort to promote his horror films.The movie begins slowly so one has to have patience with this story. Once it kicks in though, it's very good with some shocking scenes (including a color scene or two) and some interesting twists. However, to be fair, there are a lot of holes in this story and really, really corny things......but that's part of the fun. It's like Ed Wood films - so bad, you have to laugh.The DVD looks good. This is a nice transfer, which is important with all the lights and shadows. You can see some alternate scenes, too, which are interesting. "},{"Title":"A Gem for Castle and Price!","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  William Castle was a great filmmaker.  Many people would disagree because no one Castle film stands out as being great.  Yet Castle was a great innovator that made going to the movies more than just a way to spend time to an experience.  His gimmicks, although not usable today, are not what his movies are about.  His films are about stories, pretty good ones at that. The Tingler is no exception.  It is a tale of horror and science.  It concerns itself with a doctor trying to prove that each of us has a tingler within us that gets bigger when we are in a state of fear and is repelled by our screaming.  Although the scientific merit of this story seems somewhat implausible, Castle makes it seem very credible through his story-telling techniques.  Some scenes in the movie are just wonderful. Vincent Price is excellent as the doctor questing for answers and then faced with a moral dilemma as to what should be done with his newly found knowledge.  If you like science fiction, Vincent Price, or just a good old-fashioned horror yarn....The Tingler is for you! "},{"Title":"More fun than it has any right to be!","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was very young when this movie was originally released and my first encounter was when I switched on the TV (no remotes in those days, so I was right in front of the set) and a woman's face suddenly appeared, screaming right at me! It scared the living hell out of me --- and that was only a *commercial* for THE TINGLER! It was years before I saw the actual film and while it wasn't as scary as I imagined (nothing could have been) it had, as William Castle's films frequently do, an unsettling feeling of dread about it. Of course it's also absolutely ridiculous. The whole premise is insane, and the plot twists keep getting more and more loony, but that only adds to the fun! The titular creature itself is a mixed bag, crudely done (even for its day) but somehow effectively disgusting. The acting is uniformly good and the dialogue pretty intelligent. The only weak point for me was Judith Evelyn as the deaf mute wife, who overacted like hell but never seemed genuinely terrified by any of the bizarre goings on. The DVD contains an excellent short called SCREAM FOR YOUR LIVES including (among others) co-star Darryl Hickman, now in his seventies, looking incredibly fit and happy and seemingly unable to talk about making THE TINGLER without constantly cracking up. Who can blame him???? "},{"Title":"If You Ever Feel Fear, Scream to Save Your Life!","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The coroner and scientist Dr. Warren Chapin (Vincent Price) is researching the shivering effect of fear with his assistant David Morris (Darryl Hickman). Dr. Warren is introduced to Ollie Higgins (Philip Coolidge), the relative of a criminal sentenced to the electric chair, while making the autopsy of the corpse, and he makes a comment about the tingler-effect to him. Ollie asks for a lift to Dr. Warner, and introduces his deaf-mute wife Martha Higgins (Judith Evelyn), who manages a theater of their own. Dr. Warner returns home, where he lives with his unfaithful and evil wife Isabel Stevens Chapin (Patricia Cutts) and her sweet sister Lucy Stevens (Pamela Lincoln). Dr. Warner, upset with the situation with his wife, threatens and uses her as a subject of his experiment. When Martha dies of fear, Dr. Warner makes her autopsy and finds a creature that lives inside every human being, feeds with fear and is controlled by the scream. Once Martha was not able to scream, the tingler was not rendered harmless and became enormous. When the living being escapes, Dr. Warner and Ollie chase it in a crowded movie theater.The Tingler is very hilarious and cheesy B-movie, but with a great potential of cult-movie. I can imagine the behavior of the real audiences with the instructions of the character of Vincent Price ordering in the dark to scream in the movie theaters to save their lives, while he is looking for the tingler on the screen, and a device installed underneath their seats is vibrating in the scene. The flawed screenplay is silly but also very, very funny indeed. There are two great moments along the story the ahead-of-time acid trip of Dr. Warren Chapin (in 1959); and the red colored bathtub full of blood, the unique colored scene along the whole black and white film. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Força Diabólica (Evil Force) "},{"Title":"A classic film about the fear","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Tingler (1959 - 82 minutes - B&W), is a classic of horror and science fiction produced and directed by the remarkable master William Castle, who was known for setting tricks in the cinema rooms in fifties and sixties in order to interact the audience with the film. (In The Tigler, Castle placed an equipment, the Percepto, inside the cinema armchairs so that, when the audience shouts during the movie, they felt a shock).In this masterpiece, Vincent Price is Dr. Warren Chapin, an obstinate doctor of legal medicine who discovers that fear causes the tingler effect with the growth of a parasitic creature near the vertebral column. Chapin could isolate and remove the creature of a deaf and dumb woman (the actress Judith Evelyn) but the thing escapes and runs away to a full cinema. A way to defeat the creature is to shout loud. According to John Waters, of the Film Comment, the film shows the first citation of LSD of the cinema. The writer Robb White had heard about the lisergic acid from Aldous Huxley, he went to the UCLA to try the drug in himself (before it became illegal) and then he introduced the drug in the story. "},{"Title":"Don't be ashamed about opening your mouth and letting rip with all you've got...","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ...because the person in the seat next to you will probably be screaming too!You've got to love this campy cult classic from William Castle. Vincent Price is great as always, but the supporting characters are really good also, which can sometimes be hard to find in this kind of movie.The opening 'screaming' sequence can be a little annoying, but it's all in keeping with the fun you have watching this classic.Be ready to laugh!8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Ladies and gentlemen, please do not panic. But SCREAM! Scream for your lives!","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" William Castle, with the greatest respect, was a poor man's Alfred Hitchcock. He was not concerned with making art, but rather with keeping his audience as entertained as possible, and everything he does with his films is working towards this end. Every plot development, every artistic decision is very deliberately planned and executed &#150; with no amount of subtlety, it must be said &#150; to provide maximum thrills, laughs and screams from his patrons. Even among B-movie directors, Castle found a unique way of distinguishing himself, through the use of unnecessary theatre gimmicks, and his form of showmanship clearly seen in his introduction to the picture, and his theatrical trailers, in which he can barely contain his jubilation at what the audience is about to experience was unsurpassed even by the Master of Suspense himself. His enthusiasm is absolutely infectious. In fact, for the entire 80 minutes, you can almost see Castle's grinning face superimposed over the screen. He's absolutely loving it, and I'll be damned if I didn't love it, as well.Considering the director's association with low-budget schlock, I had expected a film with unquestionably shoddy production values. Instead, 'The Tingler (1959)' is impeccably shot by Wilfred M. Cline and generally well-written (Dr. Chapin referencing both his wife and a stray cat Have you two met? In the same alley, perhaps?). Horror icon Vincent Price is the film's charismatic star, but excellent supporting performances are given by Judith Evelyn as a deaf and dumb cinema owner, Philip Coolidge as her anxious husband, and Patricia Cutts &#150; sexy and acerbic &#150; as Dr. Chapin's unfaithful wife. The story does occasionally descend into silliness, but Price nonetheless manages to deliver even the campiest of lines with unmatched class. The Tingler itself looks glaringly artificial, a rubber contraption that is pulled along the floor with wires, but its initial entrance is still something to behold. I leaned forward, my mouth agape in revulsion and disbelief, as the slimy, pulsating creature &#150; seen only in silhouette &#150; was extracted from its host's body, and deposited, wriggling gruesomely, into a pet cage.Unlike countless awful 1950s sci-fi/horror films, 'The Tingler' isn't merely in the business of (ostensibly) scaring its audience; it aims to entertain them &#150; to elicit screams, laughs and everything in between. Castle takes you aside with a mischievous wink, lets you in on the joke, and invites you to enjoy the film's effect on the lesser masses. Whether or not his film actually caused any cinema hysterics or fatal heart attacks is difficult to deduce one of Castle's other tricks was to plant shills in the audience, who would scream on cue, but there's no doubt that his picture genuinely involved the audience. Every single unsubtle technique utilised by the film &#150; most memorably, the black-and-white suddenly punctuated by blood red, a little trick he learnt from Hitchcock's 'Spellbound (1945)' &#150; is a nod to the participation of its viewers. This makes the film abstract, surreal, almost interactive; when Vincent Price implores the cinema audience to scream, we know he's talking to us, and when the Tingler's stark silhouette creeps slimily across our movie screen&#133; well, don't forget to scream. "},{"Title":"Highlight of My Day !","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was home from work suffering miserably from the flu when I stumbled across this movie on cable TV mid-afternoon. Nevertheless, It was the bright spot of my day.Vincent Price plays a coroner who is intrigued by the effects of fear on the human body. He makes a discovery that when people are frightened, a parasitic creature will invade their spinal column and destroy it. The only way to disable the parasite is to scream as a way to emote your fear and not keep it bottled up in side. Vincent Price non-chalantly names this parasitic creature  I guess I'll call it the tingler to his lab partner upon examination of an x-ray of a frightened person. But how to obtain an actual tingler specimen ??? Ah my friends, that is when the schlocky late 1950's B movie horror fun begins ! Actually, i should not say that. I gained a lot of respect for this little horror movie while watching it. The plot line I thought was ingenious enough to make children or dim-witted adults to probably believe it. As mentioned from the other reviewers of the movie, and i must concur, there are some very interesting scenes in the film. 1)A pre psychedelic era depiction of an individual (Vincent Price) injecting himself with LSD in order to experience fright (i'm too intelligent to be scared by anything else he proclaims), 2) The star of the film,  The Tingler itself. Disgusting yet depicted hokey enough for you to want to have one as a pet 3) The attempt to scare the deaf mute woman. The bathtub scene is undoubtedly so creepy you wont want to turn away or maybe you might ! Another thing I appreciated about this movie is a small detail I really enjoyed that nobody else seemed to comment on. I really liked it when the tingler is loose and people are starting to panic and film then incorporates a pounding heartbeat along with a repetitive same note organ score. I think that added a nice touch.Im not going to go into all the film's gimmicks here since I was not even a thought when the movie played in the theaters (vibrating seats, people fainting in the audience, theater going dark and Vincent Price telling ticket holders  The Tingler is loose in this theater, scream, scream for your lives However, I wish I was around to experience that theater going experience. It must have been a lot of fun.I can see why this film is considered a classic. As i told you up front I was sick with the flu while watching it and it kept me awake and intrigued the whole hour and a half it was on. To me, that is the true test of whether a film is watchable or not. A footnote for some of the older folks reading this who live in the NYC area like I do...I recall WPIX Channel 11 showing reruns of this sleeper horror classic on Chiller Theater on Saturday nights when i was a kid. Why I did not watch it back then, I don't know. Must have been afraid of it. Im glad I finally did get the chance to watch it now though. "},{"Title":"I Was One of the unLucky Ones","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Yes, I was one of the lucky ones who had the chair move in the movie theater...I also remember things brushing against my feet. I was petrified....I was only seven years old at the time!!! I had gone to the movies with my older sister...she did NOT have one the THE chairs. I became so frightened that I asked to go sit with my oldest sister, who had come to the movies with her friends. I had to be extremely scared to go sit with her, because she was thirteen and did NOT want her kid sister coming to join her. I remained in the theater until the end of the movie and YES, I saw the Tingler escape!!!! This obviously had an impression on me....I got a call tonight from my son letting me know it was on TCM...he had recalled hearing me talk about this great movie!!! Although I was scared to death, I did enjoy this movie...as I am now.... watching it and re-living my childhood!!! "},{"Title":"At one showing in 1959 The Tingler provided extra shocks!","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Here is a true story that classifies as Tingler Trivia.  At a major studio-named Cinema palace in San Mateo, California, I saw an original exhibition of The Tingler back in 1959 with the theatre-Manager's nephew, a high school chum.  His uncle related the distribution set-up for the film army surplus vibration motors were electrically wired under every third seat in the first seven rows of this large theatre in the orchestra level, at considerable expense.  At key points in the film the motors were clicked on, providing a tingling sensation to a viewer's rear end, at which point several plain-clothed ushers would scream out horribly! The implied intention was to cause a stampede in the auditorium, front to rear, toward the main lobby candy counters beyond the thrust-open theatre doors.  While we were listening to the story, behind the Manager's back a curious-looking workman, looking very worried and clutching a small hat, was gesturing for the manager to turn around, which we mentioned.  Who's that? we asked. Oh, he's the retired electrician I found was the reply.  Excuse me for a moment, boys.  When the Manager returned, he seemed quite bemused, explaining This idiot I hired to do the work just informed me, minutes before the film rolls, that he forgot to ground his connections.  It seems the patrons in those seven rows are due for a REAL shock.  Needless to say, my friend and I sat in row 11 and yes, seeing the film that way, in a packed theatre, was a real hoot!  About 100 people, jolted and non, stormed the lobby at the given moments, several screaming or wondering out loud in pandemonium. When the film went black screen for a moment and the jolts shocked the audience, the scene was not to be believed and has, to this very day, never been forgotten.  It was almost as humorous as a showing of House on Haunted Hill in the same theatre earlier in the year, but that is a story for another day.  "},{"Title":"One of Castle's best B shockers","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Tingler is one of the best of the gimmicky horror thrillers churned out by William Castle for Columbia in the late 50s and early 60s.  Vincent Price lends considerable class to the proceedings as a coroner convinced that there is a creature that grows in the spine (the Tingler of the title) when humans are unable to release their fear through screaming.Price, 51 at the time, is a good guy for a change, saddled with an evil two-timing wife who attempts to kill him with the tingler he surgically removes from the corpse of a deaf mute.  The dead woman's husband, an odd little man named Ollie, provides the most fun with his terror filled facial contortions at the film's climax, but there's a giggle or two to be had when Price, under the influence of narcotics, believes the walls are closing in on him.  The walls!  The walls! he cries before collapsing across the desk in his lab.  I collapsed before he did--with laughter.  This man, I thought to myself, is 51-years-old, and THIS is his career.In addition to providing an unintentional guffaw or two, The Tingler works up some genuine chills, making it one of Castle's best B shockers.  "},{"Title":"reasonably well made for a cheesy B horror flick with a true gimmick","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" At the start of the Tingler, William Castle walks out and lets the audience know about being scared and screaming - and that this will be a case where it's more than just suggested, it's all but required for the audience (then shots of screaming teens pop up on the screen). Seeing as how I was watching the film by myself on a rainy day, it might be rather insane to just scream on my own, especially when it came time to actually see the Tingler creature itself. But the movie is a splendid concoction of scientific ballyhoo. If you are just getting into these kinds of mad scientist does this 1950s/60s movie, this is a good place to get acquainted.And what better way than with Vincent Price? Price is such a good actor that he makes this doctor's hunt for capturing fear in human beings- and finding the weird organism that does it- into a quest, one that he even tries to propel from himself. The idea of the Tingler is something interesting more than the usual fare, anyway, because it's psychosomatic instead of it being experiments creating a man or woman into a monster or beast or animal, it's a manifestation of something that's already there. In this case the tingler monster is like some weird centipede-lobster thing (compared to some of Corman's productions like 'Crab Monsters' it doesn't look or move to shabbily either), and it's extracted by Price from a deaf woman who can't scream and so all the tension built up by a fear drug causes the tingler to grow and not shrink down.There's a lot of fun stuff here, and some solid scenes as well. Early on we see that Castle is at least competent in his craftsmanship if nothing too special, but the writing helps keep things moving in a professional manner; not much time is wasted, and the acting around Price is decent enough (my favorite would be his wife, whom he uses as his first test subject). But the shocks come with trippy scenes where Price thinks he sees skeletons come to life, and then with the deaf woman's visions in the bathroom, with tinted-red blood against black and white (why this is done aside from the gimmick I can't say, but it looks cool anyway), and then that ridiculous, self-conscious hoot in the silent movie theater where the wicked fear-beast (who can only be quelled by screams, by the way) slithers around the theater and all the way up to the projectionist, leaving his mark on the screen! It would be advantageous, of course, to see this in a theater where Castle's gimmicks could be done. Maybe a step bellow (or above) smell-o-vision, but it doesn't detract from the fun within the material itself. It's goofy and silly, and by the end all you learn is never to get too scared that you won't scream. Oh, and you have a meddling creature on your back that is activated whenever you're frightened. Boo. "},{"Title":"Ladies and gentlemen, please do not panic! But SCREAM! Scream for your lives!","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There is a real pleasure in watching old Vincent Price movies. There is little in the way of special effects, so you have to rely on the skills of the actor. he is and was magnificent.The premise is just too ridiculous to comprehend - we have a tingler in our spine that reacts to fear. Screaming will neutralize it. It's a neat gimmick, and director William Castle took advantage of post war audiences to capitalize on it.The creature looked like a runner centipede that was two feet long. It was so unreal that it was funny, but it made for a great movie, and a spine-tingling ending.You can never go wrong with an old Price movie.Plus you probably get to see the first LSD trip on film. "},{"Title":"Just when you thought it was safe to run bathwater!","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I saw this movie as a small child and it scared the crap out of me. All I could remember was the bathtub scene, when the black and white movie suddenly showed the tub full of bright red blood.....and then a hand slowly came up out of the water, reaching for the victim. For years I couldn't remember the name of the film or the story, but that scene made it impossible for me to run bathwater while I was alone! Wigged me out for YEARS. Then one night as an adult, while watching a late show, The Tingler came on and I thought, boy what a dumb movie.....until the bathtub scene where I jumped up and screamed, OH my GOD, that's the movie! Once I saw it again and realized it was a campy old schlock movie was I cured of my bathtub phobia. Only Vincent Price movies can do that to you. "},{"Title":"Scream For Your Lives!","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" William Castle was renowned for his gimmicky films. For THE TINGLER he had Percepto, and it was a lulu randomly selected seats in the theatre were wired with a small motor, and at a peak moment in the film these motors came to life and literally gave your bottom a buzz! But unless you happen to have a really warped sense of humor plus some mechanical aptitude, you'll have to forgo the Percepto effect and settle for one of the most weirdo stories to come down the street.A doctor (Vincent Price) is studying the effects of fear. In the process, he finds that fear causes a nasty, worm-like creature to grow inside the human body along the spine. Release your fear by screaming, and the creature is destroyed; if for some reason you cannot scream, however, the creature merely grows larger and larger and kills you by crushing your spine. What the good doctor really wants, of course, is to lay his hands on one of these critters--and when a man murders his deaf-mute wife by scaring her to death, Dr. Vince gets his chance. Eventually The Tingler escapes into a movie theatre, and the seat-buzzing begins!Price and company give it their all, and the film is as enjoyable as only schlock horror can be. Fans of the genre will hoot over the murder, Vincent Price's LSD trip, the scenes where the tingler escapes into the theatre--not to mention at the monster itself, which looks like a cross between an overweight centipede and a lobster. And yes, you really can see the wires! The DVD edition also includes lots of fun extras, including a short documentary on the film. Castle fans will get a kick out of it, but all others are warned away!Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Superior 50's horror comic.","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was recently fortunate enough to acquire a DVD print of 'The Tingler' complete with colourised dream sequence. I watched this initially as a young teenager and was quite unnerved by it, now 30-odd years later, I can only describe it as a minor masterpiece from Mr. Castle!. The above segment with Judith Evelyn has everything; shameless over-acting, exaggerated camera angles, 'sinister' organ music, scary shadows and other visual references of 'terror'.A must for all die hard fans of hi-camp 50's kitsch and 'horror'...Voting 9 out of 10  "}{"Title":"Open Your Mind And Be Prepared To Be Shocked!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Thanks to American Movie Classics cable network and my local library, I have been taking an interest in the William Castle films.  Knowing nothing about The Tingler, I sat down at home with my pint of Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream and opened my mind to be entertained.  Yes it is a 1950's film.  A bit hokey, perhaps.  Silly special effects we have seen before and figured out how its done.  But I watched The Tingler on its own merit.  The dramatic quality, the politeness and kindness of the characters and the evil of others. I do get tired of watching today's horror films that each scene and shot flashes by so quickly, you get a headache.  So watching a good, easily-paced black & white film from the 1940's, 1950's or 1960's is relaxing to the eyes and entertaining for me. You don't have to think to hard, just enjoy.  If you should happen to see The Tingler on American Movie Classics or get a good high-quality VHS Video or DVD of this film that contains the special color sequence of this black & white film, you are in for a treat.  Not for the squeamish.  Having seen House On Haunted Hill (1958), 13 Ghosts (1960), and now The Tingler (1959), I will be looking for more films written, produced, or directed by William Castle.  (If you are a film buff, this film might help you to recall other films, such as, House On Haunted Hill (1958), The Manitou (1978) and Star Trek The Wrath Of Khan (1982).  "},{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Okay maybe this isn't a sweeping classic, but it is entertaining. The plot is moronic and this has one of the silliest monsters ever. The tingler looks like a slug puppet my little bother would make in boy scouts. Well make that pull toy. But it is a nice change to see Vincent Price play a good guy. It's worth watching this movie just to see him ham it up on a drug trip. That scene alone funnier than almost  half the comedies in the theater. The rest of the film is loaded with William Castle's stock characters.(the catty wife, the sweet young brunette, ect) But the scene with the deal/mute wife living nightmare is very effective. The black and white accent the shadowy look. With the red blood dripping is actually creepy. The last twenty minutes with the tingler in the theater is classic camp. It's reminds me of the Blob. Which done something similar. Expect in the Tingler the movie watchers seem unaware of a large rubber bug,sorry ,monster jiggling around. Then the movie stops for Vincent Price to warn us to scream for our lives.  Great campy 50's horror fun for all.  "},{"Title":"Cheesy but fun","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a Vincent Price film. What do you expect? This is equal parts cheesy and entertaining, like most of his films. The basic plot is quite simple. Whenever you are afraid, a creature within you appears. The only way to get rid of it is to scream. One such creature escapes and wreaks havoc on many people, particularly the people in a movie theater. No, this is not high art or a four star movie, but it does what it sets out to do. For the time, there were even some startling sequences, such as the nightmare sequence that had some color. All in all, this is a pretty cheesy and fun little movie that I would recommend renting. This movie was probably even more fun with the gimmicks in the theater where it felt like the tingler was crawling beneath you. "},{"Title":"Tingler In the Movie Theater","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I just found the DVD version of the Tingler at Borders for $6. Had to buy it. I saw it when it first came out in 1959 (I was 13) - in the Atlas Theater in Detroit. It scared the crap out of us even with the bad acting and the hokey gimmicks. When the Tingler got into the projection room all the lights went out in our theater including the movie. Then, slowly we saw the shadow of the thing inching it's way across the darkened screen. I had one of The seats. You can imagine that back then, this was the ultimate for us. Great fun! And no one sued the theater for getting the tingle. Amazing. We also got to meet the real live Robbie the Robot from Forbidden Planet when it came out. "},{"Title":"An Often Overlooked Vincent Price Classic That Should Be Seen","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Vincent Price plays a scientist and doctor who by day helps patients and performs autopsies... but at night conducts experiments by injecting himself with lysergic acid (LSD) in search of the Tingler, a creature that runs up and tightens the spine in moments of fright. Where does it come from and can it be separated from its human host for further study? The Tingler works as a film on many levels. As a horror film on the base level, it's a decent story of a creature, of fear and of murder. The blood is minimal, there's no gore and the language is clean. No nudity. But it's what you expect from Vincent Price in the 1950s, and clearly one of his better performances. He will be remembered for such works as Last Man on Earth, but this one ought not be overlooked.On the upper level, it's also a story of marriage and adultery. I dare say this is the strength of the picture. The creature aspect is relatively small, at least until the end, but the marriage subplot runs strong, which seems bold for the time period. The word divorce is never uttered, and we are in a world where murder is an easier option than divorce. The banter between Price and his wife is biting and hard-hitting, at times maybe even edgy. Even with the horror aspects removed, this film could have been carried by the basis of their relationship.And on the lower level, we are treated to some gimmicks -- not surprising from a William Castle film (see separate review for the documentary Spine Tingler). Audiences at the time had shocks built in their seats to feel the tingle, and if you are lucky enough to catch it in theaters, you may feel the same (at a screening in Chicago at the Portage Theater, a nurse walked the aisles with a joy buzzer). There's the scene where things go from monochrome to color. And there's the Tingler itself, which is so poorly constructed that we see its just a piece of rubber on a string -- beware should it break the fourth wall! While sillier than many Vincent Price films -- even sillier than most William Castle films -- this one is not to be overlooked, as it often is. If you get a chance to see a screening of it, I highly recommend this, especially if you get a horror-loving audience. If you must resort to DVD, I would encourage this as well. The film is certainly worth owning, and with many years passed by, it's likely to be fairly affordable. "},{"Title":"The Giggler","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Tingler is a very funny film. Unintentionally funny that is.Director William Castle was not much of a director. He was more like a side show barker hollering you in to see the tattooed woman or the 900 pound pig with two heads. The Tingler's gimmick is Percepto. I actually saw this film as a kid in 1959 and the Percepto gimmick was some kind of buzzer device placed under selected seats that would go off when the Tingler was loose in the audience and zap the unsuspecting moviegoer's bum. Of course, now you have to watch this at home and there is no buzzer under your seat so I guess you'll just have to ask your partner to goose you to get the effect. )Poor Vincent Price. He seems to think he is doing Shakespeare as he mouths the lines, Scream! Scream for your lives! (That's because screaming is the only way to protect yourself from the Tingler.) The Tingler, by the way, is one of the funniest looking monsters ever shown on the screen. If you don't laugh when you see it, you won't laugh at anything. Look for the very visible wires pulling it along.Well, what do you expect from a film was aimed at 10 year olds in 1959? The Tingler is like a haunted house that turns out to be not so scary. "},{"Title":"Tingler","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is the first horror movie I ever saw as a child that actually scared me. Back in the day, they used to wire theater seats so that the patron would actually feel the sensations of some creatures on the skin. (I thought it was cool that the trailer actually encourages you to scream out loud in the theater.)I didn't see it there though, I saw it on late-night T.V. I am still a bit creeped out by the memory of it and am trying to work up the nerve to watch it again if I can get a copy. Despite today's special effects and computer generated monsters, I think this movie still has the power to scare. I am looking forward to sharing it with my now-grown & almost-grown kids. I was, and am, a big Vincent Price fan. Even though he was attractive, he had a way of being charming and scary at the same time. There are still very few movies that scare me but this movie was cutting edge for it's time as both a horror movie and psychological thriller. "},{"Title":"Scream! The tingler is on the loose!","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Tingler is, overall, a laughable film with a ridiculous logic (screaming helps to kill ¡§the tingler¡¨ in our body!?). The storyline, however, is very interesting, and will keep you glued to the film until the end. Vincent Price gives an excellent performance, and it is this movie that sparked my interest in other films starring him. One of the coolest(and funniest) things about this movie is the fact that it allows the audience to actually ¡§take part in the movie.¡¨ You'll see what I mean. I can imagine how audiences back then would react to the ¡§SCREAM¡¨ scenes (very cleverly done). As for the tingler creature, it looks like a cheap plastic toy attached to wires. But that¡¦s okay, since the movie is not entirely focusing on the creature itself. I¡¦d give this film *** out of *****.  "},{"Title":"Like a 'Bad Dream'.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It was several months ago that a saw The Tingler again.  There is an element of this movie that I cannot get out of my head. I often wonder if others will share this ? The scenes I speak of are the black and white starkness of the movie sets. Now I know some will claim it's nothing more than a low budget typical stark set.  The part of the movie where Price gives the husband of the lady ( the poor sleeper with speech defict) a prescription is what sticks out in my mind. The husband is standing in front of his movie theatre he runs. Price gives me a prescription, and the man goes off up the street. It's this very street that sticks in my head. It looks so dark and dream like. In my own dreams ( I have a VERY active REM Dream State, for better or worse) I often experience dreamscapes that are similar ....where the scene is somewhat cleared immediately in front of me, but much hazier around me. The sets in the Tingler evoked this spooky dream like feeling in me, and thusly increased the 'scare factor' to this movie. There were other scenes in the movie that also evoked these feelings. 'House On Haunted Hill' also shares similar imagery. In other words a simpler black and white set to a movie yields frightening imagery to me. 'Blair Witch Project' scared me mostly by that brief image at the very end where her male companion is standing facaing the basement wall. Again....simplicity seems to scrare me more than computer generated special effects, as in the remake of 13 Ghosts. ( Another great Vincent Price spook flick). "},{"Title":"Second only to House on Haunted Hill","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It's a lucky thing that some of William Castle's gimmicks survive on film (I'm not going to reveal the incredible secrets of the real gimmick because most of you already know it; for those of you who don't, let's just say it's shocking. BWA HA HA!). Vincent Price is working on a discovery with assistant Darryl Hickman (Dobie Gillis?) and finds out that a organism called the tingler lives off human fear and nests in a person's back. Whenever we are frightened, it grows bigger, and is only stopped by screaming. See what I mean? First, he tries to take it out of his promiscuous 20 year-old wife, but then finds a voiceless victim and removes it from her. Surprise, surprise - it grows bigger and menaces the hottest make-out place in town - the silent movie theater. As Vincent Price puts it, SCREAM! SCREAM FOR YOUR LIVES!Other gimmicks? Well, there is a color scene in which the voiceless woman finds a bathtub full of blood with a hand reaching out of it (color sequences sure were popular back then, what with this, War of the Colossal Beast, Picture of Dorian Gray and all; I guess they would rather see part of a horror film in color than a weepy tearjerker in full color. Oh well.) Did I forget that this was the first trip film, too? Vincent Price injects himself with some LSD to frighten himself, and the results, to say the least, are hysterical. I guess the screenwriter went rather in-depth on his research for the script! "}{"Title":"Pure entertainment","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" What fun is was to watch this movie. Yes it is a B-movie,sci-fi, and horror film all rolled into one spine-tingling package! While it is pretty cheesy in places, if you just take the movie for what it is, it's a hoot! I don't get into all the gory, realistic, blood-bath horror pictures they produce today. So this was tame enough to be right up my alley.I like Price's performance here. Sometimes he comes across a little wooden to me, but he does a good job here. There is a capable supporting cast as well. Patricia Cutts is quite effective as Dr. Chapin's (Price) trampy wife Isabel. I like how he gets back at her. Phillip Coolidge and Judith Evelyn turn in performances as Ollie & Martha Higgins who are the theater owners that play a significant role in the film. It's interesting to know that Ms. Evelyn appeared in Hitchcock's Rear Window as Ms. Lonelyhearts. She plays a similarly tragic role her as well (I won't give it away).I thought the cinematography was quite good for a B-movie and liked that it was in black & white. A particularly effective scene is the way they colored the blood red in the bathroom - cool effect and adds to the horror. Of course, nowadays, its pretty tame by today's standard - but back then, it must have caused quite a shock! The music reminds me a little of a Twilight Zone episode. In fact the whole movie could be compared to a long episode of TZ. I think they did a good job creating tension and fear with the camera angles, music and shadows. Some of the dying of fright was a little overacted but still fun.I liked the tie-in with the Tingler getting loose in a movie theater and how they planted buzzers and screamers in the theater audience to get people to scream and build fear. That must have been quite an experience if you were fortunate enough to see this in the theaters when it originally opened.Don't watch this expecting to see any Oscar worthy performances. But if you're looking for pure, campy fun - enjoy every screaming, spine-tingling moment of this! "},{"Title":"Cheesy fun from William Castle","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This isn't a particularly deep film, but what can you expect from William Castle--the king of schlock and showmanship in films!? Vincent Price stars as a scientist who is investigating how fear kills its victims. He discovers that there is a creature that lives inside us that wraps around our spine and kills us if we allow ourselves to be afraid...and he actually manages to capture one! Well, given that there is a live tingler about, you can guess where William Castle goes--the creature gets loose and supposedly is running amok in the theater and will kill anyone who gives in to their fear! Well, despite this cheesy gimmick, this is a very good horror film well worth watching. While many will no doubt think the film is too cheesy to enjoy, I think that it is a perfect example of a high quality cheesy 1950s horror film--just tons of fun despite it being a pretty silly film. An excellent tribute to this style film is the cute film Matinée--give it a look.By the way, if you want to see the best Castle film, see STRAIGHT- JACKET--a far from subtle film you've just got to see! "},{"Title":"Wise words from the real St. Vincent always scream!","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When you're scared, you scream, right? Well I hope so, because it turns out that if you don't, then an ugly creature called the Tingler grows at the base of your spine. After Dr. Warren Chapin (Vincent Price) learns this, he decides to test it on deaf-mute Martha Higgins (Judith Evelyn). She can't scream, so she grows a Tingler. Naturally, the Tingler gets loose and wreaks havoc on everyone.My mom often tells me about how in her home town of Galena Park, Texas (near Houston), she always liked it when a Vincent Price movie came to the local movie theater. Such movies were always a great alternative to the family fun. The Tingler was one of the really neat movies that she saw at the Galena Theater. And it has never lost its coolness even after all these years.So remember, if ever you get really scared, there's just one thing to remember SCREAM! "},{"Title":"Cheesy but I love it","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is the kind of horror films I grew up with. There are two actors who can bring this kind of film to life - Vincent Price, who is in this film, and Christopher Lee, who, regrettably, isn't. However, this film is so cheesy that it's great. It seems that each of us has a creature living inside us, attached to our spines. When we experience fear, this creature, called a Tingler, feeds on that fear and grows. Once it grows large enough, it'll kill it's host (that being you, of course). So how can you fight this insidious horror? Scream! Scream a lot. Scream loudly and often. Scream for your life! It's so hokey that it's a great film. The cast for this film is a very small one, and Price is the only name out of the whole bunch. The story is written fairly well, about average for it's day. Price does his usual great job in this, a fairly typical Price film. I gave it a 7 and I like it! "},{"Title":"Great Fun from Castle and Price","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tingler, The (1959) *** (out of 4)Wonderfully entertaining B movie from Columbia deals with a silly subject but director Castle and star Vincent Price pull it off and deliver one of the most memorable horror films from this period. Price plays Dr. Warren Chapin, a man who discovers that everyone has a small creature on the back on their spine, which he eventually calls The Tingler. This creature, when the person is scared, is what might lead to death unless they can scream loud enough to paralyze the thing. What's so entertaining about this film is the actual thought of a creature on your spine. That sets up for a campy movie and most films would have played it for camp value but Price and Castle instead play it straight and that's what makes this film hold up after all these years. A lot of movies from this era are just downright silly and they come off as being such. That's not the case here because of Price's wonderful performance and he's so good that you really don't care how silly the story is because he makes you believe in what you're seeing. I love the way Price delivers his line with the best example coming when he's trying to get his wife to sign over some cash to her sister. Another memorable sequence is Price's LSD trip, which was a first for mainstream cinema. We also have the famous death sequence, which had a few color scenes added to it. These scenes still remain rather effective, which is just more credit for the director. The supporting players deliver some nice performances but there's no question that the film belongs to Price. I think he did the horror genre a great service because he was an incredibly talented man who, luckily for us, got put into this genre and really delivered some of its most memorable roles. "},{"Title":"Vincent Price at his very best","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have just seen this movie for the first time and consider it to be one of Vincent Price's best movies, along with House of Wax and Witchfinder General.Price plays a mad doctor who discovers that fear causes a large bug called a tingler to grow on the spine and it can only be killed by screaming.  Several people are killed, including a mute woman whose husband dresses up to frighten her to see what happens.  He his killed at the end.Vincent Price is great as the doctor and the supporting cast play good parts too.  This movie is rather gory for its time, especially the colour sequence where the mute woman discovers the blood filled bath. The tingler itself looks rather rubbery and in one scene, you can see the wires that control it, but that certainly didn't spoil my enjoyment.I enjoyed this movie very much and is a must if you are a fan of Vincent Price and 1950's sci-fi/horror.Rating 4 and a half stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Evil lurks in all of us!","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There was enough corn in this flakey film to allow Kellogg's to supply it's customers well into the next decade. I was in a state of constant mirth all the way through this 'spooky' picture. Gad! All those overdone facial expressions...those goofy sounding screams...and that 'thing' called the tingler. It looked like a cross between a slug and a lobster without claws. One of Vince's best, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"That shiver down your spine.....","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have a theory. People like to be scared at the movies. Whether it's that chill or tingle that you feel when ultimately you know you'll be safe when the movie ends, or whether it's just a good excuse for courting couples to cuddle. Horror movies are always popular! The director tells you at the beginning of this movie that people will scream in the seat next to you. Well, I never screamed but I did laugh on numerous occasions. No horror movie seems complete without Vincent Price and as usual, he fits in perfectly. The rest of the acting is quite frankly, shocking. But it doesn't really matter, as the real star of this movie is the giant centipede like tingler. Truly hilarious and actually, for the late 1950's, it was quite well done. So scary? No! But entertaining to watch after a few drinks on a Friday night? Definitely! "},{"Title":"Fright effects induced by injection of Lysergic Acid LSD 25.","Date":"4 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Tingler is directed by William Castle and written by Robb White. It stars Vincent Price, Judith Evelyn, Darryl Hickman, Patricia Cutts & Philip Coolidge. Music is by Von Dexter and cinematography by Wilfred M. Cline.Dr. Warren Chapin (Price) has a notion that fear in a human being produces a parasite like organism to attach itself to the spine. The parasite will kill its host unless the fear is released by way of a scream. When a test proves Chapin's theory correct, it gives devious Oliver Higgins (Coolidge) an idea to do away with his wife Martha (Evelyn), a death mute who can't scream.Director/producer William Castle's name became synonymous with horror gimmicks and B grade schlockers. Often derided by the critics of the time, Castle however was a popular draw card name for the thrill seeking cinema goer. His output can at best be described as varied, but even with the worst films he was attached to, one thing always rang true, here was a man desperate to entertain, a true showman. He would be homaged in the 1993 film, Matinée, directed by Joe Dante. In amongst Castle's output are a small handful of movies that are genuinely entertaining, be it for hokey reasons or otherwise. One such film is The Tingler, the one Castle film that undeniably has the most bonkers premise at its core.Released in accompaniment with the Percepto gimmick, basically a marketing device that saw a few seats in theatres wired up with a vibration motor to unnerve those sitting there during the film, The Tingler is a wonderfully campy horror experience. Absurd at times, yet carrying enough of a creepy vibe to it, it's a picture worthy of its cult classic status. Clocking in at just over 80 minutes, film slow builds for the first half, as characters are formed and berserker science explained, then Castle and his team unleash the fun as the centipede/lobster/earwig creature enters the fray. Picture also has the distinction of being the first to show a character indulging in an LSD Acid trip, where Price revels in the chance to chew the scenery with unadulterated glee. While Castle also introduces a couple of colour shots into the black and white piece to compound the terror being experienced by the menaced Martha. Cast are fine, with Price leading the way by being elegant and playing it the way it should be played, and Cline's photography is suitably shadowy to befit the story.Nobody is taking it serious, and that's the way it should be, it's old style horror asking you to run with it to get the best rewards. 8/10 "},{"Title":"THE TINGLER (William Castle, 1959) ***","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is surely among the famed William Castle’s more popular titles, one I’d always been interested in for several reasons the fact that it stars horror icon Vincent Price; the intriguing premise itself (like in the later THE ASPHYX 1972, a scientist contrives to ‘capture’ a creature which appears at the moment of a person’s death – but only if the latter was caused, in this case, by unrelieved terror!); the Silent cinema background (run by a deaf-mute woman!); a still from it depicting a ‘monster’ (which I had taken to be The Tingler) found in Alan Frank’s “Horror Films”…but, especially, after it was surprisingly submitted as an All-Time Top Ten film during the assembly of the renowned “Sight & Sound” poll in 2002! Due to the atypical but fascinating scientific elements involved, this is possibly the most satisfying of the director’s efforts (from what little I’ve watched so far); the straight horror bits are nonetheless effectively handled, making the film a lot of fun. Castle has often been compared to Alfred Hitchcock in the way he shamelessly manipulated audiences – little wonder, then, that composer Von Dexter comes up with a Bernard Herrmann-esquire score for this one! Price, too, here tackles one of the better genre roles prior to his AIP/Roger Corman heyday the well-meaning doctor’s relationship with his sluttish wife and her decent (but lovely) younger sister – whose boyfriend happens to be Price’s assistant – is unexpectedly complex for this type of film; ditto for the characterizations of Judith Evelyn (the inevitably cagey deaf-mute) and Philip Coolidge (her meek-looking but actually scheming husband).Unsurprisingly, the film is highlighted by instances of outright camp ever the astute showman, Castle’s introduction warns patrons that – during its original run – selected theater seats will be charged intermittently with electrical currents (a gimmick which came into play at the climactic rampage of the monster inside the movie-house showing TOL’ABLE David 1921), Price hamming it up while experiencing an LSD trip (cinema’s first brush with the psychedelic effects of this drug), Evelyn’s death scene (straight out of Grand Guignol and marked by sporadic outbursts of blood-red in an otherwise black-and-white production), the come-uppance of the human villain at the end (as over-the-top as it is baffling – given Evelyn’s sudden revitalization), not to mention the amusing (rather than scary) appearance of the centipede-like Tingler itself.Regrettably, the DivX conversion for this title has resulted in a constant flurry of artifacts throughout (but which don’t really hamper one’s enjoyment of the film); by the way, some time ago, I had acquired Castle’s THIRTEEN GHOSTS (1960) in this format as well…but the image wouldn’t register when I played the disc (though it seemed fine when I tried it just now on a computer monitor!) – incidentally, I should also be getting soon his eccentric last directorial effort i.e. SHANKS (1974)… "}{"Title":"Scream For Your Life!","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" What A Film! The Tingler of 1959 is the second collaboration of the legendary director William Castle and Horror's greatest Icon, the immortal Vincent Price, and while the film does not quite reach the brilliance of the foregoing House On Haunted Hill from the same year, this is about as much fun as a film can get for a classic Horror fan. The film actually follows an extremely absurd and far-fetched storyline, but and Price's performance and Castle's film-making and brilliant scare-effects make this a must-see.Dr. Warren Chapin (Price), is a doctor and scientist who is researching the effects of fear with his assistant David Morris (Darryl Hickman). After long research concerning fear, Chapin is devoted to find something, what he is convinced exists in every human's body. The so-called 'Tingler', a mysterious creature that lives in human beings and feeds on their fear...The plot is absurd and sometimes goofy, and yet The Tingler is an effective film that is downright ingenious in many aspects. It must have been even greater to see this film in the theater back in the day, since William Castle was famous for frightening his audiences with certain gimmicks, such as skeletons flying through the halls. But even today and on the little screen, The Tingler has many great little details. There is one brilliant sequence, in which Castle mixes one color element into the otherwise black and white film. This ingenious sequence alone makes the film a must-see, and I'm sure it made many people scream back in 1959. Vincent Price is my favorite actor, and he once again delivers a brilliant performance in The Tingler. Supporting cast members Phillip Coolidge and Judith Evelyn are also great fun to watch. Story-wise The Tingler may be campy and absurd (which makes it even more fun), but Vincent Price in the lead and William Castle's effects and scare-tactics make it an absolute delight for my fellow lovers of classic Horror/Sci-Fi cinema. Highly Recommended! "},{"Title":"Very silly but fun","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Pathologist Warren Chapin (Vincent Price) also does studies on how fear affects people. According to his studies fear manifests itself as a creature on a person's spine--but when they scream it disappears. A mute woman dies of fear and Warren removes the creature (called The Tingler)...and things get out of control.VERY silly William Castle movie but it is fun...in a dumb sort of way. It's in b&w but there's a color sequence in the middle which is very effective. Also, at one point, the Tingler gets loose in a theatre. The screen goes black and Price advises everybody to scream for their lives! I was lucky enough to see this twice in revival theatres and the audience cheerfully obliged by screaming at the top of their lungs! Also this is the first movie to show a person freaking out on LSD. It has its dull spots and the movie is more than a little stupid but it's hard to not enjoy this. Also Price gives his usual good performance and some viewers might find it amusing that TV's Dobbie Gillis (Darryl Hickman) plays his assistant! I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Remember, if you scream at just the right time, it might just save your life.","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ~Spoiler~The Tingler is William Castle's second film with Vincent Price. While I don't consider it near the movie that House on Haunted Hill is, The Tingler does have its merits. The gimmick behind the film is actually the reason this film remains so popular. The film itself is about a scientist (Price) who is interested in the study of fear. He discovers that parasites exist in the spine that feed off of fear and can only be stopped by a blood-curdling scream. It's very silly but here's the payoff Gimmick maestro Castle had buzzers strapped to the theater seats so actual movie-goers could be part of the experience. Yes, he actually gave lucky members of the cash-paying public little jolts of electricity so people would scream their heads off while the actors were doing the same. That is showmanship my friends. So, does the movie live up to the gimmick? Not really. Castle, writer Robb White, and Vincent Price have all done much better films. "},{"Title":"Price was 48 at the time, actually, not 51!","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Vincent Price was born in May 1911, making him 48 during the year of The Tingler!! REGARDING The Tingler is one of the best of the gimmicky horror thrillers churned out by William Castle for Columbia in the late 50s and early 60s. Vincent Price lends considerable class to the proceedings as a coroner convinced that there is a creature that grows in the spine (the Tingler of the title) when humans are unable to release their fear through screaming.Price, 51 at the time, is a good guy for a change, saddled with an evil two-timing wife who attempts to kill him with the tingler he surgically removes from the corpse of a deaf mute. The dead woman's husband, an odd little man named Ollie, provides the most fun with his terror filled facial contortions at the film's climax, but there's a giggle or two to be had when Price, under the influence of narcotics, believes the walls are closing in on him. The walls! The walls! he cries before collapsing across the desk in his lab. I collapsed before he did--with laughter. This man, I thought to myself, is 51-years-old, and THIS is his career. "},{"Title":"Tol'able Tingler","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The monster in this film is very tacky, by today's standards. You get to see too much of The Tingler for it to instill any real fear. The film, however, creates a world of its own; hence, my rating is higher than I would have expected. Director Castle does great stuff with the slight budget he has, especially with the swell blood red sequence.The film is thoughtful, albeit scientifically ill-conceived. I found it most interesting that the theater is showing Tol'able David. That fact is revealed early on, and, sure enough, we get to see the excellent climax of Tol'able David. I thought it was very clever of the writers use the setting of a silent movie theater because, of course, Richard Barthelmess' David can't be heard screaming - no character will scream in a SILENT movie.Mr. Price and the theater owner are underdeveloped characters. I would have liked more motivation for their actions. It was great to see Darryl Hickman (as David Morris) in a supporting role. I wish Price's wife would have been eaten by &#x85; the Tingler! ******* The Tingler (7/29/59) William Castle ~ Vincent Price, Judith Evelyn, Darryl Hickman, Patricia Cutts "},{"Title":"Terrific!","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Tingler is a gimmicky, sci-fi horror about a scientist who discovers a terrible secret about human fear. The film is surely one of cinemas best ever gimmick movies, with showings having vibrating seats whenever people screamed, I can only imagine what this would have been like to watch in theatres, but you can tell it would have been an enjoyable experience. The film in itself is very good for what it is, dramatic and terrifying elements working most of the time, whilst managing to hold a postmodern sense of fun. That all these elements are able to be held together and pull off their desired effects is a great achievement. "},{"Title":"A hidden treasure","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This fun little film includes one of William Castles great gimmicks to put people in theaters when so many were just opting to stay home and watch television. While he was too low on the food chain to have Cinemascope or Color or any of those other fancy doo-dads, he was clever enough to come up with cheap gimmicks to keep it interesting.In this case, it was electric joy buzzers in the seats of the cinema, cleverly worked into the plot of the movie. Or maybe not clever.The plot is that Vincent Price is a scientist examining the nature of fear, and he postulates that a force he calls The Tingler affixes itself to the spine of a terrified person. He also postulates, in the best of pseudo-science, that a scream will chase away or immobilize the creature. He is able to recover a specimen from a deaf-mute woman who has been scared to death by a conniving husband (in a strange sequence that implies Vinnie's guilt, and includes some limited color in an otherwise black and white film.) Of course, the live Tingler gets loose in the theater, at which time, they would set off the joy-buzzers in everyone's seats. What a card that Bill Castle was.Vincent Price carries this movie above it's usual silliness. "},{"Title":"The Tingler","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Absolutely ridiculous premise doesn't ruin the entertainment value of this completely unique horror tale about a parasitic organism which evolves and attach to the human vertebrae at the height of fear. The only way, it seems, to kill the tingler is to scream.Coroner, and scientist, Dr. Warren Chapin(Vincent Price)is studying that creature, and along with assistant David(Darryl Hickman)hopes to discover the organism shortly after a person dies of fright so that he can catalog it as a major breakthrough. Unfortunately, the experiment leads to underhanded tactics by others using the parasite as a means to kill.In a sub-plot, Warren has major marital problems with conniving, adulterous wife Isabel(Patricia Cutts)who holds her late father's total inheritance(it's hinted at by Warren that she may've poisoned him)keeping sister Lucy's(Pamela Lincoln)share for herself. Isabel loves to flaunt her adulterous ways in Warren's face and is always quick to mention who pays for his lab and machinery. She also proclaims that young lovebirds David and Lucy would never be allowed to marry. One stunning scene has Warren, as it would appear, on the verge of murdering Isabel in cold blood..but it's more of a scientific experiment using fired blanks;it's still quite an amusing sequence which shows us, when Warren takes X-rays of a fainted Isabel and we see what they look like attached to her spine. Warren meets Ollie Higgins(Philip Coolidge)and his deaf mute wife Martha(Judith Evelyn)who play a major role in his finally capturing the parasite in a large size..she has this fear of blood and the mere sight of the red stuff sends her into a psychosomatic shock. Warren realizes that, since Martha's vocal cords are damaged, she doesn't have the ability to scream and might be the correct test patient in recovering the tingler in a specific state for analyzing. Meanwhile, Isabel, threatened by her husband's ability to possibly implicate her in the murder of her father, hopes to use the creature to kill Warren.Film's highlights include LSD sequences where Price trips out, we supposedly see Martha's hallucinations brought out possibly from an injection by price(cool color moments where she sees red blood with one in particular showing a hand emerge from a bathtub flowing with the stuff), the creature's removal from Martha's dead body, the creature's accidental release into a crowded theater, and Price's near death as the parasite strangles him after his wife sedated him letting loose the parasite to kill him. "},{"Title":"Efficient thriller provides a few implausible tingles...","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" VINCENT PRICE theorizes that a real fright causes a tingler--a living organism--to grow within the spinal area. He's eager to prove his theory to fellow scientist, DARRYL HICKMAN--and we know it's only a matter of time before he has to seek some live victims to prove his theory.That's the plot, in a nutshell, and it does provide Price with another one of his mad doctor roles that he seemed to specialize in, especially throughout the fifties. He gives his usual smooth, polished performance as the doctor, but he fails to overcome all the implausibilities of a silly script.It generates only a few genuine moments of horror as it weaves its way toward the experiment phase of the plot, eventually involving a mute woman (JUDITH EVELYN) who, when frightened, cannot scream. Judith Evelyn plays the poor woman in ham fashion, belying the fact that she was a distinguished Broadway actress. Her whole performance seems contrived and unbelievable.Story seems more and more artificial as it unfolds, never quite supplying the tingles suggested by the title.Price's fans will probably find it more than satisfying, but it does become less and less credible as it moves toward the climax. "},{"Title":"Not bad for 1959.","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Tingler is a film that was primarily used as a gimmick to fight the emergence of television popularity in the 50's. Released in 1959, it was produced and directed by the infamous William Castle. It was one of the last films Castle would make with Vincent Price; it also stars Judith Evelyn, Daryl Hickman and Patricia Cutts. It is the story about a pathologist Dr. Warren Chapin (Price) who discovers that when a person is genuinely scared, a parasite named the 'Tingler' will begin to grow on the person's spine and eventually strangle them from the inside.Dr.Warren's partner, whose wife is a mute and thus cannot scream, uses this discovery to frighten his wife to death. In an autopsy, Dr. Chapin removes the Tingler from the wife's spine causing the creature to escape. The rest of the film is about their pursuit of the tingler. William Castle has been no stranger to gimmicktry in his films;he's been using techniques to scare theatre going audiences since the early 50's. The Tingler is no different. William Castle used parts from World War 2 airplanes to devise a gimmick called Percepto. These little devices cost Castle $250,000 to manufacture-almost the entire budget of The Tingler! Percepto would wait until specific scenes in the movie and then shock the unsuspecting seat occupant into a frenzy. Only a few seats were equipped with percepto however. In conjunction with percepto, Castle also hired audience members to faint and then be taken out by nurses. These were just two techniques devised to get a maximum scare from the audience. They were only used in larger theatres however. The last technique in The Tingler worth mentioning would be the infamous colour scene. The entire movie was shown to audiences in black and white except for one scene. In this particular scene everything is still black and white except for a bathtub full of blood with an arm reaching out to kill a woman! Their aren't very many redeeming features for a movie such as this. It's my least favourite Vincent Price film which I've seen. His acting is very average in the picture and many of the supporting actors don't contribute much at all. Again, I's hard to discuss anything else about The Tingler since everything is so average! The camera-work,lighting and set design; everything is just so monochrome and plain. This isn't necessarily a bad thing. If you try and keep an open mind and remember that this is 1959, you'll enjoy the movie a lot better. Just an odd bit of trivia this could very well be the first film to contain the drug LSD. Apparently screenwriter Robb White had tried the drug at a university and decided to toss it into the script. Overall, The Tingler isn't horrible. It is definitely one of the flat out weirdest films I've ever seen which earns it some points. It's not a movie that you can watch a million times over; but if your looking for a summer afternoon kind of movie, The Tingler could be it. "}{"Title":"Hopelessly hokey.","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I saw this film when it came out in 1959. I was eight years old, and thought it was the scariest thing I'd ever seen. Forty-six years later, I watched it on DVD and was very disappointed. It's not even a fun film, though it is somewhat funny for all the wrong reasons. The first half is slow and talky, and once the Tingler arrives (visible strings and all) it's just hopelessly hokey. Vincent Price, as always, gives it his best, but the script is too ludicrous. The film was designed to be seen in theaters, with everyone screaming, so the gimmick doesn't come off at all on home viewing. Castle's House on Haunted Hill holds up much better. "},{"Title":"Tingle Me Timbers","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** Over the years as the official prison pathologist Dr. Warren Chaplin, Vincent Price, has been preforming autopsies on executed prisoners and during that time, unlike at his private practice, he noticed that almost all of the condemned men had their spines or vertebrate cracked after they were executed. One evening after the latest convict, Bob Gunderson, was electrocuted by the state and Dr. Warren was doing an autopsy on his corpse Ollie Higgins, Philip Coolidge, drops into the room. Dr.Warren startled by this unexpected intrusion asks him what he's doing there and Ollie tells the doctor that he's the dead man's brother-in-law and came to claim his body.During his conversation with Ollie it hit's Dr. Warren that the causes of the spinal damage to the persons executed is that they are so scared, to almost the point of death, of being killed and knowing that they'll be killed that something happens to them that causes their spines to snap from the oncoming terror. Dr.Warren deduces that the reason that this does not happen to most people on the outside is that unlike the prisoners who's fear is so strong and knowing that there's nothing that they can do to stop their demise they mostly keep from screaming as their strapped into the electric chair and executed trying to die with at least some courage and dignity.Driving Ollie home Dr.Warren meets his wife Martha, Judith Evelyn, who's mute and later when Dr. Warren accidentally cut his hand when he drops a coffee cup she faints dead away at the sight of blood. All of a sudden it hit's Ollie that he just found a way to get rid of Martha, who he was trying to get rid of for a while and then get his hands on the movie-house, that they both own. and the large amount of money that she has hidden in a safe. Ollie plans to induce fear in Martha and knowing that fear without being neutralized by screaming, which Martha is unable to do, would produces a Tingler, as Dr. Warren coined it, which would end up killing her. Back home Dr.Warren tries to put the fear of God, as well as test his theory, into the heart of his cheating wife Isabel, Patricia Cutts, by pulling a gun on her and letting her have it which makes her drop and pass out cold from fright, there was only blanks in Dr. Warren's gun. Taking X-rays while she was unconscious and the next day Dr.Warren and his assistant, David Morris, Darryl Hickman, looking at the X-rays see a strange and powerful object begin to appear on Isabel's spine which confirms Dr. Warren's theory about The Tingler. One of William Castle's best movies with Vincent Price acting as if he were doing Shakespeare at the Royal National Theater in London instead of acting in an American horror movie. Ollie goes through with his plan to murder Martha by inducing The Tingler in her but what Ollie did was release hell on Earth by doing it. In the end it does Ollie in when with the help of Dr Warren The Tingler is put back in the place, Martha's spine, where it came from and she comes back to life and scares Ollie to death. Like most William Castle productions the movie audience is included in the movie by being made to scream their heads off when The Tingler gets loose in Ollie and Martha's movie-house in the movie. The noise of both the actors in the film and the theater audience is so loud that it not only can wake up people sleeping within a radius of some five miles from the theater but also the deaf and even the dead. "},{"Title":"Scream!","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is not too bad but it's far from good. Vincent Price is excellent as usual but the whole plot is not that inspiring. Still, there's some unforgettable scenes, like the one in the theater. It must have been quiet an experience to see that movie on the big screen back in 1959.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"There's a big, eerie and tingly shrimp in all of us &#133;","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Wouldn't it have been great to be there in theaters, back in 1959, when horror director and first class showman William Castle presented his film to the audiences personally and kept some tingly surprises after hand for a handful of unsuspecting visitors? Even know, nearly fifty years later, you can still clearly notice that his inventive gimmicks and interaction with the public contributed a whole lot to the still legendary status & reputation of The Tingler. This is a pretty great film, with a rather intelligent and original story &#150; albeit extremely far fetched - and a couple of really effective 'shock' sequences &#133; literally! The basic premise is perhaps a bit goofy, but still this film maintains a continuously tense atmosphere and especially Vincent Price's flawless performance adds a great deal of tension to the wholesome. Price gives image to the devoted scientist and autopsy doctor Warren Chapin, who desperately wants to study & comprehend the effects and consequences of fear on the human body. He and his docile assistant David are convinced that some kind of creature, feeding on fear, lives inside each and every one of us, only our natural reflex reaction of screaming prevents the creature from developing and taking over. The research reaches a giant breakthrough turning point when Dr. Chapin witnesses a deaf-mute woman nearly dying from fear, because she can't express her emotions verbally. Now they know the creature &#150; the tingler - really exists, and Dr. Chapin starts thinking of ways to capture one. The list of reasons why this film should be considered a true genre-classic is nearly endless. The make-up effects and shocks are quite impressive, especially considering the budget William Castle worked with, the infamous LSD-trip sequence (the first of its kind!) is dared and innovating, the playful use of color schemes are brilliantly timed and &#150; most importantly &#150; the titular creature is unimaginably cool looking! It looks like a big & malicious shrimp, rather than like a human spine column come to life but it still is a tremendously ingenious critter. The script contains, in my humble opinion at least, a handful of truly well written dialogs as well as some fairly deep intrigues and sub-plots, like for example the depiction of Dr. Chapin's troubled marriage and the rather well disguised twist near the end. Vincent Price is amazing and reliable as always, and this time he even receives excellent feedback from such underrated actors as Philip Coolidge and particularly Judith Evelyn as the mysterious and uncanny deaf-mute lady. The Tingler is an absolute must see for admirers of classic black & white horror, oddball science-fiction stories, Vincent Price and gems of low-budget cinema. "},{"Title":"A scream at the right time may save your life!","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well it started with a good premise and with Vincent Price in the lead role, this had the makings of a real horror classic but sadly it degenerated into a dopey picture in the second half. That creepy-crawlie that looked like a cross between an over-sized caterpillar and a lobster was just the cheesiest concept; I wouldn't be surprised if the film makers stuffed a kid's slinky inside to get it to move around the way it did.But you know what really blew my mind? Dr. Warren Chapin boned up on the science of fear causing tremendous tension in the body by reading a tract titled Fright Effects Induced by Lysergic Acid LSD25! What?!?! Vincent Price experimenting with LSD!!!! And then, in order to experience first hand what the power of the tingler would be all about, he actually injected himself to induce the kind of paranoia and fear that would result from it! However the writing for the rest of the story seemed to be all over the place. Testing out his hypothesis regarding what would happen if a mute couldn't scream from fear, Chapin similarly injects Martha Higgins (Judith Evelyn) with the LSD causing hallucinations and a rigidity in her back that produces the aforementioned tingler creature. But what's with husband Ollie (Philip Coolidge) going Nightmare on Elm Street on her? Same thing with Chapin's wife Isabel (Patricia Cutts) - one minute he's shooting her with blanks to scare the bejeezus out of her and later on she's all cool about it.But hey, neat special effect with the bathtub full of red blood in a black and white movie, as all the while I kept an eye on that skeleton Chapin kept in his lab. If I had to bet, I'd say it was the same one used in another Vincent Price flick made the same year - House on Haunted Hill. "},{"Title":"A cheesy good time","Date":"28 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Undergoing an autopsy, a doctor discovers a creature on the spine that occurs through sheer fright and experiments on a colleague's deaf-mute wife only it accidentally gets loose in a movie theater, forcing them to race to stop it before the creature grows stronger.While nowhere near a classic, this one still provides enough entertainment to prove worthwhile of a watch. One of the best features is that there's a really new and creative idea presented in the film to inspire terror. The fact that the creature is born from the human body's attempt at processing fear, and through a sense of experiments it comes to reason that its whole being is itself entirely creative. The film's at its absolute best, though, during it's dream sequences, which are quite creepy. The second one is the film's highlight, where the hallucinations range from a masked psycho with a machete to a skeleton coming to life to an insect's arm wielding an ax and many more as well. These are all quite creepy and more than a little different from the other types out there. The design of the creature isn't that bad either, coming off as a mutated slug with a pair of antennas and a forked tail, which give it a really different look than many other creatures. The fact that it never really grows to a super-huge size and is kept at a rather smaller size is a nice move and makes it a lot more believable rather than being huge. These elements help the film become more watchable. While these are all quite fun, there's not a whole lot wrong with this one. The film's biggest flaw is that this is just way too cheesy. This is the wrong kind of cheese, where it's simply annoying rather than becoming part of the fun. This is especially true of the really annoying theater sequences at the end, quite obviously put in there as gags for the theater experience long ago but come across as just corny without that. The film stops dead for these few scenes and rather than coming off as something to be feared, they're just laughable and quite aggravating. The opening and closing monologues are more examples of this by featuring him talking directly to the audience, but the movie theater scene is the big one. Granted, they're inherently charming in their own way with the attempt to stop the creature providing some chills anyway, but there's just the more obvious fact that you're watching a gimmick rather than actually being around something like this in real life. The only other one that strikes the film down is that there are way too many subplots at the beginning which just drag the opening out. The beginning really should've been about the discovery of the creature and the condition that creates it, not the marital issues that plague the characters. That really makes it feel like it's a part of a really different film, and doesn't really offer a lot of good moments. Otherwise, this one was pretty good.Today's Rating/PG Mild Violence and drug use. "},{"Title":"You can feel the excitement of the theatre back in 1959","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Eager pathologist Dr. Warren Chapin (Vincent Price) studies the strange effects experiencing terror has on the human body. Operating on a convict recently executed in the electric chair, he notices that the dead man's spine has been almost completely severed in two. A silent movie theatre owner, Ollie Higgins (Philip Coolidge), befriends Chapin and introduces the doctor to his deaf-mute wife Martha (Judith Evelyn), who passes out from fright at the sight of Chapin drawing blood after cutting his finger. Chapin believes that the tingling in our spine when we are frightened is the work of the 'Tingler' a microscopic creature that grows rapidly when its host is scared, only to be neutralised by letting out a powerful scream.Director William Castle, best known for B-movie gems such as House on Haunted Hill (1959) and The Old Dark House (1963), was a man who knew how to sell a ticket. Introducing the film and warning of the horrors to come, we are then treated to various heads screaming in terror at the screen. It's schlocky and camp - two factors that have endeared Castle to a dedicated cult following - but it immediately draws you into its giddy clutches. The premise itself is utterly ludicrous and little more than an excuse for Castle to use his new gimmick Percepto! - where audience members would receive small vibrations through their seat whenever the tingler - a rather cheap- looking rubber giant velvet worm - appeared on screen.It's a time capsule of an era when the cinema was a communal experience rather than somewhere to have your ears damaged by the sound of fighting robots. At the climax, the tingler is on the loose inside a cinema showing silent movie Tol'able David (1924) while Chapin frantically searches for it. The screen goes black while Price's voice warns us not to panic and to scream as loud as we can. Of course, the full effect is lost when watching the movie through your laptop, but you can picture the excitement that must have been buzzing throughout the theatre back in 1959, whether it be with genuine terror or in stitches at the playful goofiness of it all. Although it is far from his best film, Castle knows how to put on a show and The Tingler is a fine example of his campy appeal. As a bonus, it also has Vincent Price on LSD in cinema's first acid trip. "},{"Title":"A great and fast paced film.","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- The Tingler, 195? A morgue scientist has a theory about a invisible creature that effects people to death when they cannot scream to express their fright. This creature kills people by breaking their spine.*Special Stars- Vincent Price. DIR William Castle.*Theme- Science helps mankind.*Trivia/location/goofs- B&W. 3-D. William Castle was the 50's film producer that had many different gimmicks in the theaters to add to the film going experience. With the screening of this film, certain theater seats were wired with lox voltage shocks for the seated film watcher to feel and react to with their loud screams during specific terrifying times of the film's gruesome crime scenes.*Emotion- A great and fast paced film. Would be nice to see it in 3-D and have the theater seat wired for that special effect. Quite fun.*Based On- 50's film going race. "},{"Title":"Two classic icons of horror!","Date":"28 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Vincent Price & William Castle unite to being us The Tingler.Vincent Price at the height of his iconic status teams up with William Castle milking the icon of horror success with this campy horror movie. Price plays up the campy very well and you feel like he's having a lot of fun in the role.the movie's opening title sequence with was actually the scariest part with William Castle introducing the movie and telling the audience to scream if they feel like it. Otherwise, the movie is best enjoyed from the campyness of the the monster.The monster concept was pretty good. Vincent Price plays a doctor who believes that fear is not just a emotion but an actual living thing he called the Tingler, his theory is proved to be right when he finds a Death and mute woman unable express her fear like others with screaming. Once again, William Castle uses audience participation for the movie, although I this time it transfer better onto DVD.The movie was very entertaining to watch not really for it's horror but for being campy. "},{"Title":"We all deserve this movie","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a William Castle movie and if you don't know who he is then please look him up as possibly one of the best director, producer, screenwriters the horror industry has ever had. Hitchcock has real competition here.This is a very well written and directed and more believable movie than most of our current talent in his category. Castle was known for his gimmicks as seen before this movies even starts. So he has lost some respect of movies goers. But not the real fans of horror.On this film he uses one of his gimmicks at the start of the movie, but backs it up will a real horror film. I am a huge fan of horror movies in all the decades. If you want to see a movie that does not rely on a woman running and falling down because she tripped on a pebble, or the bad guy getting a small stab wound and OK we can forget about him so he gets up later. If you want to see a movies and bear in mind it is from 1959, that does not try to insult you just by watching it with predictable endings and lazy writing that makes no sense. Than watch this movie and then you will want to see the rest of Castle's movies.Having said that I am a fan of stupid horror moves, but people like Castle and Hitchcock, we should all watch and know want real horror movies, be as it is in decades past should be looked up to and respected.This movies is worth watching, it is not Michael Mires scary as in the first Halloween. But it does deserve respect and I would like to see more of the true effort put into this movie to make it scary in its day, in new films.But just my opinion, Oy "}{"Title":"Percepto!","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Director William Castle and star Vincent Price reunite in this memorable thriller. Price plays Dr. Warren Chapin, a pathologist who performs autopsies at the prison following executions. He has formulated a theory that a creature(called a Tingler) exists within each of us, feeding off the fear generated in times of stress, and can only be relieved by screaming. He shares this idea with Oliver Higgens(played by Philip Coolidge) who was attending an execution. His wife is a deaf-mute, unable to scream, which makes her a most convenient subject for a cruel experiment...They also manage a movie theater, and when a Tingler gets loose, film-goers can only escape by screaming! Fun thriller may have a preposterous plot, but is most clever in execution, with a good cast and fitting end. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I had the distinct pleasure of catching this at the Edinburgh Dead by Dawn festival for the first time and wasn't prepared at just how much fun it was. While essentially a silly cheese laden b horror, it's also a surprisingly layered film in terms of plot development and its main premise- Vincent Price's slightly unethical doctor discovers a parasite who feeds off of our fears- would be right at home in any 70s Cronenberg film. The characters themselves reveal themselves to be wholly unscrupulous whenever it suits them, and it even has Vincent Price tripping on acid! Speaking of which there's a very clever and well made for its time hallucinatory sequence which actually holds up well today still.And that's not even taking into consideration the whole amount of gimmicky fun that goes with it. I've always shamefully had little interest in horror pre '68 (some exceptions like Psycho to the rule and mea culpa) but films like The Tingler have me kicking myself for having such disinterest as for me, this was a campy schlocky but surprisingly clever little gem and I'm delighted I got to see it for the first time in a theater. 8/10, great little film. "},{"Title":"Science corrupts, Absolute science corrupts absolutely!","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The prologue for The Tingler is more genial and relevant than Castle's previous two horror films. Castle appears on screen and provides an 'hors-d'oeuvre' (in the Cahillian sense) to the story and urges the audience to scream if they find themselves feeling threatened. The floating heads return as a motif, wailing and shrieking over the fading image of Castle. The story of the Tingler tarries with the experience of fear, positing a connection between dying in fear and dying of fear. It is claimed that the titular creature is a manifestation of fear, fully forming only through solemn acts of repression. Castle and White add some clever touches to their layered characters (Price's doctor character ODs on LSD, a lip-reading deaf woman uses shadows to communicate). The film gets a little talky and perhaps Castle didn't know where to edit due to his past (working with stage productions, then radio show film adaptations, then Katzman budget 'epic' melodramas). The talkiness doesn't bog down the spectator experience thanks to the vital performances of Hickman, Cutts and Price (and Judith Evelyn of course). Castle directs effectively, substituting cuts and short shots for his traditional good directing techniques of the long take and mobile framing. There are some cute self-reflexive moments (Tingle the Projectionist, and the use of pathe color process). Castle also employs a cleverly self-reflexive lighting set-up he would go back to in other films where the obscuring to characters by shadow and light are created evenly across a single straight line (usually a horizontal one cutting the body in half effectively). The specular elements of the script play well with the gimmick Castle employed - Percepto! The film left me with some important questions, particularly regarding Castle's gimmicks. The limitations of special effects in horror and science fiction movies were pretty clear in the 1950s. In fact, almost all high quality special effects required a high production budget to pull off (Le plus ca change...). In The Tingler there are some pathetic moments in fact where wires show and where Price is too self-conscious about his animation of the Tingler monster. Perhaps, the gimmicks were a solid alternative to spending money on high quality special effects. I suppose the only way to know for sure would be to examine how Castle budgeted for his gimmicks. I do however know that his initial order of Percepto units was small and only upon success of sneak preview screenings did he begin to splurge his funds on more units of the gimmick. Also John Waters mentions in his book, Crackpot, that at the theater he visited only about 10 seats were wired with a Percepto unit. Nevertheless, The Tingler is a great example of a film with artistic merit in form and artisan merit in its business model. "},{"Title":"A genuine classic","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One of the most outrageous films of all time. The genius of the movie is how in spite of its bizarre premise everyone takes it so seriously. This is what makes it great. The actors, director, writer all act as though this is a very realistic film. It's just wonderful. Vincent Price is superb, as is Judith Evelyn, whose performance brilliantly emulates the silent films that her character shows in the silent cinema that plays such an enormous part in the bizarre proceedings. And who can overlook Patricia Cutts' wonderfully evil, slutty wife. This is B movie perfection, indeed, as the others have indicated. A joy from start to finish. Those who haven't seen it are in for a genuine treat. "},{"Title":"Cheesy and rather ridiculous at times, but hard to dislike","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" By all means it is not one of the best films that Vincent Price starred in, the premise is fun but also ridiculous, there are some cheesy spots in the script and it does start slowly. However, there is much to like. It does look good, and has some atmospheric music. I can find William Castle's films schlocky, but despite its ridiculous moments The Tingler is one of his better movies, he does deliver the shocks well and they don't feel predictable. The shocks and chills are very effective, especially in the silent movie theatre and in the bathtub. There is some great psychedelic imagery as well, the acid trip for back then was ahead of its time and you can definitely see why. Price is one of my favourite actors ever and always delivers, his Dr. William Chapin is no exception. Judith Evelyn and Darryl Hickman give good support also. All in all, it's definitely not a movie to be taken seriously but it is very hard to dislike it when it is so much fun in its chills and the fact that Vincent Price is in it. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Unusually plotted and enjoyable cheese-fest!","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Tingler must be one of the strangest horror movies ever made; it's central idea is completely mental yet strangely compelling, the story such an oddball concoction it almost beggars belief, and William Castle's gloriously silly showmanship rides to the rescue throughout.And it also has Vincent Price.Ol' Vincent plays an MD and medical researcher who conducts state autopsies for executed criminals, and he has discovered that some strange growth appears on the spinal column of a person feeling great fear - a growth that dissipates when the person screams.Yeah, right.Add to that his experiments with Lysergic Acid (incredible as it appears the first movie acid trip takes place not in a cool Peter Fonda flick but here, and it's Price himself who takes the drug!) a murderous wife; a silent cinema where its deaf/mute owner faints at the sight of blood, her husband having more going on behind his bland expression than meets the eye; and the actual growth being removed from a spinal column and getting loose in the theatre and you'll understand why the first time I saw this film my jaw dropped open!Ah, what must it have been like to experience this film in a movie house in 1959, where Price's softly spoken tones inform the audience, just as the screen has been plunged into blackness, that The Tingler is loose and you're only chance is to scream? Of course certain patrons had there chairs wired up to deliver mild shocks or vibrations, so the story goes. Imagine the law suites these days! I suspect Vincent P was having a ball here. Mad, incredibly-plotted and utter fun, watch out for the scene with the bathtub filling with blood, the film's black and white suddenly changing to colour! Don't we still need a William Castle these days? "},{"Title":"The Tingler (1959)","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Scientifically sound stuff here. As most of you are aware we all have a tiny bug inside us that grows when we are scared, the only way to stop it from killing us is to scream. Screaming reduces its size. This is the wonderfully bonkers plot of The Tingler. Produced and directed by William Castle, this is a film that was made with gimmicks in mind. Castle was the kind of man to send skeletons on zip-wires and pay people to scream. It's evidenced here by an introduction by Castle. So this doesn't have the effect of the cinema, though I'm sure that was hardly terrifying itself. The film has some nice twists I didn't see coming, and Price's performance is very serious and believable. He isn't camping it up here.It takes a while to get going, but the freak-out scene had some bizarre creepy moments like a beasts arm throwing an axe. It's more interesting than it had to be, considering the gimmicks it was created for. "},{"Title":"A riot","Date":"17 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Tingler (1959) is a film by director William Castle. it is the story of Dr. Warren Chapin's experiment with the tingler. He is a pathologist who does autopsies on executed prisoners at the prison. He believes that fear is really just a creature inside us. This creature is repressed when people scream in times they are afraid.He tests his hypothesis on Martha Higgens who lives above a movie theater. She is mute as well as deaf. Since she can't scream the extreme fear will make the creature inside her come to life. This creature is the tingler and is part of her spine. So goes the story as the spine escapes. It wreaks havoc in the movie theater below, in one of the most hilarious scenes maybe ever put on film. By far, this is a must-see for horror B movie lovers. Also, one of Vincent Price's best performances from that era. "},{"Title":"Remember, if you scream at just the right time, it might just save your life.","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Independent horror movie producer William Castle marketed his 1950s-era films with gimmicks such as giving audience members life insurance vouchers in case the movie frightened them to death. In this film he put electric shock devices in movie seats to jolt some of the audience.Vincent Price gives a good performance as a doctor looking into the basis of fear.His hypothesis is absolutely bizarre, and his methods would bring scientific censure today, but it all makes for a very funny movie.The ending was really funny, and Philip Coolidge and Judith Evelyn, who played husband and wife, made it all the more so. "},{"Title":"Still Tingling","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" William Castle is probably most well-known for this movie, which is itself most well-known for its classic gimmick. For those of us who've never been lucky enough to experience that, however, this stands up as an enjoyable, somewhat tongue-in-cheek, horror-monster chiller. The eponymous monster is apparently something that spontaneously grows in all human beings when they are afraid, and can snap your spine unless you scream in time! In the right hands (say David Cronenberg) this could be quite creepy or even downright gross, but in Castle's it is just silly fun. Vincent Price is excellent as the slightly-unstable doctor who discovers the Tingler and the rest of the cast is more than adequate to its task. Watch especially for the LSD sequence, one of the first committed to film! "}{"Title":"Must Be Seen On The Big Screen...With Big Screams","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In 1958, director William Castle delivered to the world a film that has been chilling the collective backbones of horror buffs for over half a century now House on Haunted Hill. And the following year, in one of the greatest one-two punches in horror history, Castle came up with a film that is certainly every bit as good, and perhaps, arguably, even better. In The Tingler, Castle brought back much of his team from the previous picture--leading man Vincent Price, screenwriter Robb White, composer Von Dexter--and again shot his production in ubercreepy B&W (with the notable exception of one scene, in which the color red features prominently). The result was another horror masterpiece, another compact chiller for the ages, and another film in which Castle's gift for gimmickry was memorably on display. But whereas House works well on both the big screen and at home on television (I have seen it many times, at this stage, in both settings), The Tingler is very much a big-screen experience. I will explain why in a moment.In the film, the viewer meets a pathologist researcher named Dr. Warren Chapin, endearingly portrayed, as always, by Uncle Vinny. Chapin has discovered the presence of a centipedelike creature that arises on the spinal cords of people who are in the throes of fright. Screaming causes the creature, which he dubs the Tingler, to dissolve and vanish, but those who are unable to scream will inevitably be killed as the creature crushes their spinal cord to bits. After a deaf mute woman, Martha Higgins (supremely well played by Judith Evelyn, who had starred with Price on Broadway in 1941 in a show called Angel Street, and who had previously performed another memorable nonspeaking role, Miss Lonelyheart, in Hitchcock's Rear Window five years earlier), the wife of Chapin's acquaintance Oliver (Philip Coolidge), is frightened to death, Chapin performs an autopsy on her and manages to prove his theory by removing a Tingler from her lifeless body. But problems arise when the doctor's scheming wife, Isabel (Patricia Cutts, sinking her teeth into the part as Carol Ohmart had done in her similar role in House), attempts to kill him with the creature, and later, when the Tingler is accidentally released into the audience of the Higgins' silent-picture theater....Just as a film such as Lawrence of Arabia must be seen in a movie house for full appreciation, so, too, must The Tingler. But whereas Lawrence cost $15 million to produce and must be seen on as large a screen as possible to capture its epic scope and pictorial grandeur, The Tingler, budgeted at $250,000, must be seen in a theater for different reasons. This viewer happens to be a member of NYC's Film Forum, a repertory house that has shown The Tingler often over the years, so I know whereof I speak. First, an enterprising theater such as Film Forum will rig selected seats with vibratory devices, as Castle had done back in 1958--the gimmick known as Percepto--to give lucky audience members a jolt at a certain point in the film; the home viewer, of course, will never experience this. But there are even better reasons why The Tingler must be seen with an audience. When the creature is loose in the Higgins' movie house, it attacks the projectionist and causes a breakdown of the film in progress (1921's Tol'able David); when The Tingler is watched in a theater, it looks and feels as if the creature has attacked the projectionist of the theater THAT YOU'RE IN! And when the voice of Vincent Price exhorts the audience to Scream, scream for your lives...well, I can think of nothing more fun to do in a movie house than screaming at the top of your lungs with 150 others! This shared, simultaneous, participatory, primal scream catharsis is one of the great experiences of cinema; you have to trust me on this one. Home viewing, sadly, just cannot duplicate it.Of course, The Tingler, besides its gimmicks, is known principally today as the first film in history to depict an LSD trip. One hundred mikes of acid--which was legal in 1959 and used experimentally in psychoanalysis--are taken intravenously by Chapin midway through the film as a means of engendering fear in himself. (Chapin had earlier been shown reading a book entitled Fright Effects Induced by Injection of Lysergic Acid LSD25--A Preliminary Report.) His assistant, played by Darryl Hickman, had mentioned that it can produce pretty weird effects and cause nightmares, and indeed, Chapin's trip is certainly a bad one; the viewer can only wonder how his trip would have proceeded if he'd had access to the Grateful Dead's Aoxomoxoa album, which was released 10 years later! Price hams it up deliciously in this classic sequence, and his performance overall is another one to cherish amongst many in his remarkable career. Interestingly, Castle twice misdirects his audience into thinking that Chapin has perpetrated a heinous act, while Vinny plays it marvelously ambiguous. All told, The Tingler is just about as entertaining an experience as can be had in a movie theater. Castle would go on to direct many other solid horror films--such as 13 Ghosts, Homicidal, Mr. Sardonicus, Strait-Jacket and The Night Walker--but House on Haunted Hill and The Tingler, for my money, are his two best. The first will make you scream in fear; the second, as its promotional poster put it, will make you scream if you value your life! "},{"Title":"Look at that Tingler, Dave.","Date":"7 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" William Castle classic about a pathologist (Vincent Price) studying the effects of fear on the human body who arrives at the conclusion that a creature exists in all of us that feeds on fear. He calls this parasite the Tingler. Price wants to capture a living Tingler to prove his theory, but it's virtually impossible since people scream when terrified and those screams kill Tinglers. Well, a theater owner with a deaf mute wife he's eager to dispose of might provide the answer to Price's dilemma.Complete and utter nonsense but I love it! Price is awesome, as usual. This is the movie where Vincent Price takes LSD, kids. That has to be seen to be believed. Backing him up is a nice cast. Philip Coolidge, Darryl Hickman, and Pamela Lincoln are all good. Patricia Cutts is great as Price's bitchy tramp wife. Judith Evelyn gets to silently ham it up as the deaf mute. This is William Castle's masterpiece. It has a very original story, a great horror star, and, of course, a patented Castle gimmick (Percepto!). While it does have tremendous camp value, it actually is effective as a thriller. I especially liked the creative use of color in one pivotal scene. It's just a fun movie. Do yourself a favor and watch it asap! "},{"Title":"The Search For Someone Willing To Die For Science","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Fave movie-quote - Scream! Scream for your lives!... The Tingler is loose in the theater! After all the great stuff I've heard over the years about The Tingler and, apparently, it being William Castle's triumph of B-Movie horror, I have to admit that I was left feeling completely cheated and totally let down this time by The Master of Gimmicks.With what seemed like an endless soap opera of tiresome bickering between Dr. Chapin and his slutty wife, Isabel, it took this film a good 1/2 hour before its story even started to come alive.And, even at that point, it wasn't for another 20 minutes before things really started to cook. And then, it was another 10 minutes before the Tingler actually made its much-anticipated screen-appearance.With there now being only 20 minutes left in the story, it wasn't until the very last 10 minutes that the Tingler (in its feeble manner) finally breaks loose and terrorizes the screaming patrons in the rickety, old movie theater.Besides the fact that the Tingler's appearance (which was similar to that of an over-sized centipede) was strictly a laughing matter, it was also quite obvious to see that it was just a piece of rubber.I got my biggest chuckles as this creature hobbled around on the floor in the theater, while seeming to keep its movements in time with the rinky-tinky piano music that was being played to accompany the feature film, which was a silly, melodramatic silent picture.It didn't help matters much that I think actor Vincent Price, who played the lead character, really sucked. His lisping effeminacy made him completely unconvincing as a man who had landed himself such a hot & wealthy wife as Isabel.I think that The Tingler's story had a lot of potential, but, in the long run, it didn't even come anywhere near to living up to its possibilities or its reputation.Yep. The King of Gimmicks, William Castle, really bombed with this one. "},{"Title":"Tune in, turn on the tingle, and drop out!","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Definitely one of the more outrageously dull horror films that's grown into a minor legend; just like William Castle's emphasis on the promotion of his films, rather than the films themselves, The Tingler can best be enjoyed for what is unintended rather than for what's there on the screen.Vincent Price is a dedicated pathologist, the kind who has a lab right in his own house and employs a young assistant while working him into the ground. Together they experiment on a theory that fear can manifest itself into a living organism. They discover that a bizarre creature, which resembles the offspring of a lobster and an earwig, forms along the spines of vertebrates, and during moments of extreme fear, this creature suddenly swells in size and squeezes the spine. Fortunately it is immediately dissolved by a person's screams. Yes, that's the plot.Leave it to Vincent Price to carry a film like this based solely on his unique ability to seem serious and deliberately camp at the same time. There's also some serious drinking and drugging going on in this movie, before it was called out for what it is Vincent guzzles scotch, takes an acid trip on screen, then blithely prescribes sedatives and barbiturates for one of his patients and tells her They're barbiturates, they're not dangerous! Not surprisingly she winds up dead, although not from pills; she happens to be deaf/mute--without vocal cords! Hence, the inability to scream stops her from shrinking her tingler, and it kills her. Some unbelievable stuff happens then that shatters all previously held notions of propriety concerning the ethical conditions for reporting a death and conducting an autopsy, not to mention the reality of keeping a fresh corpse in your home for a long period of time. The final assault on logic and basic human reactions comes at the end of the film, when all motivations go topsy-turvy; Price confronts the deaf/mute's husband for frightening her to death, uncovers proof of it, then informs the husband he's going to tell the police. Despite this, the husband takes time out to assist Price in capturing the tingler when it escapes in his theater, then after they accomplish it, he pulls a gun on Price--but not to kill him, but simply to force him to leave. Uh huh.But this, my friends, is how The Tingler is best enjoyed, as camp, as well as an example of how a movie this silly could be made, sold, and passed on into Hollywood legend. It was pure showmanship. "},{"Title":"Great for a giggle Z-grade horrors but contains one or two genuinely creepy shock moments.","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A pathologist called Dr William Chapin (Vincent Price) believes that The Tingler is in everybody's spine. He has a theory that when people scream in a moment of fear, it prevents The Tingler (a slimy lobster like creature with slimy feelers) from growing and crushing the spine. Chapin meets Martha Higgins (Judith Evelyn), who is deaf and cannot speak, who manages an old silent movie house with her husband Ollie (Philip Coolidge). During the course of his experiments with a hallucinatory drug, Chapin injects this drug into Martha and it causes her to have horrific hallucinations and because she is unable to scream, The Tingler crushes her to death. Chapin operates and removes The Tingler from her spine storing it in a secure container in his laboratory. But Chapin's wife, Isabel (Patricia Cutts) releases it (not accidentally!) and it runs amok in the old movie house.Lovers of those old gimmicky Z-grade horrors from the fifties, which are great for a giggle will certainly enjoy this. Directed by William Castle who was well known for his promotional gimmicks that went with his movies. These included skeletons that emerged over the audience in the auditorium at significant points during The House On Haunted Hill (1958) and even an insurance policy against death for Macabre (1957). For The Tingler, Castle had little gadgets fitted under certain seats in cinemas and whenever The Tingler appeared on the screen, projectionists pushed a little button that gave the audience a mild jolt to heighten the impression that the creature was at large in the cinema. This gimmick was known as 'Percepto'. An amusing moment happens at the climax of the movie where The Tingler attacks a projectionist at the Higgins' picture house before getting on to the screen. Then the lights go out and Price announces Ladies and gentlemen, The Tingler is in the cinema, everybody SCREAM for your lives. In other words, he was inviting everybody in the audience to scream but on the night I saw this film at a retro theatre, which specialises in seasons of classic movies, it caused more giggles than screaming.Overall, The Tingler survives today as great fun with Price hamming it up as the scientist when battling with what was obviously a lifeless rubber lobster like creature as it tried to strangle him. But surprisingly this film has a couple of sequences that will still make you jump -even now after fifty years since it was made! The hallucination sequences, for instance, in which Judith Evelyn is terrorised by a hooded, skull faced creature wielding a machete and then there's the scene in a bathroom, which cleverly juxtaposes colour and black and white photography. A bath is running with blood pouring out of the taps with a hand emerging from the tub. But aside from these two brief moments of genuine flesh creeping it is largely good for laughs. William Castle was certainly a showman who knew how to sale a picture and there are not many film makers around like him today. "},{"Title":"A hugely enjoyable 50's horror treat from master showman William Castle","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Obsessed Dr. Warren Chapin (the great Vincent Price in typically fine form) discovers that fear materializes as a grotesque and powerful parasite creature that grows on the spinal chords of terrified people. Only screaming can destroy the tingler. Chapin gets hold of a tingler, but it escapes and runs amok. Director William Castle, working from a bright and witty script by Robb White, treats the frankly silly premise with utmost seriousness and stages the shock set pieces with tremendous gusto. One definite highlight occurs when Chapin has a nightmarish LSD trip. Another bravura sequence happens when hapless deaf mute Martha Ryerson Higgins (excellently played by Judith Evelyn) gets scared to death. The climax with the tingler on the rampage in a movie theater likewise totally smokes. This film further benefits from the admirably sincere acting from a sturdy cast While Price clearly dominates the picture with his customary terrific performance, he receives sound support from Darryl Hickman as affable assistant pathologist David Morris, Patricia Cutts as Chapin's snippy, adulterous wife Isabel, Pamela Lincoln as the sweet Lucy Stevens, and Philip Coolidge as the shifty Oliver Ollie Higgins. The rubbery monster itself looks pretty hokey, but that only adds to the considerable charm of this immensely entertaining winner. "},{"Title":"Interesting for the history","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Tingler is not a great movie. But it is certainly interesting from a historical perspective. At the time movies were in a losing battle with television for the entertainment dollar and The Tingler represents one low budget attempt at getting butts in the seats. Today, Hollywood blows up CGI buildings in movies based on other movies/comics/TV shows/theme park attractions to get people to shell out cash.The prospect of creating actual sensations (an electric charge) in the audience must have seemed novel at the time, and I'll bet this movie was very fun to see in the theater. I rather enjoyed it on television as William Castle weaves his web in order to get the audience to scream - in essence forcing them to have a good time.As far as the movie itself, the plot is thin, the monster lame, and the idea about as far fetched as they come. I'll refer to all of the other comments for a plot outline, but suffice it to say that Vincent Price is one of the few actors that could deliver this dialog with a straight face. I must admit that the use of color was shocking as I had not read much about this movie, and did not know it was coming.Overall, this film is worth a look. Don't expect a horror classic, but expect to have fun. "},{"Title":"Typically Castle","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A doctor seeks to learn how and why a person might die of fright. His discovery is spine-tingling, to say the least! Unfortunately, this movie is remembered more for the promotional efforts of producer/director William Castle than for anything that happens on-screen. Castle and his tinglers planted beneath theater seats were aped in the 1992 John Goodman bomb Matinee. "},{"Title":"One of the scariest films of the 50's","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film's premise is interesting -- that a creature (the tingler) appears along your spinal cord when you experience terror.  Dr. Price succeeds in removing it, and it goes on a rampage of death!Even tho the actual creature looks a bit phoney (in some scenes, you can actually see the string that pulls it along!), it's a very, very creepy film!When it was released, William Castle had theatre seats wired with devices that created a small electric shock.  One scene in the movie has the Tingler escaping in a movie theatre. The film appears to crumple, followed by the Tingler's shadow on the screen.  Next, you see Price saying that The Tingler is loose in THIS movie theatre...scream for your LIVES!.  At that point, the electrical devices were turned on, causing the audience to actually scream, and creating pandemonium!I wish that *I* could've seen it that way, but my Mom wouldn't let me see movies like THAT!  Darn!   But, see it on videotape; it's STILL an excellent film!  "},{"Title":"campy B-movie lore","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Dr. Warren Chapin (Vincent Price) is the pathologist who conducts autopsies on executed prisoners. He theorizes that fear is a force that can be strong enough to kill if it's not released. He sees a strange growth along the spine of an X-ray calling it the Tingler. He befriends movie theater owner Oliver Higgins and his wife Martha who is a deaf/mute. Martha can't release her fear with a scream and she faints at the sight of blood. Later she dies of fright. During the autopsy, Chapin removes a giant centipede creature.The movie itself provides nothing frightening. Vincent Price is good as usual. He just has the star presence. There isn't much more in this movie. Of course, this is more known in horror lore for the gimmick that Castle employed. It's fun to read about although I don't know how effective the gimmick actually was. Without experiencing it, the movie is pretty boring. The special effects with the rubber giant centipede is silly and weirdly gross. The camp value of this is very high but it's not really a fun movie to take seriously. "}{"Title":"Dull d-u-l-l. Dull.","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 2 stars for good ideas, a few good scenes, great character actors. But what a dud. Rambling, tepid, pointless, wasted ideas. Like a soap opera with a 3 foot centipede. That can barely move.So I wanted to like this, I assumed I never did because of me. Wrong. The problem is the entire B story about price and his wife and niece and who the hell cares. The film just stops dead for me as soon as I see his house.Which is a shame because Ollie is such an appealing character, the A story, silent theater, isolated shrewish wife, well meaning sad sack bad guy all add up to fun, plus the brilliant gimmick of a monster disabled by screaming set loose in a movie theater --- wasted.Another issue is the story just doesn't seem to make sense. Or maybe its there is so little of it. Prices theorizes about the tingler, finds a tingler, the tingler causes a tiny bit of havoc, price kills the tingler. Dull.And I don't see the Tingler loose in the theater as any kind of real threat. There is only on of them, and the thing can barely move. And you can paralyze it by yelling at it. Some monster.HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL integrated soap opera and horror so smoothly. This feels like 2 movies, one I would never watch. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Subject","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have to tell you, though many consider The Tingler to be one of Vincent Price's greatest horror films and certainly the idea is original enough, I find the cruelty in this film just a bit much. But I know I'm a minority opinion.Vincent Price plays a pathologist whose usual patients are the dead as he performs autopsies on executed victims. He has a theory that fear is a result of a creature maybe no bigger than microscopic size can develop within all of us and the act of screaming kills same. But how to prove his hypothesis.Sad to say a perfect subject is found in Judith Evelyn, wife of neighbor Philip Coolidge who runs a movie theater specializing in silent film nostalgia. Evelyn is a deaf mute and without vocal cords, she cannot utter a sound if she could.The Tingler does in fact grow within her. I have to say that Judith Evelyn's performance was something outstanding, how she registered such incredible fear with facial expressions.But the film I find is something gruesome, as gruesome as The Tingler that Price and Coolidge find. "},{"Title":"The only thing we have to fear is the Tingler itself.","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Wanted Mad scientist with unfaithful wife to experiment on the unknown. Imagine if you posted that advertisement all of the various Vincent Price characters who would show up at your door, from The House on Haunted Hill and beyond. There's a Price to Pay for betrayal, and in The Tingler, Price may or may not be out to scare his wife to death in order to discover the truth about the tingler, a creature inside the body that grows to an enormous size on a human being's spine and causes instant death unless they can scream while fighting fear. This, of course, is from the wacky mind of gimmick director extraordinaire William Castle who has utilized many tricky elements to get his audience involved in the fun. Having a silent movie theatre setting involving deaf mute Judith Evelyn and her trapped husband (), The Tingler also involves Price having a frightening hallucination thanks to LSD while locked in his laboratory, and a color sequence where Evelyn (who faints at the sight of blood) unable to scream thanks to her disability comes across a sink dripping blood and a tub filled with it. Darryl Hickman (Dobie Gillis) is hysterically cast as Price's lab assistant and fills the serious part with eye-rolling humor. You can't help but think that Castle knew the worse the movie was, the more his fans would love it, and he proves himself to be right.Price seems to love playing these over-the-top roles, and it is appropriate to have his Broadway Angel Street co-star Judith Evelyn cast here as the paranoid mute obsessed with cleaning and a sound era sister to Greed's Zasu Pitts. The only thing she doesn't do is rub her hands together as if drooling over the money in her safe. When Price confronts his much younger wife over her infidelities, you half expect a skeleton to come along and tap her on the shoulder. But Castle never repeats his gimmicks, and even when the movie in general is absolutely rotten, it is still fun to watch all of the schlocky gimmicks unfold. This really gets fun when the tingler escapes into the silent movie theatre and even walks across the movie screen to a white background. The only real flaw in watching this on home video is missing the theater going experience. You will find yourself alternately groaning and laughing at the sometimes ridiculousness of it all, but one thing is for sure, you won't be bored. "},{"Title":"Quirky Rather Than Scary","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Apparently when this movie was released, there were wires attached to random seats in the theatres, so that at various and unexpected times during the course of the movie, a small electric shock would be sent to a seat, and the person sitting there would jump up and scream! One has to give credit for an interesting gimmick. And there's little doubt that the gimmick was necessary - because without the electric shocks there wouldn't have been anyone screaming at this very un-scary horror movie.Vincent Price (star of 50's horror movies galore) stars as pathologist Dr. Warren Chapin. Chapin - in addition to the routine autopsies he does as part of his job - has been researching fear, and especially whether a person can be literally scared to death. His particular interest is that tingly feeling we get along our spine when we're frightened. His research reveals something shocking - that tingly feeling is actually caused by a rather large earwig type of creature that our fear creates! True! At least in the context of this movie. That's basically it, unless you count the fact that Price also takes an acid trip in the movie to induce hallucinations that he hopes will scare him, because he's been unable to scare himself. (Also true!) And he had the good fortune to run into a couple who run a silent movie theatre - and she's a deaf mute, and so can't scream, which is quite inconvenient, because apparently screaming (letting our fear out) is the only thing that actually kills The Tingler (which is what Price names the rather ridiculous looking quasi-earwig.)Vincent Price has never really been my cup of tea. He's not a bad actor, I suppose, but why he became such a legend is a bit beyond me, except I guess because he just kept getting cast over and over again in this kind of movie, and so gained that reputation as the classic horror star of the 50's. If you think you'd like a Vincent Price movie that I would describe as quirky rather than scary, then this one might well be for you! (3/10) "},{"Title":"Not quite up to Screamarama standards...","Date":"31 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" William Castle thriller, low-budget and relentlessly low-brow, is nearly tolerable for Vincent Price's hammy presence, and has garnered cult status in the last decade with die-hard horror buffs. After its proved that fear in humans produces an organism that grows on the spinal column, pathologist Price discovers the only way to get rid of the unwelcome visitor is to SCREAM! As producer and director, Castle relies primarily on gimmicks to fuel the picture--a tactic which gives him a devoted audience today, but rarely beyond B-movie aficionados. One of Castle's woebegone tricks includes a blackout bit in a movie-house where The Tingler gets loose (is fear really that contagious?). During the film's original run, some theater seats were rigged with mild electrical jolts to enhance the viewing experience (a process dubbed Percepto); unfortunately, the picture itself is rather low on juice. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"I REALLY tried to like this semi-'Classic' film, especially with the great Vincent Price, but to me the acting was SO corny and artificial it really detracted from the film..","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I very much enjoy old-fashioned Horror films; even the REALLY old, OLD Classics such as 'THE MUMMY' (1932) 'THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN' (1935) and even 'THE OLD DARK HOUSE' (1932) were great! And many of the Horror films of the 1940's such as 'THE WOLFMAN', etc. and the later Corman / Price Poe films are quite good, not to mention the excellent HAMMER films. But... honestly, the direction, writing, and ESPECIALLY acting in this one was quite honestly almost painful to watch. The acting was so bad that it quite literally took me out of the film. ALL 3 of the women in the film are such TERRIBLE actresses that I am surprised that any of them got hired at all. And the one playing the deaf wife was just about one of THE most truly AWFUL actresses that I have ever seen. So overplayed and overdone. I honestly think that the movie could have been pretty good if they had just written it better. Price has always leaned heavily toward the hammy side, but the dialog that he was given in this film was truly pushing the limits.Old Horror films are great; and this one SORT OF has an interesting premise (and of course, as usual, some great Castle gimmick) but unless you really like VERY corny Horror films, maybe just for the 'charm' of the time period or perhaps the nostalgic value, this one, sadly, does NOT seem to hold up very well at all. "},{"Title":"Scary","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Saw this movie when it came out in 1959, was only 7 but it scared me to death and I had to turn the light out and run to bed and jump in for a year after seeing it..Never let my hand or arm/leg hang over the edge of the bed...From what I read here on the sight they were correct about the buzzers in the seats and people screaming...Didn't make it to the end my mom got up and we left before it was over...Have thought of this movie many times over the years, don't know why it was not very good from what I remember of it...Have never seen it on TV in any category of station as a rerun...or seen it in a store on the shelves for sale, I would guess that is because of its poor ability to attract viewers... "},{"Title":"Best Forgotten","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is the sort of nonsense that gave horror movies a bad name in the 1950's. The very concept is ludicrous. We are supposed to believe that when individuals feel terror, a creature like a giant centipede spontaneously appears in the spinal column and grows in concert with the depth of their fear. This is what apparently makes our spines tingle. When fear abates; the thing vanishes in a broadly similar way. Which means that I must never have been afraid, as I've never felt my spine tingle. Though the hair on my head has sometimes prickled-up, suggesting that I've got a 'prickler' instead, and that's hiding under my scalp. Even as a kid I couldn't take the idea seriously. Heaven knows what adults thought of it. Though the movie's comparative obscurity today gives a clue. Vincent Price is as solid as ever, handing down one of his innumerable campy class acts. Of the 4 stars I award the movie, 3 go to him. As to the rest of it - well, it's 1959, it's British, and it's a low-low-budget. 'Nuff said.Strictly for Price fans and the movie equivalent of train-spotters. "},{"Title":"Ripping off Bernard Herrmann","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Watch, more precisely listen to, the very beginning of the opening credits to Hitchcock's Vertigo (1958). Then do the same with The Tingler (1959). There's a very distinctive, hypnotic 6 note harp riff that Bernard Herrmann created for Vertigo, which Von Dexter borrows for The Tingler. The similarities end there as Herrmann was one of the top 3 film composers of all time, and Dexter was little more than William Castle's personal composer.That's really all I have to say about the film, but a pop up window just informed me that I need to provide at least 10 lines of commentary, so now I have to stall. Kinda like when newcasts run 30 seconds short and the weatherman is forced to engage the sportscaster in forced, mannered banter.  "}]