[{"Title":"some folks should just stick to Disney","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"63 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the best British films of the sixties, The Entertainer was written as an allegory of Britain's fall from grace by the leading fist-shaker of England's band of Angry Young Men who stormed the London stage with revolutionary new ideas and content, John Osborne. While Look Back In Anger is a more decorated play, this film adaption by Osborne and Nigel Kneale carried the flag of teeth-crunching kicks that the gang of young playwrights hoped to startle the daylights out of England with. Reading the other viewer comments, it is obvious most folks were looking for a Disney story with a Shakespearean performance by Lawrence Olivier. A happier ending? Great Britain forgot to supply one, Andy up there in the mountains somewhere, and the seedy digs were meant to be depressingly seedy, as was the dwindling talent of the family, and its reliance in the end on the grand old name and the grand old accomplishments of the past, as Archie Rice gave his best in replacing his revered father, Billy. Note his offkey performance in singing early on and then the eloquent on key final rendition of Why Should I Care as the final performance ends not with a curtain call, but with the hook, as the theater management (those other nations running the world today) angrily demand that Archie get off the stage because he is through, finished, washed up, fired, kaputsky, so long and goodbye. From the direction of Tony Richardson to the selection of grand old places along the sea that Britain once ruled with absolute certainty, everything and every moment of this film are topnotch. The aforementioned slandered scene with Roger Livesey as the Grandfather, Billy Rice, and Brenda de Banzie as Phoebe Rice, involving a misunderstanding over a piece of cake, is one of the most moving and depressingly realistic family arguments ever written. It may not be Olivier's greatest performance ever, but for certain it is the best one ever filmed. It also features the film debut of two actors who would establish themselves among the very best performers Great Britain has offered us, Alan Bates and Albert Finney, along with the introduction of Joan Plowright. As for the unkind comment about Olivier marrying Joan Plowright and this somehow having an ironic similarity to the theme of Archie and his young women; they married in 1961 and REMAINED together until Olivier's death in 1989, which is completely the opposite of the point made in the story. Well anyone is allowed to be in error, but this great film has to rank with our own country's Night of the Hunter as one of the most misunderstood films of all time. Don't miss it,ever, and MGM Vintage Classics has issued an excellent DVD edition. "},{"Title":"From Spartacus to this role of has-been Entertainer -- amazing!","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"28 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen this movie many times on tv and still feel irresistibly drawn into the realistic setting of people's humdrum lives at a British seaside resort. Some films can be viewed once and that's enough, but not this one.All the cast members are remarkable in projecting the ordinary bleakness of the story's circumstances -- the people, time and place, their foibles, tragedies, and often futile efforts as they struggle with events. Believe it or not, I even got to like Olivier's singing of Why Should I Care!A memorable, thoughtful film well worth experiencing. "},{"Title":"An extraordinary film","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is amazing to me how many critics and reviewers of this film seem to have missed the subtleties in this story, and in Archie's character. Far from living in a world of futile fantasies, I think, Archie's character is much more accurately expressed by the line The only thing I know how to do is to keep on keeping on. All available options (Canada, failure, escape, or perhaps, suicide) being unthinkable, what choice has he but to chase another hopeless dream of somehow, finally, nailing a successful show? Perhaps I identify with Archie more strongly than many viewers, having myself been at the helm of a sinking ship (a business.)One unreasonably scathing critic (did he actually watch this film??) commented on Archie's daughter, Joan's, blind love for her father. I think it was not blind love at all, but a recognition of the (probably useless) courage Archie has to muster to continue to face each day -- a day likely to hold for him only more demoralizing failure and unceasing accusation and blame. And far from being totally selfish, as some commentators have written, Archie really seems to be the only person in the family able to look beyond the extremely small focus on their own interests he is, in fact, the only person in the Rice tribe making a real effort, despite the pain, to find a path out of the mess to a place of security for them all. Perhaps we have forgotten how dependent families were in that era on the earnings of the breadwinner, and yet, reviewers seem to have been just as blind as many wives and families of that time to what a man often had to give up in order to be that breadwinner, including, as in Archie's case, any fantasies of greatness or even, finally, his last shreds of self-esteem. Was Archie aware of his utter failure? Oh, I think absolutely so. This is why his admission to his daughter that he was dead behind his eyes. All the brightness of hope or illusions of personal excellence have been hammered out of him on the iron-cold anvil of real-world failure. Even so, he found it in him to dredge up the understanding and compassion to alleviate his wife, Phoebe's drunken crash into despair and hostility; and shore up his father's nostalgic dreams. Though, alas, the latter, too, led to yet another unforgiveable tragedy (-- or was it?.The most exquisite and poignant tragedy of it all is that maybe, just maybe, Archie might have pulled it off, but for the failure of his clueless family to understand him or the grim realities of his doomed profession. Forget metaphors of Imperial England, this tale has surely played itself out millions of times, whenever a new technology has made an old craft obsolete -- as when the printing press replaced scribes, or when electric lights eliminated the town's lamp lighter, or when automated projectors replaced skilled projectionists. Many of the movie's reviewers, in my opinion, are as blind to what is really going on here as is Archie's family. They assume that Archie's failures are the result of his negligence and selfishness, and that his dalliance with the beauty queen is a real romance (and threat to their security), when, in his eyes, it is just another, necessary, desperate and ultimately demeaning business deal. Joan alone, it seems, finally understands -- far too late to avert the inevitable end. Ultimately, every family member's myopic conception of Archie's reality leads them to take the reflexive steps that seal his doom.Shakespeare would have been completely a home with this tragic tale, and I think it was not such a great leap away from Hamlet for Olivier.The story is richly-detailed, unexpected and though-provoking. And Olivier is superb. A stunning performance from beginning to tragically inevitable end. "},{"Title":"Fascinating, a must-see.","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Entertainer is a fascinating film based on the play by John Osborne (Look Back in Anger); Osborne co-wrote the screenplay.Olivier plays Archie Rice, a fading entertainer in a fading medium (music halls) in a fading empire (the Suez crisis of 1956 figures into the action).Archie's speech to his daughter (Joan Plowright), onstage in an empty theater, about being dead behind his eyes, is especially memorable.Along with other fine actors, Alan Bates and Albert Finney as his sons flesh out this film, which is a must-see for fans of any of these actors.  "},{"Title":"Nuns, clergymen, and dogs","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Laurence Olivier is The Entertainer, in a 1960 film based on the John Osborne play in which Olivier played one of his greatest roles, Archie Rice. He's surrounded by Joan Plowright as Archie's daughter Jean, and Brenda de Banzie as his emotionally fragile second wife, Phoebe. Olivier, Plowwright and de Banzie all repeat their stage roles, and it was while in the play that Olivier and Plowright met, fell in love, married, and stayed together until his death. Albert Finney is Mick and Alan Bates is Frank, Archie's sons, and Roger Livesey is Billy Rice, Archie's father and a beloved, well remembered music hall performer. Daniel Massey plays the role of Graham. It's an auspicious cast of veterans and newcomers.Archie has followed in his father's footsteps with a lot less success. He's a second-rate entertainer - and that's being kind - in a seaside resort - and his show is in trouble. Archie's in trouble, too, as he's an undischarged bankruptcy and everything is in his wife's name. He's a fairly overt womanizer, which makes his wife a wreck. She's afraid of dying alone and wants the family to move to Canada and join a successful relative in the hotel business. But Archie won't give up following every dream in spite of some harsh realities. He takes up with a 20-year-old second prize beauty contestant - her father's rich and can back his new show.As I read through the reviews on IMDb, I have to wonder where some people's hearts are. That's not a comment on the people, believe me, rather on the world we live in. I can tell you this - if you think what Olivier does isn't special and can't understand why he was nominated for an Oscar, if you can't see that he is Everyman, if you can't see the comment on Britain in general - you just haven't lived enough yet. You'll see this film again one day and it'll hurt, believe me. There can't be anyone my age, especially with ambition and a creative mind, who can't understand what Archie Rice is going through. Though he's in no way a sympathetic character, one can empathize with his life and begrudgingly admire the fact that he refuses to take the easy way out.Jean, since she doesn't live full time with this bad road company version of Long Day's Journey Into Night - i.e., her family - is sympathetic to both Phoebe's hysteria and her father's delusions. The scene over the cake - one of the reviewers on the board found it disturbingly realistic - there's someone who knows dysfunction when he sees it. A brilliant scene, but nothing beats Archie's monologue to his daughter when he asks her to look at his eyes. I'm dead, he says.Olivier has said this is his favorite character as it contains so much of him. It's obvious from interviews with Olivier that it does. Like many highly successful people, he began to see himself as Archie, a kind of fake who, as Archie says, can be warm and smiling and feel nothing. It's all tricks, Olivier told writer Jack Kroll once. It's not an uncommon feeling. It wasn't all tricks, of course, and as we see in Archie's final version of the song that ran through the film, Why Should I Care? he had finally reached the part of himself that makes a truly great artist, like the woman he heard sing the spiritual. Olivier, of course, hit those heights many times.England is pronounced as a dying country in the beginning of the film, which sets up the metaphor of Archie as a symbol of the country. I'm not British - it's for those who lived during that time period in 1960 to comment on it, and they have. There are some brilliant reviews on the board covering that subject.Why Should I Care? Archie sings. I don't have an answer. But if anyone could make me care, it was always Lord Laurence Olivier, be he the ruined man in Carrie, the beautiful Heathcliff in Wuthering Heights, James Tyrone on stage in Long Day's Journey, or Max de Winter in Rebecca. An amazing legacy, one in a million - don't miss him as Archie Rice in The Entertainer. "},{"Title":"What Do I Care","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" That little song that Laurence Olivier sings through out The Entertainer as part of his musical hall act really does sum up his philosophy of life. Outside of the classics this is Olivier's greatest role and some would not even put that qualifier on his performance. Olivier retained great affection for his role as Archie Rice. He said it contained more of the real him than any other role.That's hard to believe because what Archie Rice is is a third rate song and dance man. His father played by Roger Livesey was a great performer back in the day. But Archie never has and never will make it to the top. Think Frank Sinatra and Frank Sinatra, Jr. and you get some idea. He's more like Willy Loman in that he's facing his midlife crisis, knowing full well he's not really accomplished all that much. Still he plods on. Unlike Willy the luckless middle-aged salesman, Archie's full of tricks. His credit is all gone, and he's planning to woo and win a young beauty who's an airhead like her mom with the object of getting their backing for a new show. He's ready to throw over wife Brenda DaBanzie without a by your leave.The only one who Olivier has any kind of human feelings for is his daughter played by Joan Plowright. It was in the original cast of The Entertainer that Olivier first met the woman who became the third and last Mrs. Olivier. When he was made a peer in fact Joan became Lady Olivier.In fact from the Broadway production, Olivier, Plowright and DaBanzie were the only ones from that cast who were in the film. But some rising young talent like Alan Bates, Albert Finney, and Daniel Massey all got some good first notice in The Entertainer playing Olivier's two sons and Plowright's fiancé.The Entertainer is a downer of a film. There ain't a middle aged man who doesn't know what Archie is going through. But our sympathies are never with him. Usually that would mean one big box office flop if the audience can't sympathize or empathize. But it's Olivier's skill as a player that makes us want to see what does become of Archie.It's an ending, but in a very minor key. Well deserved I thought. "},{"Title":"The last, golden days of Morecambe...","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As someone who lives only a couple of miles away from where this film was set, it makes me practically WEEP to see how busy and vibrant Morecambe used to be in the 50s/60s. OK, so the film is about how it's passed its heyday, but compared to how it is now - seeing the same scenery (it's hardly changed) - the Midland Hotel, The Winter Gardens (now a nightclub), it's hard not to get painful pangs of nostalgia.This is ultimately a depressing film - Archie is one of those people who deals with tragedy by blanking it out with bad jokes. In the film he seduces the winner (2nd place) of a beauty contest - a woman old enough to be his daughter. Shortly after the film, Laurence Oliver married Joan Plowright who actually PLAYED his daughter in this film. Anyone for irony?There are some wonderfully subtle takes on British class - I love Thora Hird (a long way from Praise Be and Stannah Stairlifts here) as the grasping mum of the Beauty-contest winner, while Brenda de Banzie is great as neurotic, looked-over, teary, nervy Phoebe - I've got a new job in Woolworths, on the electrical counter. It's OK, but the girls are a bit common. Well Phoebe, you'll be pleased to know that the branch of Woolworths is still there... "},{"Title":"A life in the theater","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Archie Rice, the fifty-something vaudeville man at the center of the action, has seen better days. He is relegated to play almost empty houses in a seaside resort of England where he lives with his second wife, Phoebe, his father Billy, and retired vaudevillian, and grown children. Archie has an eye for good looking women, the younger, the better. Archie Rice is a pathetic figure who lives in a world of his own, always scheming about who to involve for one of his new shows, that no one seems to care about.Jean Rice, the young daughter living in London, comes home for a visit and she is horrified when she finds out what his father has turned out to be. Jean sees what Archie is doing to Phoebe when he sees his father kissing a much younger woman in a local restaurant. Archie has been trying to convince her parents about the talents Tina doesn't have, in order to take money from them to produce his new venture, which is only an idea in his wild imagination.Tragedy strikes when young Mick Rice, who we had seen earlier as he goes to fight in the Suez conflict, is first reported being taken prisoner and eventually killed. While Phoebe goes to pieces, Archie keeps doing what he only knows what to do. His final speech to an empty theater, but directed to his daughter Jean, reveals the soul of this troubled man.Tony Richardson made a great impression with his second directorial job. He was attuned to the work of John Osborne, one of England's best playwrights of the fifties and sixties that revolutionized the theater. Mr. Richardson is helped by the crisp black and white cinematography by Oswald Morris, who looks as sharp today as when the film was released.The main reason for watching The Entertainment is Laurence Olivier. He completely dominates the action and makes us see how pathetic his Archie Rice is. Mr. Olivier knew this man, having been connected to the theater all his life. No one could have done a better job than him in baring his soul for all of us to see. Laurence Olivier shows a tender side in his scenes with Tina, the young woman who has captured his fancy, and who is so young, she could be his own daughter.The rest of the cast is perfection. Roger Livesey, is seen as Archie's father, Billy Rice, a man that has seen a lot during his lifetime and now lives with a son that he knows is up to no good. Brenda DeBanzie is fine as Phoebe, a woman of a certain age that is losing Archie. Joan Plowright was Jean, the young daughter. Also in minor roles some actors that will go to stardom in their own right, Alan Bates, Albert Finney, and Daniel Massey, who died much too young. The Entertainer is a fine film that shows the talents of Laurence Olivier and Tony Richardson. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful film with almost Greek tragedy sentiment","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Entertainer is one of those great films that makes you stop and think about the has been entertainers like Archie after their heyday. I could see the relationship between Joan Plowright and Laurence Olivier evolve from the screen into a love affair. Joan is quite brilliant playing his daughter and Larry is well one of Britain's greatest treasures from the theater. I also enjoyed Dame Thora Hird's role as the mother of a contest winner. The story is rather complicated but it is richly interpreteted onto the film. We feel sorry and love Archie despite his obvious flaws and faults. We support him in the end and know why he did it? After all the show must go on. Morecambe, Lancashire is also Dame Thora's birthplace and hometown. It's great to see legends like Dame Thora Hird, Dame Joan Plowright and Lord Laurence Olivier. "},{"Title":"The entertainer is a great movie, but not easy to watch.","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The underlying theme of this movie is the end of the British empire, played out in allegory with the end of a not very talented entertainer. The poet John Mansfield a few decades before this movie was made gave Britons an inkling of what was coming. Two wars and a softness grown out of a century of milking its colonies finally had to come to end. This film is not what the average movie viewer wants, much less understands when the creators of this project reveal to the audience what lies ahead. When Archie is yanked off the stage, it is the symbolic end of Great Britan as a great power. The Suez war and Archies's son as a relic of Britan's once dominant power are a backdrop to political and military events when this film was in production. The Suez war was not backed by the US. The British learned that the day was over when it could exert influence let alone dominant military actions without US backing. Catch the line in the beginning of the film when Archie's daughter is being asked to leave a dying country. That line establishes the events to follow, for Archie and England. "}{"Title":"The Music Hall is dying,and,with it,a significant part of England","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So wrote John Osborne in his Note to the First Edition of his play The Entertainer published in 1957.It was intended as a metaphor for the decline of this country as both a colonial and world power which was hastened by Eden's ill - judged invasion of the Canal - Zone of Egypt in response to Col.Nasser's closing of the Suez Canal itself. Written in response to Olivier's request for a play toturn away from a trivial voguish theatre slanted to please the upper middle class it initially caused Osborne some doubt about casting the theatrical knight in a play where criticism of the Government's handling of the Suez crisis was implicit.It seemed as dangerous as exposing the Royal Family to politics. Archie Rice is a second - rate Music Hall comedian,a stand - up in that awful modern phrase.In the years before television became omnivorous a comic could tour the country for decades with what was essentially the same act,a situation that would be familiar to both him and his father who had been a headliner in his day,a position Archie had never and would never occupy. In contrast to the orthodox theatre,Music Hall depended on the flow of action and response across the footlights,the audience forming a symbiotic relationship with the performer rather than passively watching an immutable series of events take place on the stage.In The Entertainer this difference is realised by setting Rice's stage performances between sequences involving his family and other events in his real life. Osborne was a huge fan of Max Miller although he always denied Rice was based on him.I loved Max because he embodied a kind of theatre I admired most.His method was danger....danger he might go too far. Archie Rice was no Max Miller,he was crude and loud where Miller was querulous and childishly innocent. The possibility that Olivier may once have been a daring actor has probably never occurred to an audience brought up on his mainly underwhelming movie performances from the last 30 or so years. To see him rage against the machine in The Entertainer will be a salutary experience,I promise. Rice is a stubborn,prejudiced,bathetic,vain and superficial man He is a would - be serial adulterer,a seducer of impressionable girls and an opportunist.But for all these shortcomings he is a human being. He and his family squabble and fuss and try to ignore the outside world until it forces itself on them when the son is killed at Suez. As Archie Rice he bellows at the Balcony,shouts at his family,schmoozes a beauty contestant to get access to her rich mothers purse strings. It is a bravura show,and one that has come to be recognised as his signature performance away from the Bard. Olivier displays the manic energy of the man Born in a Trunk who has known no other life,indeed fears any other kind of life. However,The Entertainer is by no means a one - man - show. The Rice Family are played as a true ensemble with the dynamics immediately recognisable to anyone who has shared a home with siblings and parents.The great Roger Livesey has dignity and authority as Archie's father,the former headliner with a reputation in the profession his son can never aspire to.He vainly tries to keep his brood together as everything descends into chaos. There is a brief appearance by Miss Shirley Anne Field,daughter of the great British Music Hall comedian Sid Field,a small irony in itself. Miss Field,a woman of unusual beauty and talent,seemed about to embark on a glittering movie career especially after appearing opposite Steve McQueen in The War Lover,but it didn't happen.It is one of the many small tragedies of the British Cinema. The late Thora Hird plays her mother,the woman Rice wants to back his show Rock 'n'Roll Newd Look.She rarely played a totally sympathetic part and it is a tribute to her strength of purpose and sense of self that she became a genuine Brtitish Institution. But the movie is now remembered as Olivier's The Entertainer rather than Osborne's,and the image that remains in the mind's eye is Snowdon's iconic photograph of the actor with his little grey bowler,bow tie and crumpled jacket,his face a horror mask of manic laughter. "},{"Title":"How could anyone be anything but enthralled by this?","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As an American, getting a peek at post-War Britain in decline, a look at Olivier as a most interesting character in the person of never-was vaudevillian Archie Rice, and a look at several British players (Joan Plowright, Anthony Bates, and Albert Finney) very early in their careers is priceless.Archie Rice is a despicable character, and the drama centers on his problems of having all of his financial issues - including some long overdue tax debt - come to a head just as he can finally get no more work as a vaudevillian even in the bad music halls. He has a way out - one of his relatives will pay off his debts if he'll accept his drunken wife's nephew's offer to run a motel in Canada. But like any Briton who can remember England's finer days he's just not about to cut and run, and even though I can despise the lying, the cheating on his used up wife, his odd ideas about parenting, and his willingness to use his own father, I can't help but admire his pioneer spirit to use an American term. He'd rather fail on his own terms than succeed on someone else's.Joan Plowright is the other lead, and she plays Archie's daughter, Jean. She shows some pioneer spirit herself. She shares some characteristics with dad - she's a painter who can't paint, Archie's a vaudevillian who can't entertain. Unlike dad, she owns up to her shortcomings and wants to make a contribution anyways by teaching art to poor slum kids. She has a way out of Britain just like dad does. Her fiancé has been offered a job opportunity in Africa, and he encourages her to leave her dead country behind, but she just isn't ready to give up on England or her family just yet. The two have a falling out and Jean goes to visit her dysfunctional family, in which she finds comfort.I just don't get people who say that they don't like this one because it's boring, depressing, ugly. Every minute of this film held my interest and stayed with me long after I'd watched it. I think you need to have lived awhile, to have had disappointments, and to have dealt with those disappointments in ways you may not be proud of to really appreciate this film. "},{"Title":"Olivier's greatest performance","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the greatest performance by one of the greatest actors of all time, perhaps because this is the character he most closely identified with.  Unfortunately a good quality video transfer is not easy to find, most are bad versions of a bad print.  Bates and DeBanzie also give some of their best work in this sadly under seen classic. "},{"Title":"Somewhat neglected film shows one of Olivier's best performances","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Laurence Olivier stars as a sleazy, third-rate music hall performer in 1960's The Entertainer, one of the first and best films of the so called Free Cinema movement, and a movie that is somewhat neglected today (it should be better known). Based on a play by John Osborne, Olivier plays Archie Rice, a mediocre performer in grim seaside town theaters. His shows attract few people (early in the film, we see passersby sneering at the theater marquee that falsely advertises Archie as a television comedian). His father, Billy, was once a talented and successful comedian, but now he is just a cranky old man living with him and Archie's wife, the unstable Phoebe. Archie has three grown children, played respectively by Alan Bates, Albert Finney and Joan Plowright, all very early in their careers. Jean (Plowright, who would become Olivier's wife soon after this film) comes to home from London and sees her family unraveling one of her brothers have been sent to Suez, her stepmother is becoming more and more unstable, Archie is hounded by his creditors while he imprudently starts a romance with a beauty contestant, with the hope of obtaining financing for his shows from her rich parents. Archie's life goes downhill from here, so the film is quite bleak, but it is very well done (and especially, performed). Some critics see Archie as a metaphor of postwar England, and this may indeed have been Osborne's intention, but the film plays better as a character study of a very flawed man. "},{"Title":"Are You Trying To Be Funny?","Date":"1 December 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Olivier is Archie Rice, an obsolescent music hall singer, comic, and promoter, in Blackpool, a relatively elaborate resort town on the Irish Sea. There's an amusement park, a pier, caravans, thrilling rides, a ferris wheel, and the modest apartment in which Olivier lives with his alcoholic wife, Brenda De Banzie, his retired music-hall performer father, and his three children, one of whom, Albert Finney, is in the army and being shipped off to possible combat in the Suez. (This is 1956.) The gaiety of the resort is mostly fake from the point of view of Olivier's family. He hasn't paid his income tax for twenty years and the feds are after him, so he's desperate for money. His own show at the music hall is ailing. It looks like the kind of production that might have been popular thirty years earlier. The skimpy audiences simply sit and stare. One of the audience remarks, Does he think he's funny? Well, yes, he does. Olivier is hardly ever off, as they say. Like his ancient and good-natured Dad, he loves to tell stories, half of them made up, and make wisecracks that don't quite hit the mark. Olivier's performance -- in distinct contrast to Archie Rice's -- is unimpeachable. He has every move, every glance, down pat. He seems always to be in motion, darting here and there, cackling at his own wit, except when he's coolly calculating how to make enough money to pull him out of the hole he and his family are in.He believes he's found it when he serves as a judge at a beauty contest, leaping up and down, yelling WHOO HOO into the microphone as the half-naked babes parade past. He seduces the runner-up, the yummy Shirley Anne Field, and discovers that her parents are interested, a little, in investing in Olivier's new show. He's given them the impression that he's a big shot.I really didn't care much for the structure of the film. John Osborne must not have been a very happy camper. Everything that could go wrong in Olivier's life DOES in fact go wrong, a rhopalic series of disasters. The odd, tiny bubbles of happiness or satisfaction soon pop. I swear, the single unalloyedly good thing that happens to him is that he gets to spend an afternoon rolling around in the sack with Shirley Anne Field, who is half his age. A little gratuitous nudity in this scene might have lent some uplift to the movie but we have to settle for her snapping her knickers, as the Brits call them, back on after the debauch.This lacuna will leave some viewers feeling less fulfilled then they might have felt, but that's nothing compared to what Olivier's character goes through. I won't spell it all out but Murphy's law applies.Nevertheless, I mentioned Olivier's performance because it's so finely tuned -- but then everybody is quite good. I suppose the delectable Shirley Anne Field gives the weakest performance but there is pathos in every character, whether they know it or not.The main problem is that everything in Osborne's story seems so thoroughly desperate beneath the masks of comedy. One bad thing after another. Cripes, if I wanted tragedy I'd watch Olivier's Othello. Not that the downbeat ending bothers Olivier much, or at least it doesn't appear to, because he sloughs it off with another would-be funny apothegm.I wouldn't watch it too often. Not if there were any razor blades about. "},{"Title":"Very good character studies, though it's tough to care about any of them","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is about a not especially talented vaudeville-style actor (played by Olivier) who sings a little and does some comedy--but not especially well. It's set in some British town by the sea (probably Brighton) and is set in 1956--when this sort of low-brow entertainment was on its way out and during the Suez Incident (the younger son is sent there soon after the film begins). This actor is pretty obnoxious and brings misery to his family since he's basically no good and selfish. The film switches from his viewpoint to his daughter's (played by Olivier's soon wife-to-be, Joan Plowright). She sees again and again that he's a jerk but despite everything, she is strangely loyal to this rogue. The rest of the family is pretty much living in Olivier's shadow and caters to his every obnoxious whim. The only exception is Olivier's father--an excellent character study of a man who tries to do the right thing by everyone.Technically speaking, this is a very good film--the actors all did a fine job and the writing was pretty good as well. The problem for me was that I just didn't feel much of a connection, as it was hard to care about any of them. Now this isn't a complaint so much as saying that this type of character study may apply to some, it's not a film that will appeal to a wide audience. I guess my problem is that I have known people like the jerk Olivier played in the film and I felt irritated with him and his family for accepting his obnoxious behaviors. Sure, this is true to life--there are people like the one Olivier played who are users and ne'r do wells and there are many family members that put up with the lies and mistreatment. In some ways, I could see the film as being very therapeutic for some--it just wasn't something I particularly enjoyed or needed to see. "},{"Title":"Uncomfortable to watch, but a masterful film of a brilliant play.","Date":"29 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" barefoot-gal from United States gave a spot on review of this allegorical film. Yes, it represented the decline of the British Empire after WW2. The Egyptians had just dared to thumb their noses at Great Britain by seizing the Suez Canal, and thus showed them that the Empire was finished. Other colonies were not far behind in defying the country which they felt had exploited them for so long, for which they had no loyalty. By using the dysfunctional impoverished Rice family as a metaphor, the film showed the end of an era as the once immensely popular music hall was grinding to a halt in run down theaters in seedy seaside towns, themselves coming to the end of their hey-day as package holidays to the Mediterranean were becoming popular and affordable. Entertainment by fading vaudevillians which which would have appealed to a captive audience of servicemen and people who could not go abroad in war time no longer had appeal. The audience wanted something new. The audience had no loyalty to a form of entertainment which had held a monopoly until alternatives arrived, just as today's audiences have deserted the cinema for TV, and now are deserting TV for DVD's and Internet downloads. Supermarket checkouts have replaced individual service in groceries, and on line retailing is replacing department stores. Why should they care? Those who cannot adapt, perish.Archie Rice is the son of a popular music hall star of the Edwardian era, without his talent; nevertheless, it is the only life he knows and he is trying to make a living for himself and his family. We see this many times as the son of a star, with Jr. tacked on to the famous name, tries and fails to follow in his father's footsteps and cash in on his name, but there is only room for one. Archie Rice knows that he will never make it, but he has to go on as it is all he knows. As barefoot-gal noted, we are still seeing this today as proud occupations are superseded by a new technology and the skilled worker becomes obsolete.Archie makes a desperate attempt to raise money for a new show and make himself feel he still has what it takes by seducing a beauty contest runner up whose affluent mother will put up the money in return for a role for her daughter. We never see whether she is anything more than a pretty face awed by a whiff of show biz.Had Archie been born 20 years earlier he may well have made a good living on the halls performing the same act week after week for years as he travelled around the provinces, but there is little demand for live entertainment and millions of people are seeing a variety act at once via TV. Times are changing and he either gives in, or just goes on day after day putting one foot in front of the other and trying to hold it all together. This is a film which is uncomfortable to watch, but makes the viewer think and remember for a long, long, time. Someone referred to it as a Greek Tragedy, and I would agree. "},{"Title":"A very well written and acted exploration of dysfunctional family dynamics with a clever political allegory","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In his long and illustrious stage and screen career both before and after this film, Laurence Olivier played many kings, princes, lords, generals, statesmen and even a god. As such, the role of the third rate musical hall performer Archie Rice was a major departure for him. In spite of this, however, he claimed that he related to Rice far more so than he did to Hamlet. Olivier gives a brilliant performance as the callous, neglectful and self-absorbed never-was. In Henry V and Hamlet, he delivered Shakespeare's lines as naturally as if they had just occurred to him but he is even more natural in this atypically down-to-earth role. The rest of the cast is very strong too, including Joan Plowright (the soon to be Lady Olivier), Brenda De Banzie as Phoebe, Roger Livesey (who plays Olivier's father but was less than a year his senior), Thora Hird and Alan Bates. Like Olivier, Plowright and De Banzie reprised their role from the stage version. It marked the film debuts of Plowright, Bates and Albert Finney, who played Rice's son Mick.Based on the play of the same name by John Osborne, one of the Angry Young Men who pioneered kitchen sink drama in 1950s Britain, the character of Archie Rice was written specifically for Olivier. He is not a likable or pleasant character. He has affairs left, right and centre and makes no effort to either hide them or comfort his second wife Phoebe after their son Mick is sent to Egypt. He has tense relations with most members of his family, particularly Phoebe who seems on the verge of a nervous breakdown at one point. He is more interested in carousing than being a husband, father or son. He's not exactly law abiding either since he hasn't paid income tax for 20 years. In spite of all his many flaws, however, I felt pity towards him as the film progressed and his situation became more desperate. He's quite a tragic figure.The play and the film are set against the backdrop of the Suez Crisis. The decline of the music hall was meant as an allegory for the decline of British influence on the world stage. Archie's father Billy, a far more successful music hall star from days gone by, represents the British Empire at its height and espouses traditional, conservative values in contrast to the more liberal views of Jean, who took part in a peace rally in Trafalgar Square. "},{"Title":"End of Empire","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This tour de force, in glorious big screen black & white, features astonishing acting by one and all, not to mention stunning camera work, an exquisite music track and top-notch scripting. The story focuses on a veteran stage entertainer Archie Rice who, to his friends and family is a bit of a bastard. Despite a lifetime of trying to achieve the fame of his father Archie knows that he does not have what it takes. As he puts it I'm dead behind these eyes. With a cast like this you'd expect more than your money's worth of acting and the film does not disappoint, but it does not rest on the acting laurels alone. Originally a stage play, the film has been ably taken to the streets of (mostly) Blackpoole adding a soupcon of spice. Early on there's an interior scene that is shot just a few degrees off horizontal. Just when you begin to wonder why it's off kilter, the camera slowly tilts until the image is straight&#x85; and then keeps going (!) until it's just a bit off in the other direction perfectly illustrating the world these characters live in. The story takes another step off the deep end when you consider the history going on around the Rice family Suez and the fall of the British Empire. Which is, after all, what it's all about. "},{"Title":"One of Olivier's *very* best roles","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It seems to me that someone should come out with a good video or a good DVD of this film.Olivier is fine and often he is amazingly good in this role and the rest of the cast list includes many of Britain's finest, too.Depressing and cynical, yes, but, but.....If you haven't seen this show, try to.  Olivier on stage doing his hackneyed semi-vaudeville act is something every movie lover should get to see. "}{"Title":"John Osborne's play  with Lord Laurence Olivier.","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a film about Archie Rice,The Entertainer who is a variety artist at the time music halls were becoming extinct and television had virtually destroyed that way of life.Archie Rice wants to find backers for his show at what becomes a tragic price. He wants to support his family and getting this show together is a last ditch attempt.Billy his father played by Roger Livesey was a very successful star in his day wants to help in anyway he can.Archie Rice as played by Laurence Olivier has not had the success of his father and the stench of failure is never far away. His son Mick is soldier and he is involved in the Suez crisis -- Olivier strongly conveys his concern for his son as he immediately switches on the radio for news.His performance as Archie is staggeringly brilliant -- there is no sentimentality or self pity -- just someone having protective layers stripped away.He is not a nice man and his dead behind the eyes description is accurate though he pays in spades for his ruthlessly opportunistic behaviour.As with Jimmy Porter, John Osborne created another unforgettable character. "},{"Title":"Bleak and depressing","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"11 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you're in the mood to be depressed, this is probably right up your alley. It's a film about sad, pathetic people living in a run-down, seedy environment and how unhappy they are with themselves and each other.  It is well-acted (especially by Sir Laurence) and well-directed (I was lucky enough to see a brand-new print), but non-stop depressing.  I left after an hour...I couldn't take any more than that.  The good acting and direction are worth seeing, but it's SO downbeat!  You've been warned. "},{"Title":"Oliver loved this Picture","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Laurence Oliver, (Archie Rice) gave an outstanding performance as a washed up Comedian in the theater, however, he did attract old timers in England who remembered his great acts years and years ago. This film is something like, Sunset Blvd., with Gloria Swanson, who tries to make a come back on the stage and practically starves to death trying. Brenda DeBomzie, (Phoebe Rice), plays his daughter who adores her father and knows him like a book, especially when he drinks too much and starts going to bed with a girl just turned twenty (20) years of age. Poor Archie never seems to give up on the idea of still making it big on the British stage, however, his family want him to go to Canada and give the entire entertaining business a fair goodbye. Laurence Oliver was asked which film was his best and he thought this film was more like what Laurence Oliver really was as a person deep down in his very soul. "},{"Title":"Nuns and Dogs","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I love films where the context of the film perfectly matches its content. Here we have an aging star vainly trying to hold on. Olivier was much celebrated in his youth for his energetic reading of Shakespeare. That's a plus in Britain where accident has forged the notion that his plays are all about providing empty vessels for actors with power and nerve. Quite apart from the dangers of so limiting Shakespeare, this limits a career too. If one is rooted in the theatrical, and one is celebrated for overjuicing roles in such a way that they thrill, then like any other athlete, you are doomed to fade. And this, just as your peers are blossoming as cinematic icons!That's what this story is about as well.That energy is essentially sexual. How does an older man regain sexual energy? By taking a young lover of course. That is both what our character and actor does, placing their beauties in their productions. Joan Plowright is the center of the project, and rightly so. Around her, his grandness publicly explores what it means to be out of gas with the world on your case.Intellectually, this is a profoundly interesting project. But the bottom line is, well he IS out of gas.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"You were a pretty little thing. Not that looks are important - not even for a woman. You don't look at the mantelpiece when you poke the fire.","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a very strange film developed in the 1960s. The dark themes of love, money, greed, and overall the protagonist's dream of being the next big sensation were chilling. This film was a perfect example of a very depressing story that never had a glimmer of light. Sure, there are several times we think that Archie will taste success, but before he is able to put the symbolic spoon into the bowl, he is shot down harder and faster than before. There is never a big break for Archie. He represents the human in even the smallest entertainer. As I read my local paper and see that Tom Cruise and Steven Spielberg stopped at a local DQ earlier in the month, I can't help but realize the fact that this film is trying to show. They are human. While they may have more money and seen by more people, they are still human and have to deal with the human drama that we cope with daily. Archie is no exemption, and his struggles with love, money, family, and success are just stronger realizations of his human element. Add to this mix Archie's father and you see the true element of which I speak. Archie's father represents a dying breed of actors that do not live grandiose lifestyles, but somehow live on just their name alone. They have spent their money and rely on the kindness of strangers for favors. This is where Archie lacks. His kindness is only to women, and they continually hurt him in the long run.Outside of the 'human entertainer' concept, this is a very flat and shallow film. From the opening scene until the end, we are never quite given the big picture of this family or our surroundings. I never quite understood the scenes. Where were we? Why were we here? Who are the people that do visit Archie's shows? This builds a horrible background for our characters to live within. Without the proper structure behind our characters this forces them to crumble with the slightest bit of force. Archie's daughter Jean, the self-appointed narrator of the family, never seems to fit into her role. Plowright never seems comfortable with her character and is constantly giving off the wrong emotion during the scene. There was one part when I swore I saw her laughing. She is a distraction and a downfall for this film. Secondly, Olivier needed to contain his character a bit. I know that he was to portray an entertainer on the edge of reality, but it never showed. He needed more control over his emotions and really build a human element to his character. He was neither believable nor enjoyable to watch.From the beginning of this film I never once felt like he could be successful, and when he is the character we are trying to rejoice over, we need to feel that sensation. I needed to feel like he could really make this show work, instead of constantly being pulled deeper into his depression. This goes with Archie's father as well. It is possible to play too senile, and this is a perfect example. The entire cake scene (when you see it you will see) was laughable instead of emotional. The only character that worked decently well in this film was Phoebe. She had a touch character to grapple with and it felt like Brenda De Banzie was the only one carrying her weight in this film. Her emotion and power made some of the scenes worth watching instead of completely unbearable.Finally, I would like to say that with the background taking second fiddle to the actors, and the actors taking second fiddle to the background, this band needed longer hours practicing. Not only was this film confusing, but it also only allowed us to see one segment of the story. I needed more pre-story information or possibly a better ending to really allow me to connection with Archie. There was nothing forcing me to feel sympathy for the main character. I didn't know enough about him, nor did I really feel comfortable with the family dynamics between him and Phoebe. What was their relationship? Plutonic? Who knows? All I do know is that director Tony Richardson did not have control over this film. He seemed to slip between what his star player of the film (Laurence Olivier) and a developed story. I do not see why Laurence was nominated for an Oscar for this role. There was nothing spectacular.Overall, maybe I missed the boat on this film. Perhaps I was expecting my first Laurence Olivier film to blow me out of the water, but instead all I found was a jumbled mess of papers. I understand that the world of entertainment is not as glamorous as we think it is, but it is not as depressing as Richardson shows in this film. I needed a stronger balance and a better cast to make this film work for me. I needed to see some reason for me to attach myself to Archie, but sadly there was nothing. This film failed for me, but I will not give up on Olivier, I think he can prevail.On a side note, maybe it is just me, but I thought that Olivier in this film resembled Robin Williams in not only the way that he spoke, but also the facial mannerisms. Odd, maybe it is just me&#133;Grade ** out of ***** "}]