[{"Title":"The 'Battle Cry' that broke Santa Anna's back!","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"51 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" John Wayne's directorial tribute to the struggle for The Alamo symbolized the spirit of resistance of a small group of determined fighters for Texan independence from Mexico...Texans established a provisional government in 1835 and appointed Sam Houston (Richard Boone) commander in chief of their army... There followed a seesaw battle for control of San Antonio, including the ill-advised defense of the Alamo by a force of fewer than 200 Texas volunteers... General Antonio Lopez De Santa Anna was determined to take this key location in order to impress upon the Texans the futility of further resistance to Mexican ruler...After a 13-day siege, every fighting man perished under the onslaught of 7,000 Mexican troops... Among the fallen defenders were Cols. William B. Travis, James Bowie and the legendary Davy Crockett... Only Mrs. Dickinson (Joan O'Brien), her little daughter and a black boy survive to provide the eyewitness story of the Siege and the Battle of the Alamo...John Wayne portrays Davy Crockett, a frontiersman and politician, who saw the future of an independent Texas as his future and he loved a good fight... Crockett and his brave combatants - the Tennesseans, expert marksmen, held their position until death... Richard Widmark is cast as Colonel Jim Bowie, a reckless adventurer, known for his famous 'Bowie knife'. Bowie has come to fight for Texas independence with a small force of volunteers. He had strong personal friction with Travis which threatens to develop into a private war... The difference in their personalities resulted in the two men sharing a somewhat antagonistic competition for command of the entire garrison... On one point they did agree The Alamo is the most important stronghold of Texas... Laurence Harvey plays Colonel Travis, the grand Canyon of Texas, who arrives with 25 men to establish the first line of defense against Santa Anna... Travis is a disciplinarian officer who commanded the Texas defenders during the siege and battle of the Alamo, a genuine hero who anticipated a battle to the death, a polite gentleman who gave the men an opportunity to retreat with honor the ill-fated garrison but explained how important their defense of the Alamo is... His appeal from the Alamo of reinforcements becomes an American symbol of unyielding courage, heroism and self-sacrifice... Travis high moment in the film was when he fired his answer to Santa Anna with a cannon blast Victory or Death!With its seven Oscar nominations, including the Oscar-nominated hit song The Green Leaves of Summer and a superb score written by Dmitri Tiomkin and song-writer Paul Webster, and featuring some of the most spectacular battle sequences ever seen, The Alamo, - a sacrifice on the altar of liberty - becomes the 'Battle Cry' that broke Santa Anna's back... "},{"Title":"John Wayne's Massive Tribute to Texas Terrific!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"40 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Viewed as history, John Wayne's epic production of 'The Alamo' is as full of holes as Swiss Cheese (the final battle actually lasted less than an hour, in the pre-dawn darkness of March 6, 1836; current scholarly consensus is that the historical Crockett attempted to surrender, at the end of the furious onslaught, but was executed), but just as Wayne mentor John Ford never let 'the facts' interfere with a good story, first-time director Wayne wanted to tell a tale of larger-than-life heroes, taking a stand for what was right, and being willing to die for that cause. It was a firm belief in these truths that pushed Wayne into investing over ten years of his life, and much of his personal fortune, in telling this story, and 'The Alamo' was, and is, a triumph.The film can really be broken into two distinct parts; the first part introduces the characters, providing insights into their personalities, and tells a melodramatic tale of a beautiful woman (the radiant Linda Cristal), being forced into an unwilling relationship with an evil, profiteering Texan, who is rescued by the plain-spoken and heroic Davy Crockett, as portrayed by Wayne. The story bears similarities to 'The Fighting Kentuckian', a Wayne vehicle of twelve years earlier. In this version, however, Wayne doesn't 'win' the girl, but gives her a rather preachy speech about patriotism, and doing what's right, and sends her on her way.Despite a terrific fight scene between a bunch of the Texan's henchmen, and Crockett and Jim Bowie (portrayed with easy charm by Richard Widmark), this first part drags, a bit, and seems contrived to allow Wayne to air his political beliefs. Bear with it, though, because when the action moves to the mission/fortress of the Alamo, for the second half of the film, Wayne's talents as a director truly shine.The story of the 13-day siege between the Alamo's 187 defenders, and General Santa Anna's 6,000-man army, has NEVER been told on a grander scale than in the John Wayne version, and the uncut edition of the film is presented in a wide-screen format, which allows the viewer to really share Wayne's vision. With a nod to the fact that the Mexico of today is a staunch ally (several characters make a point of saying how 'proud' they are of the Mexicans, even as the two forces are killing each other!), the story flows between exciting 'victories' (stealing the cattle, spiking the Mexican cannons), and an understanding of the inevitable conclusion (defined by Lawrence Harvey, as Travis, in the memorable 'sword in the sand' scene). Harvey's Travis is the best-realized of the film's many characters; he brings a humanity to the complex, driven commander, growing from someone insensitive to others, into a leader who earns everyone's respect.Wayne used thousands of Mexicans as extras in the film, which gives the viewer a far greater sense of the magnitude of the siege than Republic's 'The Last Command' or Disney's 'Davy Crockett' ever could. The battles, particularly the final one, as row after row of Mexican foot-soldiers overrun the pockets of defenders, are unforgettable! Each character is allowed to die heroically, and is given a lingering moment to make a final gesture (Travis breaks his sword over his knee as Mexicans surge past, Bowie fires his unique gun, a brace of pistols, and swings his famous knife, Crockett, bayoneted to a door, still manages to pull free, and torch the magazine). The film's climax, alone, would make the film a 'must' for any action fan.The cast includes many well-known character actors and long-time Wayne friends, including Ken Curtis as Lt. Dickinson, Travis's adjutant; Chill Wills as the most outspoken of Crockett's men; Guinn 'Big Boy' Williams, Denver Pyle, Chuck Roberson, and many others, as defenders. Wayne's son, Patrick, has a small but visible role as James Butler Bonham, the famous Alamo dispatch rider, and his daughter Aissa plays the Dickinson's child, Angelina.'The Alamo', for all it's faults, is a magnificent spectacle, monumental in scope. It is a fitting tribute to it's star/director, and an ESSENTIAL part of any John Wayne collection! "},{"Title":"The FULL Version is Great, The Cut Version is Awful","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"41 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This grand, over blown piece of Hollywood historical fable making is one the old Hollywood's last gasps. Its an old Hollywood star vehicle done at the start of the modern film era. Its far from realistic, but its a hell of a fun ride. In its full form its a grand epic that may not be one of the greatest films ever made but certainly in the second ring.When the film was originally released this ran well over three hours. MGM wasn't thrilled, and hacked 40 minutes out of it for general release, despite numerous Oscar noms. Much of the subtler shades to the story went leaving a huge bloated and wrong headed tale of heroism at the Alamo.I can't really recommend the shorter version because its not very good. This is the version that was the only one you could see for years and its colored many peoples feelings towards the film which is a shame since its not a fair depiction of the events at the Alamo or the intentions of John Wayne.The footage was thought lost until a print was discovered about ten or fifteen years ago and released to video and laserdisc. To see the full version is to have a night and day experience. Here in the full version we have real characters and not cartoons. The events suddenly have a weight missing from the shorter version. This is the version that should be seen, however the current DVD release of the Alamo by MGM is, the short release version of the film. That's a shame since since the missing minutes are the difference between a 9 out of 10 and a 6 out of 10. If you can manage to see the full, uncut version do so, its worth the investment of time and popcorn.  "},{"Title":"If You Really Want to Know John Wayne, See This Legacy","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"51 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Corny? At times long-winded and stilted? Touching, poignant and inspiring? John Wayne's The Alamo is all of these things; and, of this, I'm certain John Wayne would agree. For, unlike the lessor men who make up most of Wayne's critics, Wayne was fair. This is clear even in The Alamo, in his depiction of Santana's army. Wayne believed in the basic nobility of men, much like those heroes depicted in Rio Bravo. That his life and memory is treated more like that of Marshal Sam Kane's in the Wayne-despised High Noon, or even in Wayne's own The Shootist is testimony that Wayne HOPED men were better than they are.I'd never seen the full-length version of The Alamo until it was released on VHS in the early 90s. I realized then the greatest scene in the movie is The Birthday Party, which was cut from the general release version of the film. NOTE For those that don't remember, during the 50s and 60s, Hollywood would release long, big budget movies as reserved seat attractions. The film would show at a roadshow theater for several months before general release. Since roadshow theaters showed the movies only twice a day, running time was restricted pretty much to the patience of audiences. However, when the same film was shown general release, time restrictions became important, so films were cut to maximize theater owner profits. It still happens today, except now the director's cut reaches the home audience via DVD. In any event, the short version of The Alamo, while impressive, is still a pale shadow of the Wayne's original cut. Most importantly, to see The Alamo is to understand John Wayne as a man, not an idol or actor. Wayne generously gave virtually all the big scenes to his costars. Certainly, Lawrence Harvey, Richard Widmark, Ken Curtis, Joan O'Brian and Richard Boone get better scenes. Also certainly, Chill Wills, Jester Hairston (Jethro) Hank Worden (Parson) and Veda Ann Borg (Blind Nell Robertson) have showier ones than Wayne. The scenes between Wayne and Linda Crystal in the first hour seem out of a different movie, though neither Wayne's nor Cristals are as big or showy as the ones I've mentioned. One thing I hope to suffer again was the reunion video attached to the VHS. The same old garbage about Wayne not being able to direct actors (by his SON, no less), that he really wasn't a very good director (Wayne's action scenes will match or beat anybody's in Hollywood). Especially rude was Richard Widmark's idea of impressing Wayne by insisting Wayne call him Richard and not Dick during their first meeting. Widmark came across as a pompous ass. However, the rudest cut was from Ken Festis Curtis. Curtis never had a better, more respectful part in ANY movie, but he didn't miss an opportunity to try to soil Wayne's memory.Forget that The Alamo is a topnotch, if not entirely historically accurate historical western. Forget that Wayne directs action better than his mentor, John Ford, or that Chill Wills got an Oscar nomination, the only of his career, thanks to this lousy director/actor. Remember this, Wayne risked EVERYTHING on The Alamo and lost. He was broke for years afterward. Wayne's continued success on the A list was by no means assured. He was 54 years old and raising a second family. Wayne had recently been swindled by a business manager and recently lost a best friend to suicide (Grant Withers). Wayne had to take a role in The Alamo to secure financing, and The Alamo is probably STILL the biggest movie ever directed by one of its stars. During filming, Wayne had to contend with interference from mentor John Ford and a murder investigation of one of his actresses. That same year Wayne's house was severely damaged by fire. Yet Wayne took continued carping by lessor men, those artists in Hollywood who ridiculed his acting and his directing. I'm sure they sneered in satisfaction when The Alamo failed to break even. However, it's reported the movie eventually made a small profit, probably part of it through sale of Alamo Village in Bracketville, Texas.Wayne continued to make fine movies for sixteen more years after The Alamo. In 1969 he was finally awarded by his peers an Oscar for Rooster Cogburn. However, by then, Wayne had P.O.d them again with The Green Berets. War service or not, NOBODY can say the man ever ran from a fight. I'm not sure I would have liked John Wayne had I known him. I'm not a drinker and I'm not obsessively patriotic about this country, particularly since we started picking fights in the Middle East. However, as Wayne proved with Lawrence Harvey and Rock Hudson, Wayne didn't have to agree with someone's lifestyle or even their personal views to treat them with respect. I most certainly would respect him better than the friends he gave jobs in The Alamo; at least, those who slandered him.Oh, and by the way, RICHARD Widmark never won an Oscar.I give The Alamo a solid 8. "},{"Title":"The Academy was blatantly unfair to this epic","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"40 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I have read many of the comments about this movie and have researched the actual event as extensively as I can. I find it difficult to understand how people could deem this movie categorically inaccurate in any way. It is indisputable that no one really knows the exact way the main characters died although Bowie in the infirmary with a bad leg is, perhaps, the only clear inaccuracy. Susannah Dickinson (one of the 3 survivors) testified that she saw Crockett's body in the compound within 20 minutes of the end of the battle with his peculiar hat next to him. This makes it unlikely that he was lined up and executed. It is also indisputable that these men could have run, but chose to stay, clearly understanding their probable fate. Reading Travis' letter to Houston just days before the final battle can leave no doubt of the heroism of these men. Is it not, therefore, infinitely more believable that perhaps Crockett did discuss the meaning of the word Republic with Travis (possibly the most emotional scene in the movie)? John Wayne researched the actual event and location meticulously. The actual original plans of the mission were used to ensure the Alamo Village was correct. Costumes were identical to those depicted in every book of Mexican military history I have seen.I have seen The Apartment-winner of the 1960 best picture academy award. Its clear that Groucho Marx and the rest of the voters made a decision to scoff at Wayne in particular and patriotic historical epics in general. For, in my opinion, The Apartement is inferior. The Alamo should have won 5 Oscars (best score; best song Green Leaves of Summer; best supporting actor-Chill Wills; best movie and best sound).I also think Laurence Harvey should have been nominated for best actor.I do agree with all of those that lament the deletion of certain scenes from the DVD version. How could MGM leave out the scene of the 32 Tejanos arrival at the Alamo. It is central to the movie and the actual historical event. The death of the Parson should also have been included.It will always be one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"One of the best of the best!!!!","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"32 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  John Wayne did an outstanding job on this film.  It was overlooked at the Academy Awards and unjustifiably so.  It was beautiful, costumes were outstanding and very true to type.  The actors were wonderful and I believe should have been more acknowledged for the great job they did in protraying those truly brave men at the Alamo!  I have this on DVD and watch it probably at least twice a year.  The music, just to listen to the music, is an experience; beautiful and haunting.  The horses were beautiful, the scenery was beautiful.  Everything about this movie was beautiful.  John Wayne, an American institution, a lover of this country and a true patriot deserved an academy award for directing this great film.  I cant say enough great things about it.  One of  my favorites of all time!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"If you love the uncut version, then DON'T buy the new DVD","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"32 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I love this movie as much as anyone, but the recently released DVD is inexplicably almost half an hour shorter than the version of this film that has been in release on video and laserdisc for years.  Why, oh why MGM/UA did this, I don't know, but I know I am not keeping my copy of it.  I got worried when this new version didn't have an overture...but I can live without that.  However, when Richard Widmark's first scene occurred and over half of it was missing, I could only groan.  Shame on you MGM/UA.  This movie is more than a classic for a good many  of us.  You should release the cut that you have been putting out for years now, the one that is 3 hours, 10 mins. "},{"Title":"The Mt. Everest of all Westerns","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"30 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Majestic and poignant, a glorious and mighty epic that will last down through the ages. Mr. Wayne never intended to make a documentary, but rather as he said in many interviews at the time, that he considered it one of the greatest stories of heroic American folklore. Of course it is based on one of the valiant battles ever fought on this planet, but of course all that remains of that horrible slaughter, are letters, accounts of survivors from both armies ( and yes, diaries that are very likely accurate, if not totally honest, by participants). The point is - anyone that makes a movie, book, article based on history - had better have videotape or audio, to prove their accounts, or they will be torn to shreds by the nitpickers, that weren't there but love to complain, and not create. John Wayne wanted to preserve a moment of human dignity and ferocious battle action, between 2 forces that were destined to crash in this massacre. 1 side, the Alamo defenders, were the vanguard of democracy that was spreading across the West, first with mountain men and trappers, then the fighting pioneers that were determined to continue to the Pacific, in the spirit of Daniel Boone and Lewis and Clark. And the Mexican Army was defending it's land against what it came to think, were pirates and invaders. Santa Anna was a monstrous leader who lost so much that the young Mexican Republic, barely had a chance to start, after getting the Spanish out after hundreds of years. John Wayne bet everything on his values, American values - instilled in him on the prairies of Iowa, where he still heard cavalrymen and Union Army veterans, tell of a country they helped build, and passed it on to young Marion Morrison, before his family migrated to California, and his destiny to become one of the great symbols of America. By getting into the movie business, and studying at the elbow of the great rugged directors of the early years - Walsh, Wellman, Hathaway, Hawks and the great poet of the Western movie - John Ford. Who passed onto Duke the great motto - When the legend becomes fact, film the legend. Which Wayne did in a gigantic fashion, with The Alamo. By hiring the very best composer of huge western themes, mixed with stirring and heartfelt emotion -- Dimitri Tiomkin, he assured audiences of rousing background to his great cameraman, Bill Clothier's fabulous and stunning cinematography -- like dropping back into history at such a pivotal moment. And if John Wayne's effort was not flawless, step up and invest millions into your own version of that timeless story. To say he had a ton of courage, is an understatement, for those who can appreciate greatness, now luckily available to us in DVD and tape forms, to pass on to our ancestors, the work of a man dedicated, come hell or high water, to preserve his big, bold monumental vision, for all generations to come. And for Americans, and all freedom loving peoples - to respect and forever REMEMBER THE ALAMO. "},{"Title":"Great !  See it and then judge. Not 100% historically accurate.","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I'll come clean.. I really liked this movie.... O.K there will be those who decry it for historical accuracy and some of the liberties taken with the depiction of some of the characters etc...... but at the end of the day this movie is entertainment and I have sure seen movies a lot worse than this. Likely if all the events and persons were accurately presented , the result might well have been a boring lecture/travelogue. Instead there is the Duke John Wayne in true John Wayne style and his able cast giving us a rousing movie and with loosely enough facts to make it believable. Imagine the reaction of moviegoers of the day, if John Wayne was not the larger than life John Wayne in turn playing the even more larger than life Davy Crockett !  Movie-goers of the time who expected to see the style of John Wayne got exactly that. Likely in America where remember the Alamo is of much importance, any movie-maker would have his work cut out to please everyone - Wayne's effort should be judged on the attitudes of the time and his personal battle to get the movie made at all.As purely entertainment in the western/action style this movie stacks up. There are those who mention the slow segments ... what do you want 167 minutes of cannon fodder and gore ? True the movie portrays events from the American viewpoint, yet Wayne does pay homage to the gallantry of the Mexican forces.The musical score is also very memorable with a haunting main theme.Big mythical heroes, big scenes, and big fun .. enjoy . "},{"Title":"A Great Film no matter which version you watch!","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I have seen both the long Director's Cut and the short theatrical release.The Short version is the DVD release, which was ok, the film goes much faster but it leaves many holes in the plot.The Long Version helps to fill in the plot holes, watch this version if you really like long films and are into history quite heavely, otherwise stick with the short version if you just want entertainment value, plus it still manages to keep your attention.This film is truly a masterpiece that will be enjoyed for Generations to come. "}{"Title":"Overwhelming  and breathtaking retelling based on notorious battle performed , written , produced   and well directed by John Wayne","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Big-budgeted and interesting rendition about the mythic mission El Alamo with impressive battles and all-star-cast . Epic western upon the state of Texas's fight for independence in 1836 . The usual band of diverse personalities including Davy Crockett (John Wayne) , Jim Bowie (Richard Widmark) , Colonel William Travis (Laurence Harvey) defend a small fort against very big Mexican raiding party commanded by general Santa Anna . Previously meeting final tragedy , they contend with each other and finally understand the meaning of life and come to respect each other . It's until the spectacular crushing spotlight of total slaughter hoping arrival of Sam Houston (Richard Boone) when the movie comes alive at all . It was a troubled issue but with millions dollars budget weighing heavy in the conscience of the producer/screenwriter James Edward Grant and also producer/director John Wayne , helped by John Ford , led to big success and achieved the wished box office . Lavish production features an impeccable musical score by the classic Dimitri Tiomkin , including the famous strains of 'Deguello' and colorful cinematography by William H. Clothier , John Ford's usual ; besides has an incredible number extras for the Mexican army .Film is correctly based on historic events . The stalwart but tragic defense has become one of American history's most often repeated legends,although historical research has revealed a few facts that go unmentioned. For instance, Sam Houston , commander in chief of the Texas forces,never felt that the crumbling mission could stand up to a siege,and ordered frontiersman Jim Bowie to destroy . He didn't ,however, and rescinded the order and sent attorney turned colonel William B.Travis to defend it. The force that remained in the mission the date the siege began,is estimated at between 182 .Of these less than 20 were actually Texans,the rest including Bowie and another frontier legend,Davy Crokett were volunteers . Early all of them believed that reinforcements were only a short time away . Santa Anna Launched a pre-dawn attack . To the strains of ¨deguello¨a battle march indicating that no quarter would be given,or no prisoners taken,some 1800 Mexicans troops stormed the fort . They were thrown back by the cannon and rifles of the defenders,they rushed again,and were repulsed a second time.Eventually Santa Anna sent another wave of troops who broke the outer defenses and forced the Texans to retreat,fighting hand to hand . When the fighting was over,there were no survivors among the defenders . The myth that the garrison fought to the last man ,however isn't quite accurate,since the evidence indicates that Davy Crockett and several others were captured and possibly tortured , then executed . That they died bravely has never been disputed. William Travis who at least according to legend, invited all who would stay and die with him to cross the line in the dirt, fell near a cannon at the north wall . And Jim Bowie,already deathly ill from a sickness that had recently claimed wife and children,fought from his sickbed near the main gate . Like many others among the defenders Bowie was armed with the formidable hunting knife named for him. The legendary defense served as a rallying point for the beleaguered Texas . Although Santa Anna , who lost at least 600 of some 3000 troops against a force of less than 200 , referred as a small affair , the valor of the defenders gave the surviving Texan troops something to remember and thus they did,six weeks later at San Jacinto , but a new battle cry had been added to the annals of American history  ¨Remember the Alamo¨ . "},{"Title":"For what seems like 13 hours the film misses classic genre status.","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" For 13 days these brave men hold the fort...The Alamo is not the film it should be, even after the 2004 remake (a great film that takes a reflective and thoughtful stance) we find ourselves still waiting for a blood pumping and stirring take on the folklore tale of what happened at the small missionary known as The Alamo. It's San Antonio, 1836 and General Santa Anna is marching his mighty armies into the contested territory of Texas, all that stands in his way is a small band of heroes, Jim Bowie, Davy Crockett and their trusty men who are led by the inexperienced William Travis. They must buy time in order for General Sam Houston to get an army together in which to crush Santa Anna's imposing forces.There really is no simpler way of putting it other than to say that The Alamo is an overlong misfire. Various cuts have been made to try and create an epic classic out of what was actually filmed, but neither of the cuts can succeed in making it the flowing genre piece it could have been. John Wayne directs and clearly cared about the project with his own cash invested that was to be expected, but rumours have persisted that Cliff Lyons had to take up directing duties later in the picture, it's not hard to see why if that was the case, but various sources do poo poo this rumour, and is mostly believed to be Wayne's own work throughout the film. Wayne having learnt from his mentor John Ford had a great vision for the picture, and the scope is rather impressive, the recreation of The Alamo building in particular is first rate, whilst the formations of Santa Anna's armies finally rouse the picture out of its slumber.However the high points in the picture are few and far between, the acting leaves a lot to be desired, with Wayne himself unable to let the Crockett character be anything other than the John Wayne show. Richard Widmark as Jim Bowie steadily holds his own and manages to eek out a bit of bravado interplay with Wayne and Laurence Harvey William Travers, but outside of that there is not much to write home about. The final third just about saves the film from being a stinker, with the academy award for best sound richly deserved, but sadly The Alamo remains to this day a plodding dinosaur that bores when it should be igniting the spirit. 5/10 "},{"Title":"STOP ATTACKING JOHN WAYNE FOR THIS MOVIE!","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"    Many people say this movie is terrible. I disagree 100 percent. John Wayne went through a lot of trouble to make this movie, much due to the cost of production. Wayne had to sell some of his property to make this. Despite of the production problems, Wayne turned out a great movie. I'm not sure how accurate it is, but it's good enough. It was nominated for a Best Picture Oscar and that's good. Why all the bad critisisim? It could have done worse, and Wayne has turned out movies that are terrible compaired to this. The supporting cast was good and the sound effects were great for it's time. All of the battle sequences are excellent and Dimitri Tiomkin's music score is good and was nominated for an Academy Award. Give this movie a look, it's worth it.  "},{"Title":"Republic.  I like the sound of the word...","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Texas is not the only part of the United States that was briefly an independent state of it's own. The Kingdom of Hawaii was a sovereign state. So was California (for nine weeks in 1848) as the Bear Flag Republic. And, from 1789 - 1790, the United States of America shared the Eastern Seaboard with the free state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. But Texas was possibly the only one of these independent countries that was formed to eventually become part of the U.S. The full story deserves a television mini series, and nobody has seen fit to do it. It would begin in 1800, involving the interest of the young United States in the Spanish lands. It would go into the Louisiana Purchase, the exploration of Zebulon Pike in 1806, Burr's Conspiracy and Treason Trial, the Mexican War for Independence, the immigration of Americans to the Mexican Province of Texas, and the leadership of Stephen Austin. None of this (except, perhaps, Aaron Burr's Conspiracy and Trial - see MAGNIFICENT DOLL and THE MAN WITHOUT A COUNTRY) got any examination by American film or television. Austin was shown in a television film (finally) about six years ago, but he's usually quickly overtaken in our imagination by the threesome who lead the men at the battle of the Alamo, and Sam Houston.So we really tend to concentrate on the final stages of the Texas Revolt of 1836, and stick to the battle of the Alamo. There is a film about Sam Houston with Sam Elliot that goes into the defeat of the Mexicans at the battle of San Jacinto, but that's a rarity.I do not know of any other American battle that has held center stage on film as often as the Alamo, except that other western battle the Little Big Horn. There is something I suppose about heroic western massacres (but then, why haven't they done a film about the Fessenden Massacre of 1866, or even the Mountain Meadows Massacre of 1857 - though the latter would probably bring up some religious controversy). Oh yes, one other battle we have had has been as shown as the Alamo and Little Big Horn Pearl Harbor! Maybe, to avoid so many defeats, D-Day, and the Battle of the Bulge (though the latter was a near defeat!).THE ALAMO is a first rate film of the defeat turned symbolic victory. Wayne's sole directing exercise was a big topic, fit for an actor who was bigger than life himself. He actually did well as a director, in his battle sequences, and in developing plot and character. Look at the moment when John Dierkes as Jocko Robinson is in the position of being the only defender who can leave the fort with the blessings of Travis (Laurence Harvey) and the other defenders. His wife (Veda Ann Borg) is blind, and they have several kids. There is no reason that he could not be excused. But the turmoil in his face, when confronted with either cowardice by going off with his family (leaving his friends to certain doom) or leaving all he ever loved forever, he is shown as a man torn in half by Wayne's direction. It is a strong moment - and one of many in the film. The film is best shown with the director's cut sequences restored, particularly in showing the conflicts between Travis and Bowie (Richard Widmark) over military strategy. Widmark has some nice character scenes showing how much he misses his Mexican wife and two sons (in history, Bowie's wife had died before the revolt). Wayne also shows the personal sacrifices of Crockett (Wayne himself) who meets a local landowner (Flaca Linda Crystal) who falls for him, but who he sends away for her own safety. Travis's problems are his sense of duty to the people of Texas, but his sense of superiority that rejects the reality of democracy and equality. He turns people off, including Sam Houston (Richard Boone, in a brief but good performance), but his coolness and ability under crisis are shown as well.The inequality of the age is illustrated by Travis's dismissal of intelligence reports by Juan Seguin (Joseph Calleia). Wayne, to his credit (and the screenplay writer's) finally gave equal time to this figure of real importance. Films on the Alamo never mentioned Sequin and his contribution he wasn't a white American, but a Mexican. Travis admits Seguin is a gentleman, but can't accept his really good intelligence. Also note that wise man Jethro (Jeston Hairston), Bowie's slave but confidante, who refuses to take advantage of Bowie giving him his freedom and decides to fight alongside the whites (many of whom were slave holders). This Alamo did capture the issues of the story - the bravery of the Mexicans is there even while obeying Santa Anna (not one of Mexico's really great heroes). The reality of American Slavery is not totally ignored, but it is shown that it could be leavened on a personal level. The growing differences between Mexican and Americans is overcome by a common threat that is worse. All told it is a fine picture, and deserving of it's growing popularity as the definitive Alamo picture. "},{"Title":"Too long and boring for my taste","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is the story of The Alamo and how Jim Bowie, Davy Crocket, and William Travis and their men tried to defend the Mexicans, led by Santa Anna from taking Texas and making it to Sam Houstons camp.The story was a bit too one sided for my blood, although no one truly knows the events that happened that day, I can say the good guys weren't as good as they are shown here. A lot of these old westerns/ war movies showed the heroes out to be almost giants and it takes the reality out of it. This was based on real events and should have been shot as close to the known facts as possible.John Wayne is not a great director and here is a good example of that. I am not a huge fan of his as an actor either, I don't think he has much talent for anything and I will be blunt about it. Richard Widmark did a great job, as did Richard Boone is his small part of Sam Houston.Loved Frankie Avalon here, thought he did a great job too.I didn't care for the music,either.I will admit the movie was not as bad as I expected it to be, it was just way too long and a bit over the top and full of it. I highly recommend the 2004 version over this one, which is something I rarely say, but it is not a remake at all and it tells the story with a more honest approach.If you are a fan of the Duke or these old western/war movies you might love it, or like it, it just wasn't my thing. I love westerns and many period pieces, but this one lacked any kind of reality to me. 3/10 stars "},{"Title":"The futile siege that provokes memories.","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  John Wayne produces, directs and stars in this epic tale of the lop sided battle for Texan independence in 1836. Historical fact can be debated, but all aside this movie still remains a classic that endures well. An epic on a grand scale and very memorable. Strong and obstinate characters played by likewise actors. Wayne as the ever popular Davy Crockett; Richard Widmark as Jim Bowie and Laurence Harvey as Col. Bill Travis. Also featured in this all-star cast Linda Cristal, Ken Curtis, Chill Wills, Joan O'Brien, Patrick Wayne and singer Frankie Avalon. Some powerful and inspiring speeches are redeemable and the finale battle for some is the whole movie. One of my favorite scenes is when Bowie calls Travis a prissy jackass. Not enough can be said about this classic for the ages.  "},{"Title":"One of the great epics -- corny or not","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" John Wayne's The Alamo is one of my all time favorite movies. While the unedited 'Director's Cut' is well over 3 hours it remains a wonderful experience to watch. Perhaps it's the Dimitri Tiomkin score which is one of his best or the epic battle scenes, but I remember seeing it on the big screen as a young teen and being very impressed. Yes, the dialogue is corny at times and Wayne takes great liberties with the facts but, considering there's no CGI to enhance the battle scenes, it comes off as a great film. If you want to be entertained (and if your old enough to giggle at Frankie Avalalon's attempt at a Tennessee back woods boy) then this movie is for you. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Director's cut on video is a different film","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The video release of this film contains approximately 30 minutes of footage excised from the version shown at the Los Angeles premiere in 1960. The story is that the studio wanted a shorter print in circulation so more screenings could be fit into a single day, thus increasing the box office receipts. Art sacrificed for money is nothing new, but the dilution of The Alamo is extraordinary. It is remarkable how much the deleted scenes add to the narrative. Character development is deeper, motivation is clearer, the viewer is much closer to the story and its impact, particularly after the finale, is potent.As it was, the studio-butchered print that circulated for years was a wonderful tribute to the struggle for Texas freedom in 1836. Releasing the original version, or director's cut, makes it an even more wonderful tribute.The film has had a generally more appreciative following among Western-movie aficionados in the United Kingdom through the years, perhaps because the British can better appreciate a true epic when they see one and perhaps because the political factions bent upon vilifying John Wayne, are absent there. Now, thanks to the release of the uncut version on video, any movie fan who appreciates a true epic can more fully understand what the director, John Wayne, wanted to tell the world about the Alamo.  "},{"Title":"A Mixed Bag","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I think that even people who love this movie have to admit that The Alamo is the ultimate self-indulgent John Wayne vanity project. It's a three hour film produced by, directed by, and starring the Duke alongside a cast of thousands.The first half certainly lives up to the self-indulgent label with endless scenes of Wayne and pals getting drunk, mouthing off, and punching one another; Jim Bowie and Colonel Travis' constant bickering, leading to Bowie's quitting at least twice; and a fairly useless subplot with Davey Crockett romancing a pretty young Mexican widow. (She was pretty hot.)Instead of all that, we should have rode a bit with Santa Anna and/or visited some of the other battles and skirmishes that led up to the siege at the Alamo.I thought that Richard Widmark was miscast as Jim Bowie. My preference would have been that Widmark and Richard Boone switch roles with Boone as Bowie and Widmark as Sam Houston, though I'll admit that it would be awfully hard to see Richard Boone cry like a baby in the scene where Bowie finds out his wife has died.The second half is much better with great scenes of macho speech-making and awesome battle sequences that put the climaxes to other films I recently watched (Custer Of The West, El Condor, Two Mules For Sister Sara) to shame. Overall, the second part makes the movie worth watching.I would be doing a great disservice if I didn't mention the excellent score by Dimitri Tiomkin. "},{"Title":"A labor of love","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The Alamo is a patriotic movie - it is not an historic documentary. It is entertainment - it is not a film treatise on 19th century military tactics. It is an emotional cinematic event produced at great personal expense by the last man in Hollywood that could honestly claim the title patriot - John Wayne.If you haven't seen it on the big screen then you haven't seen it!The real battle was getting the film made! In an era before the current Superstar/Actor/Director culture that permiates Hollywood and churns out cookie cutter hits when it is not trying to butcher a classic from the past, the Duke put his reputation, and a good portion of his personal fortune on the line to produce and direct this film. Not to massage his own ego, but to tell a story that he felt needed to be told. One that for economic, and other reasons, the big studios were loath to tackle.Through directing, acting and final production of the film, Wayne never falters. The cast he assembled is magnificant and as a director, Wayne elicited excellent performances from all.In an America that was growing more cynical with each passing year, The Alamo stands as the last of its kind. A movie that captures the romance and idealism that, at one time, we were not too sophisticated to believe in.  "}{"Title":"Historical perspective","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I first saw The Alamo in 1960 and loved it.  I loved it for several reasons, one was because like countless other kids I was 11 I had been raised on Fess Parker's treatment of Davy Crockett and was fascinated by the story and two I've been a John Wayne fan since I can remember.  I have copies of both the theatrical and the uncut versions.  I prefer the theatrical because I feel that the scenes that were cut were unnecessary and in some cases tedious and painful to watch.  Historically speaking the movie was a hit and miss affair but that's okay with me because as a package it was a direct hit on the action sequences and since that basically was what the Alamo was about I can forgive the inaccuracies.  Some of the most glaring; the battle was over just before dawn on a rather cold day the temperature ranged between the 30's and mid 50's and was probably on the low end of that spectrum at that time of day and yet the movie shows up bright blue cloudless skies and the participants in less than cold weather attire,; the film portrayed Bowie as being in bed because of a leg injury suffered in a fall from his horse later aggravated by shrapnel during a bombardment when the truth was that he was sick.  He had practically drunk himself to death for 3 years because of the loss of his wife and children to cholera and probably had TB.  On that note the movie shows Bowie receiving the news during the siege.  Another case of license. On the other hand the film was accurate in a lot of cases too, for example, the locations of Travis and Bowie at the times of their deaths and depending on whether you believe that Crockett fell where Suzanna Dickinson and several others said they saw him or that he survived the battle with five others only to be executed we may be able to make a case for his actual location too.  But the most wonderful example of historical fact is in the location of the filming. This was a painstakingly assembled replica of the area and is breathtaking in its realistic appearance.  There was one fact that was mistreated, though, that took me some time to accept as dramatic license.  James Butler Bonham Patrick Wayne reports to the garrison that Col James Fannin and his men will not be reinforcing them because the were ambushed, murdered.  This is sort of true but not until after the Alamo had fallen.  The fact was that Fannin had started out to reach the Alamo but while still within view of his own garrison at Goliad he had a wagon break down and some oxen run off and by the time he repaired those problems he changed his mind about going and returned to his command.  He and his men were captured and about 600 of them, including Fannin, marched into a river and shot down. All things considered though I can still watch this movie again and again 39 years later.  Besides, who can deny that the opening credits complete with some of the most beautiful music in cinematic history Dimitri Tiomkin constitute one of the most unforgettable movie beginnings of all time? I think I'll go watch it right now. "},{"Title":"A movie to inspire you","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The movie that will make you appreciate freedom, a majestic film that is a classic. John Wayne waited his whole life to make a film he believed in. The story tells the defense of the Alamo mission against the oppression of the Mexicans led by Santa Anna. On par with Apollo 13 where you know the ending you will be cheering for the Americans to win. I was moved by the defenders making a stand for freedom.  Brilliant! "},{"Title":"There are things to admire, but it was too uneven for me","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Just for the record I like John Wayne and his films, I love The Searchers, The Quiet Man, El Dorado, The Shootist, Fort Apache and The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, and quite like Red River and Rio Bravo. The Alamo is not Wayne's worst movie, not even close, that dishonour to me is still The Conqueror, but again it's not among his best either.Before I point out what I didn't like very much about The Alamo, I noticed several things I liked and admired. The Alamo is a beautifully made film with great colour, magnificent scenery and strong cinematography. Dmitri Tiomkin has penned some wonderful scores, such as It's a Wonderful Life, Red River and The High and the Mighty, and the score for The Alamo was no exception, with its melodious and rousing themes.Some assets showed some good and bad things. One was the script, the second half in written quality is actually stirring stuff. I wish I could say the same for the first half, sadly I found it rather leaden. Another was the direction, in the second half it shows signs of brilliance however in the first it is somewhat self-indulgent with scenes going on too long. This paragraph especially applies to the cast. John Wayne is charismatic enough and does a better job at acting here I feel than directing and Richard Widmark once again gives a solid performance. One of the most disappointing things of this picture is the performance of Laurence Harvey, who's very stiff with an accent that is both inconsistent and obvious.There are also some assets that didn't do much for me. In terms of story, the second half is much better than the first. The second half has some good writing and picks up the pace, the first half on the other hand is in my opinion unexciting and pedestrian with too many overlong scenes that could've been trimmed easily. The Alamo is perhaps 15 minutes too long, the pace is often dull particularly at the start and for a lengthy movie you'd expect more character development than this. Widmark's is probably the most well developed, Harvey's character is very awkward and perhaps even out of place throughout.Overall, too uneven and just didn't engage me. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"WATCH IT FOR THE CINEMATIC VALUE, NOT THE HISTORIC","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Reading some of the comments of others on this site, I can only lead towards The Duke, himself, because he was all there was to that movie.  I bought the uncut version on DVD and watched it, followed by the extras, including the narrative that John Wayne, himself, gave before the movie opened in theatres in 1960.  This movie is about a time, about the men, about what they faced, and most, of all, what they died for.  If you are watching this movie to line up to trash it for its historical value, I will give you that it has none.  But it is a movie that has and WILL stand the test of time. It's one of Wayne's most remembered parts in history.  I always get a lump in my throat when Crockett spoke to Travis in the cantina about the meaning of the word Republic.  It might not have really happened in history, but John Wayne was a noted patriot, and was always one for standing what he believed in.  Unless you like someone knocking what you believe in, let the man rest in peace!  And if you are looking for another one of his noted speeches, check out McClintock, where he tells Stephanie Powers his speech when he is out hunting! "},{"Title":"John Wayne's labor of love","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  John Wayne's labor of love, The Alamo is truly an epic. Yes, a few things seem a little odd, now, but that was simply the ways of cinema at that time. Fantastic performances by all of the stars, great cinematography, and certainly good enough direction. A quibble about a previous comment. It was claimed that scholarly consensus has it that Crockett attempted to surrender and was executed. That claim comes solely from a diary of a Mexican captain and may or may not be factual. There are always legends that spring up in regard to great deeds and the siege of the Alamo was no exception. By the way, this film was a historical drama, not a documentary. In any case each man there knew that, a) Their force was not strong enough to hold the Alamo, b) that no Texan force could break through to their aid, whether any were thought to be coming or not, and c) that Santa Anna took no prisoners. While Santa Anna's most infamous massacre of unarmed men was at Goliad, his policy about the execution of Texas rebels was known. The bravery of every man there is unquestionable, and in the spirit of Travis' famous VICTORY OR DEATH letter, surprisingly left out of the film. Everyone should see this movie.  "},{"Title":"Remember the Awesome Climactic Battle","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The version to see is the 202-minute one, restored to this length about a dozen years ago and which I have on Laserdisc (oh, those were the days). It doesn't really make for slower going, instead adding scenes which add some texture to the group of Texacans, among them Tennessee-man Davy Crockett (Wayne), his cohorts, and Jim Bowie (Widmark). Yes, it's a long while until the actual fighting begins, almost a full 2 hours, but you get to see how Crockett & Bowie meet, verbally spar with the snooty Colonel in charge (Harvey), and listen to Wayne wax poetic on the meaning of such terms as 'Republic.' Corny? Maybe. But, it touches on some basics related to the human spirit, which, when faced by a definite kind of totalitarianism, represented by General Santa Anna, will not simply bow to superior numbers. Numbers play a big role here the odds are similar to the famous battle depicted in Zulu - about 185 banded Texacans against an army of 7000 Mexican soldiers. No matter how well they fortify the mission which they occupy, the small band is obviously doomed before the battle begins.I've marked the spoilers box, so for those unfamiliar with this historical battle, you may want to stop here, but I don't think it's any secret to anyone by now about who does or doesn't survive. This filmed depiction of history becomes a somewhat unique film role for Wayne. He plays the role with his standard (interchangeable) easygoing Wayne persona but, at a bit past the 1-hour mark, a poignant point is impressed on the viewer. Crockett, after all, ambled over all the way from Tennessee to partake in this defense - it almost comes across as a death wish. Wayne, as Crockett, makes another long speech about himself to explain he had the choice of whiling away his remaining years in a pointless manner or take a meaningful stand on something. It's not so much courage that seems to drive him as a fear of just wasting away slowly. And it's genuinely disturbing to watch him die during the battle - Wayne rarely died in his films - as if you're losing that big uncle you always looked forward to seeing about once a year.When I was younger and acquired this film on VHS tape, I made a point of watching the big climactic battle over and over, usually neglecting the rest of it; at that time, it was the final battle which was unforgettable to me and the entire build up was rather tedious and plodding by comparison. I did like Boone's scene near the end, playing General Houston, when he vents his frustration at not being able to help the men at the Alamo. I was also intrigued by Harvey's character who, on the surface, seems like just a stiff upper-crust in-charge bore, but, if you look closely, has more guts than even all the other wild men under his command. As I got older, however, I found it more gratifying to watch the whole thing, getting to know these brave or foolhardy men, depending on your mood, who were doomed before it even began, but who fought like the toughest bastards north of the border. "},{"Title":"History upside down","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Recently I saw this film on cable for the first time. The reason this film was never screened on Mexican cinemas ever, and I never saw it on tv until now. First of all, this movie is NOT an history lesson like other users point (i even read a comment of an historian said the opposite!!). This movie portraits what our Mexican cinema lacks for at least thirty years patriotism and nationalism. This is the biggest achievement of the movie, to move the inner feelings of any who sees this film and have some love for his country (no matter what country is) and their heroes. For those of you who know only what is told in history class on American schools, here is the TRUE story (in Mexico's history there is no Alamo because it was a waste of resources and a tinny battle only fought because of Santa Anna ego). Both military leaders, Gen. Santa Anna and Col. Travis were ego-centric men. Both knew that the Alamo has a little military importance and both nevertheless lead their men to death. Travis, (he only have been leaving in Texas for a couple of years) because he want to avenge the massacre at Goliath (sure with only 200 men).Here are some other TRUE facts about the battle 1. The majority of the defending forces at The Alamo were American mercenaries that the American government (in the form of some state governors and federal deputies and senators)  and the pro-annexation Texans leaders recruits in the exchange of free land and money. (Sadly very few of their widows receive that). 2. The vast majority of the Texans NOT want their independence, they only want that the federal constitution of their country (Mexico) was restored. And they want to became a separate state inside Mexico, because originally they were part of Coahuila state. Even a mexican were among the leaders of the revolution (Lic. Lorenzo de Zavala). The independence party (rather small at that time) became the dominant force just after Goliath and the Alamo. 3. Gen. Santa Anna attacks the fort even knowing that victorious Gen. Urrea and other commanders were marching following the Texan coast line to Washington en el Brazos because he know he can defeat the Texan forces rather quickly and go ahead Urrea in the pursuit of Sam Houston. He wants to be the first in every thing!.  If the Mexican Generals would have work together the Alamo would fail because the Texans never receive reinforcements and they can't hold a long siege. 4. The Mexican army was colorful but old and antiquate. And the Mexican forces have been marched for at least three months before the attack, with a non existent line of supplies. Gen. Arista the commander of the North Army and latter president of Mexico, said once that `their soldiers were the first, the finest and the best because they know and developed the tactic of not eating, tactic unknown to other parts of the world'. 5. Crockett and other survivors were made prisoners and killed without a trail because they were mercenaries and there was no state of war between Mexico and the United States. 6. Gen. Santa Anna was a BAD general. In his own words `He only could have been a private'. His only achievement was recruiting and moving huge amount of military forces from nothing and of course a huge charisma and great speeches.So if you want to know history, please read some books. If you want to have fun,  see this movie.  "},{"Title":"A very good western epic","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" There are certain elements of The Alamo that should have universal appeal. They are the strong acting of the leads, the sure handed direction of John Wayne, and the impressive sets and stunt choreography. To be honest though, to fully enjoy this film it is almost necessary to be sympathetic to the American point of view rather than the Mexican point of view in the conflict. Most members of the traditional American majority view the stand made at the Alamo as one of the most heroic and inspiring episodes in U.S. history. This sentiment is clearly evident in older history books and in the huge popularity of Davy Crockett in the fifties and early sixties. Nowadays, though, with the growing Latino demographic in California and the southwest, popular sentiment is shifting towards the slant that Texas was stolen from Mexico. Personally, I enjoyed this movie and would recommend it to anyone who likes Westerns and/or John Wayne. 8/10. "},{"Title":"One Of John Wayne's Best Films","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Even though John Wayne is reknowned for his many starring roles in westerns throughout his fifty year film career, I believe that much of his better film work was done in war films and historical epics. This film being a mixture of the two. Wayne delivers an outstanding performance as Davy Crockett and an all star supporting cast also deliver great performances. The epic battle scenes are nicely done and although the film is almost three hours long, it never seems overlong. This 1960 United Artists release ranks as an engrossing history lesson and as one of the best performances ever by the legendary Wayne. "},{"Title":"The Best ALAMO Picture ever made!!!","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is one of my all time favorite movies. I have read the actual history of the Alamo and there is a lot left out of this picture. But, for a 3+ hour movie, this picture includes a lot of history. This is still one of the most entertaining and well acted portrayals of The Alamo ever made. Of all of John Wayne's pictures, this is one of his best. For Wayne, this picture was a labor of love. The Alamo he built to film this movie still stands today in Brackettsville TX, near San Antonio.In comparison to the new version of the Alamo (2004), this one is far superior. The new version was well acted and was historically accurate. But, Wayne's version of The Alamo (1960) was much more enjoyable to watch. The camaraderie of the supporting characters made the movie fun to watch. I particularly enjoyed the character who would always say It Do!.I still hope that someday the RESTORED Directors Cut will be released on DVD!! "}{"Title":"Brovo John Wayne","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" John Wayne's Batjac company produced this great rousing film recounting the seize of the Alamo. John Wayne was one of the fundamental stars of the film Industry during his era of super stardom, and one of the all time greats of Movie History. One never saw a bad performance from Wayne ever and his films stand the test of time. I liked the camera work in this film and the attention to detail always a John Wayne trademark. Richard Widmark is superb as is the rest of the cast with Laurence Harvey (who had a great run in Hollywood with Room At The Top, Butterfield 8, etc working with stars such as Kim Novak, Elizabeth Taylor, Barbara Stanwyck Jane Fonda and Oscar Winner Simone Signoret). Linda Cristal is beautiful as the female lead, and Patrick Wayne is also cast as he is in many of the films of Dad John Wayne.This film is much better than the more recent film on The Alamo starring one of my favorite actors Dennis QuaidDavid Barra "},{"Title":"the labor of love of the Duke","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" O.K., is historically inaccurate, too long, here and there rhetoric and verbose, and very, very patriotic. Bus is also sincere, often moving,and probably the film in which Wayne expresses his more strong convictions. ¿Conservative? Yes. ¿Repubican? Of course. ¿Fascist? Only if you are the obnoxious left wing guy who thinks that everyone who dissents with you is the cousin of Mussolini. A funny story some years ago, I purchased a VHS of the film in Madrid, dubbed in Spanish, and discovered that in the famous scene of the Republic speech (Wayne to Laurence Harvey) the word Republic was replaced for Independence. In the almost fascist Franco's Spain, republicans were the Bad Guys of the last Civil War. Interesting trivia. The final battle is obviously borrowed from the famous combat in the ice of Alexander Nevsky (1938), by Russian director Sergei Eisenstein. Both sequences show first shots of individual soldiers, then little groups, then long shots of all the enemy army, and the soundtrack combines various lines of the principal musical themes of the film. The question mention two famous ukrainian musicians who studied together in San Petersburg in 1913, with professor Alexander Glazunov. The answer Sergei Prokofiev (author of the music of Nevsky) and Dmitri Tiomkin (idem for The Alamo). Tiomkin also was piano's teacher of Glazunov's daughter. I suspect that he and Wayne (or his second unit director Cliff Lyons) have Nevsky in mind when filmed the battle. Is obvious too that the Duke don't tell us the story of the Alamo, but his legend (the final chorus insist let the old men tell the story, let the legend grow and grow), and conceived his film as his particular version of Homer's Iliad. The conflict of leadership between Travis and Bowie it's inspired by the confrontation of Agamnenon and Achiless in the old poem, with Crockett (¿Ulysses?) in the middle. And in terms of American politics, there are a sub-plot in the film Travis is the manipulative hamiltonian leader, Bowie a jacksonian populist figure, and Crockett a jeffersonian that accepts the decission of the majority. Politics and history aside, the film is a good epic, that grows in his splendid 45 final minutes. And Wayne plays fair with his enemies the villain is the concept of dictatorship, not the mexicans (the only individual bad guy is an opportunist American). Nevsky, indeed, painted the story in white and black, making his hero as a parable of Uncle Joe Stalin. ¿Who is the reactionary an who the progressive? "},{"Title":"Better than you might expect, but falls short of greatness.","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This movie is a lot better than many give it credit for, but it still falls short of the greatness at which it was aiming. John Wayne proves here that he learned from John Ford how to make a beautiful looking film. He unfortunately didn't learn how to tell a great story.Based on the 1836 battle where less than 200 men fought to the death to defend an old Spanish mission from Mexican general Santa Anna and 7000 of his soldiers, The Alamo is a heartfelt, high-minded and surprisingly cheerful production. It's also really long. The DVD version I watched was 162 minutes long, which apparently leaves out 20 to 40 minutes of footage. Despite it's length, The Alamo never feels slow or ponderous. It just takes a lot of narrative digressions along its way which are entertaining but only kill time between setting the stage and unleashing the movie's big finish.Though it has a huge cast, the story focuses mainly on three men. Colonel William Travis (Laurence Harvey) was the leader of a small band of regular soldiers from the budding Texas army. He was officious, rigid, imperious and willing to sacrifice almost anything for Texas independence. Jim Bowie (Richard Widmark) was a legendary knife-fighter and leader of a large band of volunteer militia at the Alamo. He was a rough and ready adventurer who found himself a home in Texas and wasn't willing to live under the dictatorship of Santa Anna. Throughout the entire film, Travis and Bowie clash like Mr. Spock and Dr. McCoy from Star Trek. Standing alongside and between them was Davy Crockett (John Wayne). A former Indian fighter, congressman and worldwide symbol of the American frontier, Crockett led a couple dozen of his fellow Tennesseans to Texas to join in the fight. Crockett was a silver-tongued son of the backwoods who liked to hide his intellect but could never disguise his love for freedom and righteousness.Wayne had dreamed for years of making this film and when he finally got his chance, he jammed it full of everything he could think of. There's music, comedy, action and more than a bit of speechifying about duty, liberty, God and the glory of individualism. Wayne was also ridiculously high-minded and somewhat heavy handed in this storytelling. There are a few too many scenes in the film that ring false, like when the defenders of the Alamo remark on the nobility and courage of their Mexican attackers. Wayne tries a little too hard to be fair and respectful of both sides of the battle, something that flies in the face of his ultra-conservative image. However, in cutting out the cruder, jingoistic aspects of the tale, he whitewashes away much of the pathos and tragic glory of the Alamo. The movie 300 tells a similar story, but that one positively revels in both the sadness and crazed bravado of the Spartans at Thermopylae.Its lack of emotional depth leaves The Alamo more entertaining than touching. But strong performances by Wayne, Richard Widmark and Laurence Harvey along with some good action sequences, genuinely funny gags and magnificent imagery make this a good movie. It's not all that Wayne wanted it to be, but he still deserved to be proud of what it is. "},{"Title":"While not exactly accurate and a bit overlong, it was far better than I expected","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Considering that THE ALAMO lost a ton of money when it debuted, I was amazed that despite its faults, the film is worth watching--though historically speaking, the film is far from perfect.Let's talk about the historical problems with the film. It is true that General Santa Ana was indeed an idiot and one of the most inept leaders you could imagine (read up about the Pastry War and his leg's subsequent lavish funeral and you'll know what I mean). Nevertheless, one of the problems that Texans had with Mexican rule was that it would not allow slavery--not just that the General was a dumb dictator. This important fact was never mentioned and there was a rather insulting character of a slave who was given his freedom just before the Mexicans slaughtered everyone. In the film, he chose to stay and die and even went so far as to throw his body across his master's to try to prevent the master's death. While I suppose this could have happened, it is very doubtful. I think this was distorted because John Wayne (who bankrolled and directed the film) wanted to make a super-patriotic film and talking about the slavery debate would have definitely weakened his narrative--though I am sure the Black Americans who saw the film were offended. The Texans were patriots, but flawed as well.An interesting contrast is how the Mexicans were portrayed in the film. Santa Ana's troops were portrayed as brave and loyal and Hispanics were humanized in the movie. In addition, John Wayne took quite a fancy to a lovely Mexican lady in the first half of the film. This sympathetic view is not surprising, though, as Wayne's real life wives were Mexican. Despite the hyperbole and sentimentality that abounds in the film, you really do have to applaud the film for several reasons. The battle sequences are rather amazing and well-done. Also, some of the many little vignettes were rather moving and interesting. However, all these little touches did make the movie very, very long--probably about 10-20 minutes too long. Had it been tightened up a bit, it might have flowed better and prevented butt fatigue in the audience! The film just wasn't compelling enough during the first 3/4 of the film--though the movie did end on a very high note with the final battle. I actually love long films--but this one just didn't need to be.I think overall that the film is a mixed bag--not nearly as bad as its reputation would suggest, is very exciting and has some excellent performances, though its rather one-dimensional view of the conflict and its extreme length have to be considered before you watch it. "},{"Title":"Wayne as director.","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  One would be hardpressed to say, with straight face, that John Wayne is not deserving of his legend status. Who has become more a member of popular iconography?The Alamo proves that John Wayne was more, perhaps much more, than a simple muse. Wayne the director shines in this film... as a director of action, as a director of horses and animals and as detailer of the habits of the inebriated. His blocking, his cinematography... for the most part much exceeds that of our presesnt modern filmmakers. John Huston lauded this movie, and with good reason.Good acting for the most part.Just such a shame that Wayne should help to brainwash entire generations with his ersatz patriotic agenda. Public... that word brengs ah tear tah my eye... like the first time your boy makes a sound like a man...  Commission on Unamerican Activities, indeed. Physician heal thyself.  "},{"Title":"The  Spirit  is  There","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" There has been many film versions about The Alamo's 150 Americans heroic stand against the Mexican army of General Santa Ana in San Antonio de Béjar, Texas and I've seen most of them (perhaps all of them). This 1960 John Wayne intent is not a perfect movie and it has its weaknesses, but in my opinion it's the one that better catches the epic spirit and the sense of greatness of the myth.Some sequences (the rescue of the powder by Wayne's men at the start, the night mission to silence Santa Ana'a cannons and the friendly competition of Crockett with one of his men hiting each other at the cantina) could have been cut off for better for they appear too common westernly-like and extend the film unnecessarily. On the other hand, the final charge by the Mexicans and the desperate final resistance are visually outstanding and has big impact and strenght.Wayne (Davy Crockett) and Richard Widmark (Jim Bowie) are good as the famous defenders that rendered their lives for the cause. Laurence Harvey looks a bit wooden as William Travis. The supporting cast is excellent and shows fine performances out of Chill Wills, John Dierkes, Denver Pyle, Ken Curtis and Richard Boone as Sam Houston, among others. The sort of romantic touch is brought by Argentine actress Linda Cristal who gets slightly involved with Wayne.If you're interested in the subject or you enjoy epic spectacular films this is one you shouldn't miss. Good for Wayne in his only direction work. "},{"Title":"Good film but has flaws","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Construction on the set began in 1957 and took more than two years to build.  One of the largest sets ever constructed, only to be out done by Disney's version of the Alamo in 2004 (there set is slightly larger than Wayne's set).  The Wayne set was built to last, and is still on display with mock reenactments and open to the public for tours of the compound and the town of Bexar (San Antonio).  Filming began in mid 1959 and took only 12 days to shoot.  The entire film was produced on a budget of less than 13 million dollars.  Won the academy award for best sound, though there are many sound editing discrepancies in the film that really should not have qualified the movie for the nomination let alone the award.I have been in love with the myth and legend about the Alamo for 25 plus years.  This movie was the first I ever saw about the battle.  Good story but a lot of Hollywood is in this picture.  Much of it is ad-libbed to history but overall a good film.To me Lawrence Harvey (Col. Travis) plays a great role even though many did not like his portrayal of Travis.  Richard Widmark (Col. Bowie) plays the part of the real life tough as nails man of legend, but his part is large in this film compared to history.  The real Bowie was confined to his bed for most of the siege, and many speculate he was unconscious for the final assault and was killed in his sleep.Wayne does an okay job of being Crockett for the era in which this film was made (1960).  The Davy Crockett crazy of the 50's was coming to an end, and Wayne like the real Crockett was trying to live up to the legend people had made so many myths about,  rather than the real man.  The real Crockett hardly wore a coonskin cap and leather buckskin.  In fact for most of the siege of the real Alamo he was in a regular suit and tie of the 19th century.  Wayne also stretched the life-size effects of the real battle.  The Mexican army in the film did not have near as many cannons as the Wayne version.  Wayne's film show nearly 100 cannons in possession of the Mexican army, were in fact the real Mexican army had about 15 or so cannons. The manner in which the `big three' (Travis, Bowie, and Crockett) all meet there ends in this movie is not exactly how things really turned out.  However, with the big screen stars wanting to be remembered for there work in the film, the death scenes were made more dramatic for the `big three stars' in the film (Wayne, Widmark, and Lawrence).In all, it is a great film, if you can look past the historical inaccuracies.  Watch the film, but do not take everything for fact as Hollywood has a way of making things seem different than what they really are.  Read about the real thing after you see the film before you think everything in the movie is as it happened in real life.  I give the film a 6.9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One of the Dukes Best films","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  As a Texan, I love the Alamo, this film captures the spirit of the battle that made Texas famous. This version of the Alamo has a lot of errors, but that does not take away from the fun and fight of the movie.Do this mean what I think it do? it do. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I really love this movie because it's a John Wayne movie first of all.  I also like it because I am kind of a history freak and a movie freak as well.I have both versions and have seen them both many times so I can say that again that I really love this movie    "},{"Title":"Has anyone actually studied the history of the Alamo?","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" As I learned in the book Lies My Teacher Told Me Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong, the real reason that Davy Crockett, Jim Bowie and company seized the Alamo was that they wanted Texas to use for plantations. Once Texas became independent of Mexico, the white people expelled all free blacks.But nooooooooooooooo! John Wayne would never show something like that! He elected to tell the story from what one might call Texas history, meaning that the white people were martyrs who wouldn't give up, while the Mexicans were cruel.And so, anyone who watches this movie without knowing the truth is going to end up believing yet another lie. "}{"Title":"The Fort That Was A Mission","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This review is for the shortened, two-hour, forty-one minute version.John Wayne threw everything he had into making this film, at the apex of his stardom, and just for that, and the sacrifice it honors, I want to celebrate it. I just can't.The Alamo presents the story of the heroic last stand of some 180 Texas irregulars against the massed might of Santa Anna's Mexican army, featuring Wayne both as director and actor (playing Davy Crockett, one of the defenders at the siege.) It's full of great images, solid performances, and affecting scenes. Also, it's terribly long (even the edited version I saw runs over two-and-a-half hours) and weakened by a tendency toward preachiness and lazy sentiment.Is it entertaining? I say yes, albeit intermittently, even though it doesn't adhere to the facts and feels rather underbaked in the story department. Print the legend, as Wayne's patron John Ford was often quoted as saying, however spuriously, and The Alamo sort of does that, pushing the story as an exercise in rah-rah sentiment which strangely veers into liberal platitudes about republicanism and respecting one's foe even as he's bent on killing you to the last man.Reading the reviews here, you get the sense more than you do with IMDb takes on other Wayne movie how much he attracts negativity from people who see him as an avatar of American imperialism. Yet The Alamo is the last film of Wayne's which deserves such opprobrium. The film soft-soaps the viciousness of Santa Anna, whose no-quarter approach to riot control did him in as an effective ruler, and sets up the title edifice as a kind of coming together of multi-ethnic harmony. Even given the context of legend-building, this plays way too good to be true.The script, by Wayne's favorite writer James Edward Grant, pushes buttons without mercy or subtlety. This is the film where Denver Pyle, as one of the Alamo's defenders, marvels about the Mexicans bent on the slaughter of him and his comrades Even when I was killin' 'em, I was proud of 'em.Wayne took a lousy part, a character already brilliantly defined on TV by Fess Parker, and did what he could with it. As director, he selflessly ceded the stage to his co-stars, especially Richard Widmark as a tough, no-nonsense Jim Bowie and Laurence Harvey as Col. William Travis, the most interesting character in the picture. Harvey, burdened somewhat by an on-and-off English accent, gives Travis a veneer that makes him likable, even as he plays loose with the facts in keeping his men in the fort. Harvey at least is clearly enjoying himself, and for that his scenes have real color and vim.Some reviewers here say the film is cheated when cut a half-hour from the version first released in roadshow form. Certainly what I see here felt compromised by the absence of a resolution to a story arc involving a bad-guy American named Emil Sand and the woman he seeks to pressure into marriage. But it wasn't like I wanted this movie longer.The finale at least is terrific. Call it Wild Bunch 1.0 for the way Wayne shoots the battle itself, all quick cuts and grisly deaths with hardly a dollop of sentiment. It's visceral filmmaking, and shows Wayne could shoot action, however lacking Widmark and others found his direction in terms of character development.Ultimately, The Alamo works okay as cinematic entertainment, aided greatly by William H. Clothier's cinematography which gives every shot that epic feeling that came so naturally in the 1960s and rarely thereafter. It's not entirely empty otherwise, Wayne's affable performance is on par with his later work and Grant manages to write some good dialogue here and there, like when Bowie learns the fate of his wife. But for such a legendary moment in American history, one is left wanting for much more. "},{"Title":"John Wayne Directs.","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" John Wayne both directs and stars in this recreation of the famous battle of the Alamo, where greatly outnumbered forces led by Col. William Travis(played by Laurence Harvey) are ordered by General Sam Houston to defend their Texas outpost in 1836, where the Mexican army under the command of General Santa Anna are rampaging. Joining them in support are Wayne as Davey Crockett, and Richard Widmark as Jim Bowie, who are uneasy allies, but vow to stay and assist until the end, even if it costs them their lives...Surprisingly mediocre film goes on far too long, with needless sundry subplots that drag. Though the climatic battle is exciting, it's not enough to save this disappointing film. "},{"Title":"Wayne plays it too safe as director","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Beneath the on-screen machismo and bravado, John Wayne was by all accounts a down-to-earth guy, and this almost always comes through in his performances. It comes through in The Alamo not only in his typically John Waynian portrayal of Davy Crockett but in his simple, unchallenging directorial style. John Ford, had he been at the helm, may have opted for a few more sweeping landscape shots or evocative silhouettes to give the visuals more flavor. Still, I doubt even Ford could have turned this bland script into a really high-quality film. The Alamo is a likable enough movie, with surprisingly even-handed treatment of the Mexican army, but nothing about it rises above average except perhaps Laurence Harvey's performance as the upper-crust Colonel Travis. "},{"Title":"Brilliant historical drama","Date":"19 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" No doubt one of the best movies ever made, John Wayne,Richard Widmark,Laurence Harvey and Richard Boone all give flawless performances.There are a lot of comedic scenes, such as Davy Crockett play fighting with his beloved Tennesseans. These scenes made me laugh out loud.I have the region 2 MGM DVD, which is only 2 hours and a half, but i would very much like it if MGM re-released the alamo onto 2 or 3 disc special edition as i would like to see the 3 and a half hour version.And now i get to the most important part, the epic battle which climaxes the film. Although it is historically inaccurate, its one of the best movie battle scenes i ever did see. Its loud and make brilliant use of cannons, swords and rifles. But by the end of the battle, all the main characters apart from Smitty, have all been killed in the battle, including Davy Crockett, Travis and Jim Bowie all being stabbed. The end of the movie is very sad, and nearly brings tears to your eyes.An excellent gem, recommended for all western, war, John Wayne and action fans. A must see "},{"Title":"An elegant, masterful, sweeping, and incredibly character-driven film.","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" One of the great disputes about the classic age of Hollywood is over the actor John Wayne. The opinion I hear most often from professional and amateur film critics alike is that he was not a good actor, that all his films feature Wayne just being himself, with absolutely no originality or versatility in his performances. I am of a different opinion. To my mind, Wayne was, and still is, one of the greatest actors ever. Many of his films are definite classics. Like any other actor or actress, his movies range from being bad to good to excellent, with his performances varying as well. However, in all his films, he was the easygoing gentleman that meant what he said and somebody that nobody - in their right mind - would want to cross. Therefore, he was essentially always the same character, but that was a good thing, and his fans loved him for it. In the time since then, many film critics, both amateur and professional, have finally realized that his acting rates right up there with the best efforts of other classic Hollywood actors and actresses, such as Jimmy Stewart, Gregory Peck, Gary Cooper, Katherine Hepburn, Maureen O'Hara, and Ingrid Bergman.The Alamo relates the efforts of less than 200 combatants - some soldiers, some volunteers - to defend an old mission, known as the Alamo, against General Santa Anna and his Mexican forces. Santa Anna believed Texas should remain part of Mexico, while Texas' citizens, and some others, believed that the territory should become a full-fledged state. Davy Crockett (Wayne) and his fellow Tennessians come to Texas with the sole purpose of getting drunk and having fun, but after Crockett assesses the situation, and is further convinced by such people as Colonel Travis (Laurence Harvey) and Jim Bowie (Richard Widmark), he and his Tennessians agree to join the forces at the Alamo. Their situation is doomed from the beginning - partly because of discord among themselves, but mostly because of the severely overwhelming forces of Santa Anna. But there is also the problem of the Alamo forces creating enough time by holding off Santa Anna so that Sam Houston (Richard Boone) can get his own forces in shape to fight Santa Anna also, except with hopefully much better results. While these efforts of Houston's are noble, it also further causes the Alamo forces to be thought of as expendable and merely a distraction. However, this matters not to the valiant Alamo defenders, because they consider it a supreme honor to defend the old mission, especially considering that some of them aren't even Texans or Mexicans. All of this has been retold many times throughout several adaptations, such as the more recent version with Dennis Quaid and Billy Bob Thornton. I do respect those films and think they are pretty good, but I've always thought the 1960 version of The Alamo is the best, mostly because of Wayne's presence. This particular film is thought of by some critics to be horrible, with others finding it to be pretty good. Well, I am here to tell you that it is a great movie, and one of my all-time favorites. Unfortunately, the film never quite reaches the status of epic, which is what it obviously tries to be. This is only because all of the film's elements do not seamlessly come together, like they should in an epic. As all the film's different characters come together for one common purpose, there is bound to be a clash of wills and determination at some point among them, and that really is the best part about the film - seeing this grand cast react to one another. The conflict between Travis and Bowie is what stands out in particular, with Wayne, as the easygoing everyman Davy Crockett, stuck in the middle. Due to these various relationships between the characters, the film becomes an emotional study of life, freedom, courage, and honor, with the story of the Alamo itself only serving as a setting that further complicates all those emotions. John Wayne starred in and directed The Alamo. His obvious good taste and dedication to the film is exemplified in its cast, production design, location choices, the massive amount of extras hired, amazing action sequences, and dialogue, which is usually very good. Dimitri Tiomkin's musical score is terrific, containing a few cues that I recognized as similar to his score from The Guns of Navarone, as well as the beautiful song The Green Leaves of Summer. Going into the movie - if we know our history - we automatically know the inevitable fate of the Alamo and the characters that defend it in the film. But this is not at all a bad thing, because the characters all have effective backgrounds and are very well acted by the various cast-members. While the events leading up to their actual deaths are suspenseful, engaging, and somewhat graphic at times, they serve as defining moments for their characters. The account of the Alamo is one of great tragedy and loss, but also of great heroism and sacrifice. All these things are perfectly realized in this film, due to the immense effort and dedication put into it by the magnificent actor, John Wayne.Also Recommended STAGECOACH (1939), THE SEARCHERS (1956), RIO BRAVO (1959), TRUE GRIT (1969), THE SHOOTIST (1976) THIS REVIEW IS DEDICATED TO ANYONE, LIVING OR DEAD, INVOLVED WITH THE MAKING OF THE ALAMO (1960). "},{"Title":"Disappointing Epic","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is not a bad movie, but probably should be considered a failure in terms of its ambitions.Here's what I liked- This is basically a great idea for a movie. The history and locale is rich in character. A small group of defenders against a large army is always compelling drama.- This is a pretty good cast, with John Wayne as Davy Crockett and Richard Widmark as Jim Bowie. The supporting cast is also excellent for the most part.- The good Mexicans are well represented in terms of class.- The battle scenes are colorful and well executed.There were a number of things that dragged the movie down- Wayne had complete control over this movie and chose to insert numerous windy speeches filled with conservative Cold War rhetoric.- He cast himself in a romantic subplot with a woman thirty years younger than himself.- Santa Ana, the principal heavy, is not even shown, much less characterized. This cedes the role of heavy to Jim Travis, who's on our side. This is very confusing and drains much dramatic tension out of the story.- The whole colorful, uneducated Tennesseans stuff didn't work for me. Perhaps because I've read too much about the depredations perpetrated on the Mexican people by these types of militias during the Mexican American War, which took place just ten years after the fall of the Alamo.- Thank goodness Chill Wills didn't win best supporting actor for this. How did he get nominated?- Larence Harvey was annoyingly petulant throughout the film and Frankie Avalon was horribly miscast. I kept expecting Annette Funicello to jump out from behind a cactus in a bikini.- The Mexican army and government is almost completely misrepresented. The nadir of this theme occurs when Jim Bowie grants his family slave his freedom. In reality, slavery was illegal in Mexico in 1836. One of the causes of the war was Mexican concern over the increasing numbers of Southern slave owners migrating into Mexican territory. In the aftermath of the real battle, Santa Ana actually spared the life of Jim Travis' slave in order to send a message to other slaves in the province. Incredibly, Wayne has Bowie's fictional slave choose to stay and fight on the side of the slave owners. And in a final absurd indignity, the slave throws himself in front of a lance intended for Bowie!! If I hadn't seen it with my own eyes, I wouldn't have believed it. "},{"Title":"An Epic Story of Courage","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  First saw this film when it was first released in 1960. The story of 186 men holding out in a broken down mission in Texas against impossible odds is well known. The film seemed a bit patchy then, although the battle scenes were quite well done. A little slow at times, but the actors bring their parts to life in what is a very talky first part. The video release contained much footage cut by the studios to make a reasonable running time. This is  a must-see version. The restored scenes create much more fluency, and the action scenes are better. Still a little slow overall, but worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Suffice to say Wayne only ever directed one film after this...","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" John Wayne's directorial debut finally came in 1960 when he finally made his dream film about the Battle of the Alamo which he had been talking about making ever since the end of World War II. Along with scriptwriter James Edward Grant, the pair had been unsuccessful initially in the 1940's in finding backing from Republic Pictures for a movie about the battle because of how expensive it would be and because the studio didn't want Wayne to direct it &#x96; they wanted him to be the star of the picture, to ensure that it could make them money. No one was willing to risk it, and Wayne had left Republic Pictures as a result of the feud, but was unable to take the draft script he and Grant had written, and that script would be molested and turned into the 1955 film The Last Commnad &#x96; which was about the fall of the Alamo and Jim Bowie. I can only imagine that this really angered John Wayne&#x85; but he finally accomplished his dream, starting with the founding of Batjac Productions in the early 1950's in order for him to make movies without having to star in them. However, the only problem which existed with Wayne being the renegade movie maker was money. Subsequently, when he finally made The Alamo, it had cost him much of his own personal fortune. However, having his own company allowed him the artistic freedom of putting what he wanted into the film, and having the actors do what he wanted. Among the films made by Batjac included the awful McClintock! and the only other film Wayne directed, the notorious The Green Berets, and also the bland Dirty Harry wannabe Brannigan.The film depicts the battle of the Alamo in 1836 during the Texas Revolution and the events leading up to it. Texas belongs to Mexico, and the patriotic Texans and Americans are battling Mexico's huge army in a bid for Texas to be made a republic. Santa Anna's 7,000 strong Army is advancing up towards the Alamo, a small fort held by a couple of dozen Texans and Americans. William Travis (Laurence Harvey) is promoted by Sam Houston (Richard Boone) to take his 27 regular army soldiers to the Alamo to defend it at all costs, while he goes elsewhere to try and raise an army to bring back to the Alamo to reinforce it. On hand to aid Travis is Jim Bowie (Richard Widmark) and Davy Crockett (John Wayne) and his raggedy, drunken Tennessee volunteers. Although they have their own principles and ideals, these men dream of a republic Texas and they are determined to die for it&#x85;Although he wouldn't be one of my favourite actors, I always enjoy watching John Wayne in films. I love his earlier cowboy efforts, which I enjoy because of how simple they are. In mighty contrast to the brilliant productions of John Ford, who made Wayne the legend he is today, starting with Wayne's unforgettable introduction in the 1939 film Stagecoach. Then there are his over-the-top but enjoyable war films like Sands of Iwo Jima. I think what I like most about Wayne is just how simple an actor he really is. He is by no means a good actor, he never was, due to his credibility of maintaining the same swagger and character in every film he is was, no matter who he was meant to be portraying. Wayne was the same in everything &#x96; and he was fortunate enough in that way because of how similar War and Westerns were in characters back in the 40's, 50's, and 60's. He provides the usual solid performance here in what is essentially a pretty decent effort from a first time director, giving the huge budget he was handling of his own money and the lavish set designs and locations he was in. The film was made not far from the site of the actual battle. Rumours have it that John Ford appeared on set and advised Wayne, and it does show in some parts, or it could be written off as just Ford's dynamic influence from over the years on Wayne as a film maker.The Alamo is tedious and slow&#x85; before eventually leading up to the battle which serves to be somewhat exciting but by that stage, I was too worn out and sick of it all. The critics who stated that Wayne made this film as a political platform seem to have been right, particularly in the notorious scene where he speaks about what the word republic means to him. Some parts are incredibly preachy, and a good forty minutes of the minute could have been edited out further. And to think this was over 200 minutes long when it was first released! The first two hours are extremely frustrating, as we have the typical macho drinking and fighting as a load of scruffy middle-aged men have it out with each other as Wayne attempts to rise them into fighting Santa Anna's army with his clever 'letter' forging. I don't know a lot about the Battle of the Alamo, but from what I have read, Wayne got it right enough in places, despite some pretty huge blunders, such as the fate of Jim Bowie, who was actually unconscious on his death bed from his illness during the final course of the battle, and he did not sport a six-barrel musket as he does in the film (It's a rather cool weapon though I must say). Some critics even declared that there isn't a single scene from this film which corresponds accurately with anything that happened during the Battle of the Alamo. Maybe not... but historically inaccuracies aside, it's not a good film. It's over-the-top, as are many of these films, and it's excruciating to watch. Hat off to Wayne for achieving what he had always wanted, but other than that, I wouldn't credit the film much. "},{"Title":"Good film but has flaws","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Construction on the set began in 1957 and took more than two years to build.  One of the largest sets ever constructed, only to be out done by Disney's version of the Alamo in 2004 (there set is slightly larger than Wayne's set).  The Wayne set was built to last, and is still on display with mock reenactments and open to the public for tours of the compound and the town of Bexar (San Antonio).  Filming began in mid 1959 and took only 12 days to shoot.  The entire film was produced on a budget of less than 13 million dollars.  Won the academy award for best sound, though there are many sound editing discrepancies in the film that really should not have qualified the movie for the nomination let alone the award.I have been in love with the myth and legend about the Alamo for 25 plus years.  This movie was the first I ever saw about the battle.  Good story but a lot of Hollywood is in this picture.  Much of it is ad-libbed to history but overall a good film.To me Lawrence Harvey (Col. Travis) plays a great role even though many did not like his portrayal of Travis.  Richard Widmark (Col. Bowie) plays the part of the real life tough as nails man of legend, but his part is large in this film compared to history.  The real Bowie was confined to his bed for most of the siege, and many speculate he was unconscious for the final assault and was killed in his sleep.Wayne does an okay job of being Crockett for the era in which this film was made (1960).  The Davy Crockett crazy of the 50's was coming to an end, and Wayne like the real Crockett was trying to live up to the legend people had made so many myths about,  rather than the real man.  The real Crockett hardly wore a coonskin cap and leather buckskin.  In fact for most of the siege of the real Alamo he was in a regular suit and tie of the 19th century.  Wayne also stretched the life-size effects of the real battle.  The Mexican army in the film did not have near as many cannons as the Wayne version.  Wayne's film show nearly 100 cannons in possession of the Mexican army, were in fact the real Mexican army had about 15 or so cannons. The manner in which the `big three' (Travis, Bowie, and Crockett) all meet there ends in this movie is not exactly how things really turned out.  However, with the big screen stars wanting to be remembered for there work in the film, the death scenes were made more dramatic for the `big three stars' in the film (Wayne, Widmark, and Lawrence).In all, it is a great film, if you can look past the historical inaccuracies.  Watch the film, but do not take everything for fact as Hollywood has a way of making things seem different than what they really are.  Read about the real thing after you see the film before you think everything in the movie is as it happened in real life.  I give the film a 6.9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"The Green Leaves of Summer","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The soundtrack of this movie boasts one of the most beautiful songs in motion picture history, THE GREEN LEAVES OF SUMMER. It haunts me every time I watch this film. It takes a few days for that song to leave my head.This is John Wayne's baby all the way, and he puts his heart and soul into it. He does an excellent job portraying Davy Crockett as well. The build-up is long and the battle sequences very detailed. Too bad there was a botched co-ordinated attack or that battle probably would have ended differently. Also, that in-fighting between Travis and Bowie. We probably could have done without that. All-in-all, a great, unfairly maligned picture. 9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A stupendous depiction of courage facing overwhelming odds","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Story has it that the undertaking of the making of The Alamo by the Duke (John Wayne) took quite a bit of his own personal fortune and effort to get this epic version of the heroic 13 days of glory on the big screen.  If that be so, then movie goers and viewers can only add one more Thank you to the already filled crown of this Hollywood icon, John Wayne.History buffs know the story of the Alamo, a crumbling, beat-up, abandoned Spanish mission in San Antonio, Texas, that was converted to a fort to impede the northward progress from Mexico of the dictator, Santa Anna, and his army, in 1836.  The Duke took this page of history and converted it, on screen, to a living piece of cinematic legend, and will cause all those who view the film of cassette to visit the actual site and again, appreciate the sacrifice of the approximately 186 valiant men that gave their lives so others could be free.The cast has Wayne portraying Davy Crockett, Richard Widmark giving a stellar effort as Jim Bowie, and Laurence Harvey lending credence and vitality to the role of William Barrett Travis.  Richard Boone has a small, but very important cameo as Sam Houston, who was entrusted with the task of raising an army to hold off the approaching Mexican army.  Boone's somber speech, when he receives word that the Alamo cannot be reinforced, is a stellar moment in a lengthy production.  It does cause folks to Remember the Alamo.Try and obtain the longer, two cassette version, of this film, as there is some plot development that was dropped for the movie version.  8/10 "},{"Title":"THE GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS CAREER.","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This gigantic movie was the greatest achievement in John Wayne's illustrious career and like many of his movies from 1960 onwards dwarfed all those over-rated efforts he made with that master of sickly sentimentality John Ford.There are elements of this in THE ALAMO,however,but at least everyone doesn't get up to sing WE SHALL GATHER AT THE RIVER at every given opportunity like they do in Ford's slushy oaters.THE ALAMO had to be done on an epic scale,portraying as it does one of the most heroic military encounters in world,never mind American,history.Wayne's success in achieving this scale was momentous;rarely has battle been so vividly portrayed on screen.His portrayal of Davy Crockett is an effective one,eschewing much of the coonskin hatted,anecdote spouting aspects of the man popularized in both history and folklore.Who could better Richard Widmark as Jim Bowie? His portrayal of an ill and dying man facing an inevitable and braver death in battle is one of this excellent performers best.The normally effete Laurence Harvey makes a superb Colonel Travis suggesting warmth beneath the icy exterior and Richard Boone is commanding and charismatic in his short cameo as Sam Houston.Ultimately though,THE ALAMO is not so much about performances as it is about spectacle; and what spectacle it is.The short skirmishes leading up to the final and heroic last stand are vividly brought to life and if history is somewhat distorted in favour of legend then so what.This story belongs to the ages and the fact that this movie was not appreciated at the time as the majestic masterpiece that it indeed is is almost as much of a tragedy as these events in 1836 in itself. A footnote,try and obtain the uncut,widescreen edition of this film you will not regret it.How anyone can call that awful boring and sentimental claptrap THE SEARCHERS a classic and not this is quite beyond me I'm afraid. "},{"Title":"Let This Fort That Was A Mission Be An Everlasting Shrine","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I think that when VHS and DVD became available, John Wayne's estate finally recouped the initial investment he laid out for the production of this film he believed in about one of our most tragic episodes in American history.A whole lot of these people at The Alamo were southerners and slaveholders and a more politically correct version of the story would show that. But that doesn't take away from the fact that they were a brave bunch. And John Wayne doesn't do politically correct.The original Alamo sitting in the middle of downtown San Antonio could hardly be used for a movie setting. Wayne had constructed a whole complete fort done to scale with a surrounding town of San Antonio De Bexar as it was known then. It's now a tourist attraction in Brackettsville, Texas.In the tradition of Leslie Howard and Vivien Leigh, British players playing American southerners, Laurence Harvey was cast as the aristocratic William Barret Travis. The real Travis was quite the womanizer, he devoted almost as much time to that as to politics. He kept a diary detailing each of his feminine conquests. If a film was made with Travis as the central character, Harvey would have been perfect casting for that part, given some of the romantic heels he had played before and would be cast as again.No character of the American frontier ever got as big a whitewash as Jim Bowie. The man was an absolute scoundrel, but he's a hero here and he certainly died as bravely as the rest of them at The Alamo. You can't say too much about the rest of his life though. Richard Widmark who played Bowie was one of the few of Wayne's co-stars who did not get along with him. In order to get financing for the film, Wayne was told by the money people that he had to have another big name male co-star playing one of the main roles. It's no accident they did not work together again.He was also told he had to play Davy Crocket, the Duke originally wanted to play Sam Houston who appears briefly in two scenes and he's played well by Richard Boone. Wayne wanted to concentrate on directing, but the money people forced his hand again.Billy Bob Thornton who played Crockett in a recent version of The Alamo story probably was closer to the mark than John Wayne was. Still the portrayal Wayne gives rings true and Crockett of the three main characters at the Alamo was probably the best of them by far.A recently restored version, the director's cut, fills quite a few gaps that the popular version released in 1960 had. Get that one by all means. Hank Worden has a touching death scene and Patrick Wayne's part is far more than in the version shown. In fact James Butler Bonham was quite the frontier character himself and a good film could be made of his life.I was in San Antonio last year and saw The Alamo again, the first time being in 1971. Then as now tourists from around the world come to the place to see where a legend was born. And a legend that will be told and told as long as man walks on the earth. "},{"Title":"I was born a Texan and am a proud American and I like this movie","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I'd like to say the anti-American comments with respect to this movie have no place in a movie review on a public forum. Those who hate the United States and its history need to reserve those comments for a political forum and not inject them into a movie review. A movie review is no place for those with an agenda to rewrite history to fit their own prejudices.Not a single soul who claims to know what happened to the Alamo defenders was there and all the defenders died. The only detail we have left is the accounts of those who killed the defenders, not likely to be the most credible of sources.This movie was made as an entertainment feature film and is not a documentary so does not carry the burden of having to be historically correct in every detail.Those who claim to know what David Crockett did or did not do in the last moments of his life at the Alamo are attempting to fashion their own prejudices into history. John Wayne's portrayal of Crockett's last moments are as speculative as those of any of his detractors.What we do know about David Crockett is his long history of public service and the great respect he commanded in others. We also know Crockett did not have to be in Texas to fight at the Alamo.The simple truth is these men fought and died, to the last man, for a cause they believed just. They knew death was nearly certain for them. They had a chance to leave the Alama but stayed and fought anyway and all lost their lives.That truth is the essence of this movie and is the essence of the historical battle itself.I found the scene in which Blind Nell Robertson spoke proudly of her husband, Jocko, to be one of the best I have seen in film. The part was acted by the late Veda Ann Borg, wife of Director Andrew McLaglen. It was her last film role and a very moving one which made an emotional impact on me.I hope my comments will be given space alongside those who mock the history of my country and specifically, the history of Alamo, in other reviews here.This movie, The Alamo, is not a joke, and the men portrayed as its defenders, including David Crockett, gave everything they had and should not be mocked by historical revisionists. "},{"Title":"Cut, slash, and run baby!","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is just great...period. The frictional dynamic between John Wayne, Widmark, and Laurence Harvey, all fighting for the same cause has never been duplicated. Before or since.I can't believe they are remaking this classic. And when I saw that Billy Bob Thornton was picked to play Crockett I almost fell out of my chair laughing. I dont think so.This is an immortal film. One of the very few that still brings a tear. And the DVD does justice to the original theatrical release. 9 coonskins. "},{"Title":"The Alamo is a classic and is one of the greatest films in history!","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Alamo is a great and is a classic film that has a great cast which includes John Wayne, Richard Widmark, Laurence Harvey, Frankie Avalon, Patrick Wayne, Linda Cristal, Joan O'Brien, Chill Wills, Joseph Calleia, Ken Curtis, Carlos Arruza, Jester Hairston, Bill Daniel, Wesley Lau, Chuck Roberson, Guinn 'Big Boy' Williams, and Richard Boone! The acting by all of the actors are great! Wayne has arguably his Best acting in this film. The acting by all of these actors is very good. The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising. The movie is filmed very good. The music is great by Dimitri Tiomkin! I love the Green Leaves of Summer song! Great directing by John Wayne! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a very good and thrilling film. In My opinion the Alamo is greatest films! If you like John Wayne, Richard Widmark, Laurence Harvey, Frankie Avalon, Patrick Wayne, Linda Cristal, Joan O'Brien, Chill Wills, the rest of the cast in the film, Action, Adventure, War, Drama, Western, and interesting true stories then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"the greatest picture I´ve ever seen","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I wrote two biographies about john Wayne ( in spanish ) . I have seen many times The Alamo , a wonderful movie , plenty of action, heroes and ideas. The Alamo is the symbol of a great man  John Wayne, and his spirit will live forever .fernando alonso barahona  "},{"Title":"SEE THIS FILM","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  even if you've never seen a western even if you've never seen a Duke filmeven if you say you hate westerns this film will move you "},{"Title":"THE GREATEST MOVIE OF ALL TIME","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I like everything about the Alamo, and I like this movie about the Alamo. I think this is the best movie of all time. Even for people who don't know very much about the Alamo this is an interesting movie.  John Wayne does an excellent job as playing my hero, the great Col. Davy Crockett.  One of my favorite characters was Col. Travis because the actor playing him looks very similar to the paintings I've seen of Travis.  The first time I saw this movie it made me cry at the end because even though the defenders blasted them down the Mexicans still kept coming and overwhelmed the great defenders.  I think that this was the movie that John Wayne was at his most heroic. REMEMBER THE ALAMO!!!!!  "},{"Title":"An excellent piece of Americana brilliantly staged.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The Alamo and the Texas Revolt are the centerpiece of the growth of the US from a small nation clinging to the Atlantic coast to a Colossus.The Alamo is filmed with attention to historic accuracy the arrogance of Travis, the courage of Bowie, and the overwhelming superiority of Mexican forces. "}{"Title":"A Romantic view of a Bloody Battle","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" John Wayne was not born to be a Director. and it shows. I don't know if and why he did not proposed this to his friend John Ford. Maybe he did, and Ford rejected. John Wayne projected himself as the Gallant hero in some scenes with a beautiful Mexican widow. He then sends her to safety, without even a kiss. This love story ends there. For the major part the plot is faithful to History. But at the end, the horror actions that Santa Ana's troops committed, is not shown. War is rarely pictured in Hollywood movies. But in this case John Wayne did it as he wanted. After all, he was also the Producer. The music is also Romantic. This movie should have been directed by Sam Peckinpah. "},{"Title":"Overwrought, overly-macho take on history","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Overwrought, overly-macho take on a very historic event. Should have been simple enough tell the story of the Battle of the Alamo with some good, epic action scenes and some character development. The action scenes are there, and are good. However, the character development is quite superficial there are no shades of grey. Travis is a martinet, Crockett and Bowie are one-dimensional, anarchic, uber- hero adventurers. Moreover, director John Wayne and writer James Edward Grant add in several sub-plots which have no bearing on the story. Yes, some are there to add some colour to the characters, but they just seem gratuitous and wholly unnecessary. Acting is almost all of the over-the-top macho variety. John Wayne was always going to be the swaggering hero (that's all he knows), and, as he is director, now he has licence to crank up the swagger. Richard Widmark comes close to matching him in this regard. Only Laurence Harvey, as Travis, plays it straight. Too straight he comes off as cranky.Surprisingly, despite all the hammy acting that abounds, this movie got an acting Oscar nomination. Chill Wills was nominated for Best Supporting Actor, for his performance as Beekeeper. Probably the most undeserved Oscar nomination in history. Apparently his marketing campaign in attempting to get the Oscar is worth a movie itself...This all said, this version is still far better than the one from 2004. "},{"Title":"There's right and there's wrong. You got to do one or the other.","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I've avoided this film on Encore Westerns for a fair amount of time up till today because of it's length. At nearly three hours, I wanted to be certain I could devote my entire attention to it without distraction. As a fan of most of the principal players and supporting character actors, I'd say it was a worthwhile picture to have seen at least once. I could do without the filler sequences peppered throughout the story, like the cantina scenes and the suggested marital story line between Emil Sande (Wesley Lau) and Flaca (Linda Cristal) that went nowhere. But on balance, this is a fairly intriguing story of a well known historical event that still conjures up a patriotic response whenever 'Remember the Alamo' is heard.High points of the film include Davy Crockett's soliloquy on the meaning of 'Republic', and the very first appearance on screen of the Mexican Army, resplendent in their military uniforms. John Wayne's even handed direction doesn't overtly paint the Mexican Army as villains, even though their mission is to march directly through San Antonio in order to subdue the rest of Texas under the Mexican banner. The battle scene itself is remarkably staged, and those who pooh-pooh actor Wayne's skill behind the camera are being somewhat disingenuous. You don't get to film an epic of this scale and complexity without having something on the ball. "},{"Title":" It must have grown, long before man put his dirty footprints here","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Someone once said that, the first casualty of war is, truth. Unfazed by this fact, hundreds of historic events are often trampled underfoot by an ambivalent Tinseltown. This movie, The Alamo is John Wayne's colorful version of the Mexicans vs American battle. The film itself is dramatic, sympathetic, beautifully photographed, choreographed and reenacted. The spectacular fight scenes and the landscape images are impressive. However the battle itself is fraught with inaccuracies and anyone with a good understanding of the actual facts, flinches while viewing this film. The year is 1836 and a group of Texicans have decided to break away from the mother country of Mexico and declare independence. Seeking to put down their rebellion, the president of Mexico, Generalissimo Migel Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna (Ruben Padilla), takes his army to the ruins called The Mission of San Antonio de Béxar, and in a one day battle destroys the inhabitants to a man. A most insightful witness account was written by an officer of the Mexican army which improved the latest effort with Billy Bob Thornton. Unfortunately, American directors don't film the often repeated story from the Mexican point of view and what is offered instead is this mythical rendition. Here we have a litany of Hollywood actors like, John Wayne who plays Col. Davy Crockett, Richard Widmark as Jim Bowie, Laurence Harvey as Col. William Travis, Frankie Avalon as Smitty, Patrick Wayne plays Capt. James Bonham, Chill Wills, Ken Curtis, Denver Pyle, and Richard Boone as Sam Huston. As a result of their accumulated fame, this Hollywood fantasy is indeed well made and much praise is to be given to Wayne as director, but were he have put more effort into the factual elements, he might have had movie historians praising him as well. **** "},{"Title":"Larry, That Accent Has Got to Go!","Date":"26 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I'll admit that I've never sat down and watched this movie from start to finish, but several things stand out. On the positive side (1) The great production values -- color, costumes, camera shots, etc. (2) The numerous watchable stars -- John Wayne, Richard Widmark, Laurence Harvey and others.On the negative side (1) Who in the world decided to cast Laurence Harvey as William Travis? That obvious British accent was totally out of place! Good grief, didn't they have a dialogue coach for the actors? (2) That ridiculous birthday scene! Here they are, holed up at the Alamo, yet they find the time and resources to bake a cake, complete with chocolate frosting and birthday candles, and to sing Happy Birthday, a song which wasn't written until the 1920's or later! How did that one slip by? An entertaining movie, but don't base any historical conclusions on it. "},{"Title":"Choices","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This reveiw is about the widescreen vhs version with over 50 minutes of added story line. This film is about freedom the need for it and the pain of fighting for it.Wayne had been desperate for years to make this movie,I had only seen this film in the abreviated form before and had found it an average movie but this version turns it into a classic.You feel you know the defenders of the alamo as freinds making the ending all that more painful when it arrives. The film does have weaker moments but these are compensated for by the overall story,perhaps the most moving is when the line is drawn in the sand and every one crosses it always fetches a lump to the throat. The film was panned when it came out but seen in this version it is a great movie John Wayne can look down from heaven  and feel proud the alamo has stood the test of time. "},{"Title":"Very Cheesy, Propaganda, Boring, Long and Unrealistic","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" So many people used to tell me this was The best version of Alamo. I was procrastinating long enough to watch it, and was right to do so. The newer version stands out to me as a great and thrilling movie, despite box-office bomb and much derision. But then, I watched the 1960 version. Just for fun. For the record. I didn't like it. Why? Well, first of all, John Wayne was Not a good director or even a very strong actor. His speeches are long, right-wing skewed, trite, banal and never exciting. He himself is not a very attractive man to be sexy or cool on screen. His playing is at best basic and very very formulaic. Other actors did almost the same average job - they're god but not great, OK but not excellent, lively but not very much alive. The Mexicans are the weakest link here and their portrayal is very bland, gray and vapid, especially Santa Anna - he is almost non present in the plot. Heh. The battles scenes are very simple and very caricature too, as we see the obvious goofs with stunts, or the exaggerated faces of those dying. The effect is not achieved and the film is viewed as a sort of some joke, joke that never worked out. I am of a strong opinion that this movie is not a success. "},{"Title":"History? Not quite","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Having just learned that Disney is about to make a new version of this film, I think it's necessary to set straight a few points about Texas's revolt from Mexico. The impetus behind Texan independence was not so much a quest for freedom from Mexican tyranny as it was a drive to preserve African American slavery. The fact was that the Mexican government had abolished slavery, and the Texans weren't going for it. There's no doubt that the defenders of the Alamo were courageous. But freedom-loving heroes? Not quite.John Wayne was behind the production of the 1961 film and saw to it that he got one of the film's most preposterous lines. When asked, as Davy Crockett, why he, a native Tennessean, had come to Texas to risk his life, he replies that he likes the sound of the word republic. What a patriot!But wait a minute ... what republic is he talking about? The one that has recently abolished slavery (Mexico) or the one that seeks to preserve slavery (Texas)?  "},{"Title":"We sure killed many brave men today.","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The John Wayne marathon continues with a big crowd favorite that was nominated for many awards and won an Oscar for Best Sound.This is a star-studded picture. John Wayne not only starred as Davy Crockett, he directed the picture.This movie had some crowd favorites like Richard Widmark (Kiss of Death) as Jim Bowie; Laurence Harvey (Room at the Top) as Col. Travis; teen sensation Frankie Avalon; Chill Wills, who was nominated for an Oscar for his performance; and my personal favorite, the lovely Linda Cristal from The High Chaparral.Of course, we all know how it ends, and the story has been told in one form or another more than two dozen times, but The Duke is the man, and this was a great movie. "},{"Title":"Alamo, the greatest movie of all time.  Only Ben Hur and GWTW have reached this level of excellence","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It does not get better than John Wayne's widescreen, 3-hour-epic, The Alamo. No baby boomer who saw it when first released in 1960 will ever forget it. I remember it was all the kids on the playground talked about at school, for months. And everyone envied our buddy Bradford because his mom had bought the Alamo's color program. They sold programs in the lobby in those days. In those days, a major picture was treated like a Broadway play, a big event. And none was bigger than the Alamo. The Alamo had everything the legendary Triumvirate of John Wayne as Davy, Richard Widmark as Bowie, and Lawrence Harvey as Travis, backed by arguably the greatest cast of character actors in film history -- Richard Paladin Boone as Houston, Hank Worden as Parson, he seemed to play Parson or Mose or something like that in every Wayne film, Guinn Big Boy Wiiliams as Irish, Chill Wills as Beekeeper, Denver Dukes of Hazzard Pyle as Thimblerig the Gambler, Frankie Avalon as Smitty, Ken Gunsmoke Curtis as Dickerson, and on and on. Dimitri Tiomkin's Alamo film score is only now recognized as the superb modern classical music it was. So great was his score that for a generation of film-goers, when the Alamo is mentioned in any context you hear Green Sleeves of Summer or the Deguello in the back of your mind.The kids in our group who were the first to go see it in 1960 all raved about it, particularly the heroic, perhaps over-the-top, last stands of each of the historic Alamo legends. When the rest of us later saw the film, then as youngsters, and many more times as adults, the film did not disappoint. Few scenes have been more exciting and moving than Wayne's Davy, dying from a bayonet in the chest, but summoning one last bit of energy to torch the gunpowder room and blow up half of the old mission and thousands of attachers descending on him. Not to be outdone was Bowie, was Widmark ever better?, laid low by a cannonball, but taking out ten attackers with his seven-barrel shotgun and his ax-like Bowie knife. Travis's scene was no less impressive, out-fencing five soldiers before cut down by musket fire.The non-action scenes were incredibly dramatic. The death-of-Parson scene,only shown in the uncut 3-hour road show version that appears on TCM from time to time, has Parson thanking Davy for bringing him along on his adventures. It is very emotional no matter how many times you see it. However, the scene to end all scenes is the line-in-the-sand moment; no line, though, is drawn in the film. This is what really sets the Alamo apart from all other pretenders. It gets right what other Alamo films get wrong in its depiction, the decision to stay and fight to the death is voluntary; in other films the men are shamed or bullied into staying. In the Wayne film, each man decides on his own he will make his last stand with his friends, neighbors, and fellow Texicans, as Boone's Houston would later put it. Bowie's change of heart in that scene, deciding to fight along side his nemesis Travis rather than flee, is quite memorable. And Boone's I-hope-they-remember-the-Alamo speech was speechifying, as Leonard Maltin calls it, at its best. Remember Boone/Sam Houston reporting to his men that the Alamo was about to fall The next time your recruits whine and belly ache, you tell them 180 of their friends, neighbors, and fellow Texicans are holed up in a mission on the Rio Bravo buying them this precious time Wow.Detractors of this classic, many Wayne haters, point out the film does not contain one historically accurate frame of film. That is correct, but who cares? The Alamo is about the legend of the Alamo. The film is not a documentary. I think one measure of greatness is whether any remake can match it. By that criteria, Wayne's Alamo is a ten, hands down. The 2004 Alamo remake proved it. The 2004 version was unwatchable and very forgettable. I just remember toward the end of the film Billy Bob Thornton's Davy warning the Mexicans after his capture, that he was a screamer and then actually screaming as they ended his life. How embarrassing and foolish. I turned off my DVD player at that point. I am told the movie went on for another thirty minutes -- why? what was the point? There was no action, no drama, no stars, no film score, and it was filmed in the dark. And the cast of thousands from the Wayne film was reduced to a cast of tens.As the Ballad of the Alamo, played at the film's end, informs, the defenders, Davy/Wayne, Harvey/Travis, and the others all lie asleep in the arms of the Lord. But before their final rest, they made a great, or, as Widmark would have said, a greeaaaaaat movie, didn't they? "}{"Title":"Big and bold and very 1960","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" In a seminal part of the history of the USA and Texas in particular, a small number of resistance fighters hold off the vast invading Mexican army at the derelict Alamo mission in San Antonio.In the 50-odd years since John Wayne's The Alamo was made, thousands upon thousands of movies have reached the public, ranging from the classic to the dreadful. Those regarded as classic have pushed the boundaries of cinema, and it must be accepted that this version of The Alamo doesn't stand up up too well when judged by present-day criteria.But back in 1960, The Alamo was an Event. Wayne was at the height of his popularity (he was box office number 1 for many years),this was a pet project of his, and it was an epic (and, unusually, a western one rather than biblical).Hindsight shows it to be somewhat bloated, rather slow paced at times, and over loaded with right wing polemic. On the other hand, it is undoubtedly sincere, the action sequences with their large casts are well marshalled, and it is a good looking film.For me, it passes muster. I wish I still had the commemorative programme which accompanied on its first cinema run! "},{"Title":"While It's Kind Of Average As Far As History Goes, It's A Good Film As A Whole.","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The plot of The Alamo is simple enough, it's a dramatic telling of the siege of The Alamo during The Texas War For Independence.Let me tell you that I am a huge history buff, and I find the siege of The Alamo to be a very interesting point in history, and that is one of the main reasons I watched this movie. Although the movie is good, I have to say that it is rather inaccurate. I want to be fair considering that John Wayne put a lot of effort into it, but he also put a lot of liberties and a lot of his political beliefs into it as well. Basically, as long as you don't acknowledge this movie as completely accurate, then you are okay to go. Inaccuracies aside, the movie is well made with some good performances, among these performances include John Wayne, Richard Widmark, Laurence Harvey, and Richard Boone. The cinematography and the costume designs are great, and not to mention the set designs, as it faithfully replicates what The Alamo actually looked like. So while John Wayne may have stumbled in the accuracy department, he certainly made the right choice in many of the other departments. And not to mention that many of the battle scenes are quite exciting.I'll go ahead an mention a few inaccuracies with this movie. A few minor ones include the following. Case in point, in real life, Jim Bowie never wielded a six barrel volley gun that could take down multiple targets, nor did his wife die during the siege of The Alamo. And while Bowie and Will Travis did not like each other, they both believed that The Alamo should be defended, and they never agreed to a duel. One major inaccuracy occurs near the end of the movie. That is, Col. Fannin and his men were not ambushed and killed during the siege, they were killed several weeks after The Alamo fell. However, the movie did get a few things accurate. For example, in the final battle, Travis really was killed early on, while defending the north wall, and with one shot. Also, Jim Bowie really was killed when Mexican troops charged in on him while he was lying on a cot. So the movie may be mostly inaccurate, but not completely inaccurate.In short, if you don't count the historical inaccuracies, then the movie is good, otherwise, then you'll probably find it to be average or lower than that. I know some people who didn't like this movie because they couldn't separate the facts from the fiction. But when I watched the movie for the first time, I decided to keep an open mind about it, which I did, and as a result, I ended up liking it. So when you watch this movie, try to keep an open mind about it, and also, try to find the full version instead of the edited version, as the edited version has a few minor plot holes.8/10 "},{"Title":"Another Great John Wayne Film","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It is impossible for John Wayne to make a bad film. This is probably because he loves America so much and all of his films reflect this feeling. No one wants to see liberal crapola about hating America like Michael Moore makes. That being said, this is probably John Wayne's second most patriotic movie, the first being of course, The Green Berets. This film is a faithful retelling of the siege of the Alamo, where 170 brave Americans held off an invading force of 3000 for 13 days to allow Sam Houston to regroup. I am sure everyone is aware of the narrative of the siege of the Alamo, but it has never been better told than here by John Wayne. God Bless John Wayne, may he rest is peace. There will never be another movie star that shines so brightly. "},{"Title":"Very Inaccurate, Yet Very Entertaining","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" At first, I disliked this film for being very inaccurate to the real thing. But now I don't think that really matters. This film is directed by John Wayne and he also stars in it, along with some other fine actors. The battle sequences were very well done. The music was excellent. The Mexican uniforms were cool. John Wayne has proved to us that he has the ability to direct a great film! The film of course is inaccurate in many ridiculous ways but it can be very entertaining. I usually turn down films with John Wayne because they sometimes were silly, but I have plenty of respect towards this piece of hard work. It is easily one of the best and one of the coolest films about the Alamo. It is very enjoyable and dramatic to watch. This film should be used to remember the men who lost their lives in one of the most significant sieges in all of history. Remember the Alamo! "},{"Title":"2 hours and 15 minutes of talking and 15 minutes of fighting. Remember the Alamo!","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Sort of funny how this movie is somewhat of a semi-classic but most people can still agree on it that it's being far from a perfect movie.There were countless problems I had with this movie and most of them could be blamed on John Wayne. No I am not talking about his acting but fact is that he directed this movie as well and the movie is filled with some storytelling flaws, that prevent this movie from ever becoming an involving one.Fact about its story also remains that there was no good reason for it to be as long as it was. The movie is literally a 2 hour and 15 minutes buildup to an only 15 minutes short battle, that is over before you know it. Besides, the final 15 minutes makes its very long buildup feel very pointless as well. It spends a lot of time on character development, without ever really telling you anything the characters, or make them likable enough to care for any of them. It's also perhaps due to it that none of the characters feel 'real' enough. No one seems to be afraid to die and in fact all behave incredibly heroic and seem to be proud and happy to give their lives. This is of course a problem with a lot of Wayne productions.The lack of a sense of true treat and despair makes this movie a somewhat shallow one but yet I can't really say that it's being a horrible movie as well. Despite the movie being way longer than it should had been, it never becomes a slow or boring one. The movie also does definitely still has its moments but overall it remains a lacking production of a true historical event, that deserved a far better treatment. Quite amazing that after so many years there still isn't a truly great Alamo movie yet. Oh well, at least this movie still remains better than the most recent 2004 version.The acting is being a bit a mixed bag in this one. The only consistently good performance comes from Laurence Harvey, while John Wayne himself is really lacking at parts. The same really goes for some of the movie its supporting actors, who really were horrendous. But this is something a lot of '50's and '60's movies were suffering from, so perhaps it isn't really fair to hold any of that against this movie.It's really far from a great movie but it remains definitely a watchable one.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The uncut video version was more enjoyable than the original.","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I finished watching the uncut video version in wide-screen format a few minutes ago.  The video version is better than I remember the original from the theater and television.  At the time of its release I recall that critics gave the movie low marks for editing.  I see what they meant.  The video version includes some memorable moments.  For instance, the personality clash between Travis and Bowie is better developed.  Also, there is a scene on the night before the final battle when the camera pans over the images of silent men waiting for the morning.  Finally, a group begins talking about whether God exists.  There is no great philosophy here.  It's exactly what you would expect on the eve of a battle that these men don't expect to survive.  The battle scenes are well-staged and realistic.  Except for a couple of dumb lines the script gives him, John Wayne is pretty good as Davy Crockett.  The homespun wisdom and humor of the historical Crockett emerge in Wayne's portrayal.  They named me Davy, he says,after an uncle who didn't leave Pa the farm after all.  The video version does a much better job than the original in demonstrating the contribution of Hispanics to the defense of the Alamo.Still, the film has flaws.  The film is weak on action in the first half and some of the dialogue is silly.  The romantic interest between Davy Crockett and Flaca, played by Linda Crystal, seems unnecessary and pointless. Frankie Avalon stands out in an otherwise strong cast.  He was a much better singer than an actor.Overall, I enjoyed this movie.  It does a better job than most such films in portraying our nation's rich history.   "},{"Title":"The Duke In His Domain","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" A lengthy historical-action picture-western from 1960, The Alamo was a labor of love for John Wayne, who not only stars as Davy Crockett, but directed the film as well, and put up much of his own money to get it produced by his own company. The result is a decent, at times wildly inaccurate movie about the defense of the Spanish mission known as the Alamo against the advancing Mexican army by a motley crew of renegade Americans seeking to make a new republic in Texas. As entertainment, the movie is okay, really delivering the goods, action-wise, at the end. But it drags on for too long before that, and has too many speeches; and the dialog of James Edward Grant is at times astonishingly and mind-bogglingly poor for a major motion picture.Withal, The Alamo isn't terrible, just a huge disappointment. Wayne ought to have known better. The film was a marvelous opportunity to explore the psychology of men under pressure in a limited space, always a grand theme for the movies, and one that Wayne's mentor, John Ford, had showed himself a master of back in 1934, in The Lost Patrol. Another Wayne mentor, Howard Hawks, had shown the way just the previous year in the tense Rio Bravo,--and yet Wayne showed that he had learned nothing from these two men. He hired an inferior writer to do the script, and made no attempt to really show us the Alamo from within, so that we could care for the place and its inhabitants, leaving aside politics for the moment (as if Wayne could). This is a pity. We ought, by latter part of the film, to have come to know and love the people in it, their odd habits, their favorite places, their nooks and crannies if you will, so that even the crankiest old Tennessean and each crack in the mission wall would be made precious to us. What we get instead is rant, caricatured, cardboard characters, heroic posturing, clichés that were old even when the film came out.Wayne was in any event too big a name to play Davy Crockett by 1960, and he should have known better than to have cast himself in the part. Ten years earlier he might have been able to pull if off. By the time The Alamo was made he was too iconic to play anyone but John Wayne, or someone an awful lot like John Wayne, which is to say, not Davy Crockett. Richard Widmark as Jim Bowie was also poor casting, as the actor's basic modernity, his very contemporary Midwestern delivery, is wrong for this particular film. Laurence Harvey as the martinetish Travis comes off, oddly, better than the other two, if only for his seeming so out of place in the movie, which works in his favor; and he gives the role his all. Many of the supporting players,--Guinn Williams, Chill Wills, Denver Pyle, John Dierkes--simply look and sound right, and don't really have to act, just be. The Alamo was a great, missed opportunity of a film, and should have been a masterpiece, as it at times shows flashes of potentially becoming one. I like John Wayne, but there's just too much of him in this one. Even when he's not there, he's there. "},{"Title":"LONGER IS BETTER!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  If you haven't seen the LONG version of this movie, you just haven't seen it!  And certainly not the way Duke envisioned it.  I was one of the fortunate few who did see it uncut - in 70mm TODD-A-O at the Palace Theatre in Chicago when it played roadshow with reserved seats.  I was stunned when later in played the Roosevelt Theatre, the very heart and soul cut from it.  For years I waited and hoped for the original version to turn up, and of course it finally did, first on VHS, and then on Laser Disc.  So  WHY WHY WHY is the DVD the crummy short version???  If you have not seen the long version of this film, then you have no business judging or rating it. By the way, there is a great book on the making of The Alamo with incredible insight into how it all happened, including the cuting down of the film.  Too bad this one never got restored to play in theatres again. On the big screen at full length is where this one deserves to be seen and truely appreciated. "},{"Title":"Strangely Compelling Rubbish","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Absolutely one of the most mind-boggling big-budget mish-mashes ever put on film. John Wayne (star, producer, director) was obviously too close to the subject and failed to recognize the dreadful script for what it was. Second unit action stuff is very good, and Lawrence Harvey's performance is a standout, given what he had to work with.  Frankly the  Feather Blowing, Blind Nell/Jocko  and Birthday Party sequences are as bad as anything ever put on celluloid. It is an absolute embarrassment to watch them. Richard Widmark couldn't be worst cast as Jim Bowie. It's really the part Wayne should have taken, as his David Crockett is about as far from the real article as can be imagined. Still, the damn thing does have its compelling bits and pieces....sort of like watching a train wreck.   I've probably seen it at least a dozen times and will most likely watch it again.  At least Dimitri Tiomkin's powerful score helps out somewhat.  "},{"Title":"John Wayne, film maker The Alamo.","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Alamo (1960) was a big budgeted (and bloated) epic about the siege of the Alamo. John Wayne rounded up an all star cast to help him (re)tell the story about the Texas revolt against their Mexican adversaries led by that nincompoop of a general, the Napoleon of The Americas Antonio Lopez De Santa Ana. You can see one of the biggest blunderers in military history lose hundreds of men in trying to take a dilapidated mission and watch John Wayne simplify and re-tell history. The real reason to watch this movie is the final act. No matter how inaccurate the history is (Wayne must have read his history from the back of match boxes and sugar packets).You'll also get a few laughs watching John Wayne fight off the hordes of Mexican soldiers storming the walls. Wayne's a good of a director as he is an actor (very limited in scope and scale). Pure entertainment. I wouldn't go out and write a history report after seeing this movie. Because if you do you're going to fail!!Recommended for laughs. "}{"Title":"5/10 long-winded","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The terrific bloody climax at the end, can't save this OVERLY long film from putting one to sleep.  There is conversations of the joy of a child's birthday; the existence of God; arguments over who is in charge; but very little explanation on the history of The Alamo.  The film is about an hour and half too long -- which makes this film a task to watch.  Laurence Harvey, as usual, is wonderful. "},{"Title":"The Alamo","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The directing debut of actor and western legend John Wayne was apparently not just a passion for him to make, but an obsession, and it wasn't as great as I'd hoped. Basically it is 1836, and General Santa Anna and the Mexican army is sweeping across Texas, so Gen. Sam Houston (Richard Boone) needs to get his main force into shape. He orders Col. William Travis (Laurence Harvey) to defend a small mission on the Mexicans route, to buy some time. Joining the battle are Col. James 'Jim' Bowie (Richard Widmark) and Col. Davy Crockett (Wayne), but as the situation gets more desperate, Travis says he's not shamed to get everyone to leave, and they should have none either. That's the basic story, wasn't really paying attention to much else, well, apart from Crockett's little affection Graciela Carmela Maria 'Flaca' De Lopez y Vejar (Linda Cristal). Also starring Frankie Avalon as Smitty, Patrick Wayne (John's son) as Capt. James Butler Bonham, Joan O'Brien as Mrs. Sue Dickinson, Oscar nominated Chill Wills as Beekeeper, Joseph Calleia as Juan Seguin, Ken Curtis as Capt. Almeron Dickinson, John Dierkes as Jocko Robertson, Denver Pyle as Thimblerig (the Gambler), Hank Worden as Preacher Parson, Guinn 'Big Boy' Williams as Lt. 'Irish' Finn and Olive Carey as Mrs. Dennison. Because I wasn't paying much attention to every single moment, I got a little lost in what was going on, but Wayne is good, the supporting actors are just as good, and the battle sequences do grab your attention. It won the Oscar for Best Sound, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing, Best Song for The Green Leaves of Summer, Best Music for Dimitri Tiomkin and Best Picture, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Original Score. John Wayne was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 13 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men. Worth watching, at least once, in my opinion! "},{"Title":"Too long to be good","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a typical western-movie of the 60's. A lot of talk and no action and a great deal of flag-waving. I just don't understand why they didn't change the ending so the United States prevailed and by that showed what a great country america is supposed to be. John Wayne is well suited for his character and so is all the others but why does one have to see all that non-interesting mini-details that really isn't important for the movie, and how come there is, like in every western movie of this time, a beautiful girl at the fort who is determined not to leave. Are there no ordinary, foul looking woman in the world that Hollywood is creating?To everybody out there - you can afford missing this movie. "},{"Title":"A Little Historical Accuracy.  Please!!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I am amazed at some earlier comments about historical accuracy.  I understand that the true story would not be as appealing to movie-going audiences, but it still makes it difficult to watch.WARNING!  Possible Spoilers!Cases in point  Attack took place during pre-dawn hours.  Travis was killed by one of the first volleys in final attack.  Bowie was in the infirmary the whole time (cannot recall why).  Crockett probably was run down by lancers while making a futile run for it, not while fighting galiantly to the end. Etc, etc.It was not just these creative liberties that were taken that make this a average movie at best.  Crocket's 'Republic' speach almost made me retch.  "},{"Title":"Great Cinematography, Performances and Soundtrack &#150; Awful, Boastful and Corny Manipulation of an Historic Event","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Alamo is an epic, with great cinematography, performances and soundtrack. The battle scene in the end of the movie is amazingly well choreographed. However, the awful, boastful and corny manipulation of part of the story of how and why the wealthy lands of Texas were taken from Mexico spoils the film. In John Wayne's version, Davy Crockett and Jim Bowie are heroic patriots, and not persons struggling for personal interest in Texas for plantation in the soil. Further, all the Americans are good guys, great friends, a fellowship of angelic heroic intelligent pals. And the Mexican soldiers are stupid, cruel, not civilized. There are some funny lines so ridiculous they are. The music score is awesome. If the viewer forgets the historic event and interest behind the story and does not take it seriously, this movie may be a good entertainment. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Álamo (The Alamo) "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'The Alamo'","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is a fair western that features some nice cinematography.THE GOOD - The above-mentioned photography, which features a lot of golden colors and silhouettes. The movie has three powerful lead actors - John Wayne, Richard Widmark and Laurence Harvey. Linda Cristal is a knockout as the Mexican woman, Graciela Carmela Maria Flaca de Lopez y Vejar. There is a very little romance in the film, maybe because few guys want to take the time to pronounce a name that long.THE BAD - Probably because I grew up seeing him on TV in this role, but Fess Parker - not John Wayne - will always be identified as Davy Crockett to me. The days of musical interludes in long movies looks dated and aren't necessary. There are three of them in here! Even without those, the movie is still over 2.5 hours, which is too long.OVERALL - A pretty good movie but not something I would watch more than once. "},{"Title":"(Dad) was a hard guy to get along with sometimes . . . ","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  . . . he was an abrasive, stubborn, hard-headed Irishman, son Colin says of ALAMO and John Wayne's favorite screenwriter and other chess-partner best friend, James Edward Grant. Jimmy was Jeff to Wayne's Mutt, this extra on the 2005 HONDO DVD release--PROFILE JAMES EDWARD GRANT--says. Apparently, Wayne and Grant were NOT best men at each other's weddings (as were Wayne and fellow Western actor Ward Bond), though Wayne, at least, was married often enough to have had several such best buddies. Though Wayne, Bond, and their off-screen cohorts such as Grant and director John Ford may not strike the average fan as Bobby Fischer types, those who have seen the recent film biography of that American chess prodigy will recognize that this quartet was equally as irrational as Mr. Fischer. For instance, Bond and Wayne thought that RIO BRAVO was comparable to Gary Cooper's masterful Western Classic, HIGH NOON. Similarly, Colin Grant says that his dad was SHOCKED not to be Oscar-nominated for THE ALAMO screenplay, one of the many Wayne vehicles for which Jimmy served as mechanic. Being from Chicago, the Grant Family obviously lacked a grasp of Texas History 101. This movie omits the hallowed Line in the Sand drawn by Col. William Barrett Travis, a fault which the Academy knew enough to place at the screenwriter's doorstep. "},{"Title":"The Truth about Texas' History . . .","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" . . . is nowhere to be found in this mendacious John Wayne Vanity Project nearly as fatal to America as was GONE WITH THE WIND. In Real Life, Wayne was never a Black slave. He never even was lashed to a post and flogged. He certainly did not have the front of a foot chopped off to keep him from fleeing Real Life bullies--such as Marion Mitchell Morrison. For a decade or two prior to making THE ALAMO, Wayne risked proving the adage, Snitches get Stitches, as he betrayed dozens of more talented colleagues who could act and think circles around him to the Fascist Witch Hunters in order to further his own career of being a W.C. Fields-like buffoon pretending to be a straight man. Many of The Duke's Real Life victims mysteriously died prematurely (such as Jewish actor John Garfield) or had their lives heavily discounted (including master screenwriter Dalton Trumbo). Wayne's flunkies write on THE ALAMO jewel case that 185 exceptional men joined together in a sacred pact (to) willingly give their lives for Freedom. In actuality, these 185 lazy Southerners deemed themselves too prissy to do any Real ranch work, and too cheap to pay their FORMER Black slaves from Up North (that is, Tennessee and the other FUTURE Confederate Rebel States) fair wages for a change in Mexico, the Land Where Blacks Were Free.Yup, that's right David Crockett, James Bowie, William Barrett Travis, and the other VILLAINS of THE ALAMO fought and died in a tragically successful effort to RE-ENSLAVE the Black Man in their Hellish Rebel Republic of Texas. Marion Morrison (the future John Wayne) himself and all other American school kids of the 1930s and earlier KNEW this sordid story by heart. Without THE ALAMO to remember, there never would have been the later U.S. Civil War, which murdered 10% of the innocent male population of the Civilized North to correct the sinful slothfulness of Satan's South. Always poor losers, the defeated Rebels boded their time and waited until America was distracted by World War II in the mid-1900s to outlaw the inclusion of TRUTH in any U.S. school textbook or classroom, K - college. Texas bigots have had veto power over each line of all U.S. American History texts since then (and now they're branching out into biology, sexuality, economics, and most other subjects with their Anti-Intellectual Inquisition). With THE ALAMO, Wayne is attempting to Re-Educate those members of the World War One generation who survived until 1960 that Real Life Freedom Fighter Santa Anna was a Hitler rather than a Grear Emancipator (like Lincoln), which he aimed to be. (Wayne brazenly depicts his own Crockett character waging a Disinformation campaign as one of the many scenes of padding crammed into this bloated flick.) If David Crockett and James Bowie had their Druthers, Oprah, O.J., Mariah, Beyonce, Kareem, Martin, and all their kin folk would STILL be toiling in Racist Slavery to this very day! Remember THE ALAMO, indeed! "},{"Title":"John Wayne at his Wayniest","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It's 1836. Generalissimo Santa Anna is sweeping north across Mexico and the settlers rise up to oppose his tyrannical rule. General Sam Houston needs time to organize his men. He orders Colonel William Travis (Laurence Harvey) to defend the small mission despite Travis' misgivings especially about Jim Bowie (Richard Widmark)'s drunkenness and ties to Spanish aristocracy. The two men don't get along as Bowie tries to explain their poor situation while Travis hides that he knows exactly how poor their situation truly is. Davy Crockett (John Wayne) arrives from Tennesee leading his men.It's a great opportunity for a grand war story. However it gets bog down by sentimentalism and traditional acting. John Wayne is worst of all playing his big character for all its worth. They even have singer Frankie Avalon as some kind of mascot teen heartthrob. Director John Wayne is making a part comedy and part romanticized sentimental war movie. It is full of idealism. It is too long. It's much too slow and takes far too long to get to some action. It has too much of John Wayne's touch. It is too light and not realistic enough. It plays best for lovers of traditional John Wayne. One can't deny that this is a massive movie. The grand scale of the Mexican army is impressive. The battles are well done when they come. It's the inbetween that I have some problems with. "},{"Title":"A Cinematic Monument To John Wayne & The Alamo Itself","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is indeed motion picture greatness as seldom achieved. The passion of director/producer/actor John Wayne for his project is as profound as any other auteur in cinematic history. His triumph as a first time director is astounding and his masterful work behind the camera leaves the unprepared viewer breathless. The cinematography, film score, and set design are stunningly beautiful and the performances Wayne inspires from his cast are nothing less than superb. The battle scenes are choreographed with incredible skill and epic in their scope, bringing audiences to the edge of their seats. However, the intimacy and character development are equally amazing and it is in the tension filled time leading up to the final conflict that we come to know and care for those who are about to die. John Wayne captures the glory and tragedy of the Alamo as no other film maker has and this motion picture will be viewed forever as the ultimate depiction of this dramatic moment in history. If Wayne had lived longer and received a bit more encouragement from film critics who badly reviewed him as a director purely because of his conservative politics, he may well have become a film maker of Clint Eastwood or John Ford's stature, perhaps another David Lean, expressing his personal cinematic vision and passion in even greater fashion as his directing career matured. Alas, we lost this wonderful, beloved talent far too soon and the potential so clearly seen in The Alamo would never be completely realized in films never to be made. Yet, students of cinema will study and celebrate the screen performances of John Wayne for many generations to come and eventually his gifts as a director will be recognized as well. For now, The Alamo stands as an artistic achievement of epic proportions, a testament to the sacrifice of true heroes, and a celluloid monument to John Wayne, Director. "}{"Title":"A little long, but probably what you would expect from The Duke","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I remember as a 9 year old being excitied when I saw this advertised as coming on  one of the local TV stations during the upcoming weekend. Funny thing was the TV guide listed The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance on that channel at the same time.  Of course, much to my disappointment, when the time came Liberty Valance was featured (I liked it but would not appreciate it and understand that it was far superior to Alamo until I was grown).  Later within the month they did show The Alamo and I was enthralled and played out the big battle scene in my backyard for some time after.  I recentley saw this one again and it seemed much more plodding than I remember (though the climactic batlle scenes still stood out). Anyway, overall still a good flick to watch occasionally and it was generally historically accurate (though the slavery issue which loomed large as a motivation for the defenders of freedom is all but skirted to the side).  "},{"Title":"John Wayne's Lifetime Dream","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" John Wayne dreamed about making The Alamo years before he actually made it. He wanted to make it at Republic, but the studio he derailed his efforts and cast Sterling Hayden in The Last Command. Eventually, despite a lot of opposition, the Duke got The Alamo produced and it should come as no surprise that Angel and the Badman scenarist James Edward Grant and Wayne altered history to make himself and Texas look even grander. The length of The Alamo varies, but I must say that the loss of the little girl's birthday party was a welcome relief to a time swollen saga. There are just not enough memorable scenes and more could probably be excised. The sentiment about the sacrifice that Texans made is duly noted and strong. Principally, The Alamo benefits from its sturdy cast and Dimitri Tiomkin's masterful music. The energy that Wayne as director musters must be attributed to Tiomkin's orchestral soundtrack. What makes The Alamo uncomfortable is that you know that they are going to pay for rebelling against Santa Anna and the Mexicans.John Wayne cast many other stars as Davy Crockett, but he wound up doing the role himself and he brings his respectful authority to this iconic American legend. Laurence Harvey is good as the strait-laced Colonel Travis. Richard Widmark as Colonel Jim Bowie is even better (even if he hated John Wayne for a press release where he called him Dick) and the rest of the cast--right down to the meager speaking parts--is above reproach. Ironically, Bowie hated Travis and they show their antipathy for each other on screen, unlike the off-screen antipathy between Wayne and Widmark.The scale of The Alamo is properly awesome. This movie sprawls and lenser William H. Clothier captures that scenic sprawl with his widescreen cameras. At times, The Alamo gets a bit heavy handed, but despite its length, this mammoth John Wayne movie is a lot better than most people give him credit for being. "},{"Title":"Great Cinematography, Idealistic","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Many people, like myself, are interested in accuracy in historical dramas, and this leads to much debate in evaluating films done in the epic fashion. Should the protagonists be portrayed as heroes, villains, idealists, pragmatists, bumblers, egomaniacs? There is often room for interpretation. May I bring out The Alamo Director John Wayne himself in The Green Berets, set in Vietnam? Were Americans more like the idealistic, well-spoken, and noble heroes in Vietnam as Wayne portrays, or were they drug-infested people who called the enemies gooks? The truth, as Oscar Wilde said, is somewhere in between.In the siege of The Alamo, however, the defining essentials are clear. I do not care whether Jim Bowie was in many ways a louse in his life before dying at the Alamo. What is relevant is his role at the Alamo. Was Davy Crockett actually captured before being killed? Again, I do not care (besides, the weight of evidence is that he was not captured).The fact is that these two and Alamo commander Colonel William Barret Travis, along with the others who died at the Alamo, were patriots concerned with freedom for Texas. They were willing to sacrifice their own lives, knowing that they would likely be killed by a much larger force, for an ideal. I do not see any way to say anything else. Davy Crockett is idealized in American folklore, but John Wayne as Davy confesses to a Spanish lady companion that he has not always been idealistic. Yet he is finding idealism in Texas, in events leading up to the siege. Colonel Travis (Lawrence Harvey) can be seen as nothing other than idealistic, history bears that out. Here, his accent seems like a combination of British (Harvey), New Orleans like in the movie JFK, and Southern, but it is clearly an educated person's aristocratic drawl, like Travis in real life almost surely had. He is well dressed and groomed, a formal military man. And what the hey, Bowie (Richard Widmark) is here statuesque, like Harvey, clean-shaven, and blond, in comparison to Bowie's real-life dark-haired ruffian looks. Wayne as director draws out well the clash of egos between Travis and Bowie, and Bowie's drinking and partying excesses. But when the chips are down, when Travis draws the line to tell people they can leave if they want, Bowie stays. Has to be accurate, correct?The cinematography is very well done the organization and colored uniforms of the Mexican soldiers, the different areas and angles of the Alamo itself, the battlefield surrounding. The musical scores, the majestic background singing, are melodramatic and effective. There is little in terms of excess in scenes despite the film's length. Perhaps something could have been added to portray the point of view of Santa Anna and the Mexicans, but that is not done here; Santa Anna has virtually no time on the screen. The intent of Wayne was to portray the Texas point of view.The Alamo is one of John Wayne's finest moments. "},{"Title":"good movie to go with history lesson","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  `The Alamo' is a movie about the war between the now-Americans in Texas and the Mexicans.  After the `Overture', Davy Crockett is introduced (no relation to Betty Crocker, unfortunately).  Davy is a former Tennessee congressman who looks out for the people of the community.A few other characters are introduced, including an African American slave, Jethro.  The Tennessean's were brought into the war to fight with the others in the now-Texas territory. The rest of the movie is just the battles and the hardships that the soldiers go through.`The Alamo' is a fairly accurate portrayal of the real battle of The Alamo.  It showed a lot of the camaraderie of the soldiers.  I thought the scene where the Col. told the soldiers that they could leave if they did not want to fight was really cool.  All the soldiers are willing to die for what they believe in. As a History Student, watching this movie was good for further understanding of the battle.  I believe there were a few mistakes in the movie, though, that I must point out.  Near the end of the movie, an older soldier is talking to Davy Crockett and he says something about how he has been living for seventy years.  This is unrealistic in the time period because the expected lifespan was about 30 years for men and women.  I also noticed that most of the characters had all their teeth intact and in good shape, which is also not realistic, since many of the men were at least twenty (more than halfway through their lives), and they didn't take good care of their teeth. As the big movie-goer that I am, `The Alamo' was not a movie I would have gone to by choice.  Unlike `The Patriot' and other historical movies, `The Alamo' was not about our whole country fighting for freedom.  The message in `The Alamo', although the same idea of freedom from an oppressive government, was not near as important as in `The Patriot'.  The viewer also did not get as acquainted and attached to the characters, which would have made the audience be more upset at any deaths. `The Alamo' overall, is a good movie to watch for the historical knowledge, but make sure you have a long time to watch it.  "},{"Title":"A very good John Wayne western!","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I love this film and always will. I was my first movie. It not only introduced me to The Alamo story, but also to John Wayne. I was hooked on both ever since. No, this film is not historically accurate. far from it. But it is a great film none the less. if you want to see accurate, you have to go to San Antonio and see Alamo The Price of Freedom at their Imax. This film should be released uncut on DVD so we all can enjoy it. Especially those who cannot afford to visit San Antone. But that Imax theatre is hogging the film and won't release it. That is a shame. "},{"Title":"A decent flick","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I watched this film again and feel the need to re-appraise it. Loosely based on fact, this film is about the heroic stand at The Alamo against overwhelming odds. The characters in the film are developed enough to get a real feel for who they were. Whether Bowie, Crockett and Travis had as much discord between them I don't know, but they didn't agree on much in the film; it may have been dramatic license. The acting in this film is decent by pretty much all the American actors. However, Wayne's hillbilly just doesn't cut it..he never could pull that off. His natural accent was far too flat and he had to force any other sort of accent. Funny, for a man who made his fame in oaters! Some of the Mexican officers had wooden deliveries of their one or two lines. But other than that, the film is a great story and one that should make the viewer proud. In passing, I would like to note that Travis (Laurence Harvey) died more heroically but Crockett (John Wayne) died with a bigger bang in this film. "},{"Title":"Has Never Been What It Was Meant to Be","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The Alamo is a prime example of overkill, something very common with epics of the 1960s.  John Wayne's all-over-the-map direction and a slow-moving screenplay keep the film from ever hitting its stride.  The film is about the mostly true story of the Mexican siege on the titled mission/fort in 1836.  A few hundred (perhaps) Texans fought valiantly to get their independence from the Mexicans and Santa Anna.  However, it would be San Jacinto that would prove to be the Texans' imperative victory later on.  John Wayne's obsession created the film and unfortunately kept the film from taking off.  His shortcomings as a director proved to make the film go over budget.  He was going for a spectacle on the level of Gone With the Wind or Giant, but was unable to reach those heights.  The attentions to spectacle led to a lack of a suitable story-line and some very suspect performances all the way around.  John Wayne is only above-average here.  Laurence Harvey never does feel right in this film.  Richard Widmark is the best, but that is not really saying much.  Great character-actor Chill Wills received a curious Oscar-nomination in this film, this was one of his lesser performances.  In the end the film went way over budget, being the most expensive film ever made up to that time and John Ford had to come in and do most of the work that John Wayne was incapable of doing from the  director's chair.  At the box office the film was a bust, but did receive seven Oscar nominations (including Best Picture).  It won only one.  The film has not aged well either, it is probably less impressive now than it was 40 years ago.  In short, The Alamo is a could-have-been film that has never been.  4 stars out of 5.     "},{"Title":"A slightly flawed epic","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Probably the first John Wayne movie I ever saw, I was 8 when this hit theaters in 1960. There are numerous criticisms of this movie for being corny, reactionary, racist, etc. But I have to disagree. I think it has to be acknowledged that, for a first time director, and certainly the first time he had starred in, produced and directed a film, John Wayne was quite successful in putting his personal vision on the screen. In the first half of the film we are introduced to characters we come to know, to like, and to care about. Crockett's humor, his hidden intellect, his passion for the Texian's cause, Bowie's recklessness, his short temper, and his conflict over command and strategy with Travis, Laurence Harvey's pompous martinet, Travis, who, nevertheless, displays great courage and nerve, and, ultimately, a plan. The Tennessee volunteers, Bowie's men, Dickinson, Bonham are all well-defined characters, people we come to identify with. In the second half of the movie, the battle scenes are handled with great expertise. They are exciting, chaotic, inspiring, violent-terrific, especially for a first-time director. It is rumored John Ford helped with these scenes, but it is also said that John Ford was sent out to film scenes that were not used, to keep him out of the way. This was going to be Wayne's film, for better or worse. The only scene that truly was a misstep is the birthday scene featuring Wayne's daughter, Aissa. This is truly a corny scene and disturbs the flow of the film. It can only be seen in the director's cut of the film, which is the only version one should see, but should never have been included. Still, even John Ford's masterpiece The Searchers contains moderately corny scenes, and holds up brilliantly. A small flaw like this in The Alamo can easily be forgiven. Is this an epic on the scale of Ben Hur or Spartacus? No, it is not. I wish, for The Duke's sake it was. I know that's what he wanted. But with Dimitri Tiomkin's truly epic, Oscar-worthy film score, a competent script, and some memorable acting, I think John Wayne succeeded in creating his own epic, the one he wanted to make, and one that reflected his vision, his values. Taken in context, this makes The Alamo a successful epic film, and one worth watching more than once. It has always been one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"9/10, but with reservations","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I first saw this film as a child and was instantly voracious for anything more I could learn about the Alamo.The film itself has not aged as well as some other epics of its time. Vietnam took some of the luster off of its unquestioningly patriotic spirit, giving some of the speeches a somewhat corny feel, and some of the romantic angle with John Wayne and comic relief seemed thrown in just to satisfy some Hollywood minimum requirements.But the story masterfully captures the theme of courage, honor, and sacrifice in brilliantly filmed action sequences and with character development that is rarely seen in most recent attempts at historical epics.Even with its flaws, I can't bring myself to give anything less than a 9 out of 10 to a movie that inspired me to a life-long interest in history. Changing people's lives has to be worth something. And any movie that impresses someone enough that 42 years later the date of March 6 (the day in 1836 that the Alamo fell) still sticks in his mind and leads him on that day to think about that film deserves a little extra credit. "},{"Title":"Cheese movie","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I remember watching this film with a  Alamo aniversery.  After all its years the film still is interesting, but the acting is cheesie.  The ending saves this film, I like the big fire fight with the Mexicans.   The slaves, and women where left to tell the tale.  Watch it late night when you can not sleep. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Interesting but too long","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSThe 1960 film version of The Alamo featuring John Wayne is a great adaptation of an overlooked part of American history (but it isn't exactly 100% accurate).  John Wayne will always be Davy Crockett in my mind (Billy Bob Thorton wasn't bad, though).Davy Crockett, Jim Bowie, and William Travis lead a team of rag-tag soldiers against a well-trained, well-disciplined, and well-armed Mexican fighting force to protect the Alamo, a Texas mission and the state of Texas itself.The ending had me scratching my head.  It was totally different than that of John Lee Hancock's version, which made Texas out to be victorious whereas the 1960 version shows Texans as, I put it, honorable losers.  Still, it's worth a look.  The DVD needs more features, though. "},{"Title":"flawed but fun","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Okay, so it is not terribly accurate historically. Most of the dialogue is corny and preachy. But the film has some very impressive moments. the scene where the Mexican women are looking for their husbands and sons among the mexican soldiers killed in the first assault while the Texans watch. The way Santa Anna is portrayed with galantry by giving safe passage to the women abd children before the final battle, and saluting Mrs Dickenson as she leaves the alamo. And the final battle scene is still awesome. The acting isnt all that bad, ok frankie should have stayed on the beach with annette, i'll give you that one.and why does Bowie sound like a butchered goose when he dies? Try and find the restored and letterboxed addition.  "},{"Title":"No history lesson","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"    This portrayal of the Alamo, if you are looking for an historical version did not fit the bill. There is a scene where James Butler Bonner comes riding in after the first attack to report that the army under James Fannin was slaughtered. That did not happen until three weeks after the Alamo fell. In the same scene it is reported that the force lost a third of their men. They did not lose a man until the final battle. Another case concerns the injury to James Bowie (Richard Widmark.) Bowie bell off the wall placing a cannon, he wasn't wounded in the final assault.   As far as the set goes it was great, but the cast mostly made up of men in many other of John Wayne movies it just seemed like same song, second verse. There were times that I wondered if John Wayne was playing Davy Crockett or Davy Crockett was playing John Wayne.    Entertaining yes, a history lesson no. I am surprised the movie was not banned in Texas.  "},{"Title":"13 days of glory","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" this movie is centered around the battle of the Alamo. which is the story of 180 Texans defending and army of 1000 or more Mexicans trying to free Texans from under the rule of General Santa who controlled Mexico at the Time the This was the movie that would change my life forever. I saw it when I was 13 and when I first saw it I was like wow this is a great movie. Now some nine years later I'm able to poke hole through it. Like it doesn't focus on the men in the fort but rather more on the legend of Davy Crockett. John Wayne is a pleasure to watch on the screen. The battles are done very well and this movie has some very good sound effects. There are some every good scenes in this movie. One that comes to mind is when the men know what the outcome of what they are doing. "},{"Title":"The Alamo(1960)","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This was the film that broke John Wayne though time has shown that it was neglected by the public.THe version available today is a farce compared to the original we saw.True there some unasked for familiar Wayne and co. drinking scenes but overall a good character study is shown of the leading figures.Widmark,Harvey,Ken Curtis and the others are brilliant.Wayne is simply Wayne.His presence and face tells all.Painstakingly made war scenes,excellent photography and an adequate script gives rise to a well made film.Enjoyable viewing and full of splendid heroics.A character study of John Wayne in fact.Get to know him.See this film! "},{"Title":"A three-hour unintentional comedy","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Since the release of this film, both its makers and fans have taken to calling anyone unpatriotic who does not find this film less than a cinema masterpiece.   Well, if calling the film what I believe it to be--a three hour exercise in ludicrous histrionics and unintentional comedy--makes me unpatriotic, I guess I'm guilty as charged.Those who have real knowledge of 19th century combat, frontier America, and/or the Texas War of Independence will need a calculator to add up all the obvious inaccuracies; and will grimace at the number of convenient omissions in all the speechifying, such as one of the motivations of the Texans in fighting for 'liberty' was the have the right to own slaves in that territory.  While Lawrence Harvey as Travis is passable, the others, including Wayne as Crocket, seem to get their idea of frontiersmen out of 1950's issues of Boy's Life Magazine.Like the gunfight at the OK Corral, the siege of the Alamo will probably get five or six hoary mis-simulations on film before some director finally gets it right.For me, the high point of the movie comes when Blind Nell Robertson (Veda Ann Borg) refuses Travis's offer to release her husband from his duties, and makes a speech on how the Cause is more important her personal care.   I keep waiting for Jocko Robertson (John Dierkes) to growl as the music swells Shut up woman!  You're my ticket out of this deathtrap! Don't blow it!   "},{"Title":"Col. Travis","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I love Spanish style out of Col Travis. I adore his acting as well. I want to wear his clothes so badly. I will re-attempt to make one like his someday. I can see some of amazing Spanish influences on Western riding style. I am very impressed with some of beautiful riding among Santa Anna's army in particular. It is very good piece of riding lessons for anyone to learn from Spanish side. I like John Wayne's 1960's Alamo movie than with 2004 version. Although, this film contains a couple of inaccurate historical facts, it is sure great entertainment film. Not bad for someone like John Wayne making his first debut as a director. "},{"Title":"A Lame-o Movie","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Lee Pfeiffer's The John Wayne Scrapbook, an indispensable accompaniment to anyone's collection of Duke movies, tells of John Wayne's love for and commitment to the creation of a film that would testify to the greatness of the men who held their ground at the Alamo, 170 years ago. He almost destroyed his health, bankrupted himself, and put his artistic credentials on the line to make The Alamo.And what he got for his sacrifice was a brutally-long, historically inaccurate, and badly acted mess of a movie that has survived despite its many, many flaws.As you watch it (and I would suggest that you hang on for the super-long version on TCM; in for a penny . . . right?), you'll notice that this is truly a labor of love for Wayne. The characters may be inaccurate, but the character of the movie, the patriotism and devotion to the concept of a republican form of government over Mexico's or any other country's dictatorship shines through, despite the hopelessly leaden performances, forced humor, and the audience's knowledge of and acceptance of the fact that none of these men who Wayne so wants you to bond with emotionally are going to see the credits.These guys are gonna die. And with that knowledge, Wayne has attempted the impossible--breathing life into a dead historical icon. He uses every trick he can, borrowing from his many directors' tool kits. What Wayne gets is a mishmash of John Ford and Howard Hawks. He throws in a whole lot a speechifyin' and brave soldierin' and wifely lovin', but, dagnabbit, those ol' boys are still gonna die. The film is beautifully shot and you would be nuts not to see it in widescreen, but pretty photography won't hold a movie together. As you watch, you can almost hear Wayne yelling at Crockett and Bowie and Travis to get up out of their graves for one last assault.Early on, Wayne's Davy Crockett tells his commander, Bill Travis, what the word republic means to him. It's only two minutes (out of 203), but it almost makes it worth it. Along with that speech (and Wayne's eulogy over a geriatric preacher who dies in the first major assault on the mission), you may find yourself forgiving the failure and cheering the concept, Wayne's devotion to his core values of faith and nation and his testament to the just under two hundred men who sacrificed themselves to defy General Santa Anna's dictatorship and give Texas its freedom.I say, Cut the ghosts some slack. "},{"Title":"Too Much Right Wing Agenda","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"12 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This is awful stuff . An event that shaped modern day America is done with far too much jingoism of the worst sort that only Hollywood in general and big John Wayne in particular would attempt . Never once did I get a feeling I was watching history played out as I did when I watched films like A BRIDGE TOO FAR . Watching this I got the distinct feeling that the Duke instructed the cast to play their roles in an  American hero  way ( Ie Emphasise throwing objects around a room during moments of anger and have them speak in a laughably loud manner ) but I couldn`t help noticing Laurence Harvey never sounds American in this . The script is painfully patriotic with speeches about truth , freedom and what a great country America is because it`s populated with so many real brave men . A good example being Sam Houston giving advice to his command that  Tomorrow when your recruits start whining and belly aching ....  Despite all this stomach churning flag waving there is one very good aspect to THE ALAMO and that`s its action scenes . I remember being very impressed with the battle scenes when I saw this film on television as a child and watching them today they are still very impressive . If you like action sequences then you must watch the last 45 minutes of THE ALAMO . But unless you`re a fully paid up member of the American Republican party you`ll not want to see the rest of the film  "},{"Title":"More funny than epic...","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" So I study this one battle for 6 weeks in my Texas History class, and then have to write an essay with at least fourteen citations. Then as a treat, we got to see this version of the Alamo. (at least before we saw the far superior 2004 version.)John Wayne portrays all of the Texan defenders as godly and charismatic, who get into fights and say cool one-liners frequently. But that's not what happened. I thought that they were going to make up for the shoddy beginning with an above average battle, but I was dead wrong.My Texas History class and I ended up laughing more then we appreciated the sacrifice, because the special effects were overdone and not believable at all. For example, a soldier that fell off of the ramparts would clearly use one hand to boost himself off the edge, and a soldier who fell off of his horse would actually lean over to the side and visibly make the horse fall.*SPOILERS* The way the most famous defenders die is INCREDIBLY cheesy. Travis's death is the funniest one, where he gets impaled, but pulls the sword out of his chest, breaks it in half with his knee, then throws it at a guy off screen. *END SPOILERS*I thought that this movie was really funny, but that's a bad thing, as it's supposed to be a solemn event. If you really want to see the Alamo, watch the 2004 version. "}{"Title":"Run from the Alamo **","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Other than a grand musical score by Dimitri Tiomkin, 1960's The Alamo was a major disappointment.John Wayne directed this film and I was not overly thrilled with his portrait of Davy Crockett. A far better performance was done by Fess Parker on the television series.It is rumored that Wayne demanded that Chill Wills be nominated for best supporting actor in this film. His performance was not exactly great and I am certainly not surprised that he lost the coveted Oscar that year.Yes, we all remember the tragedy of The Alamo. Yet, this film may very well have been overly violent for its time. "},{"Title":"Highly unenjoyable.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I used to see this on TV all the time. Although I would never really watch it, I would be able to recognize it. So, when I saw it at the video store, I bought it. Hoping that it would be a good John Wayne film, I sat down and almost puked at the terrible acting and terrible sound editing. I can't believe that this movie won Best Sound in the 1960 Academy Awards. I could not help but notice the scene where a young gentleman is riding his horse down a gravel trail as we hear the sound of the horse's hoofs clopping along on the ground. And when the horse jumps, I couldn't help but notice that we still hear the clopping noise even when the horse is in mid-air. And also, the acting sucks! John Wayne is probably the best actor in the entire film, and even he does a job of over-acting in this work of his. This may be a great epic about the story of the Alamo. And I would recommend this to someone with a general interest in the story, but otherwise, I would not. THE ALAMO gets 2/5. "}]