[{"Title":"What a Prophet we have in Sinclair Lewis","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"62 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elmer Gantry the novel came out in 1925 and it took 35 years to get it to the screen. But it certainly was worth the wait. The movie provided Burt Lancaster, Shirley Jones, and Richard Brooks all with Oscars and it has become a classic. But we sure view it differently 80 years after the book and 55 years after the movie debuted.Inherit the Wind and Elmer Gantry came out in the same year and both were set in the Twenties. Both dealt with fundamentalist religion and the power it held. Both films got Oscar nominated for best film and for Best Actor for it's first billed male player.In 1960 when you saw both films they were viewed as tales of a bygone era. Evangelists like Elmer Gantry and Sister Sharon Falconer have the kind of power that thankfully we don't give the fundamentalist community now. Even seeing film clips of Billy Sunday and Aimee Semple McPherson, they seemed quaint and old fashioned. Fortunately we'd outgrown the nonsense of that era.But Sinclair Lewis proved to be a prophet. No one could ever have dreamed in 1960 that fundamentalist Christians would have the political power they do today. What Lewis if he were alive today would do with Pat Robertson, Jerry Falwell, John Hagee and the rest of that crowd would really be something. Elmer Gantry is alive and well. Some might even call it a resurrection.And Elmer's a part that comes once in a lifetime to a player. Liar, conman, womanizer and likable on top. You've got to be a real extrovert to play that part. So Richard Brooks got perhaps one of the biggest extroverts ever to hit Hollywood.Burt Lancaster was born to play Gantry, in fact he'd had something of a dress rehearsal in the part in The Rainmaker. During those sermon scenes, some of which are taken from Billy Sunday's actual sermons, you know he's giving out with nonsense and you still get taken in by his charm. Note the relationship between Lancaster and agnostic reporter Arthur Kennedy. Kennedy knows he's a conman, but still they get along just great.It was a shame that Jean Simmons was neglected by the Academy for her portrayal of Sharon Falconer. Sharon is a true believer, but she's also a romantic as the real Aimee Semple McPherson was. And the woman had needs which Elmer is only too glad to fulfill.The real Aimee was also an outrageous character herself, but I believe a decent soul at heart. During the Depression, her tabernacle set up a soup kitchen that fed thousands. In fact Anthony Quinn, growing up in Los Angeles at the time, recalled in his memoirs working for his and his family's supper as a volunteer there. Quinn had nothing but praise for Aimee, she was the difference in whether his family ate or not on many a day.Shirley Jones got a career salvation with her Oscar winning role as Lulu Baines, prostitute who's out for vengeance. A fine singer, she came along unfortunately when musicals were winding down. That Oscar for Best Supporting Actress insured a continuing career for her.Arthur Kennedy as the investigative reporter is whose perspective we view the film from. He'd had five trips to the Oscar World Series without a victory, might have been nice if this one had been a sixth. His is the voice of reason, of true compassion, of truth in fact the voice of Sinclair Lewis himself.Another of Sinclair Lewis's great characters, George F. Babbitt, makes an appearance. Edward Andrews got probably his career part as Babbitt, hypocritical businessman to the max. He was as born to play Babbitt as Lancaster was to play Gantry. He could also have been given an Oscar nomination.Elmer Gantry is a great film, a prophetic film, proving it sure can happen here. "},{"Title":"And there was light.....9/10.","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"51 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" And there was light---9/10.All you need to know about the character of Elmer Gantry is neatly summed up in the first 10 minutes of the film. The film opens as we see Gantry holding court around a table in a bar, telling jokes and anecdotes of sexual conquests one minute, and then the next minute is helping out two wayward parishioners by passing the hat around the bar and preaching in earnest the word of God. Lancaster plays out the duality in the role of Gantry as everyman/ preacher brilliantly throughout the film. We're witness to his meteoric rise within the ranks of the religious road show, we see his stumbles within those ranks and his eventual fall from popularity to an even more impossible grace under fire (literally), but most importantly we see the ability of his character to serve both his rise and fall in ways truly unexpected. Gantry finds that there are many who will listen to him wax eloquent on the bible. But when Gantry sees Sister Sharon Falconer (as played by Jean Simmons) he forgets about getting closer to the lord and decides to ingratiate himself into her 'inner circle'. Gantry can see that the 'old time religion show' is a soul saver on Sunday, but quite a moneymaker on Monday. There are 'two very different' Gantry's, the one who has a lifetime of sexual anecdotes and the other who's true love is for the bible. What we are not in store for is the third Gantry; the one in love with Elmer Gantry and his own voice. In any case, Gantry sees a golden opportunity to satisfy all three Gantry's and he goes for it. Through his ability to con and sweet talk his way to the top, Gantry makes all of the right friends and maneuvers himself to a spot underneath Sister Sharon Falconer. Gantry's fall comes in the form of Lulu Baines (as played by Shirley Jones), a prostitute with a past history with Gantry. As Gantry's popularity on the 'road show' circuit starts to hit its zenith, Baines appears into Gantry's life once again as she sets up Gantry for blackmail. How Gantry deals with Baines and the loss of trust from Sister Sharon is one of the best moments from the film. And although her time on screen doesn't come close to matching that of both Lancaster and Simmons, it is the performance of Jones in one scene that practically steals the show. Jones' speech to the ladies in the brothel about Gantry Ramming the fear of God so fast into her was exhilaratingly fun and mildly erotic. I would think it was largely this scene that got her noticed by the Academy in 1960.However great Lancaster is as Gantry (Oscar winning performance) and spectacular Jones is as Baines (another Oscar winner), let us not forget how easy it would have been for this movie to have THREE Oscar WINNERS!!! Yes, Jean Simmons was robbed by the Academy that year. I think there are at least three reasons as to why Jean Simmons was not given the Oscar that year. One is the brutally lame ending to the movie. Sister Sharon is left to walk about the fiery inferno of her newly built church, while everyone around her is knocking her to the ground trying to escape. Sister Sharon is oblivious to human stampedes and is more concerned in urging everyone to remain calm. A performance that must not have been lost on John Landis when he made Kevin Bacon reprise it in 'Animal House' some 18 years later (sans the fire). It was a shame to see her babbling like an idiot while certain death surrounded her. That's one reason, but the other two reasons are probably more to the truth. You see, Jean Simmons wasn't the only actress who can claim to have been robbed on Oscar night, so could Shirley Maclaine. The Oscar could have gone to either one, but if it had gone to Jean Simmons, The Academy would've had a hard time giving any award to the 'The Apartment' or its director Billy Wilder. How could 'Elmer Gantry' win three of the four main awards yet not walk away with the Best Picture? It's also been said the Academy felt bad for Elizabeth Taylor as she was not only recovering from the recent death of her husband, Michael Todd, but also that she had just needed an emergency tracheotomy only weeks before the awards. However, one point should be clear, Elizabeth Taylor never should have won the Oscar over the performances that year from Simmons or Maclaine.Another performer from the movie who gives a great performance is Arthur Kennedy as Jim Lefferts. Lefferts is the skeptical newsman who follows the 'road show' waiting to see a miracle or perhaps to see many a false prophet fall. One scene that stands out is the scene where Lefferts is dictating an article on the exploits of Lancaster and Simmons' religious road show. While he is dictating he is also absent-mindedly sharpening a pencil. As Lefferts comments become to take on more of a cynical tone, the pencil in his hand also becomes sharper. Once Lefferts is through with his thought, the pencil has been sharpened to a fine point and his thoughts are ready for print. He writes, Is it a church, is it a religion or is it a circus sideshow complete with freaks, magic and rabble rousing? This is a fine film with a slightly disappointing ending. I can't accept that the errant fling of a cigarette can flash through the heavens like a message from God, but if ever a bolt of lightning was captured onto the silver screen, it was the bolt from Burt Lancaster as Elmer Gantry. 9/10.Clark Richards "},{"Title":"You're all sinners!  You'll all burn in hell!","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"31 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elmer Gantry is an amazing film that does not seem dated at all, having lost none of its bite or appeal with the passing of time. Taken from the classic Sinclair Lewis novel of the same name, director Richard Brooks garnered an Oscar for Best Screenplay for his adaptation, and Burt Lancaster won his sole Best Actor Oscar for his performance as Elmer Gantry. Gantry is an over-the-top opportunistic traveling salesman who teams up with evangelist Sister Sharon Falconer (Jean Simmons) to promote religion in 1920's America. Gantry turns out to be the perfect publicity compliment to Sister Sharon, who, unlike him, is a true believer. Where she is quiet and gentle with her manner of preaching, he is all fire and brimstone, literally throwing himself about the audience and inflaming them into repentance.Burt Lancaster commands the screen all flashing teeth, athletic energy, charisma, and wild hair, using his own physical prowess to great advantage. The angelic and lovely Jean Simmons, who had legions of adoring male fans when she was in her ethereal prime, portrays Sister Sharon (loosely based on a well-known real-life revivalist of the early 1920's, Aimee Semple McPherson, about whom I'd heard from my grandmother) in a manner reminiscent of her character in Spartacus - she was the perfect choice for this role, as was Lancaster for his.Shirley Jones was awarded the Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her lively portrayal of prostitute Lulu Bains, whose past history with Gantry comes back to haunt him, with some of the best lines in the film - gleefully laughing as she dances about a room full of her fellow prostitutes, she recounts that He rammed the fear of God into me so fast I never heard my old man's footsteps! Watching Burt Lancaster in his prime use his athletic ability (he was a circus acrobat before he became an actor) and physical grace helps make his performance truly electrifying. And he also manages to believably evolve Elmer Gantry from loud-mouthed salesman to a sympathetic and honest human being over the course of the film.The top-notch supporting cast includes Arthur Kennedy, Patti Page, Dean Jagger, and John McIntire. "},{"Title":"A Much Better Than Average Literary Adaption","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For some reason Richard Brooks seemed to think of himself as the man best suited to turning great novels and plays into films, but if the results were at best entertaining (The Brothers Karamazov, Cat on a hot tin roof) they tended to fall far short of the originals. If Elmer Gantry worked better than most was largely due to Brooks ability to tell a rattling good yarn at a cracking pace and to the performances of a superb cast.Burt Lancaster seemed born to play the role of the lustful traveling salesman whose desire for the Aimee Semple McPhearson-like Sister Sharon turns him into a charismatic preacher, (his performance here is a virtual reprise of his performance as Starbuck in The Rainmaker a few years earlier). As Sharon, Jean Simmons gives a luminous performance, all fragility and repressed sexuality and singer Shirley Jones is a revelation as a trampy prostitute; (both she and Lancaster were rewarded with Oscars). Not great then, but several cuts above what it might have been. "},{"Title":"However You See This, It's Fascinating","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"36 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It took a long time before I watched this movie on VHS. I had boycotted it for years, thinking it was too anti-Christian to support with my money, either renting or buying it. Finally, in the summer of 2005 I took a look after seeing several Burt Lancaster films and being reminded how good an actor he was. Well, he didn't disappoint here, either, with a fantastic performance as those of you who have seen this already know. Lancaster is absolutely mesmerizing as Elmer Gantry. At times I wondered if he wasn't overacting, but his character called for a very animated salesman-type person. So, I'll give him the credit and assume he was just playing his role, not hamming it up too much as it often appears.Gantry gave the best speeches in this film and even though many people think he was the charlatan all the way through, I disagree. I think he had changed in the end. At any rate, Lancaster made him into a believable person.He certainly was a lot more believable than Jean Simmons' female evangelist, Sister Sharon. Anyone who knows Scripture, knows that NO evangelist - real or not - would say or do some of the things she said-did in here. Nonetheless, Simmons gives just as riveting a performance as Lancaster, her character just being lower-key than the fiery Gantry.The most shocking role to me was played by wholesome (can you say Oklahoma!?) Shirley Jones, who only appears in the last part of this long film but plays a memorable character a hooker who had past encounters with Elmer Gantry and now wants to expose him for the womanizing heathen she thinks he is, and succeeds in doing so but is ashamed of her actions in the end. Arthur Kennedy also is fascinating as the skeptical atheist-type newspaper reporter who softens quite a bit at the end. Meanwhile, the big-city businessman George Babbitt (Edward Andrews) was the only really annoying and overblown character in the film and typical of what Hollywood does today when they want to make a relgious person look bad.I mention all these actors before remarking about the story because the acting and the characters are what make this movie so well-done and entertaining. As for the story, I don't believe this film is the expose and critical critique of evangelists Liberal film critics would have you believe. In fact, compared to filmmakers in the following decade - the '70s - they were quite tolerant. Sister Sharon was basically a sincere - if not misguided in spots - evangelist and a Believer and so was Elmer as he says at the end of the film.Yes, there is some theology nonsense in here that simply isn't Scriptural and there is an obvious Hollywood bias against evangelists, but I expected far worse. To be fair, there were a lot of Biblically-sound lines in this script, too. And - by the way - not all evangelists are corrupt, despite what you see on film. (Don't hold your breath waiting for Hollywood to do a bio on the most famous one of them all Billy Graham.)As a Christian, I still don't trust the intent of the filmmakers but I found the film fascinating overall and think it's excellent work. I'm glad I got the movie. Better late than never! "},{"Title":"Wow! Complex, Fascinating, Relevant;  A Must See","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Elmer Gantry, Burt Lancaster gives one of the all-time great screen performances. Lancaster's performance is so rich, so real, that the viewer knows this man, knows what Gantry smells like (sweat and eau de cologne) and what he eats (big slabs of beef). I can't say I've ever seen anything quite like it. Gantry's entire repertoire is performed with encyclopedic thoroughness and accuracy. We see Gantry the narcissistic conman, Gantry the philanthropist, Gantry the flamboyant showman.Just when we think we've seen it all, just when we think we can write Gantry off as a cross between a clown, a self-deceiver, and a blowhard, the movie reveals another nuance in Gantry's soul &#150; something we'd never seen before, and yet realize is totally believable, and, in fact, essential to understanding the man. Our views of the man change. We can't help but love him.One such scene almost 75 % of the way through the movie, in fact, after a shorter and shallower movie would have ended, Gantry says to another man, Don't you know that that hurts? in a voice we haven't heard him use before. Lancaster is breathtaking in this, the film's quietest line reading. Lancaster is so magnificent in this, his Oscar-winning role, that you have to wonder if he is not calling on much of his own character, as a charming, larger-than-life Hollywood star, to play the charming, larger-than-life star of tent revivals. IMDb trivia notes claim that Lancaster received a letter from a childhood friend saying that Lancaster's performance as Elmer Gantry reminded him of the Lancaster he remembered from real life.The rest of the cast is also superb. Jean Simmons is domineering, spiritual, spooky, and lustful, by turns. Shirley Jones is heartbreaking as a doomed woman. Arthur Kennedy is perfect as a skeptical journalist. Dean Jagger perfectly times and pitches his paternal air, his outrage, and his surprised forgiveness. Patti Page is poignant as Sister Rachel. Edward Andrews is the embodiment of a sanctimonious, ambitious, brothel owner.This film addressing religious corruption, lynch mob mentality, and illicit sex was made under strict rules of censorship. There are no four letter words, no naked breasts, no bleeding wounds. And yet this film raised goose bumps in ways that more explicit movies only wish they could. A crowd brays for blood; a man pulls a horse whip out of a paper bag and cracks it. Refuse is thrown at a man, and what looks very like maggots. A police officer arresting a prostitute says You wouldn't believe what I caught this one doing. A virgin is taken under a building by a man who has practically hypnotized her. Wow! Elmer Gantry is critical of Christian revival meetings that were popular in the rural south and Midwest in the early decades of the twentieth century. Its indirect targets were understood to be the historical figures, Aimee Semple McPherson and Billy Sunday. Some Christians might avoid the movie for this reason. That would be a mistake. The movie is ultimately very charitable to all of its characters, even Babbit, the brothel owner. Like Gantry himself, the film sees humanity in all its beauty and ugliness, understands, and forgives. This is no black/white, two-dimensional screed. It's a complex exploration of complex behaviors, longings, needs, desires, ambitions. A woman can be a virgin dedicated to God and also a lover who empties sand out of her high-heeled shoe after a night of illicit passion on a beach. A villain who contributed to the ruination of a young woman's life can redeem himself through application of biblical concepts of humility and forgiveness.Too, the flimflamming Elmer Gantry skewers is not limited to churches. There is a charming narcissist of uncertain background on the world stage today who, like Gantry, attracts chanting crowds, causes women to faint and men to believe in a national renaissance. This particular charismatic public speaker is not a religious leader, but a candidate for the presidency. The speaker who wows crowds, the crowds who yearn to surrender themselves to a putative messiah, are forever with us. That being the case, Elmer Gantry is a film that will never lose its relevance. "},{"Title":"Jesus was a simple virtuous teacher, . . . but I have my  doubts ","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From the exceptionally talented pen of noted author Sinclair Lewis comes this entertaining story of a fast-talking, yarn-spinning vacuum salesman with the natural gift of persuasion. In his ever lustful sights is a voluptuous female preacher. In order to conquer her, he must use his extensive repertoire of biblical quips, quotes and bawdy antidotes. Within the sphere of a traveling troupe of bible beating, evangelicals on a religious crusade, the author's hero, one Elmer Gantry (supurbly played by Oscar wining Burt Lancaster) is as energetic as his tales. Although it's difficult to know if Gantry's spiritual motivation is genuine or merely a ploy, throughout the film, one is kept guessing. The target of his earthly desires is Beautiful Sister Sharon Falconer (Jean Simmons) a sincere, but fallible woman out to build a ministry. A serious obstacle to her goal is Gantry, but more so is the cautionary and caustic pen of Jim Lefferts (Arthur Kennedy), a Pulitzer Prize winning journalist who questions the personal and financial motives of her entourage. Her main supporter is worldly William Morgan (Dean Jagger) who believes in Falconer, and sees Gantry and Lefferts for the opportunistic impediments they are. The film is a triumph for Lancaster and Kennedy and for all those who wish to visit a confusing period of Americanna, when the word of God was infected by preachers, pushers and spiritual leeches. **** "},{"Title":"Jean Simmonds deserved an Oscar","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is not only good; it misses being great by a narrow margin. With a long line of charismatic cinematic rogues to his credit, Burt Lancaster pulls off a barnstorming performance as Elmer Gantry, the salesman turned opportunistic evangelist whose fast-talking pitch scarcely slackens, off-stage or on. But for my money it is Jean Simmonds, surely robbed of her own Oscar here, who has the most impressive part.Her ethereal Sister Sharon is an idealist who truly believes in her calling -- and is devastated when reporter Jim Lefferts calmly takes her assumptions apart -- but she is more than just a plaster saint, let alone the push-over Gantry initially counts upon. She has the logistics of her operation at her fingertips, sees through Gantry's act at first glance, and faces up to officialdom and blackmail alike with equal courage. Simmonds performs with conviction in her varying role as angelic preacher, self-possessed businesswoman, carefree girl and woman in love, and it's unclear why it was co-star Shirley Jones who received both Oscar nomination and award. As Lulu Baines, the girl whose seduction and ruin caused Gantry's earlier expulsion from theological college and whose reappearance threatens his newfound success, Jones plays a pivotal part in the plot, and conveys the character's crucial wavering between vengeance and sympathy for her lover; but I felt Simmonds' was the greater challenge and the greater, unrecognised, achievement.The filmed version is perhaps inevitably softened from the savage satire of the book, presumably in quest of popular appeal; it certainly succeeded so far as I was concerned. Lancaster's Gantry is a more sympathetic and attractive character than the original. He uses his huckster's tricks to sell religion, but at the heart of it he has a genuine naive faith; he seduces Sister Sharon as he always intended, but as far as he is capable he loves her and she redeems him. He uses his rhetoric to undermine Jim Lefferts with his employer, just as the reporter uses the logic of his own sharpened pencil to rip apart and expose the revivalists' operation, and yet the two men share a mutual knowledge and respect that verges on friendship.Ultimately, Gantry achieves a Christ-like moment of his own when he endures humiliation at the hands of a vengeful mob as if in payment for the disaster his actions have brought upon Sister Sharon, standing mutely beneath the pelting filth with no move toward the self-defence, both verbal and physical, in which he normally excels. And it is from this spectacle -- admirably played by Lancaster in resignation as in flamboyance -- that Lulu flees, unable to bear what she has brought about.This is not, however, the story of Elmer Gantry's redemption, and it is in the handling of the ending that in my view the film chiefly misses greatness. The outcome, while perhaps deliberately ambiguous, is confused.The plot mandates that Sister Sharon perish in the fire, but the methods chosen to achieve this make both her and the scriptwriters appear idiotic. The presentation of her attempts to prevent the congregation leaving, in the face of what is here shown as clear and present danger, and her own determination to remain, came across as unmotivated and bizarre in a woman who has previously seemed realistic and practical. In consequence the sequence drags out beyond the bounds of plausibility, while the final shot of her miraculously white and untouched among the flames is just tasteless.Rather than casting her as Joan of Arc, I feel it would have made more sense to shorten the scene, indicating her human reluctance to abandon her life's work if there is the faintest chance of saving it, having her trampled by the crowd and then struck down by the falling beam that as shot just misses her, and then, just as in the film, having the floor give way beneath Gantry before he can reach her -- and using *that* as the climax of the sequence. A couple of tiny changes to existing material, 30 seconds or so of cuts, and the climax could have been so much more coherent. It might even have served to redeem the coda afterwards, where the lack of satisfactory resolution is I think intentional...'Elmer Gantry' is intelligent, attractive, and -- at least to my mind -- more subtle in its satire of hellfire evangelism than its source material. Outstanding is the role of Jim Lefferts the cynic, who tags along with the show in order to sell copy on its charades, but finds himself touched by its purely human side; in many ways he represents the modern audience, pre-empting our mockery and distaste and hence preventing them from destroying the illusion. (It is a mark of the film's sophistication that this character is presented neither as hero nor killjoy villain.)The ending, however, isn't really up to the standards of the rest. "},{"Title":"Sin, sin, sin! You're all sinners! You're all doomed to perdition!","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on the muckraker Sinclair Lewis' novel, and superbly translated to the screen by Richard Brooks (In Cold Blood , The Professionals, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof), this story of huckster-ism by religion is a masterpiece.Burt Lancaster player the greatest role of his career, getting his only Oscar for his performance. Lancaster, so good in such films as From Here to Eternity, Atlantic City, and Seven Days in May, was spellbinding as the salesman for God.Shirley Jones (The Music Man, The Patridge Family, was simply delicious as Gantry's first conquest, and now a five-buck hooker, that he left behind Oh, he gave me special instructions back of the pulpit Christmas Eve. He got to howlin' Repent! Repent! and I got to moanin' Save me! Save me! and the first thing I know he rammed the fear of God into me so fast I never heard my old man's footsteps! 1960 was a great year for movies, and this was certainly one of the best of that year, and one of the best of all time. If you want to see real acting, this film should be on your must-see list. "},{"Title":"This is the movie Steve Martin was trying to make when he did Leap of Faith","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The titular character starts out as a cynical small time hustler discovering a good scam joining up with a traveling revival show, and casting his eye to the charismatic and comely lady preacher leading it.What is really good is how the character develops, and gradually becomes a good sincere Christian, which is best seen in his interaction with the Shirley Jones character.She is a preacher's kid who was disowned by her father before the start of the movie timeline after he caught Elmer ramming the fear of god into her. She has since become a prostitute, and has the opportunity to repay Elmer's earlier callous treatment.Oh, yes, I know these people, or at least watered down real life versions of them.  This movie really gets at the charismatic Christianity of the heartlands, and the strong sexual tensions running just beneath the surface. Oh, I bet Jimmy Swaggart for one knew JUST what they were getting at.  "}{"Title":"Love is the morning and the evening star!","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Elmer Gantry can be considered the quintessential exploration into the omnipresent duality existing between a person's religious  faith and simultaneous character defects.  Burt Lancaster is bold and provocative as the title character who is preaching to you one moment and drunk and surly the other.  The acting and directing is superb to the point that it becomes difficult to remember that it is only a movie.  Jean Simmons is lovely and convincing as as Sister Sharon Falconer, the charismatic female evangelist who wins Gantry's heart (and lust)as they team up to jump-start America's dwindling religious beliefs. Of course, turmoil closes in on them as their inherent instincts of love overpower their adherence to the Christian principles they attempt to profess.This is a searing message, indeed, that should be heeded by the Jimmy Swaggarts and Oral Roberts' of the world.  Evangelism can be a dangerous platform when it allows a single person to rise to power while removing him (or her) from the fact that he is still a human and, thus, still vulnerable to the instincts and flaws he vehemently opposes on stage.  It is thrilling to see how the Bible-Belt public shift their view so quickly when they first support and believe in the sincerity of Gantry and Sister Falconer but then witness their humanity and become violent.  The scene where the heckling crowd throws garbage at the ostracized couple while a man plays a jazzed up rendition of Onward Christian Soldiers on the trumpet after Gantry is caught with a prostitute (played to the hilt by Shirley Jones) is both amusing and sad.  If you enjoyed the book, you will not be disappointed with the movie in the least.  "},{"Title":"Lancaster's vitality as a sinful preacher lights up the screen...","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Richard Brooks spent years trying to bring ELMER GANTRY to the screen. When he finally got the green light, it was United Artists that agreed to distribute the film. And fortunately for us, it gives BURT LANCASTER the kind of role that would rightly win him an Academy Award as Best Actor in 1960.He gives the role all the energy and charisma it requires and then some. His chemistry with JEAN SIMMONS, as an Evangelist who at first resists his overtures to join her group, is evident from their first encounter. ARTHUR KENNEDY does a fine job as a cynical journalist who is largely a bystander to the proceedings and DEAN JAGGER is excellent as a fellow Evangelist who has his own doubts about Gantry. Singer PATTI PAGE does nicely in a straight dramatic role.It's easy to see why Hollywood was afraid of the Sinclair Lewis story. It certainly doesn't paint organized religion in a very positive light and, in fact, deals with the underbelly of revivalism. The story of a an unholy preacher who turned revivalism into a circus side show is so cynical, it makes anything that someone like Billy Wilder ever wrote look like child's play by comparison.SHIRLEY JONES has the role of the prostitute who is Gantry's undoing when she pulls the con game on him of photographing him offering her money. His Achilles Heel is women and she knew it. A newspaper gets hold of the photos and his goose is cooked.ARTHUR KENNEDY has the story's best line The mobs don't like their Gods to be human. I bought everything but the climactic fire and damnation ending with JEAN SIMMONS wandering around like a lost soul amid the flames. It seemed totally out of character for her to suddenly become so unrealistic about what was happening.Other than that, a great movie. BURT LANCASTER never had a more fitting role. "},{"Title":"Satan lies awaitin'","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Burt Lancaster acted in a number of excellent films during the late 1950s and early 1960s. Elmer Gantry, directed by Richard Brooks, is one of his best.Set in the early 1920s, the film stars Lancaster as Elmer Gantry, a fast talking charlatan and con man who uses his seductive tongue to weasel his way into the church of Sharon Falconer (Jean Simmons), a Christian fundamentalist and female evangelist. Together the duo travel from town to town, setting up massive revival tents and seducing thousands upon thousands of believers.At its best, Elmer Gantry draws parallels between the words of business, entertainment and organised religion. In Brooks' hands, the church's foot-soldiers are more hucksters and crafty salesmen than men and women of God. They're selling a product, tailoring their pitches and pep talks to the wants and needs of the people, and even actively manufacturing desires, phobias and neuroses. Lancaster's character is himself a creepy sales machine who always knows exactly which screws to turn. His product? Himself. Ego-maniacal and craving attention, Gantry will do anything to be at the head of a pulpit.Burt Lancaster has often been accused of overacting. His character in Elmer Gantry is admittedly bombastic and exuberant, but fittingly so. Like an advertising executive on caffene, Gantry is a man of wild gestures and big promises, though there is subtlety and truth in the way Lancaster sculpts Gantry's smiles and the edges of Gantry's eyes. Gantry's facial features are hard, forced and false, all an act designed to seduce. Think of him as a precursor to Paul Thomas Anderson's Daniel Plainview (based on a 1927 Upton Sinclair novel).Elmer Gantry was itself based on less than 100 pages from an ahead-of-its-time novel by Sinclair Lewis (released in 1926). But where Lewis is satirical, edgy, angry, funny and resolutely anti-Christian, Brooks' film is kinder, gentler, ambiguous and scared of offending Christian audiences. Is Brooks' Gantry a believer? It seems so, despite his motivations. Do miracles happen within the film, thereby proving the existence of Christ? Again, it seems so, though the film is ambiguous enough to also suggest the exact opposite. Lewis' stance may have been too militant, even for the supposedly progressive 1960s; just another example of how timid cinema can be.Still, as a watered-down critique of fundamentalism, and even religion in a broader sense, the film works well. It's most sympathetic character is an atheist journalist, played by the great, underrated Arthur Kennedy. Kennedy's character sees through everyone's shams, but empathises with them nevertheless. A key scene involves him writing a newspaper article which shocks readers. Gantry and Falconer are hucksters and racketeers, he writes, selling superficialities in a world in which well-meaning intentions, religion and social goods offer no resistance to vices or social evil. Kennedy's readers support him, until the fast talking Elmer Gantry once again shifts popular opinion. Rather than change people, religion tends to force man to compartmentalise, repress or engage in wanton denial.The film missteps in its final act, with a fire-and-brimstone climax and an ending which is arguably too sympathetic toward Gantry. Better to portray him as a snake. A wolf in sheep's clothing. Brooks, though, has Gantry redeemed. He's just another soldier answering God's call. The film's best scene? Gantry stepping into an African American church and singing I'm On My Way To Canaan's Land. The sequence is brilliant, Gantry's words like a threat, his tongue like the tool of Satan.8.5/10 - Richard Brooks is not well known today, but he directed a number of very good films (think of him as another John Huston). Elmer Gantry is one of his best. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Burt Lancaster in all his scene chewing glory","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have long felt that Burt Lancaster often made movies great because his acting was much bigger-than-life, and he also helped degrade a few movies for this very same reason. The trouble is, he needed a good reason for his broad and over-the-top acting. He just didn't do subtle very well, as his acting tends to magnify the focus on himself--which, once again can be either good or bad.Well in this case, Lancaster's larger-than-life acting is right on the mark, as it perfectly suits the huckster showman that he played. Elmer Gantry is a combination of Jimmy Swaggert, Professor Hill (The Music Man) and P. T. Barnum--after becoming all juiced up on speed! While he is totally insincere and wicked, his performance is mesmerizing and believable. Although Jean Simmons does a fine job in the movie and Shirley Jones received an Oscar for her supporting role as a whore (wow--that is acting against type), this is Lancaster's movie through and through. He deservedly won the Oscar for Best Actor. "},{"Title":"Gantry great old-school film just the way I like it!","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Honestly, I don't know where to begin because there were a lot of things that I loved about watching this film Elmer Gantry (1960). There were so many great elements happening all at once especially the acting. Burt Lancaster did a splendid job and was a perfect choice for the leading role of Elmer Gantry because he featured lots of honest to goodness acting. His energy, enthusiasm, and charismatic appearance made Gantry such a cool character. His acting was most definitely my favorite aspect of the movie because his performance truly brought the movie to life. My rule for telling whether I watched a good movie or not is by seeing how often I notice the outlining of the screen that the movie is displayed on and I barely noticed it when watching Elmer Gantry because I was so into it. The director of the film, Richard Brooks, did a fine job with choosing the camera angles and transitioning. Take it from someone who loves everything about film and is trying to become a prominent film director when I say you can learn a lot from watching Mr.Brooks film. Brooks displayed professional frame balance practically throughout every scene. Overall, after watching Citizen Kane I kinda became bored of watching old-school films but Elmer Gantry has restored my enjoyment of old- school films once again. I just began enjoying older films a lot more than what is being produced today in the film world. I thought the script for Elmer Gantry was exceptional; I loved every quote in the movie especially, One minute you're a howling banshee,the next, you're cold potatoes. Everyone should watch Elmer Gantry because it is simply a great movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Acting makes the film great!","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Burt Lancaster's Oscar Winning performance in the title role was well-worth the accolades. He really shines as a tarnished, immoral salesman who spends Christmas at a bar and leaves with one of the ladies during the Great Depression in the heartland. As the film progresses, we learned of Elmer Gantry's past especially his own previous desire to be a minister/preacher. Elmer Gantry is as lost as those who followed in the tent revivals that swept the country during hard times. He manipulates his way into Sister Sharon Falconer (played brilliantly by the late Jean Simmons who should have won an Oscar for her performance in this role). The film is beautifully visual and as Elmer Gantry's past comes haunting again to tarnish the tent revival and watch Gantry and Sister Sharon fall again. Shirley Jones won an Oscar for best supporting actress in her role as the woman who can bring Gantry down. I think she does a brilliant job but I wished that she had more speaking moments. Still the supporting cast is brilliant as well. It's a first rate film! "},{"Title":"A remarkable movie","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I give this movie a 10 only because there is nothing above that.I first saw this movie as a kid on TV not that long after it came out. It hasn't aged one bit. That it came out the same year as Inherit the Wind, another masterpiece, is interesting but not surprising. Hollywood was turning the spotlight on the dangers of religious fundamentalism that have since become far more powerful in this country.Everything about this movie is first rate. Lancaster's acting isn't acting; it is better than that. He simply becomes Gantry, and you believe in him - as he believes in himself, from time to time - completely. The script is powerful, the directing first rate.This is one of those movies that I sit down and watch when it shows up on TV, no matter how many times I have seen it before. It really is one remarkable movie. "},{"Title":"Burt Lancaster at his best","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Screenwriter turned Director/Screenwriter Richard Brooks did many films that he wrote the screenplay but didn't direct for as well as films that he directed but didn't write but when he did both for a film he had some great results like in Elmer Gantry, In Cold Blood, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, Sweet Bird of Youth and The Pofessionals for examples among many more good films. Brooks had a literary style of adapting novels and well-known works of literature onto film. Here he takes the popular 1920's Sinclair Lewis novel and adapts it to an Oscar winning screenplay. Burt Lancaster is the composite character of fraudulent preachers with a past in a role that won him the Academy Award for Best Actor beating out Spencer Tracy, Laurence Olivier, Trevor Howard and Jack Lemmon. It was the second of Lancaster's four Best Actor nominations in his career and his only win. Shirley Jones also won an Oscar as Best Supporting Actress for her portrayal of a prostitute who was a minister's daughter and someone from Gantry's past. The film Elmer Gantry was also nominated for Best Picture for 1960 and André Previn received a nomination for Best Score. Jean Simmons was overlooked for a nomination as Best Actress in this fine cast that included Arthur Kennedy, Dean Jagger, John McIntire and Hugh Marlowe. I would give this a 9.0 out of 10 and recommend it. "},{"Title":"Let's go back to church!","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The growth of fundamentalist Christianity in contemporary America is a source of bafflement to those who just don't get it; including, by and large, the movie industry, which may like to end its films with sanctimonious moralising, but which usually reserves the right to serve us substantial portions of sex and violence beforehand. Mel Gibson aside, you don't expect to see a sympathetic portrayal of religion in the movies; from 'Night of the Hunter' onwards, the dodgy preacher has been a more common character than the saintly one, and there's another kicking for the born-again movement in 'Elmer Gantry'. In fact, the film could be seen as prescient, as both religious revivalism, and celebrity-scandal driven journalism (another of its subjects), have arguably become more prevalent since it was made. The film's slant may be predictable, and it also suffers from some common flaws of its era (an ugly, intrusive Andre Previn score, and occasionally wooden acting); but it's hugely entertaining nonetheless. Burt Lancaster plays the eponymous anti-hero as rogue of such charm that you almost want him to succeed; while the ambiguous character of his partner Sister Falconer (Jean Simmons), who doesn't seem to know herself whether is she a fellow-fraud or a genuine messenger of God, makes a perfect dramatic foil. In fact, the film's theatricality can almost be seen as a strength, for it's constructed like a well-written play. Although most entertaining when Gantry is actually preaching (mainly in the opening half of the film), the intelligent script moves on from it's basic premise (that Gantry is a charlatan) to explore wider questions of the nature of humanity and society. You could even argue that Gantry is performing a kind of public service, meeting a need with maximum opportunism but without malice. For all that, you also fear for a world in which the influence of modern-day Gantries shows no sign of diminishing. This is a film that has outlasted its time. "},{"Title":"Tent Religion Of A Bygone Era","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Probably the most significant thing to know about this film is that the story is set in 1927. Given, too, that the film's production was 1960, we can say that Elmer Gantry does not reflect the current, 21st century, state of religious fundamentalism in America. The film is basically how Hollywood, in the late 1950s, viewed tent religion in the early part of the twentieth century.Given that the Production Code, with its moral censorship guidelines, was still in force when the film was made, the script is a sanitized version of the Sinclair Lewis novel. Hollywood thus tries to straddle the fence in its faith vs. no-faith theme, and render characters as merely flawed, not evil.Thus, vacuum salesman Elmer Gantry (Burt Lancaster) may be slimy, deceptive, hypocritical, scheming, and manipulative, but he can also recite lines from the Bible. To make him any more diabolical would have angered a majority of viewers in 1960. Similarly, Sister Sharon (Jean Simmons) may collect money from those who go to her revivals, but it's to pay the bills and all the logistics necessary for her ministry. Further, she seems so sincere and, seemingly, can render miracles.We can thus forgive Hollywood for taking this approach to the story in 1960. At that time, nobody could foresee how self-serving and hateful religious fundamentalism would become in politics in the latter part of the 20th century. After all, Sister Sharon talked a lot about love, not hate.The film is quite grandiose, a big-scale production, well over two hours in duration. Scenes are lavish in scope, heavy on dialogue, and visually robust, no doubt a carryover from those big screen sword and sandal epics of the 1950s. As such, the story seems contrived. Performances, especially that of Burt Lancaster, seem exaggerated.As a big, splashy Hollywood production, Elmer Gantry is okay, except for its length, its contrived story, and its exaggerated performances. But it doesn't reflect modern religious fundamentalism. For that, a more realistic, and relevant, movie is Marjoe (1972), about a child evangelist. And Marjoe is not contrived at all; it's a true story. "}{"Title":"Big performance from Burt Lancaster","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's the prohibition era. Elmer Gantry (Burt Lancaster) is a slick traveling salesman who is a boozer and a dog hound. He is a born salesman well versed with the bible. He is so good that it is hard to tell the difference whether he's sincere or lying. He is one haunted by his checkered past and his immorality. He is taken with Sister Sharon Falconer (Jean Simmons) who runs revival meetings. She's a true believer. He badgers her until she allows him to preach. He becomes so successful that he becomes indispensable to Sister Sharon's roadshow. Bill Morgan sees thru Elmer and tells Sharon that in 1917 he was expelled from the seminary for seducing the deacon's daughter. She ignores the warning and they become a great success in the big city. Then his past comes back to haunt him in the form of Lulu Bains (Shirley Jones) who is now a prostitute.Burt Lancaster gives such a big performance. It is so big that it always has a tinge of falsehood. His laugh is so outrageous that it plays both sides of the divide. It's this big performance that is so memorable. Jean Simmons is the perfect compliment. She is the embodiment of purity of spirit. Burt definitely deserves his Oscar win. I can see some people taking offense from the depiction of religious revival. However I see a great role model in Sister Sharon. It's also a tale of salvation for Elmer Gantry. "},{"Title":"Where is the line?","Date":"8 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elmer Gantry (Lancaster) is two different people. There's the person he is when it comes to religion and then he is a completely different, very flawed, human being when it comes to everything else. You name it and he's done it. To quote the film, and how do I know there's a merciful God? Because I've seen the devil plenty of times! (The close up on that shot is amazing)There's a reason Burt Lancaster won an Oscar for his performance as Gantry. It's one of the finest I've ever seen by any actor ever. He convincingly switches between passionate preacher and sinner. There's never any doubt that he believes what he preaches, though his preaching itself is sometimes a total lie.Is he duping the people when he does that? Yes. But is he causing any harm? His faith is not in question, he gives other people faith, is any of that a bad thing? Is it bad simply because he, at times, is a bad person? Is duping them necessarily a bad thing? It's a triumph of the film the way that it portrays a character with such seemingly conflicting morals, and portray him in a way that seems very realistic.What is the message of the movie? His and Sharon Falconer's revivalism starts out as simply giving people morals to abide by and faith in love and God. A bountiful God, a generous God. That is certainly never a bad thing. However it takes a turn towards vigilante when Gantry leads a religious mob to raid liquor stores and brothels. It takes an even further, perhaps harmless, turn at the end with faith healing. Harmless until Falconer attempts to convince her churchgoers to not flee the burning church, because God will save them.Is the message of the film that religion is good until taken too far? Did God burn the church down because he disapproved of faith healing? Where is the line between religion being helpful and religion actually causing harm? It is the sign of a great movie when at the end I find myself asking questions like that. It is a rare quality. "},{"Title":"Dynamite","Date":"27 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Richard Brooks adapted the Sinclair Lewis novel with dynamite results. A perfectly cast Burt Lancaster has the title role, a money hungry charlatan who insinuates himself into the world of Jean Simmons (as a very Aimee Semple McPherson-like evangelist). Mayhem ensues as Lancaster finds his past catching up to him. The ever daring Brooks gets props for tackling this difficult novel, which in 1960 was still far too controversial to make it to the screen in any unexpurgated version. Lancaster is tremendous in his Oscar winning role & he's well matched by Simmons, who is not quite the angel she appears to be. Dean Jagger (as one of Simmons's handlers) is excellent as are the oddly cast supporting players Patti Page; Arthur Kennedy; John McIntire. Edward Andrews plays George Babbitt and Shirley Jones is astounding, forever erasing her good girl image as the infamous Lulu Baines. Andre Previn did the music and John Alton did the high gloss photography. "},{"Title":"More complex than I expected","Date":"4 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I came into this expecting it to be an exposé of the tent revival movement, and it is that, but I was left with many questions that I have had about the revival phenomenon since I was a young man. More out of curiosity than anything else I attended many such revivals in Oklahoma in the late 1950s. I imagine that there has not been a better time and place to experience these events in their most authentic form, and I came away from them in the same frame of mind that I came away from this movie, wondering just how much of a con job they are. And wondering what the people involved really believe. Burt Lancaster gives a remarkable performance as Gantry in this adaptation of the Sinclair Lewis novel. At the beginning of the movie Gantry is a salesman who is not selling much. Then he sees an opportunity to attach himself to the itinerant evangelist Sister Sharon Falconer. He rises in the ranks due to his zealous sermonizing. By the end of the movie he has changed, even declining the advances of an old flame who commented that he had once rammed the fear of God into me. I was left to speculate about whether Gantry had truly reformed or whether he had bought into his own malarkey. Just when it seemed that he had become a man of god, he closes with the enigmatic quote from the BibleWhen I was a child, I spoke as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child but when I became a man, I put away childish things.Was he saying that he recognized his past behavior as fraudulent, or was he saying that he could now see a way to a more honest ministry?I found Jean Simmons to be miss-cast. She did not project the charisma and strength that I think would be necessary in her position. In the one healing scene she seemed particularly weak. If you want to see some real industrial strength healing in action, catch Oral Roberts in his prime on YouTube.Arthur Kennedy plays news reporter Jim Lefferts. He is probably a stand-in for Sinclair Lewis, being highly skeptical of the whole business. The exchanges between Gantry and Lefferts are at the core of the story. Gantry is such a slippery character that even the cynical Lefferts can't get beyond puzzling over just what sort of man he is.The revival performances I witnesses had it down pat in terms of how to put on a show. There was some warm-up music, maybe something like Softly and Tenderly, Jesus Is Calling. After a few of the old time hymns the evangelist would come on, starting out slowly and building to a climax, then more aggressive music presented in a rock and roll style. In fact in attending rock concerts later in life I saw a great similarity in the arc of the presentations--the idea is to whip the audience into a frenzy as things go along. Of course in the revival setting, after the audience had been primed they were asked to come forward for conversion, healing, the laying on of hands, or whatever. I have to say that, even as an atheist, it was hard not to be taken in by the spirit of the thing, and I did not get that emotional experience from this movie. "},{"Title":"Elmer and Jim - The best of enemies","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The exchanges between Elmer Gantry as played by Burt Lancaster and Jim Lefferts played by Arthur Kennedy is the what brings me back to this film time and again. They are pitted as enemies yet they understand each other as no other character in the film can. With a wry smile, Kennedy displays a grudging respect for Elmer's ability to manipulate crowds and twist logic to suit his purpose. Jim Lefferts is an honorable man. But so was Brutus. And we all know that Brutus was an anarchistic, alcoholic assassin! How can you argue with someone who is prepared to use such outrageous tactics? But it is when Elmer uses Jim's innate honesty to trap him into admitting his agnosticism that turns black comedy into a dramatic poignancy. Do you believe Jesus Christ can give us life everlasting? asks Elmer. I'd love to believe it, replies Jim. The depth Kennedy brings to this line is moving beyond words but Elmer, rather than being moved, presses his advantage to assert that Jim's confessed bigotry has led to his attack upon Sister Sharon bringing revivalism to the town of Zenith. After Elmer destroys Jim with his street-fighter use of indefensible insinuation and blackmail, he declares he bares Jim no malice. His outrageousness is so blatant that there is nothing Jim can do but raise his glass to Elmer.There are many other memorable moments in the film but two stand out for me. Elmer when on a crusade against sin dramatically orders the chief of police to break down that speakeasy door to which the chief replies in a bemused tone Just knock. They'll open up.The other is when Elmer goes on his way at the end of the film. Jim's respect is again tweaked as Elmer absolves the crowd who beg him to forgive them for having ran instead of standing by Sister Sharon as she and her church burnt the night before. That was inspired,  claims Bill Morgan, the ardent believer. 'Jim boy, do believe it was inspired?  Elmer asks Lefferts. I think it was real friendly, Jim replies. He admires Elmer's humanity and sensitivity towards others because it is not just for show. Ultimately, Jim is moved by Elmer's honesty. You really do believe in the Lord, don't you. Jim says this to Elmer not as a question but as a gesture of good will towards his greatest adversary and confidante.Elmer is an honest hypocrite and Jim can't help but like him. "},{"Title":"Die Sinners, Die","Date":"2 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We love retro fashion and design because there's beauty and a touch of irony in nostalgic simplicity. If I want a mindless good time in film land, there's nothing like a trip to the past that never existed. I'm thinking of Doris Day singing over daisies and the like. But wait, there's more ladies, I bring you Elmer Gantry, circa 1960. This film really breaks the mold, I mean not moldy at all, in fact disturbingly current in it's profile of a man living by his wits alone who scores big time when he discovers the path to success through exploiting the town folks religious beliefs.Elmer Gantry is a shady traveling salesman who happens upon a revival meeting. When he sees the beautiful evangelist Sister Sharon Falconer filling the tent up with paying sinners, a light bulb goes off. Forget farm tools, religion is the plastics of 1920′s America. There's a point where you start to believe that Elmer will go straight. Alas, he can't escape his womanizing past with the reappearance of Lulu Baines, the bawdy bad girl he can't forget.There's so much going on here. Elmer Gantry was based on a novel by Sinclair Louis. We've got Shirley Jones in her Oscar winning role as Lulu Baines. Yes, that Shirley, the Partridge Family mom. Remember now, it's 1960 and Lulu describes a scene saying, he rammed the fear of God into me so fast I never heard my old man's footsteps. Oh yeah, and you're amusing and you smell like a real man "},{"Title":"Preach it Brother...Preach it !!!","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Three Oscars went to this movie, one for Burt Lancaster (best actor), Shirley Jones (best supporting actress) and one for Richard Brooks (best screen writing). Elmer Gantry is a 1960 drama film about a con man and a female evangelist selling religion to small town America. Adapted by director Richard Brooks, the film is based on the 1927 novel by Sinclair Lewis and stars Burt Lancaster and Jean Simmons. Elmer Gantry (Burt Lancaster) is a hard-drinking, fast-talking traveling salesman with a charismatic personality. While traveling, he's drawn to the road show of Sister Sharon Falconer (Jean Simmons) and is immediately attracted to the saintly revivalist. He soon cons his way into her good graces and joins the troupe as a fiery preacher. Gantry and Falconer develop what her manager calls a good cop/bad cop routine, with Elmer telling the audience members that they will burn in Hell for their sins and Sharon promising them salvation if they repent. I really enjoyed Burt Lancasters performance as a silver-tongued con man who finds himself preaching the good word of the Lord. Great Movie "},{"Title":"Overwhelming, and surprising Burt Lancaster","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elmer Gantry (Burt Lancaster) is a character opportunistic, immoral and loquacious, is all that and more. So the day that by chance is with a religious meeting and gives an account that is so easy money being preacher as win it on a batch of letters... becomes the Evangelical religion. Together with the sister Sharon Falconer (Jean Simmons). Elmer pronounced some shocking sermons on the devil will bring you to get the fame and fortune.. Not all be happiness, as a journalist (Arthur Kennedy) is able to expose the true face of Elmer. In addition everything changes when in your life reappears a former friendship (Shirley Jones), which will make Elmer will have to deal with its turbulent past that contains secrets of a long time ago. It is a movie with political aspects, shows Psychological aspects of many characters, incorporates social criticism and is a Magnificent melodrama that does not fall into the sentimentality but makes us share in the feelings and experiences of each of the characters with a hit at the time that you do with humanity and closeness. Burt Lancaster took the Oscar for best lead actor in which is undoubtedly one of their best performances and Shirle Jones to best actress, both are magnificent, counting also interpretations of the Beautiful Jean Simmons, Arthur Kennedy, the singer Patti Page, Dean Jagge. A magnificent film must be seen. "},{"Title":"Lancaster's Oscar winner","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elmer Gantry (Lancaster) is an obnoxious con man who'll stop at nothing to get ahead. Sharon Falconer, AKA Katey Jones (Jean Simmons) is the righteous, holier than thou, sexually repressed spinster woman Gantry seduces after he joins up with her traveling caravan of soul savers and faith healers, taking them all the way from the sticks to the big city in the 1920s era of religious revivalism. But an old flame of Gantry's turned prostitute (good girl singer Shirley Jones) could ruin it all for Gantry... or will Gantry's passion for the sexually repressed Sharon be his undoing? And what will be the undoing of Sharon? He lust for Gantry or blind, unwavering faith in the Lord and her desire to be the savior of saviors? Lancaster's as vibrant and charismatic as he ever was as the opportunistic Gantry, who's heart grows ever so slightly when confronted by the woman he wronged in the past and for the uncompromising Sharon. As always, the coldly beautiful Simmons brings out the sincerity and forlorn sexual repression of her role (and gets her sexual wish fulfillment under the bay). Jones' also won an Oscar for the hooker who tries to ruin Gantry, only to go back on her attempts to get revenge. "},{"Title":"Burt baby rules!","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is the absolute peak for Burt Lancaster and Jean Simmons. It's timing is between cheezy epics and race films and hits on religion in a very engaging and daring way. Not many films serve up this kind of hot biscuit of sex and religion. It's Oscar win for Best Screenplay is a no-brainer, particularly in the scenes with the organizers of the Zenith revival. 5 stars all the way. "}{"Title":"With more realistic performance by Lancaster, this could have been an 8","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm going to take the minority view here, although I see I am not alone...just outnumbered. I think this is an atrocious performance by Burt Lancaster...at least until the final third of the film. As several have pointed out...way over the top. More deserving of a Razzie than an Oscar. And, just for the record, there are lots of wonderful performances by Lancaster...this just isn't one of them.That's not to say this is a bad film. It's a strong script. All the more so in the last third of the film after things start going down for Mr. Gantry. And the closing scenes of the film are tremendous.But just as importantly, there are a number of wonderful performances here. In particular, I was impressed with Jean Simmons. And, I might add, it is rare that I am not impressed with her, even though her star has certainly faded over the years; but what a strong and impressive actress she was. Dean Jagger has long been a favorite character of mine, and no less so here. What a strong performance. The only miscasting I see is Patti Page; a wonderful singer, but a pitifully bland actress...as is reflected in her filmography of 3 titles; in reality, she's pretty much irrelevant here. Shirley Jones was quite acclaimed her, and although her performance is satisfactory, she's done much better in other films.This is a film that movie aficionados should watch...at least once. "},{"Title":"If only films worked on pedigree alone...","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ... this one would have been one of the greatest ever, and would have better withstood the test of time. Story by Sinclair Lewis! Directed and adapted for the screen by Richard Brooks! Starring Burt Lancaster and Jean Simmons, both mega-stars. And -- get this -- a supporting cast that includes the likes of Patti Page, Shirley Jones and Dean Jagger. How can you go wrong? From my notes on a third viewing 1. The adaption was major. Some literary experts felt the novel had been de-nuded. 2. The film has a backwards feel to it, that it, the earlier scenes where the characters are introduced feel more genuine than the contrived plot twists that come later. This is the sign of a project that ran away from the director. 3. Patti Page is seriously under-utilized (both as to voice and acting) and Dean Jagger always plays the same character, which can be both a benefit and a liability. 4. The key to this film is, was, and always will be Lancaster. Was this part written for him or did he adapt to the part? There is mystery indeed. Many if not all of the gestures and mannerisms attributed to Elmer are, coincidentally, the very same gestures and mannerisms that Burt was known for. Lancaster was one of the most physical actors of the period. He had hands the size of toasters. He was an ex-acrobat. Years before this film was made, he did a self-parody pirate film called the CRIMSON PIRATE. No one would have thought of giving him an Oscar for that film, but if you view the two side by side you will find that the gestures mannerisms and speech patterns are almost identical. 5. Lancaster was nearing 50 by the time this was made. To answer the question asked above, this reviewer does believe the part was written with him in mind; and moreover that Hollywood chose to honour him for his incredible body of work with the ultimate prize for this film. Nothing wrong with that, don't get me wrong, but, in this context you see the film is no longer one of greatest films of all times (awards notwithstanding) but rather one of the most over-acted and over-written films of all time. Big difference. 6. Later in life, Burt, actually one of my favourite performers, learned to act using the principle less is more. Have a look at Scorpio, done over a decade later. "},{"Title":"Beware The Fast-Talker","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Richard Brooks directed Burt Lancaster in this vibrant and cynical story of Elmer Gantry, a glib, hard-living traveling salesman who latches onto a true-believing, fire & brimstone preaching woman named Sister Sharon Falconer(Jean Simmons), who has a traveling revivalist church that Gantry, who has a rudimentary knowledge of the bible, and a way with the people, quickly makes his own(with Sharon's approval of course) At first, things go well, but before too long Gantry's past catches up with him when a former love of dubious character(played well by Shirley Jones) pays him a visit, and he is caught in the act of giving money, which threatens the ministry and sets events spiraling out-of-control to the fiery climax.Powerful, supremely well-acted film shows the dark side of a charismatic personality, and those gullible enough to follow them. Not really an attack on religion, since the same rule could be applied to politics, both then and now... "},{"Title":"Brilliant acting and a great story","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fascinating - 1960's Elmer Gantry, based on the Sinclair Lewis novel, could be made today with nothing changed and be as powerful - maybe more powerful - than it was in 1960.Director Richard Brooks assembled a stellar cast - Burt Lancaster, Jean Simmons, Arthur Kennedy, and Shirley Jones to tell the story of a fast-talking, randy salesman who is as at home in a preacher's pulpit as he is telling dirty jokes in a bar. It's truly the role of a lifetime, played beautifully by Burt Lancaster, with his swoon-worthy good looks, big personality, and overflowing charm. He's a man that believes in the Bible but also in what that good old-time religion can do for him financially. When he sees the beautiful Sister Sharon (Simmons), he ingratiates himself into her traveling revival meetings and becomes very successful, though he comes up against a reporter (Arthur Kennedy) and a prostitute named Lulu (Shirley Jones) he knew way back when who has blackmail on her mind. Subtly, however, Elmer changes, finding humanity even he didn't know he had.Jean Simmons never received the recognition she deserved either for her acting ability or her beauty. Her major stardom, unfortunately, was at a time when the field was really overcrowded with the likes of megastars like Audrey Hepburn and Elizabeth Taylor. She gives a wonderful performance as Sister Sharon, a true believer who sees through Gantry immediately - though she also knows how effective he will be - plus she falls in love with him. Arthur Kennedy, as always, is fantastic as the reporter Lefferts, who asks people to question if a revival meeting is religion or a circus side show. Shirley Jones shines in an atypical role for her - a small but an extremely showy one.The duality of the four characters - Gantry, Sister Sharon, Lulu and Lefferts - is what makes the novel great literature and the film, in the hands of fine actors and a good director, so interesting. Gantry is a drinker/philanderer and preacher, Sharon is a devoted preacher but also a woman of deep feeling, Lulu is a prostitute who wants to bring down Gantry but loves him, and Lefferts is a cynic who has doubts about religion but can't help but admire Gantry and Sharon.A must see. "},{"Title":"A classic, everyone should see it for Burt Lancaster, salesman and preacher.","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Does the movie Elmer Gantry make fun of traveling revivalists, or does it speak in favor of them? I think neither, but it does paint a fairly faithful, if exaggerated, picture of the inner workings of such organizations. Now, over 40 years later, these 'revivalists' are still going strong, but are mainly manifest in very large, stationary church congregations who are attracted by he charisma of the preacher, with no particular religious affiliation, just an attractive style and a good understanding of the Bible. They are scattered all over the US and many have televised Sunday services. But the smile is still there and the money keeps rolling in. And no one knows who they are accountable to.Burt Lancaster is superb as dishonest Elmer Gantry, traveling salesman, always ready with his ear-to-ear grin to charm some lady, some fellow gambler, some willing merchant, or as we later see, some group of men and women in the revival tent. His life changes when, on the run, he accidentally comes upon Sister Sharon Falconer (very pretty Jean Simmons), revivalist, who really and sincerely believes in her work, bringing the message of love to all who want to hear it. We much later find out she really was Katie Jones, but had taken the name 'Falconer' as an image of grabbing and pulling others towards salvation.But Gantry saw her as a love interest, his ultimate conquest. He managed to insinuate himself through sheer personal persuasion and aggressiveness into her inner circle and gave such an outstanding witness in her revival tent that he soon became the main attraction. Everyone wanted to come and hear Elmer Gantry preach and be saved, although for Gantry it was just a great big show he was putting on, a way he hoped to win Sharon Falconer's love.Arthur Kennedy is good as he reporter Jim Lefferts who follows them around the country, to write a good story. The movie also touches on the business side of revivalism, where staff are motivated to increase revenue.SPOILERS FOLLOW. Gantry begins to believe his own power and goes a bit overboard leading raids of illegal gambling, drinking, and prostitution, all the things he formerly embraced before meeting Sister Sharon. So, to get back at him, old girlfriend and hooker Lulu (pretty and young Shirley Jones) frames him by having a photographer hide outside her window when Gantry comes at her request, and he is pictured giving her money. The photos are given to the newspaper, an uproar follows, Sister Sharon's ministry is thrown into turmoil, and even though Lulu later admits the frame, and Gantry's name is cleared, things never get back to normal. In the final tragic revival meeting in a big, new building that is to be their home, a carelessly discarded cigarette ignites some paint rags, the building burns, and Sister Sharon says in the middle, trusting that God will save her, and perishes in flames. "},{"Title":"A superb film!","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an excellent film, beautifully acted and directed. Lancaster earned every inch of his Oscar, as did Shirley Jones, who played a prostitute with a conscience. I ALWAYS think that this is Jean Simmons best performance and that she was not only robbed of an Oscar nomination, but indeed, the Oscar itself. Simmons brings to Sister Sharon a multi-layered, complex character, a woman torn by her worldly desires and goals and her deep and abiding faith. We see, in the end and without divulging too much, that she is indeed, a very holy and devout woman and a true believer. She is luminous. It is a stunning performance. Interesting to note that director Richard Brooks married Jean Simmons, shortly after the film was completed. So, she was in very capable and knowing hands.This is a very good film and a meditation on the unique and singular form of Christianity and its many permutations in these United States in the decadent 1920's. "},{"Title":"Movie Lacks Something, But a Stunning Lead Performance Isn't It","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Burt Lancaster gives a fierce, bellicose and frightening performance as a salesman turned preacher, brining religion to the people in this screen adaptation of the Sinclair Lewis novel.Director Richard Brooks had good taste in source material (this, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, In Cold Blood, to name a few), but he never seemed to be able to make a whole-heartedly compelling film from whatever book or play he happened to be adapting. That's the case here. Elmer Gantry is certainly a good movie, but one watches it unable to keep from thinking that a better adaptation could have been done. It's hard to put a finger on exactly how or why this film fails to measure up, other than the vague impression that it's lacking a certain energy required to be truly memorable.Lancaster singlehandedly tries his damnedest to supply the film with all the energy it needs, and he comes awfully close to succeeding. He tears through the film, filling the frame with his crazed features and flailing gestures, a case of overacting for once being exactly what's needed for the role. Jean Simmons is unmemorable; I always thought she was a classy but uninteresting actress. And Shirley Jones breaks type to play a floozy.Solid, not great, film with a tremendous lead performance.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Citizen Kane Exposed By Gantry","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" well, after reading the other comments offered on this i have finally realized most of these writers must be students with an assignment to write reviews, instead of being told to take American Literature as a prerequisite...and anyone who thinks Citizen Kane is the greatest film of all time should be committed for not having considered this film more fully...the first scene is one of the best openers ever put on the big screen; as superior storytelling, it tells you everything you will come to learn about Gantry and his use of wit and charm, and the true goodness buried somewhere in the depths of his own condemned soul...i saw this in theaters when it was released and was as shocked when The Apartment won Best Picture as i was when Bush won his term thanks to the fix in Florida by his brother and campaign manager, turning the vote over to the Supreme Court (hmmm, wonder who appointed most of those folks--oh, that's right, Bush's dad)...okay, okay, i digress...none of the prior comments have mentioned the incredibly entertaining exchange of intellectual and jovial banter between Arthur Kennedy as the cynical reporter and Burt Lancaster's stunning performance as the sociopathic preacher, which is worth the price of admission all by itself, and runs as a side act through the entire film...as a celluloid excursion along Sinclair Lewis' main street of American small towns its a travel extravaganza supreme; just hearing them talk about getting to Zenith (the BIG city) is like thinking of completing a manned trip to Mars for the folks down on the farm. Chicago? that would be in another galaxy far, far away; but not for Gantry...superior score, script and acting from the first to the last and we even get to hear Lancaster sing--did Orson Welles ever sing? not to keep sucker punching Kane, which is one of the top ten films of all time, let's just say this is as electrically sizzling of an individual acting accomplishment that you'll ever see and is one, two, you pick 'em, with THE HILL in achieving what film and acting is supposed to be all about, which is art. "},{"Title":"A Film You Will Always Remember","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Many reviewers have already remarked on this terrific movie far better than I can, so this message is really for younger people interested in serious film. When I was a youngster fascinated by the Batman TV show and Lost in Space, I saw Elmer Gantry for the first time. It's sophisticated script, complex characters, and wonderful acting opened a whole new world for me. The film isn't just about rural religion in the 1920s, or how media is exploited, or how sometimes clever hucksters can outwit themselves. It tells of people in troubled times trying to sort out life's essential challenges. Sit down and take in everything this film is offering, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Good drama that had the potential to be one of the greats","Date":"25 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Good drama that had the potential to be one of the greats.The setup for this movie was interesting, and made you think there was a clear, focused message coming as some stage. The movie was set up to rail against religion as a business, how some people use religion for their own ends, and how easily people can be manipulated in the name of religion. There was also an opportunity to look at the influence of the media.However, from a point the movie lost focus. The snake-oil salesman turned out to have redeeming qualities, turns out religious organisations can do some good, the bs-printing newspaper printed the truth for once...It's as if the writer and director pulled their punches. Rather than a damning expose of certain religious organisations, it is a story of a man, a man with good and bad qualities. No particular message in the end, and very disappointing in that respect.Still made for an interesting story, just not anywhere near as brilliant as it could have been.Mesmerizing, powerful performance by Burt Lancaster in the lead role. There's a fine line between powerful acting and over-acting. Lancaster comes close on several occasions, but doesn't cross it. He well deserved his Best Actor Oscar.Solid support from Jean Simmons, Arthur Kennedy and Shirley Jones. Jones won a Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her role as Lulu Bains. Not sure it was THAT good a performance, but she sure did look good delivering it... "}{"Title":"How Great Thou Act","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Charismatic 1920s con-man Burt Lancaster (as Elmer Gantry) switches from sales to sermonizing and joins forces with attractive evangelist Jean Simmons (as Sharon Falconer). They make a successful soul-saving team and become romantically involved, but Mr. Lancaster's fondness for alcohol and affairs eventually causes problems. Elmer Gantry adapts only a small part of the Sinclair Lewis novel, yet it seems far too long. While the story is not very exciting, the performances are &#x96; this is a film you watch for the acting. In the title role, Lancaster catches the character and is exhilarating throughout. He won Best Actor honors from the Academy Awards, New York Film Critics, Golden Globes and Film Daily groups. Minus the Academy Awards, the aforementioned nominated Ms. Simmons as Best Actress for her duplicitous role. In the Supporting Actress category, Shirley Jones won the Academy Award, Film Daily and National Board of Review honors for her startling portrayal of a bawdy prostitute (Lulu Bains), who explains her teenage sexual awakening as Gantry rammed the fear of God into me! Known mostly for wholesome musical roles, Ms. Jones appears rather late in the film, but she is worth the wait. In the Supporting Actor category, Arthur Kennedy won the Film Daily award for his cynical atheist reporter (Jim Lefferts). So many awards, but so little substance...******* Elmer Gantry (6/29/60) Richard Brooks ~ Burt Lancaster, Jean Simmons, Shirley Jones, Arthur Kennedy "},{"Title":"Every Circus needs a Clown","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Burt Lancaster's Ripe Performance seems to Elicit one of two Responses from Fans and Critics. 1)The most Buffoonish, Overblown, Overheated slice of Ham ever to Win an Academy Award, or for that Matter ever put on Film. 2)The Oscar Awarded Performance that was the Best in a Long Career, and Transcends Art into Personification.There is Something to be said about both. No Matter what Your Opinion, the Showy Part was Written and Meant to be that of a Carnival Barker, a Huckster, a Hard Sell Salesman in a Circus to Save Souls, Cleanse the Spirit and Rake in the Money with Fiery Folk Tales of Wrath and Punishment, Reward and Salvation.The Movie Opens with a Disclaimer that Apologizes for its Existence and the Movie is Structured as to not Offend the Majority of the Population (read ticker buyers) who were the Overwhelming part of the Citizenry. It is the Tone that the Film will take Throughout its Lengthy Running Time and it is a Sign of the Time, and the Movie's Biggest Flaw. A Fine Cast with Arthur Kennedy and Shirley Jones Standing Out in Support of Lancaster's Gantry. Jean Simmons does OK in a bit of Miscasting. The Type of Evangelicalism in the Film that Takes Place in the 1920's is Still with us Today, it has just Moved from Tent to TV.The Sixties and Breakdown of the Motion Picture Code and in Tandem the Liberalization of the Culture had yet to Manifest itself and the Destiny of the Change in Society was not quite upon Us. As a Result the Film Suffers from a Conservative Restraint, but is Nevertheless Very Entertaining. "},{"Title":"Lancaster is Elmer Gantry","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sinclair Lewis' Elmer Gantry is brought to life, and boy is he ever! Burt Lancaster IS Elmer Gantry, who is a country store seller of goods, of whatever you need, whatever your heart desires. But in his travels, he meets Miss Falconer, who's an evangelist (Jean Simmons) and discovers he has a talent for talking to the masses. Eventually, he's working with them and preaching and together they travel and try to convert the lost people to Christianity, even though fellow traveler Dean Jagger doesn't like his methods in getting vulgar and base in talking to the people, using cheap phrases, instead of five dollar words. You'll just have to see this to understand just how deep Burt goes in order to be Elmer. In fact there are two things I took away from this, one was when he walked into a black church and started into singing their songs. He sang with such conviction and feeling for the words that you can't help getting caught up in the moment.As much as I like Jean Simmons as an actress, her character just didn't seem to have that much energy about her or something; she just wasn't as three-dimensional as Shirley Jones, who is introduced half way into the picture. She plays Lulu, who is a part of Elmer's past and who currently makes a living in a house of ill repute and who still loves him/hates him/loves him. After all the talk, rating and raving, and sashaying she does and after all the slapping and getting worked over by some other guy she gets, I can still see her laying in Elmer Gantry's arms and we see and feel for a brief moment total acceptance and love between two people being shared. We see her in the place she wants to be. And another thing, why did he go back there after all she did? Miss Jones won a deserved Oscar as Lulu.After seeing Stanwyck in The Mircle Woman and this, I wonder is there a movie about evangelists and faith healers without a fire at the ending? But, I guess that's another subject and sermon on why what happened had to happen just that way. And, on Jean Simmons' character being the best disciple, or follower of God and Jesus Christ, she could be. I get the feeling maybe she immersed herself too much into something over her head, and maybe even the best of intentions can go to extremes.This is Burt Lancaster, Shirley Jones, and Jean Simmons at their best. Period. "},{"Title":"Hallelujah!","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elmer Gantry is one of writer/director Richard Brooks's many literary adaptations. I'm not familiar with the original novel by Sinclair Lewis so I can't comment on how faithful this adaptation is but Brooks must have captured some of the book's appeal since his screenplay was rewarded with an Oscar.The story revolves around the title character, a fast-talking salesman turned evangelist. He teams up with an established female evangelist whose more subdued style makes them perfect complements to one another. However, Gantry isn't as upright as he makes himself out to be and his unsavoury past threatens to catch up with him.Gantry is portrayed by Burt Lancaster in an Academy Award winning performance. Some might say that it's over the top but I think that it was perfectly suited to his character. His female counterpart, the lovely Jean Simmons, was somehow overlooked by the Academy while Shirley Jones bagged an Oscar mainly for playing against type. The rest of the cast members (including Arthur Kennedy & Dean Jagger) lend quality support.Brooks's direction is well-handled if not particularly notable. The score by André Previn was nominated for an Oscar but I'm drawing a complete blank regarding it. This suggests to me that, like the direction, it was ably handled but not especially remarkable.It is worth noting that the film's five Oscar nominations include one for Best Picture. I feel that this recognition was warranted and the film still holds up as a worthwhile drama with some fine performances and an interesting, lively storyline. "},{"Title":"A Well Made, Strange Minor Classic","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elmer Gantry dir. Richard Brooks, 1960 (***/****)Considered a minor classic in most circles Elmer Gantry is a strange little bit of blasphemy in that it isn't really that blasphemous. It tells the story of Elmer Gantry (Burt Lancaster), a drunk drifter/salesman in the early 1900s. In his youth Elmer studied to become a preacher, but was expelled when he gave into some of his own...animalistic instincts. One day he drifts into the Revival tent of Sister Sharon (Jean Simmons), and he attempts to join up with the group posing as a preacher himself. The setup seems like a beginning for vicious satire, yet the film lacks the teeth to take any stance on the plot points. There are some major flaws, however. Character motivations/actions are sometimes nonsensical, perhaps a product of the censorship codes of the era, but all of the performances are strong and the film is filled with nicely composed and crisply shot scenes. "},{"Title":"What is actually the message?","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm a huge fan of Burt Lancaster. He was one the best actors, for me maybe even the best one. But his Oscar performance here is just way over the top.The movie is too long, didn't age well and seems to go nowhere. The big mistake is that warning at the beginning. It confused me, and probably others too, because it's clearly pro-Christianity and against revivalists, but then it doesn't decide if Elmer is a conman or a good man. Did he believe what he was preaching or was he only acting? If acting, what for? Just for the love of the evangelist woman?! For money? The movie never decides what kind of person Elmer actually is.A crowd comes to the tend to disturb the service, but when the evangelist woman starts to pray they all instantly get on their knees and pray with her, forgetting that they went there to mock her. She even healed a man, but we don't know if the movie shows this as something good or evil.And then there is this reporter, who is an atheist, and yet he goes to every sermon and is fascinated by the evangelist woman. He also never really draws a line.I really wanted to like this movie but its woolly message makes it weak. "},{"Title":"Elmer  wasn't  drunk  and  he  lost  his  last  line.........","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Great American Movie,richly-substanced with its conflicts of heart and mind, the soul and the body. But made in 1960 when the censors were still breathing down necks. The opening shot shows the first page of the source-novel as if to assure literary respectability (It's in the book) but the book says Gantry was drunk in the bar. He's not drunk in the film, he's perfectly in control of his little audience, telling dirty jokes and getting them to cough up for Jesus at the same time. He wishes Jesus happy birthday, rather brashly. Perhaps this made the censors nervous (we can say he was drunk). Elmer's pickup shares his bed that night but she's certainly drunk, face-down and still fully-clothed in the morning, Hollywood moving on but tentatively.. Elmer's a man of the flesh with a grounding in faith, an ex-divinity student expelled for transgressing with the dean's daughter. He joins the congregation in a black church, leading the singing enthusiastically. A man of the people who understands their needs - and the gain to be had from exploiting the Great Mystery. With Sister Sharon's high-pressure operation he becomes the star-performer, a preacher without credentials or commitment, a Player King without a throne. Sharon's sights are fixed on Heaven with her own tabernacle to boost her claim but Elmer persuades her to tarry awhile and share more basic pleasures. (When he leads her into the darkness we get a crashing melodramatic chord that sounds awfully corny today. A bolt of lightning as a follow-up wouldn't have been a surprise). A sweet setup - but when Lulu's back in town for a slice of the action the demands of Heaven and Earth get all snarled up and the edifice starts to crumble.. Sharon dies in the fire because she chooses to martyr herself, consumed by the moment into obeying a perceived destiny that finally puts her beyond all human reach. The crowd, accordingly, deserts her in panic and it's the crowd - the people - that prevent Gantry from saving her. When he leaves town at the end to return to the road selling 'fridges to Eskimos the newsman says See you, brother, to which Gantry replies emphatically See you in Hell, brother. This exchange was censored on the grounds it showed he hadn't 'reformed'. Rather it confirms him as an honest sinner with no illusions about where his own destiny will take him. This cut creates an ugly jump and an awkward silence, marring the film's final effect. Why can't the Restoration boys work a 'miracle' and plug this embarrassing gap ? Burt got his own back in the Seventies by using the line for Ned Buntline's farewell in BUFFALO BILL AND THE INDIANS. I tend to agree to an extent with some comments on Simmons - lovely, skillful, intelligent, deserving of her status but a little too English in her American roles. She never suggests Katie Jones from Shantytown here (any more than Audrey Hepburn did Lulu Mae Barnes in BREAKFAST AT TIFFANY'S) She did become Mrs Richard Brooks soon afterwards so I presume he was biased ! But it's an enthralling grown-up movie with Lancaster in full sail and a special nod to Arthur Kennedy. "},{"Title":"Elmer Gantry- Religious Revivalism Scores Amen Brother ***1/2","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Burt Lancaster won the best actor Oscar for his portrayal of a con man drifter who drifts into the life of Sister Sharon Falconer and her followers in Sinclair Lewis's tale of religious revivalism in Elmer Gantry.As a smooth talking man, Lancaster finds his niche in this role. He can make believers out of everyone and takes in many into his fold.Jean Simmons is absolutely marvelous as Sister Sharon who falls for Lancaster. Her assistant is ably played by Dean Jagger, whose calm demeanor reflects what the religious movement is all about in 1920s America.Shirely Jones received the Oscar for playing prostitute Lulu Bains in this film. Jones was fortunate that she had unusually weak competition in the supporting actress category in 1960. She was probably the best of the lack luster Oscar contenders; although, something might have been said for the performance of nominee Shirley Knight in The Dark at the Top of the Stairs. "},{"Title":"Elmer Gantry is still here today","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When the movie Elmer Gantry came out, I refused to go and see it as I could not imagine Burt Lancaster as Elmer Gantry. I has read the book some time before and absolutely loved the story. In the book Elmer Gantry is a slightly overweight, out of shape con man who has few redeeming qualities. Burt Lancaster was one of my favorite actors and I always saw him as macho, trim, upstanding in character, etc., etc. But finally of course I has to go see the movie Though I felt that it would be bad with Lancaster playing Gantry. But I have thought many times, how wrong I was. Burt Lancaster did an excellent job and I absolutely loved the movie and in fact would now like to see it again.John R. Largent "},{"Title":"Exposé of the perversion of religion","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Elmer Gantry, Burt Lancaster, as the titular character in an Oscar winning performance of a lifetime, shows us dramatically, and even comically, how unscrupulous people can usurp the name of religion and twist it into a justification for the narrowest of self-interests. Despite his vices, however, Gantry at all times retains the sympathy of the audience because we sense he is basically good (but also weak as even the most devout Christians admit they are). This is in no small part due to the charisma, and yes, pleasant features, of Lancaster. As for the love triangle, on the one hand I could understand Gantry's desperate desire to escape his less than glorious past and take up with the saintly Sister Sharon (Jean Smimmons) but on the other hand, troubled and imperfect Lulu (Shirley Jones) seems to be the one more in need, and in a certain sense more deserving, of getting her heart's desire. Besides Lulu and Gantry can sympathize more with each other's weaknesses while unblemished Sister Sharon would eventually tire, I'm sure, of forgiving Gantry's inevitable submissions to temptation. On a final, and undoubtedly, cynical note, one can see Elmer Gantry almost anytime one tunes into a televangelist broadcast. "}{"Title":"Give em Hell, Burt!","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elmer Gantry is one of those movies that you just sit back, and let yourself enjoy it's wonders, and there's a lot. Burt Lancaster, who almost acts with his hair alone totally deserved the Oscar he got for this performance. Although his back story is a little bit hazy, Lancaster really looks like he's having a ball here playing the title role. Jean Simmons also looks great here, playing a revival evangelist, maybe patterned after Aimee, a revival Evangelist of the 1920's, I liked Shirley Jones here too, the more I see her early films, the more it helpfully erased the Patridge stigmata I have burned into my mind. As for the story, the tale of how how an appliance salesperson turned into a first rate Evangelist is a bit long winded in the middle, as the love story develops (and what DID Patti Page want to say to Elmer?) bur all is saved by the FABULOUS ending, which is quite unexpected and interesting. "},{"Title":"Burt Lancaster excels as fast-talking charlatan preacher who redeems himself in the end","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Don't let the goofy name Elmer Gantry throw you, this movie is a fast-paced drama set in the late 1920's. The stars in this movie are Burt Lancaster, Jean Simmons, and Shirley Jones. Simmons is an evangelical preacher that delivers her message in a traveling tent religious show. Burt Lancaster is a shady salesman who latches onto the religious show and eventually romances Simmons. Shirley Jones is a young tart who exposes Lancaster for the lech that he is. The setting for this movie is the late 1920's America - booze is banned (prohibition) and America struggles with the forces of good and evil. Although Elmer does the right thing he'll always be a hustler.  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies of all times...","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen it dozens of times over the years and can watch it again and again... It is one of the greatest movies of all times... If there ever was a good bad guy or a bad good guy our hero was it... the negro choir scene at the beginning is my favourite... "},{"Title":"Burt lancaster at his absolute snake oil salesman BEST!","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  1920's era tale based on a Sinclair Lewis standard. It starts out with Lancaster (Elmer) telling 2 of the most absolutely hysterical jokes that could ever be told - EVEN TODAY! Gantry eventually meets Sister Sharon Faulkener and Reverend Morgan (Jean Simmons, Dean Jagger) The 2 legitimate Revivalists on the Faulkner/Gantry/Morgan  revivalist juggernaut. After the tragic death of Sister Falconer in a fire, Gantry appears to be fed up with all the showmanship and thus returns to the legitimate aspect of revivalism. A MUST SEE!Footnote concerning Mr. Lancaster - If you ever get a chance to listen to the original ''War of the Worlds broadcast of October , 1938 , listen carefully to the voice of the  announcer telling America, Those strange beings landing tonight in the Jersey farmlands ------- are the vanguard of an invading army from the Planet Mars.  That HAS to be Mr . Lancaster. "},{"Title":"Elmer Gantry","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sinclair Lewis' literary religious giant Elmer Gantry is brought to the screen with towering presence by Oscar winner Burt Lancaster. The role allowed Lancaster to be free and open with his craft and he's incredible in the process.   "},{"Title":"revivalists all the way to evangelicals","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Richard Brooks's adaptation of Sinclair Lewis's Elmer Gantry looks at the revivalist movement of the 1920s, but it could just as easily be about modern-day evangelical Christianity. Burt Lancaster plays the title character, a shyster clergyman exploiting the beliefs of the faithful in middle America. With his fiery speeches, Elmer comes across as a man of the people, but he's only after their money. Jean Simmons co-stars as an evangelist based on Aimee Semple McPherson. She actually believes in what she's doing, but the self-aggrandizing Elmer simply rides her coattails. And then there's Shirley Jones as a prostitute who has her own story about Elmer.It's important to understand that the early 20th century had seen the rise of revivalist Christianity in response to the influx of Catholics from Europe. These predecessors of evangelicalism were the ones who pushed for the establishment of prohibition (which had disastrous results). The Scopes Trial set them back due to the perception that they were a bunch of ignorant yokels*, but they returned in the 1970s in response to everything that happened in the '60s. Elmer Gantry is depicted as a hypocritical preacher, but he could easily be any politician. There are few things as creepy as exploiting people's beliefs just to get them to support you.*The Elmer Gantry character Jim Lefferts is based on H.L. Mencken, who notably depicted the people in Dayton, Tennessee, as backwards hicks, which they basically were. "},{"Title":"One of the last old-fashioned classics","Date":"22 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although this movie was made at the dawn of the 1960s, I find out to be steeped in the style and tradition of the classic Hollywood era of the 1940s. This may owe in part to its source material dating from the 1920s, but this movie is even shot in a way that was becoming increasingly outdated by 1960, with just a handful of sets that are used mostly as backdrops to the powerful (today we'd call it overacting) performances of the actors.Elmer Gantry is thus one of the last good films to be built in the epic tradition of old Hollywood, the style that arguably came to its high point with _Citizen Kane_. In many ways this film echoes Orson Welles's landmark film, following the rise of an ambitious protagonist and the romantic entanglements that prove his downfall. While this movie fails to achieve as much as Kane, it doesn't fall nearly as short as you'd think judging by how Elmer Gantry is largely forgotten today.I don't want to dwell on the moral and religious message of Elmer Gantry because ultimately it is just a work of fiction. The religion depicted in this movie is no more real than the city of Zenith, supposed capitol of the Midwest, where most of the action takes place. I don't think religious beliefs, or lack thereof, should be any real barrier to enjoying this movie.It is perhaps forgotten because it hasn't aged quite so well. Revivalism itself has become watered down and mainstream, and is not particularly controversial, either you like it or you don't. There is a bit of food for thought here but it's nothing earth-shattering.There were some interesting parallels to a more obscure film, _A Face in the Crowd_ (1957). Although that movie is lower budget, black and white and much more negative, it is a superior film to Elmer Gantry in telling the rise and fall of a folksy con man story. It also aged much better, Gantry's bashing of revivalism seems largely irrelevant today, while _Face in the Crowd_'s musings on the power of media to amplify shady messages and characters remain quite provocative 50 years later. "},{"Title":"Questionable Acting by Lancaster and Simmons","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The supporting roles played by all of the major supporting actors were very realistic. However, the two main characters were played in obsolete, unrealistic styles; albeit powerfully.Although he was amusing in this picture, Lancaster seems to overemphasize his every line. It seems like he's acting in a playhouse; not like he should be at a movie set. That playhouse style acting was common in pre-1960 movies, but was really well on its way out by the time of this picture.I've never seen any of Simmons' movies other than Blue Lagoon (which I forgot how she acted while she was still a youngster), but in this flick she comes off as a pompous aristocrat instead of as a gal from poor rural Shantytown (the place that character Sharon Falconer said was where she grew up). I never read the novel by Sinclair Lewis, but is it accurate for Falconer to have such a wealthy sophisticated air when lecturing the rural masses? Regardless though of the accuracy to the book, the character portrayal seems way out of place. And is that pompousness Falconer or is it Simmons? Note that there were a number of popular film stars from the 1930s thru the 1950s who could never shake off that pompous style of speech; Katharine Hepburn being the queen of her ilk. But by 1960 that breed of actors had become largely unpopular.In short, the contrast in acting styles between the leading and supporting roles in this film indicates a major transition occurring in Hollywood during 1960.  "},{"Title":"Worth seeing even if time has lessened its controversial value","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elmer Gantry may have a rather unsavoury past but the one thing he can do better than anyone is sell &#150; himself, pots, pans, anything. When he teams up with evangelist Sister Falconer, he sells religion from a tent to 1920's America, helping Falconer with her aim of getting out of the tent into her own temple and building a proper congregation. Gantry's noisy methods seem to work, even if they draw derision from the religious establishment and attacks from the cynical press. However as the pressure builds to tear him down, can Gantry prevent his past from returning to haunt him? I'm sure back in 1960, this film must have been pretty controversial, shocking and challenging in its portrayal of evangelistic religion as cynical, money-grabbing and being as much about show business as God. Watching it today, it is hard to be surprised by any such suggestion since my cynical generation is much more accepting that nothing is what it seems and everyone has an agenda. Despite this though the film is still quite engaging and enjoyable as it delves into this world with a certain amount of glee; the fact that it peels off this world to look at Gantry specifically is a bit of a shame because it cuts under that focus a little. Connected to this it must be said that I did think the plot was a little thin at times and the strength of film does lie in the general portrayal of the world rather than the nitty-gritty of any one character or thread (although even the thin bits are pretty good).Lancaster gives a great performance as a complex man hidden behind a smile, a warm handshake and a lot of words; even today it stands up well as a damning portrayal of evangelists and it is hard to tell the difference between him in salesman mood and some of the ones that are on US TV all day. Simmons is good even if her character means that she is silent and serious and very much in the shadow of the title character. Support is roundly good from Kennedy, Jagger, Jones and others but it is Lancaster that really gives the film a boost.Overall this is a good film that is still worth seeing even if time has lessened the impact it would have once had. The acting is good and the plot is enough to do the job, even if the really good material comes from the general damning commentary on the state of play with the world of evangelistic religion. "},{"Title":"Unsympathetic Exploration into the Business of Religion","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Elmery Gantry shows us the interworkings of organized religion.  If anything, Elmer Gantry should be praised for demonstrating (in 1960, no less!) that essentially, the man-made institution of religion is not about saving souls destined for damnation, but is about acquiring wealth, social stature and perpetuating needless fear - (sounds like big business? Religion is big business.)Religion is essentially big business.  Our Popes, priests and ministers preside over the largest, most successful corporation in the history of the world.  And, while religion has become a form of commerce unequaled for centuries, it has most dangerously separated us from God.  Elmer Gantry does nothing more than expose the corrupt, fast-talking salesman approach that many sideshow preachers are caught in.  When television evangelism grew to its height in the 1970s and 1980s, it was Elmer Gantry that had blown the warning trumpet long before Jim and Tammy Bakker had become household names.Elmer Gantry is perhaps one of the most important films of our time because it comments, in a not so kind way, about the most influential movement in the history of mankind. "}{"Title":"Old-time religion","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  1960 seems an odd year to be adapting a Sinclair Lewis classic of the 1920s, and not only keeping it in period (albeit with anachronistic production design and music) but dragging in George Babbitt from another Lewis opus. The author's cynicism and skepticism about self-righteous religiosity and sheep-shearing evangelists are far more palpable than Richard Brooks'. The screenwriter-director, for whatever reason (interference from the censors?), seems to hedge his bets Gantry is a bastard, yes, but he's not a total bastard, and he's capable of great kindness. Lulu Bates, the prostitute who betrays him, is needlessly humiliated, as if the filmmakers wanted to throw a sop to the vigilant moralists. (Shirley Jones won an Oscar, but I think it was more out of the Academy's surprise at seeing this wholesome actress in an unwholesome role; while she's certainly capable, and pretty, it's not a terribly difficult or deep part.) This is the sort of movie where all the players laugh heartily at bad jokes, simply to propel the plot along, and Andre Previn's thudding (but Oscar-nominated) score underlines every dramatic point in heavy black magic marker. It's a long, bombastic film without being very penetrating, and while Brooks may have shown some guts at the time in tweaking Christianity, he throws in (supposed) real miracles and real religious fervor to assure everyone that, yes, in spite of everything, we must Believe. Lancaster's intense physicality and Simmons' customary brilliance help, and there's an exciting inferno climax. But in contrast to this movie's generally overblown quality, track down a little 1932 Frank Capra expose of phony evangelism called The Miracle Woman. It's much more lacerating, has a similarly riveting church-on-fire denouement, and runs about half as long. "},{"Title":"Nothing New, but saved by the acting","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elmer Gantry had nothing new for me in terms of plot. So I was looking forward to good acting to tide me over. Burt Lancaster won an Oscar for his role in this film. But frankly his performance was a bit hammy at times. Certain scenes did require a hammy performance, especially when he was preaching but he did that a lot. Jean Simmons was a delight though. I am a big fan of Audrey Hepburn and she reminds me of her. So that maybe a big reason why I liked her. Another thing that I didn't like was the character Elmer Gantry. The audience is never given a clear picture of him. Is he just a conman or good guy ? Instead he is shown as something of a conman with heart of gold. He just switches between good and bad so fast that I was sometimes left puzzled. "},{"Title":"It's up to us to make a success out of Christianity.","Date":"15 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love it when the hucksters get their comeuppance, and as the title character Elmer Gantry, Burt Lancaster takes it to the shysters and con-men in all his flamboyant glory. The picture launches a direct broadside against the revival movement of the 1920's and those who would 'be the first to shake 'em up Jesus'. Lancaster is appealingly effective in his role as con-man, hustler, liar, thief and clown, a crude and vulgar show-off according to William Morgan (Dean Jagger). A single glance at revivalist preacher Sister Sharon Falconer (Jean Simmons) and Gantry insinuates himself into her congregation as the wayward messenger, a step up from bar room philosopher and itinerant alcoholic and womanizer.With present day progressives firmly entrenched in their war on Christianity and organized religion, it's interesting to take this half century step back in time and see how that era took it's unsubtle mocking of fundamentalism mainstream. There's a dichotomy though, Sister Falconer is genuinely entrenched in her faith and dreams of her own church one day. Gantry initially views her as simply another one of his romantic conquests, but is sharp enough to realize that the traveling religious sideshow can be a profitable business in it's own right. Preacher Gantry has the true believers swooning in their seats and the local churchmen eager and ready to capitalize on the resurgence of their congregations. Why is it that Edward Andrews is always the perfect choice for a character like George Babbitt? He can do them in his sleep.I first saw this film many years ago when the only television broadcast availability was in black and white, and I can't help think that the story might have been more effective if made in that format. The characters here had just too many shades of gray to be conveyed otherwise. You know, I just had a thought. Instead of colorizing old films, how about taking ones like this and redoing them in glorious black and white. Elmer Gantry would be a perfect candidate. "},{"Title":"Elmer Gantry -- An American Classic","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw the film Emer Gantry last evening. I had seen it numerous times before including the first time it was shown in 1960. Then, at twelve years old, of course, I could not appreciate its profundity, know its history nor could I realize its prescient quality. I have never seen a more historically relevant film apply to contemporary times than does this astoundingly great work of art. Elmer Gantry, written by Sinclair Lewis of Babbit fame and directed by Richard Brooks, is one of my favorite films. It is an American classic.Sinclair Lewis presents a criticism of American life, religion, capitalism and more which earned him the distinct honor as an author because his works, in the early 20th century, were banned in Boston. In my opinion, if one's art was banned in Boston one created a formidable, brilliant and timelessly immortal work. I thank fate for giving us these authors of genius who are not afraid to challenge those things which are shoved down our social throats often choking off our psychology and institutionalizing the very evil they claim to abhor. They reveal underneath a field of flowers the cancer of hypocrisy.How could Sinclair Lewis know that he would write a novel which one could superimpose upon the contemporary religious movements of our time? The similar Evangelical/fundamentalist movement which is the subject matter of the film, still insinuates its vitriol into the body politic. It squeezes the life blood out of our democracy contorting it into almost unrecognizable form. Religious charlatans with their utter corruption, mind numbing propaganda, infinite financial and sexual scandals infuse faith and its attendant Biblical myths to take over business and politics for money and power. They cast a net upon the masses capturing the human psyche and its greatest ability -- its ability for reason.And yet, as Gantry knew, people are hungry but not necessarily for food. They are thirsty but not necessarily for water. They are sick and need a cure. They see the inevitable death and want eternal life. It is no wonder that any person could be intoxicated by a religious brew which promises food and water for the spirit, a way out of pain and, most importantly a defeat of death.The actors are the essences of perfection. The scenes are filled with metaphors. There are burning crosses, burning churches and sinners leading the otherwise sinless into the devil's darkness. The characters are a picture of ourselves. Burt Lancaster, as Gantry, is a charlatan but he is appealing. Jean Simmons, as Sister Falconer, is sincere but a sinner. Even the atheist writer of the newspaper, reporting on the Gantry/Falconer faith phenomenon,sometimes gets swayed by the moment and bends his heretofore unbended knee. Each character personifies particular parts of the American religious Fundamentalist movements.The ubiquitous temptation of sin, of course, is all around -- in whore houses, in gambling joints and in booze halls. Gantry and Simmons are, I think, the symbols of Christianity as it has run its course throughout history. It is a religion of love whose adherents often show hate. It is a religion of tolerance whose believers can be the most intolerant. This movie says so much about so much. The dichotomies of Christian belief are everywhere.Wikipedia states that Sinclair Lewis In his Nobel Prize lecture, lamented that 'in America most of us &#151; not readers alone, but even writers &#151; are still afraid of any literature which is not a glorification of everything American, a glorification of our faults as well as our virtues, and that America is 'the most contradictory, the most depressing, the most stirring, of any land in the world today.'  I think that says it all. Elmer Gantry is a must see. "},{"Title":"Ain't nothin' to forgive.","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Richard Brooks directs the novel of Sinclair Lewis. A traveling con-man(Burt Lancaster) teams up with an evangelist(Jean Simmons) and begins selling religion to 1920s America. Sins of the flesh leads to damnation. His past comes back to haunt him in the form of a blackmailing bad girl(Shirley Jones). A local newspaperman(Arthur Kennedy)tries to befriend the wayward preacher and clear his name and the reputation of the evangelist as well. Strong drama about conscience, sex, pride and evangelism. Also in the cast areJohn McIntire, Dean Jagger and singer Patti Page. Lancaster won his only Oscar for his fiery Elmer Gantry character. Jones and Brooks also earned Oscar's for their efforts.  "},{"Title":"Rusalka's thirteenth film review The proto-types for Jim and Tammy Faye Bakker","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As you watch Elmer Gantry you quickly realize just one thing how dated this film is!  Not to say that it is a bad film because it isn't, but it also isn't a great film.  Everything about this film was done in extremes, most notably the two main characters.  Burt Lancaster's Elmer Gantry and Jean Simmons' Sharon Falconer come at life from two totally different perspectives, but the two are almost dead even in their religious fervor and deep convictions.  I for one do not believe that no matter how hard he tried, Elmer Gantry could not win over Sister Sharon as easy as he did.  The film boasts a superior main cast of actors from the 1950's and early 1960's who are no longer with us most notably Dean Jagger and Arthur Kennedy.  The one drawback to this film is its length, but the again most films from this period were close enough to two and a half hours in duration.  But, like any great film, the climax of this one surely packs a punch!  Religious allegory runs rampant through this, especially in the final scenes.Elmer Gantry went into the 1960 Academy Awards ceremony with five nominations, including Best Picture.  The film won three Academy Awards Best Actor (Burt Lancaster), Best Supporting Actress (Shirley Jones), and Best Writing/screenplay (Richard Brooks).  It lost the Best Score Award to Exodus and the coveted Best Picture Award to Billy Wilder's The Apartment.My rating 3 stars "},{"Title":"Just Burt Lancaster","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Lancaster is fantastic, going all out for this role - giving some humanity to his huckster/preacher. This is the same kind of energy he gives to Birdman of Alcatraz, but instead is unrestrained. I'm surprised the director allowed him to give the kind of performance a supporting character actor might give.Unfortunately, the movie is unforgivably dull. The material seems interesting and there are some good moments, but there isn't a sense of drama about the story until the very end. The only thing holding my interest was seeing what Lancaster would do next. "},{"Title":"Drunken peddler cons his way through life","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A third rate salesman with the gift of gab joins the revival circuit during the prohibition/depression era. This was possibly Lancaster's finest effort, and the rest of the cast were also superb. One of the best movies I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Powerful!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Old time religion and small towns is the basis of this film. You have the traveling salesmen and their stories. Elmer Gantry comes along and then gets hooked on religion. He uses the selling bit and tries to win the affection of Sister Sharon. She has perfection in her heart and sees the real true purpose of Elmer Gantry. On the road to Zenith to save souls and abolish drinking and other sins, he finds his former sweetheart Lulu that he had tried to save by ramming the fear of God into her. Lulu has been disillusioned and turned to prostitution. Her way to hurt him is to frame him. Lulu is played by Shirley Jones who earned an academy award for best supporting actress. It shows the human side of Elmer. Sister Sharon isn't so fortunate as she goes down with her church that she worked so hard for.It has alot of conflicts here and then just when you think you know what will happen, it is confusing. But a good film!It was one of those roles that earned an oscar for Shirley Jones.  "},{"Title":"Salvation as commerce, religion as a racket...","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Burt Lancaster won an Oscar for his theatrically fiery portrayal of a passionate, immoral, self-styled salesman-turned-Christian preacher who worms his way into evangelist Jean Simmons' revival meetings; transforming the prayer group's usual routine under the tents, he manages to dazzle the hungry sinners with show-biz fire-and-brimstone, ultimately helping to lead the congregation from the sticks to the Big City. Richard Brooks adapted and directed this film-version of Sinclair Lewis' popular book, always hinting at brave or shockable themes but steering clear of anything too touchy (it's still a family picture, despite broads, bourbon and fisticuffs). Lancaster hopes to light a fire under Simmons, who looks ever more like a grown-up version of Margaret O'Brien; she sees right through this hard-living huckster, yet her eyes well up regardless when he takes charge of the pulpit, alternately rebuffing his advances and admiring his obvious carnality. Shirley Jones won a Supporting Oscar as a shady lady from Gantry's past, and Brooks won for his writing, but the picture is pomp and circumstance without any genuine wit. Lancaster gets the audience juiced with his maniacal charm (he's rather like the con-artist at the center of The Music Man), but his performance is intentionally exaggerated--he's programmed to hit all the high notes--and one is eventually exhausted by him. **1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"No Classic","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is completely torpedoed by a terribly muddled, senseless final half hour that not only left me scratching my head, but almost tearing my hair out in frustration. The first two hours are reasonably effective as it plunges into the themes of religion, sex, hippocrisy and Show Biz; though I was always aware I was watching a movie - there's an artificiality to it that left me somewhat cold. Nevertheless, Burt Lancaster is riveting and Jean Simmons and Dean Jagger have their moments as well. But in the final reel, character motivations don't just become fuzzy, they become downright unfathomable. Maybe it had something to do with Production Code restrictions of the time - whatever the case, it doesn't make any sense at all. I think the producers of the film were just determined to have a big, apocalyptic climax, even at the expense of artistic merit.     "},{"Title":"The Revival of Revivalism.","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jean Simmons is the innocent and reverent Sister Sharon, head of a modestly successful, itinerant religious revival troupe. Her only desire is to cheer folks up and get them to commit themselves to Christ. She's pretty good at it, as acknowledged by both her manager, Dean Jagger, and an embedded reporter from a big city newspaper.Into this satisfied assembly comes Elmer Gantry, Burt Lancaster, a loud, joking, broke, marginalized, boozing, whoring traveling salesman who was kicked out of a seminary in his last year for being found behind the altar in flagrante dilecto with the luscious Lulu, Shirley Jones.All messed up and on the bum, he visits the revival tent, sings the hymns robustly, and tries to meet Sister Sharon. Failing, he flirts his way into her presence using the pretty Patty Page as an instrument. Sister Sharon falls under his spell when he reveals his plans to convert sinners up the rural-urban continuum all the way to the Big City, then New York and Chicago. Sharon also yields her innocence to his pheromones.But Lancaster is guided by hypothetical imperatives, not categorical. He knows his Bible okay, but he knows how to wield it like a weapon too. He enjoys it hugely, tripping the life bombastic. He scares the hell out of patrons and fills the tent in every town they visit until they wind up in the capitol city of Zenith. That's as far as they get. (Boys and girls, this is what we call symbolism. In astronomy, zenith mean the point of the sky directly over your head. In this movie, it's the highest position the revival meeting can get. The word comes from Arabic, but that has nothing to do with what we call symbolism.) The revival business does great box office in Zenith but then, while smashing up bars and whorehouses, Lancaster runs into his young girl friend. Lulu, from the seminary, the one who says, He really rammed the fear of God into me. She entraps him. The news gets out and the folks who have been bamboozled exercise their righteous wrath, ending in a holocaust.This is a filthy movie, full of sex and violence and depravity. People use the D word and the H word and still another H word and I just don't know what all. Oh, those words are damn, hell, and hooker. I thought it best to take the chance of spelling them out because we good folks are so pure we may never have heard them before, so the hints might have eluded us. They certainly would have eluded me. I have never had an impure thought in my life. And even now, reading those filthy words I just typed, I still don't know what they refer to.Burt Lancaster really allows himself to become unbuttoned in this film. Wow! He goes all out, laughing, sweating, threatening, slyly conniving. Jean Simmons was a nice lady with a good sense of humor but after she matured -- after Ophelia and the young Estella -- she was never really exciting. At the same time, the supporting cast is admirable, especially Arthur Kennedy doing the cynical reporter number that he would reprise a little later in Lawrence of Arabia. I was going to add that the film dates because we don't have revival tents traveling around much these days, but then I began to think that generalization over. The audiences in the movie are strictly white, rural, emotional, and easily manipulated. One convert drops to his knees and howls like a dog because he hates Satan so much. Lancaster and Simmons are both charismatic figures. He plays the heavy-breathing preacher, peddling anger while he hides his sins. Simmons is the Good Cop, preaching love and salvation while she hides her sins. Evolution is ridiculed. Burt rails against Harvardism, Yaleism, and Princetonism. He admits that while Dean Jagger is a five-dollar encyclopedia, he himself is a two-cent tabloid. He's proud of knowing nothing about theology, biology, or any other ology. The audience swallows it all with relish and forks over so much money that the troupe becomes a going concern. Of course only those who commit to Christ will be saved. The rest of them -- well, we can either pity them or despise them. It doesn't sound all that dated at the moment. Plus ça change, plus c'est la même chose. "},{"Title":"Elmer Dud","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Whatever controversy there was in Sinclair Lewis's classic satire has been whitewashed to present a pro-religion view in this dreadful screen adaptation. The film is little more than filmed revival meetings, with two and half hours of loud, over-the-top preaching that is quite tedious to watch. Lancaster plays the title role with beady eyes, a toothy grin, and a phony laughter. It may be well-suited to the character, but it's a caricature that quickly becomes tiresome. Of course, this showy performance was ready-made for an Oscar. Simmons and Kennedy fare better, and Jones is quite alluring in a role far removed from Mrs. Partridge. The ending is contrived and utterly ridiculous. "},{"Title":"ear-splitting","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Looking at all the Christian litmus tests this movie is put to, I have my own non-Christian litmus test. If you don't like to hear the standard holy harangues, this movie isn't for you. I might have found it endurable if I only had to sit through two or three pivotal tirades. But this movie is wall-to-wall pillories. We're back in the revival tent continuously. On top of that, the non-preaching scenes also regularly start with an outburst or build to one. It's exhausting. James M. Christley of the Apollo Guide praised this, writing, The most interesting part of this movie is its use of broad strokes to mask subtle sketches and careful characterizations. All I found was the heavy-handedness, and maybe a little more ambiguity than usually found in 1960.Shirley Jones is finally allowed to show some range as a hooker, and she does a better job of it than other 'good girls' have; Deborah Kerr, Donna Reed. Director Brooks' signature flaws are here. He doesn't know when he's made his point, and he overdoes it in pitch and in length. The movie would make a good contrast with the Music Man. Lancaster's style is reminiscent of Robert Preston, and both feature Jones. "},{"Title":"Burt Lancaster dazzles","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Burt Lancaster dazzles in this movie. The scene where he sings with some African Americans in a church is one of the best moments on film. The words consummate and incandescent come to mind about his performance. The rest of the movie is actually quite dull, from photography to colors to everything. He is the sole highlight of the movie, which is okay because he excels. Strangely, Shirley Jones' hair color and texture come closest to anything I've seen to looking similar to Dorothy Stratten. From some angles when you just see the hair you would think it was Dorothy, plus there is some softness, some slight shape to her face that is similar. Jean Simmons gives a fair performance, but everyone dulls and becomes bland in comparison to the dazzling Mr. Lancaster. Anyone who has read extensively on film flam preachers can see that he became the part in full. I don't know why he did not get an Oscar for this role. "},{"Title":"Gideon's Underdrawers","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you have a source of old movies, often the tides of life determine which you pick to watch. Today a famous public preacher died. For those not in the US, he was one of the first wave of TeeVee preachers. This film was made before his rise, but seems resonant. It was controversial in its time, not because it showed fundamentalist preachers as flawed and confused, even opportunistic. In fact, it's rather soft and forgiving in that measure and to my mind is sympathetic to those who dedicate their lives to saving souls. Leap of Faith pointed its dagger toward relatively vile opportunists, but not here. The controversial element in this is different and targets the surrounding community. Leaders of a large city wanted the revival to come to town because it would be good for business, and not just the business of funding the churches. That element casts this in a very dark and cynical world, where the preachers are hapless but willing tools of forces they've erased from their own story.That unnamed contemporary preacher famously strategized in a meeting of his peers to seize the issue of abortion as a Christian issue above all others as a tactical move to polarize the nation, attract folks to fundamentalism and turn the church into a political movement. He succeeded, primarily because the movement was endorsed by businesses. Fundamentalist churches in the US today support tax cuts and the business community in return supports antigay, antiabortion efforts. I'm not making this up. Its what was so disturbing about this film in its time, but apparently not now.Vehicles like this are a blessing for actors, even the untalented ones we have here. Its a performance about performance. The folding is explicit because you can spend huge amounts of time showing the audience and talking about what reaches them, as the film does the same to reach us. Its also possible for the actors to display traits that would be repellent, outlandish, unbelievable of people in any other trade or calling.Cinematically, the interesting thing about this is the score. You can feel the lucre in it, sliding in the background, a lubrication of unseen evil against which the simple hymns are faint armor.(This is a replacement comment. The original was deleted.)Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Confused","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm confused as to how anyone could see this movie as anything short of a 2 and a half hour torture session. You might say that I, being young and not akin to the slower pace of 60s classics, have a skewed few on films like these. But honestly there is no plot here and no one wants to watch Burt My Face is Fastened into a Smile with a Steel Pin Lancaster exercise his obnoxious grin for that long. The name Elmer Gantry alone is a turnoff, it sounds like a cheap rip-off of a glue company. I have an appreciation for classic movies, but this is as far from classic as You've Got Mail. I'd like to see the writing process for a movie like this. Hmm what should happen next. Here's an idea let's put in another scene of Elmer Gantry singing, because 6 scenes of coma-inducing Burt Lancaster chants aren't enough. And while we're at it, let's show Burt Lancaster smiling again. Sick. Just sick. And to think this movie would be lauded as one of the true classics makes me want to take a cheese grater to my face. Down with Gantry!  "},{"Title":"Burt Lancaster's Protests","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just finished reading something about Burt Lancaster and discovered that he took on the role of Elmer Gantry, according to Lancaster, to tear down and protest against Billy Graham. Lancaster claimed to be an atheist, although I read some of his friends doubted this to be a fact.I read the book Elmer Gantry many years ago, and some time after that saw the movie. Not once did the book or movie shake or change my Christian faith or belief in God. I never took the actions of a fictitious Elmer Gantry to be indicative of Christianity as a whole nor to be an indictment of the Christian faith. I found both interesting, entertaining, but in no way was I moved from my position of faith. Neither have I ever associated the acts of a fictitious character with the acts of Billy Graham. That would be absurd. Only the acts of that man himself would influence my thoughts about him.I frankly have been disappointed to read about Burt Lancaster tonight, to find that he was such a liberal, a communist sympathizer, and a head of his local ACLU, in addition to being a self-proclaimed womanizer of extensive, according to him, nearly epic activity. I was also disappointed to read of his activities to attempt to tear down values that have been held dearly and closely by the very people who paid to put the very bread on his table and to fund apparently his political activities, along with the luxuries acting provided for him and his family. "},{"Title":"Elmer`s A Rogue ?","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The problem I have with ELMER GANTRY is the fact that I live in a very cynical era . By all means I can recognise the flaws of Elmer , he gambles , drinks and frequents speakeasys during the prohibition era , he lies , and has sex outside of marriage while all the time he talks about the love of God and God`s hatred of sin . In short he`s a hypocrite and manipulates people for his own ends but never does he come across as being a bad or unlikable person . He`s a rogue but a very charming and likable rogue played extremely well by Burt Lancaster . ELMER GANTRY is a redemption plot from an ( Perhaps too naive )  era when characters in films didn`t need too much redeeming . If we`re talking about redemption for self confessed Christians in a cynical era  then may I suggest we start with Bill Clinton , Pat Robertson ( No relation ) and Jerry Falwell ? "},{"Title":"I'm on my way,up to Canaan Land,Glory Halleluiah,I'm on my way!","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is not so much a film as it is an attempt to pigeon hole a value whose pretense knows no end and further provides for a lasting place at which the evil of this world has been forever cast out.The opportunistic film making industry has in this film provided an attempt or even the suggestion that there is such as they have showcased which of course there is not.The place that such a value entertains is not for this but for the Glory of God and though this be but a motion picture it allows for no uncertain truth as is in the very risen flesh as borne through our creators risen Son,Jesus Christ.The film for all its arrogance is in fact not about what it suggests but more so pertaining to the world that is known by these interests represented in this motion picture.There is an element of insincerity that is so strong that I'am surprised that this was allowed to occur.There is no friend in this film to the truth only interests of the film which provide for a wink of an eye to one as to another.Gantry is that type of personality an overt con man who knows no brother nor any allegiance to God or any other belief outside of some con which he just happens to be working on a particular day.The discredit that is paid to one and all is perhaps best seen as ridicule rather then some story about religion and revivalism.The power provided for is strictly speaking not of the Holy Bible nor are there claims of Evangelizing the world worthy of true discipleship.This pictures claim is a cover for a mean aggressive spirit designed to con a con with a wink to one as to the other.The unholy spirit of a circus side show is what seems to be what Elmer Gantry brings to the Sister Falconer crusade and indeed the inability to provide for an inspired albeit Holy Ghost message leaves the viewer with only a warning to the purpose had by this film and others like this whose claims are not what they are made to look like.The problem is that this is a motion picture and as such provides only a sinners way to shake a fist at our Father who art in Heaven with a promise that I will get you yet.The Ten commandments provides that Thou Shalt not worship Graven Images nor it provides Thou Shalt not place any other Gods before me.This film is an attempt to dissuade a belief of any kind and it is more so,a lesson in what is involved in the motion picture industry in the marketing of a film and what does all this have to do with the press.The elemental nature of the finished product is in its own right the workings of an alchemist and will materialize only when these various poisons coalesce to provide an graven image.This entertainment medium is nothing more than a lie fostered by the Kingfisher himself,Lucifer.The Father of Light as God gave Lucifer the claim provides a means by which we see,and that isn't really true because the Light as to this film is a spot light and is as un-natural as even the alchemy which invented it as well.These films are not a compliment by any stretch but are an attempt to force a participation through an illusion albeit a side show.Thats all this is-a loud vulgar illusion created for the sole purpose to fool you into participation of a sort that is neither worthy nor honorable in its purpose.We would be very much the mis-lead were we to believe in this type of discredited entertainment.There is nothing short of misery that is given its due,when upon entering a church,with an all Negro congregation,Gantry joins the congregation in chorus and verse singing,I'm on my way!up to Canaan Land,I'm on my way up to Canaan Land.I'm on my way,Glory Halleluiah,I'm on my way.This is one of the few inspiring moments and it occurs early in the film and very late in the film as well.The Sister Falconer crusade is mean spirited with as much a con as Gantry provided plus the fact that God did not make money.Her sermons do not allow our senses to be peaked by her earnest appeals,even in front of the camera they are nothing more then vehicles to move to and fro through out the picture.It is worthy to suggest that the interest of the film is sin and lust and the con of a con trying to get into your pants so to speak.It is very much a scandal ridden film with neither the word of God nor in its preaching allowed to flower as would be the seed that Christ planted.The answer as well is the equivalent of no answer because the result yielded only Death and peril for all.A terribly unfair and unfriendly film whose principal contribution was in song and perhaps it is in song only that this film should be mentioned.This is as much a warning as anything that there is nothing here to represent either nature nor does any claim here represent the truth.The place of the press is likened to a poison pen,it wants a story,only back then there were story makers who wrote it before it happened or so it would seem.The place of What is referred to as yellow journalism seems to have its place and it provides for the impetus of the films popularity.It is suggested from time to time within the films confines that it is a bit much to allow all that is portrayed to be anything more than that and that be an entertainment medium as insincere as it is fraudulent.This film has been given a false importance and that is what it is to me.Its credit is unjustified though the showing off seems to pay as two performances were recognized.In principal,thats two bad.No Recommendation. "}]