[{"Title":"Signoret, smoking","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"54 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Loneliness and longing in this extraordinary, ageless masterpiece. The film is dominated by the phenomenal Simone Signoret and I got dizzy looking at her beautifully complicated face. Laurence Harvey's petulance works wonders here and Jack Clayton, the director, orchestrates a soap opera for the thinking man. Everythings rings true even the most unbelievable details. The older woman syndrome is so masterfully captured here that, at times, you want to look away because the truth in Signoret's eyes is piercing as she sexily smokes her cigarette blowing the smoke right at us. I'm just rambling I know, my intention is to wet your appetite. Another extra bonus is the superb performance by Hermione Baddely, renamed by Noel Coward as Miss Gooddely. A total must! "},{"Title":"Simone Signoret Is Magnificent","Date":"20 May 2009","Score":"49 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film hasn't lost any of its bitter bite since it debuted in 1959. Laurence Harvey plays an ambitious young man who leaves a squalid industrial town somewhere in England for a good job in a nicer city. He immediately makes friends in the office and joins an amateur theater group when he learns that a pretty rich girl (Heather Sears) is a member. He also meets an older French woman (Simone Signoret) who is also a member.He starts an affair with the older woman while he blatantly pursues the rich girl, much to the dismay of her parents. Her father is a coarse but self-made man; the mother is a snooty society woman. The girl has a sort of boyfriend who constantly uses his wealthy upbringing and schooling to put Harvey in his place. Even in post-World War II England, the class system is very evident. Harvey's attempts at being upwardly mobile are constantly shot down.The girl is sent to France in an attempt to get her away from Harvey, and he falls into a torrid affair with Signoret. But he cannot get the girl (and her money) out of his head. Months go by before he runs into the girl and renews his pursuit. Of course she gets pregnant and the family relents, rushing her into marriage, an act that has bitter and surprising consequences for all involved.Signoret won the best-actress Oscar (and just about every acting award that year) for her work here and she is magnificent. She is worldly and sad yet is not about to accept her fate. Harvey (Oscar nominated) gives his best performance as the blatant social climber. His angry young man is at once despicable and sympathetic. Sears scores as the naïve young woman who tries to balance her life and her parents' wishes.Hermione Baddeley (also Oscar nominated) has a great scene toward the end of the film. She plays Signoret's friend, the one who enables their affair by lending them her apartment. Donald Wolfit is excellent as the girl's father. Ambrosine Phillpotts is good as the mother. Donald Houston, Raymond Huntley, Wilfrid Lawson, Beatrice Varley, and April Olrich are all good in smaller roles. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Simone Signoret","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"37 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Set in an English factory town, Room At The Top tells the story of an ambitious, blue-collar cad named Joe Lampton (Laurence Harvey), the film's anti-hero, attracted to two women. One woman is his boss's daughter; ergo, she is his ticket to a bright financial future. The other is an older woman named Alice (Simone Signoret).The script trends in the direction of melodramatic soap opera, with emphasis on character development. It's rather talky. And the plot is somewhat slow. On the other hand, because of the way in which sexual relationships are portrayed, the script was a bit ahead of its time. The story has a lot to say about individual sacrifice.The film's naturalistic, B&W lighting is fine. Background music is nondescript and unimportant. The most significant element of the film, perhaps, is the high quality of acting. Both Donald Wolfit and Hermione Baddeley give really fine performances in support roles. But, of course, the real reason to see Room At The Top is to marvel at the outstanding performance of Simone Signoret, who won the Oscar for Best Actress in a lead role.Although this is not my kind of film, it is very well made. It's an important film, both for its avant-garde sexual content and for the acting achievement of wonderful Simone Signoret. "},{"Title":"Room at the Top is the finest film I have ever seen.","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"41 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Simone Signoret is the epitome of sexy, womanly vulnerability, and Lawrence Harvey is superb as the money/status seeking blue collar worker willing to do whatever it takes to climb the ladder to success but oh, at what a cost. Heather Sears plays an under-appreciated role as the naive young rich girl who can't understand what Joe Lampton (Harvey) sees in such an old woman as Alice Aisgill(Signoret). Each character is fully fleshed out, from the fellow at work and his fiancé June, who befriend Harvey and invite him to the drama group where he meets Signoret, to Heather's parents. Her mother in particular presents a perfect display of class meeting crass in her oh so proper and oh so cold behavior to Harvey. The supporting cast all offer stellar performances. I have seen this film 17 times and will no doubt see it many more times,if I am lucky.  "},{"Title":"Signoret's Performance Is Unforgettable","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a superb movie. The plot is reminiscent of An American Tragedy. But it takes place in England, and the hero is very much an Angry Young Man. Nevertheless, it is so beautifully written and directed it feels as fresh and new as if the such issues had never before been touched in movies.Laurence Harvey, whom I'm generally not crazy about, is superb as the lower-class guy determined to make it big. He sets his sights on the boss's daughter, appealingly played by Heather Sears. But something happens to sidetrack him. And that something -- Simone Signoret -- is the main reason to see and to cherish Room At The Top. She is very believable as the slightly shady older woman with whom he has a romance. And her eyes! Her eyes, suggesting wisdom and great depths of sadness, will break you heart. It seems like a simple performance and it is uncluttered, stark. But it is flawless. I can think of almost no other performance by a woman in an English-language movie that compares to Signoret's. "},{"Title":"Notable for many reasons but mostly for Simone Signoret's astonishing performance.","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jack Clayton directed two masterpieces The Innocents, Truman Capote's adaptation of Henry James's The Turn of The Screw, and Room at the Top, based on the novel by John Braine. The story of a young man on the make in postwar Britain is compelling. The black and white cinematography is silken. But what you will remember most is Simone Signoret's heartwrenching performance as a mature woman rendered helpless by her love for the opportunistic character played by Laurence Harvey.  "},{"Title":"What Price Success, What Price Class","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Room At The Top filmed in 1959 takes place some ten years earlier in post war Great Britain as veteran Laurence Harvey takes it in his mind to rise from his lower class origins by any means possible. He's a devilishly attractive fellow and if that's what it takes to do it, than so be it. Not like it hasn't been done before on either side of the pond.Harvey's got no family so to speak, his parents were killed in his small town when a German bomb hit their house. He's rootless now and has a crying need to belong somewhere.The similarities in character to novelist John Braine's Joe Lampton and Theodore Dreiser's George Eastman are too obvious to overlook. However unlike Eastman, Lampton as played by Harvey is courting two very different kinds of women. Boss Donald Wolfit's daughter Heather Sears is a young and somewhat inexperienced young lady who's easy prey for Harvey. Wolfit and his wife Ambrosine Phillpotts see what's happening with their daughter, but can't ultimately do anything.But while they're trying Harvey falls in with the unhappily married Simone Signoret. She's married to Allan Cuthbertson who's a cheating dog himself. She's got a lot of passion left in her and even though Harvey's ten years younger, she knows how to show him one real good time. Being French she has a different moral view of things than the folks of her adopted country and she thinks Harvey does as well. He does, but Harvey has his priorities.Room At The Top was something that still couldn't be made in America because of the Code, but at least it was shown here. What Makes Sammy Run, a work by Budd Schulberg never had a big screen adaption and it had similar themes to Room At The Top, Still it got great critical acclaim and two Academy Awards and other nominations.Simone Signoret got one of those Oscars, for Best Actress in 1959. It's a very subtle part she undertakes, in fact she's not the main character, Harvey is. Still when she's on the screen even Harvey's flashier character of Joe Lampton takes a back seat. Signoret is just fabulous as the older and still attractive woman, trapped in a loveless marriage will touch you dearly. She's one of the most beautiful and tragic figures ever done on screen.Harvey was up for Best Actor, but he and the film itself were running in the year of Ben-Hur. He and the picture itself lost to Charlton Heston and the noble character he created on screen. Hermione Baddely who had a role similar to Thelma Ritter's in All About Eve was up for Best Supporting Actress, but she lost to Shelley Winters for The Diary Of Anne Frank.Room At The Top with its brutally frank talk of sex mixed with ambition has become a classic and Joe Lampton became Laurence Harvey's signature role. Two sequels with Joe Lampton, Life At The Top and Man At the Top, were spawned from the original, the latter with Lampton played by Kenneth Haigh as Harvey had died by then. It's an enduring classic of the British, nay the English language cinema and should not be missed. "},{"Title":"a heartwrenching movie","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent film. The human traits of ambition and greed are played out wonderfully by the well selected cast. Harvey is his usual dour self and the industrial settings of urban England add to the melancholy mood of the film. He is so good as the misguided protagonist that you end up supporting his machinations. For me it seemed to reflect the constant battle between the classes, and the value of merit and truth in life. "},{"Title":"Outstanding angry young man film.","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although Room at the Top is set in Britain just after WWII, Americans of today will recognize in Joe Lambton the prototype of a yuppie &#150; an offensively pushy, horny and self-obsessed social climber with no concern for the feelings of others, but a winning charm that pushes him all the way to the top.An orphaned working class veteran who has studied bookkeeping, Joe leaves his bombed out home for another dismal industrial town where he goes to work at a dead end civil service job, while trying to promote himself into the ranks of the wealthy by romancing the young daughter of the richest man in town. In the mean time, he commences a tawdry affair with a wealthy woman who may be a prostitute.At almost every turn, Lambton runs afoul of the husband or lover who got there first, but he won't be deterred from his goal of climbing higher up the social ladder, no matter who it hurts and even if it means having to commit adultery or marry for money.For all of that, he is by turns a sympathetic character, as ably portrayed by Laurence Harvey, in spite of the fact that his lust for the older rich woman, matter of factly played by Simone Signoret, has consequences that should make him seem thoroughly detestable. Seeing the world from his point of view, we can't help but feel that his upper class foils deserve the trouble he visits upon them, even if we feel that he is wrong to corrupt himself and betray his working class origins.The first rate production is trimmed down to essentials, yet has a balletic quality of movement when it comes to even the smallest gestures that is an unusually effective combination of masterful montage, choreography and camera movement. It is a great example of how technique and subject matter can come together to achieve a flawlessly artful yet modest effect. One of the best of the British angry young man genre. "},{"Title":"Talky but fascinating, depressing","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Joe Lampton (Laurence Harvey) is a young English man who wants to get ahead in life--quickly. He falls in love with a married, older (by 10 years) French woman named Alice (Simeone Signoret), but realizes he can only get ahead by marring the boss' daughter Susan (Heather Sears). What can he do? This was considered very strong stuff in its day. There is swearing, frank sex talk, pre-marital sex and adultery. The film is a bit slow, but is almost always interesting. The direction is assured and some of the shots are fascinating (Freddie Francis was the director of photography--no shock here--he was always great). The acting is simply great, especially Signoret (who is heartbreaking) and Harvey. Harvey is handsome, sexual, evil, romantic...all rolled into one. He's just incredible. Worth seeing, but be warned...it is depressing. "}{"Title":"A landmark film","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I recently viewed this film from 1959 and was totally riveted to it. It is a timeless love story set in post-war Britain with the incomparable Simone Signoret and Laurence Harvey at the centre of the storm. The background highlights the struggle between class and ambition in 1950's Britain. Laurence Harvey plays Joe Lampton, the angry young man who is motivated to make something of himself in a world that he is not comfortable with. Harvey portrays a new kid on the block who has taken a job at city hall, where he works with other young men like himself. He and his buddies remind us of randy high school students discovering the world and women all at once.While Joe shows all the aptitudes necessary for advancement, he is a man of principle who inherits the hostility of the working class that flares up when provoked by snide remarks about where he came from. He has trouble playing the game but no trouble attracting the attention of the ladies. At first attracted to the daughter of a local tycoon, he knows that he is an outsider and seeks the advice and friendship of an older woman - the genuine and magnetic Signoret, who plays the lovelorn wife of a local businessman and philanderer. Over time, he falls deeply in love with the older woman and the time they spend alone provides some of the most compelling scenes you are likely to find in the cinema of the 1950's. After successfully wooing her, he runs headlong into the realities of life, leading to a gut-wrenching climax, which you won't forget. "},{"Title":"A savage story of lust and ambition","Date":"24 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This underseen British classic is like a breath of fresh air. Try as it might, prior to the 1960s and the American New Wave, Hollywood could never accomplish an effective sense of realism. Across the Atlantic, the story was an altogether different one much of their shooting took place on-location in the breathtaking British countryside, or otherwise in the the shabby slums of the lower-class, successfully identifying audiences with the common man. This realism is clearly evident in many of the Ealing comedies of the late 1940s and 1950s, but, with 'Room at the Top (1959),' British film-making reached a new peak of maturity. A frank and uncompromising treatment of sexuality and class prejudices, Jack Clayton's extraordinary feature-length debut was a seminal work in the development of adult-themed cinema, a commercial and critical success despite being branded with an X-rating in the UK. The brilliance of this film, coupled with that of 'The Innocents (1961)' two years later, leads me to wonder why I don't hear of this director with much greater frequency.Joe Lampton (Laurence Harvey) is an ambitious young government accountant, proud of his lower-class heritage but determined to ascend the social ladder. Though he loathes the pretension and prejudices of Britain's wealthy upper-class, he is nonetheless determined to become one of them, a hypocrisy that triggers with in him an indescribable inner-torment. With this goal in mind, Lampton sets his sights on the innocent, virginal Susan Brown (Heather Sears), daughter of the most powerful man in town. He tries vainly to justify his advances through the pretext of love, all the while knowing that his intentions are strictly opportunistic. Alice Aisgill (Simone Signoret), a married French woman ten years his senior, proves Lampton's greatest obstacle to wealth, for he soon finds himself falling in love with her, for real this time. Torn between his affection for Alice and his ambitions towards prosperity and respectability, Lampton must eventually choose between the two, the consequences of his decision leaving an empty void where once there had been a bright, fresh and conscientious young man.Impeccably shot in crisp black-and-white by Freddie Francis, 'Room at the Top' is a refreshing dose of mature drama, and occasionally an angry, scathing assault on the British class system. Laurence Harvey, in the main role, positively burns with rage as the moral-deprived young businessman, progressively less and less identifiable to the audience as he becomes those whom he despises (indeed, near the film's end, he even goes by the name of his sworn foe, Jack Wales). Simone Signoret, a surprise Oscar-winner that year, is smooth, knowing and assertive, with just a fatal hint of vulnerability, as Harvey's sincere but ultimately hopeless lover. Of the main performers, Heather Sears is least impressive, but her appearance could nonetheless put an end to a nagging question who voiced the child-actor Martin Stephens in 'Village of the Damned (1960)' and 'The Innocents (1961)?' Though no such dubbing was credited, I realised straight away, without a quiver of uncertainty, that Sears spoke with exactly the same voice &#150; either she dubbed Stephens, or a third-party dubbed the both of them. "},{"Title":"white wedding","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An ambitious office worker from a working class family lands a civil service job and sets out to win over the daughter of the richest man in town. Going from working class to lower middle class, but with aspirations to reach the top, he gets sidetracked when he gets involved with an older, married woman. Societal rules and antiquated laws of divorce frame the unfolding drama, as he discovers the bitter truth about his shallow ambitions, getting what he thought he wanted in one of the more ironic endings ever put on film. Gripping, expertly acted by two greats, Laurence Harvey and Simone Signoret, but with several other great performances, as well as terrific cinematography and fantastic soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Fantastic.","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this film was great.  It was provocative and risque, and Ithink it held up remarkably well over the last 40 years.  It'srefreshing to watch a film made in the 50's that actually showscharacters kissing- not just pressing their faces up against eachother.  The themes are still current, and it's easy to see how thiscould be remade and updated for today- but it would be hard to topSimone Signoret's performance.  It's an interesting concept (onethat's rarely explored in films these days)- what happens when youconvince yourself that you love someone, only to find out you lovesomeone else, what are the repercussions, once the first personyou loved, finally loves you back?   "},{"Title":"Simone Signoret","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jack Clayton directed a handful of movies (a total of 10) beginning in 1944 and ending in 1992. He's perhaps best known (if at all) for three The Pumpkin Eater, The Innocents and this film, Room at the Top. It's remembered nowadays primarily (and justifiably) due to the extraordinarily rich, earthy performance of Simone Signoret.Room at the Top was a critical and box office success due in part to what was (at the time) some fairly straight forward dialog about sex. Seen from the vantage point of 50 years later, much of that dialog is quaint and square. There are several films of this time period (like Pillow Talk and Jack Clayton's follow-up to Room at the Top, his adaptation of Lawrence's Sons and Lovers) that pushed the boundaries of accepted tastes and reaped box office success from it. One could argue that without it, these films would not have been successful. Room at the Top probably would have ended up in this category were it not for Simone Signoret. Signoret's performance feels full bodied, rich and real. She's the heart and soul of the film and she's years ahead of her time. She acts the way Glenda Jackson, Jane Fonda, Ellen Burstyn and Meryl Streep would act later on in the 70s. (It's astonishing to me that the Academy managed to recognize this and awarded her the Best Actress award in 1959. I suspect it helped that she spoke English as it is easier for a wider audience to easily understand and react to.) When the films pivotal tragedy strikes, it's impact is completely understandable because of her. The rest of the film is extremely well made but no other character in it has the depth and honest charm of Signoret. (SPOILER My sole quibble is not with Signoret's performance but with her characters design. To me, it didn't make complete sense that a woman of such earthy charm and self knowledge would or could fall apart the way she does when Joe Lampton is forced to abandon her. In the scene where she tells Lampton about how she once posed nude for an artist, she comes across as a woman with an independent mind and spirit who (despite the heartbreak) could and would recover from such abandonment. Her end seems more of a contrived plot driver than a realist outcome.) "},{"Title":"A man's ambition, and the women who love him","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Laurence Harvey wants Room at the Top in this 1959 film also starring Simone Signoret and Heather Sears. Directed by Jack Clayton, the story concerns a young man, Joe Lampton (Harvey), sensitive about being from a low British class, who wants to marry the boss' daughter (Sears) for her money and position. She's part of a small amateur theater company, so he joins. There he meets an older woman, the unhappily married Alice Aisgill. The two drift into an affair and fall deeply in love. Two things stand in their way Joe's ambition and Alice's brute of a husband.This is, to put it simply, a devastating story that will stay with you long after the film is over. The movie belongs to Signoret, so sexy, so beautiful, so sad - she's perfect. Her vulnerability, her frankness, her coolness, and her deep unhappiness will shatter you. She deserved her Oscar hands-down.Harvey is magnificent as Joe. He's handsome, sexy, greedy, bitter, evil, and utterly determined to punish the upper class because he was born poor. The last scene is a knockout. I haven't seen the sequel - I can only imagine! Heather Sears does an excellent job as the whiny object of his affections, and Hermoine Baddeley, as Alice's friend, gives a marvelous performance. She was not only a top bawdy comedienne but a brilliant actress.Signoret was one of the great film presences, and if you see Room at the Top for no other reason, see it for her. The entire film is a knockout. "},{"Title":"Room At the Top ...And They Lived Miserably Ever After ***1/2","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Laurence Harvey delivers a knock-out performance as Joe, the status climbing guy, who will do just about anything to achieve his goal.This story reminds me somewhat of A Place in the Sun, where a young man is torn among lust, social climbing and ultimate tragedy.Harvey was never better in any film, even the 1962 Manchurian Candidate. He is desperate for love, recognition in a place of upper society. While he achieves this in the end, we know how really unhappy he is.Simone Signoret, as Alice, 10 years older than Harvey in the movie, but filled with lust received the Oscar here for 1959's best actress. I believe that she got it because Elizabeth Taylor and Katharine Hepburn canceled each other out in Suddenly, Last Summer and Audrey Hepburn was terribly overlooked for The Nun's Story. (5th nominee Doris Day was out of her category in Pillow Talk, nominated because the academy had overlooked her brilliant performance four years before in Love Me or Leave Me.)Signoret was difficult to understand in several scenes and was far better as the Oscar nominated Contessa in the 1965 memorable Ship of Fools.The film's endearing theme is that moving to the top does not always buy you happiness.Hermione Baddeley received an Oscar nomination for best supporting actress as a dear friend of Signoret. She torn into the screen in her brief 3 scene appearances, but etched an unforgettable performance.Heather Sears shines here as the spoiled, rich girl who is looking for love. Her parents are the epitome of upper-class snobbishness in society. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable Heartbreak","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I simply can't think of enough praise for this unforgettable film. It was the first time I had ever seen Simone Signoret when I rented it at a video store about five years ago. It was her Academy Award winning performance and she certainly earned it.To me, the movie didn't really become fascinating until she appeared, but then it was mesmerizing. The movie was so beautiful on so many levels. All of the performances were sublime - the script was terse, but somehow still rich. It was really heartbreaking -- most unforgettable was Simone Signoret. She is brilliant. Simply brilliant. I've rented it and watched it three times since then and I've tried to buy it, but to no avail. Thankfully, TCM will be showing it Feb 10, 2008, so many people will have an opportunity to enjoy it. I love this film. It is simply one of the best movies I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Austerity, not Anger","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Seeing this for the first time I was surprised to discover it is actually set in 1947, making it a piece about Austerity rather than Angry Young Men. While Laurence Harvey is convincing as a scheming hustler, he never strikes me as a northerner, and not just because his Yorkshire accent comes and goes (sometimes he sounds like he's auditioning for Jud in Oklahoma -- are Yorkshire and Texas/Southern accents that closely linked?). Harvey is more like a penniless Russian nobleman eager to make his fortune by marrying BENEATH him, not ABOVE him like Joe Lampton here. Interesting that Harvey and Richard Burton, who both came from impoverished backgrounds, both had trouble playing working class characters.We were evicted from our 'ole in the ground... "},{"Title":"Allowing Sight","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In its day, this little film was considered powerful because it dealt with matters of sex. Essentially all of the shock value is gone now.There's a story, which I won't mention. It hardly matters except for setting up a situation where no one really knows what they want in relationships. But massive commitment goes into the striving.What this has going for it today are three things.One is the performance of the jilted woman, who serves as our on-screen observer because she seems to understand more than anyone else. Part of the wonder of this is how interestingly her part is written. She seems to have a perspective others do not. But of course, this is false, and presented as merely her French manner. At the time, before the French new wave, this would have registered. The interplay of how much she cares and how much she seems to is at the root of the drama. She won an Oscar for her Frenchness.A second element of the structure is how this self-observation is annotated in the thing. Its all about how we see what our love and urges are about (and how we see THEM). So we have a folded narrative in an amateur theater company in the film. Though not much is overtly made of this, its where the tone of playing and observation are introduced, and our place in what we see. A token from this continues throughout the film in a friend of Simone's character who watches and judges.While the effectiveness of those two devices has faded with time, the final element of this is much sharper. Its the depiction of the two English cities as incredibly dirty, messy, derelict. Freddie Francis's eye has been used by several director's to emphasize the importance of context. Lynch actually built an entire film (Straight Story) around him. What the man has done here is find enough incidental glimpses of cities that barely exist, to convey the need to escape that drives our main character.It works. It all works. Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "}{"Title":"Very Watchable","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here is a film that really works and keeps your attention all the way through.  The reviews I read before I bought the DVD set up preconceived notions of a film about business and ambition.  This is actually a small part of the film.  I saw it as a love triangle story more than anything.  Laurence Harvey's character does state at the beginning of the film that he wants to marry for position in business but his heart really isn't in it.  He falls truly in love with the Simone Signoret character (Alice) and the only reason he gets back together with the bosses daughter is because of chance.  I saw his character as sensitive and real.  I think he would have stayed with Alice in the end if he could have. Its the bosses daughter who is simple and shallow.  How could she think he really liked her?  It was so obvious that he didn't. This film has all the cliches, but it doesn't cheapen it.   Great acting and script.  A must see! "},{"Title":"A careful character study and morality play","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is hard to believe this film is from the late fifties, in many ways it is more a film of the sixties.  It is a perfect example of the greatness that has shown itself many times in British film making.  Simon Signoret is especially exciting as the passionate focus of a man obsessed with rising in the world. "},{"Title":"Lucky guy version of A Place in the Sun","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very similar to A Place in the Sun, but the characters are more complicated, and the ending, I could not presume, is different.  In that sense, this film is a kind of suspense.  Simone Signoret shows big presence and mysterious sex appeals.  But the main character, Joe Lampton performed by Laurence Harvey, was strange and difficult for me to understand.  He is very ambitious and audacious, and even tries to challenge his targeted girl's parents and expected fiance who belong to the upper class, in the party of upper class.  But he suddenly becomes depressed and feels guilty, blames himself for deserting his older mistress.  Maybe he is honest and direct.  Still I enjoyed the scenery of England after the World War II, and was impressed with the last scene symbolizing that a person will rise to the upper class in return of real love. "},{"Title":"An Adult Film for its Time!","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film enhanced British film as the 1950s drew to a close. Controversial at the time, it looks dated now. But the quality of the acting and the overall production still makes it watchable. Simone Signoret shows how her acting qualities shine through in what was a difficult role. Laurence Harvey as Joe Lampton finally established himself as an actor with a role which seems to have been written for him. The story evolves around Joe Lampton's relationship with two women. Alice Aisgill, an unhappily married woman, and Susan Brown, the boss's daughter. Ambitious Joe gets what he wants in the end, but there is an enormous price to pay. Watch out for the many actors who grace this film. Many of them became household names. Video quality is not up to scratch, but it might be better on DVD. "},{"Title":"an exceptional film","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is about a poor English man who wants to claw his way to the top in the business world. To do this, he insinuates himself to the boss' daughter, while at the same time having an affair with a married woman who is 10 years his senior! Despite his being a sleazebag, of sorts, he has genuine feelings for this older lady and wants to marry her. However, at the same time events around him conspire to prevent this--ultimately leading to tragedy.The reason I liked this film so much is that despite Lawrence Harvey's character being a scheming jerk, he is not 100% despicable and you can understand a lot of his anger and desire to move up the social scale. Several times during the movie, he meets people who think they are better than him simply by virtue of their family background or position at the company. All these work together to produce a gritty, somewhat sleazy drama that seems plausible and definitely holds your attention. "},{"Title":"Room at the Top","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Simone Signoret's Oscar-crowning film is a Black & White adaption of John Braine's renowned melodrama ROOM AT THE TOP, directed by British Jack Clayton (which is his maiden work in the director chair and the film was a huge success in that year, nabbed 6 Oscar nominations including BEST PICTURE, DIRECTOR, ACTOR, SUPPORTING ACTRESS and two wins, BEST ACTRESS and BEST ADAPTIVE SCREENPLAY). However, compared with his later accomplishments THE PUMPKIN EATER (1964, 8/10) and THE INNOCENTS (1961, 9/10), the film's sentimental gloss couldn't outlive the modest platitude of the over- familiar story. A working-class man's oscillation between an affluent young girl and a 10-years-older married woman ends with a tragedy which devastatingly foreshadows his ominous bright future of his marriage and even the entire life. If one can pay no heed to the ageism and sexism undertones of the narrative (which is a bona-fide reflection of that time though), the film sails adeptly alongside a nimbly yet convincingly deployed ill-doomed love story between two so-called loving friends, their intimacy has been nurtured through an irresistible mutual attraction, peeped by the close-ups examining the highly theatric conversations such as, the dated you cannot imagine a man looking at a naked woman without wanting to make love to her argument, which may sound abrupt in this day, nevertheless, it has an earnest confessional self-conscious at that time I dare to assume. While it is unambiguous to say that Laurence Harvey and Simone Signoret both hold the passion burning amid them, which contributes to the major relish extracted by the contemporary mass, Ms. Signoret stuns in her not-that-ample screen time by rendering her pathetic anguish and determined desire to even every minimal gesture or movement (albeit her heavily accented English), same could be referred in her another English- speaking, Oscar-nominated film SHIP OF FOOLS 1965, 6/10. Taking the most poignant scene, the farewell at the train station, it is a tour-de-force achievement which certainly intrigues me to dig into her more naturally-spoken French filmography (besides ARMY OF SHADOWS 1969, 9/10). Laurence Harvey obtained his sole Oscar nomination for the role, he takes up nearly every scene and did a commendable job in all the transitions and outburst, he and Simone's after-coitus wrangle is so pungent yet thrilling to witness. But Heather Sears' ingénue performance seems to be a false move, it serves merely as a female exploitation and typecast if compared with Winona Ryder in THE AGE OF INNOCENCE (1993). Hermione Baddeley has established a record of getting an Oscar nomination by being on screen for only 2 minutes and 32 seconds, fairly enough, it is a marginalized role, which could be one of the most pertinent case in challenging the Academy members' bizarre percipient prowess. The film's final curtain drops onto a numb face of Harvey's groom contrasting with his cheerful wealthy bride, a solemn force can later be juxtaposed with the similar composition in Mike Nichols' THE GRADUATE (1967, 8/10). "},{"Title":"One of the most important films of its time","Date":"4 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film won an Oscar, as did Simone Signoret for best actress and the screenwriter Neil Paterson for best screenplay. It made a huge hit when it was released, and it had a major social impact in Britain as well. Based on the best-selling novel by John Braine, the film dealt with the aspirations of the working class to rise in the world, and the intimidation they felt from the rich upper middle class, in this case a Yorkshire mill-owner, played with ruthless honesty and typical Yorkshire bluntness by Donald Wolfit. The hero, or I should really say anti-hero, of the story is Joe Lampton, played by Lawrence Harvey. His desire to get on in life is all-consuming, and he is desperate to escape the row cottage in the small Yorkshire mill town where he has grown up with his widowed mother. He was in the RAF in the War, but was only a sergeant, and spent most of the War as a POW. It is 1947 and he has now returned to civilian life and has to decide what to do. So he moves to a larger mill town, which is not an entirely working class location, and gets a job in the offices of the local textile mill. On his very first day, he sees the pretty young daughter of the mill owner and decides he is going to 'get' her, both because he wants her and as a means of advancement. He is brutally frank about wanting to 'marry a million pounds'. He wants to get to the 'top'. Wolfit\s daughter is played by the young Heather Sears. It is a great pity that she did not appear in the sequel film LIFE AT THE TOP (1965, see my next review), and that she was replaced with Jean Simmons, who was not right for the part, and the difference in tone destroyed much of the continuity. Heather Sears was absolutely perfect. She played the daughter as a sweet, dreamy, but spoilt and wilful creature lost in her romantic notions. She is completely dazzled by Larry Harvey and in love with him, and keeps saying to him as things work out for them 'Isn't it wonderful?' For her, she is living out a romantic dream. But she is far from a passionate creature in the carnal sense, which is essential to the story. For that side of things, Harvey has his own passionate love affair with the woman who is to be the one true love of his life, played by Simone Signoret with overwhelming soulful intensity. Signoret could say more with her bedroom eyes than almost any actress one can think of. You can see her thinking, and what is more, you can see her feeling. That takes some doing in moments without dialogue. She certainly deserved her Oscar. Larry Harvey's performance is wonderful and dominates the film, as indeed it should. The film is magnificently directed by Jack Clayton, and is one of his finest achievements. The cinematography by Ossie Morris is even better than his usual superb standard, with Brian West as operator. I knew (at a later date, not when this was made) so many people connected with this film, not least Larry and Jack. Alas, I never met Signoret. That would have been something. This film is a real classic, powerful, emotional, upsetting, compulsive viewing, and deeply tragic. It is what can be called without hesitation 'the real thing'. "},{"Title":"A Lothario's Odyssey","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Room at the Top (1959) is an engrossing story of ambition and deceit set in postwar England. Laurence Harvey is the very definition of a cad as Joe, WWII vet and former POW, who arrives at a new town to take a job in the Treasurer's Department of Warnley, a fictitious, bustling manufacturing center. He is from the poor town of Dufton. Joe uses his good looks to get what he wants, whether it be sex or the attentions of the pretty, innocent daughter (Heather Sears as Susan) of the town's leading citizen and employer (Donald Wolfit - serious yet upbeat).In the first five minutes of Top, we see that this is a different kind of movie. Sexual attraction and frank admiration of the object of one's desires are the stuff that gives Top life. As Joe enters the office where he will be working, every woman there is shown to be checking him out silently, in a wonderful panning shot. He moves into a flat with his chum and co-worker, Charles (Donald Huston). Charles recruits Joe into a local drama repertory club, and we meet all sorts of lively young people, as well as Simone Signoret playing a libidinous older woman. Room at the Top is not explicit in any way, but the players and their casual remarks and gossip are very revealing and engagingly authentic.Room at the Top was nominated for 6 Academy Awards and won two, one for Signoret and one for Best Adapted Screenplay, going to Neil Paterson's work in translating John Braine's novel to the big screen. It is vastly more entertaining and thought-provoking than any Romantic Comedy* today, and it is more adult than any explicit sex romp film ever released. Absolutely Smashing!!!* Room at the Top is a drama through and through, but most of the plot could work in a Romantic comedy also.How about salary? "},{"Title":"Just about perfect!","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh how I enjoyed this film, that's what it was, a film, not just a movie. I can't believe it took me so long to watch, silly me had it on my DVR since March/05/2012 and never felt like watching it. I just finished it now.The acting from the leads was superb! I loved Alice and Joe. The acting from so many of the actors was top-notch, only the character Susan was a bit of a drag. How I hate that Joe would be stuck with her whiny and silly self. He did realize that what he thought he wanted wasn't what he wanted at all, and look how he messed everything up. Poor dear Alice! I was hoping all would end well, but I knew it would not. I just knew it. Joe is going to be wealthy and have a life that his friends would never have, but he truly learned that his love for Alice meant more than anything to him. Can you imagine having to listen to Susan for years to come? "},{"Title":"A brilliant portrayal of none man's ambition to break down the barriers of Post War Britain","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jack Clayton's brilliant, cynical 1959 movie of John Braine's novel Room at the Top (1957) can now be seen in a complete High Definition print on YouTube. I hope this easy availability brings it to the attention of a new generation of not just film fans but those interested in Britain's social history in the Post War years. Braine was at the centre of the Angry Young Men literary movement of the 1950s (although in reality there was no movement as such - just a coincidence of good writing by young writers troubled by the social mores of the times). Set in a northern town, and with a symbolic background of chimneys and the daily grind, Room at the Top is about aspiration and ambition - about how a determined, clever, handsome young man, Joe Lampton (Laurence Harvey) finds room at the top for himself artfully and by trampling over a few hearts along the way. New to the town of Warley - a step up from his more downmarket home town - Joe declares early his intention to succeed. His job as an accountant in the local authority offices is to be no more than a stepping stone to better things.Notwithstanding the political revolution of the Labour government of 1945-1951 Britain's establishment regrouped and reinforced its barriers to entry. Kingsley Amis in Lucky Jim (1954), Stan Barstow in A Kind of Loving (1960), Alan Sillitoe in Saturday Night and Sunday Morning (1958) as well as Braine and others describe these barriers and the difficulties of breaking them down. In Room at the Top class and privilege are the key. With his brashness and brains Lampton is clearly a man on the make. Warley's big cheese is Abe Brown (Donald Wolfit) millionaire, factory owner, stalwart of the Conservative Club. A man used to getting his own way. Brown has a pretty daughter in her late teens, virginal and with a cut glass accent to contrast with her father's self-made-man Yorkshire. Susan Brown (Heather Sears) falls for Joe and he sees not just the challenge (easily overcome) of breaking down her barriers but also her potential usefulness to him in his determined climbing of the ladder. Whilst decorative and useful Susan Brown inspires no passion in Joe - but he also meets Alice Aisgill (Simone Signoret), older, beautiful, physically stunning, married, unhappy. Susan is prettily naive but Alice is worldly and desirable. Lampton's seduction of Susan is carried out clinically and dispassionately. His affair with Alice is the real thing - for both of them. When it becomes known to Alice's husband George (Alan Cuthbertson) the latter threatens Joe with financial and social ruin unless he breaks it off. This is a pivotal scene symbolising the Them and Us world of that time and place. Another symbol of the class divide is the portrayal by John Westbrook of Sarah's boyfriend Jack Wales. Wales, like Lampton, was in the RAF during the war and also like Lampton was a Prisoner of War. But where Joe was a humble Sergeant Wales was an Officer and a heroic escaper from captivity. Wales demeans Joe by calling him Sergeant - a gratuitous bit of class snobbery that makes Lampton all the more determined to succeed!When Joe Lampton gets Susan Brown In the family way the story approaches its climax. In a cameo of exceptional quality Donald Wolfit's Brown tests Joe's intentions over Game soup at the Conservative Club. My father would be horrified to see me here says Joe. So would mine says Brown suggesting that he has more in common with his daughter's seducer than might be thought. He offers Joe an incentive to break up with Susan which Joe flatly refuses. That was the test. The real offer is a job at Brown's and a ticket on the gravy train if he marries Susan. Joe accepts.Alice is to be abandoned - a casualty of Joe Lampton's ambition and choice of fortune over love. Alice goes alone to the pub, drinks herself into a near stupor, drives away in her car and kills herself. A distraught Joe wanders alone through the Warley streets, lands up in a pub himself where he toys with a pretty empty-headed girl who briefly deserts her boyfriend for him. In another strongly symbolic moment the boyfriend turns on Joe and tells him not to think that his (Joe's) class gives him any rights. Joe is now the middle-class man he aspired to be - at least in the eyes of this stranger. Joe wanders away and is set upon by the boyfriend who was waiting for him with a gang. Joe gets beaten to a pulp for his temerity in having chatted up the girl, and for his seeming assumption that he had an entitlement to do so.Room at the Top ends with Joe and Susan's wedding - it's the full monty with church and bridesmaids and the rest. Joe has arrived - and his beautiful bride is beside herself with perky happiness as they are driven away in the wedding car after the ceremony. But Joe is unsmiling. He has won, but in winning he has lost not just his one true love but some of himself. Was that really all really worth it ? you know he must be thinking? "}{"Title":"heartbreak, transcendent and profound","Date":"18 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Much has been said about Simone Signorets's magnificence here, but I feel compelled to add my own voice to the mix, so astonished & moved was I by her performance. I want to pay homage to a particular scene. She's been blowing, sheathing herself, in gorgeous plumes of smoke throughout the film, but at a climactic moment, delivers these linesNo--no, I don't want to smoke, and I don't want to drink. Because cigarettes and drink--they dull you. I want every minute of these four days. And I want them...sharp...and clear. Prosaic lines, in and of themselves. Listen to, and watch, an artist at work here, illuminating the essence of naked, fragile, beautiful humanity. Thank you, Ms. Signoret. "},{"Title":"Still at the top","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always thought of Room at the Top as an important movie.Although the story seems anchored to life in Britain at the end of WW2, and driven by the class struggle and sense of delusion after the war, the major themes are universal.Joe Lampton (Laurence Harvey) in his attempt to rise above an impoverished background by latching onto a girl from a wealthy family has many cinematic soul brothers &#x96; Montgomery Clift in A place in the Sun and The Heiress for starters.In Joe's case, he sacrifices the woman he really loves, for comfort, security and position. Needless to say, he comes to regret that decision and therein lays the soul of this movie.It's easy to see why Simone Signoret won the Academy Award as Alice Aisgil, the older woman he loves. She is at once worldly, but vulnerable; it is painful to watch her as she realises the fragility of her relationship with Joe.Then there is Laurence Harvey. His was a difficult role, and although he may be a little too strident earlier in the movie, by the end, he inhabits Joe Lampton like a second skin.Laurence Harvey gave a certain gravitas to many movies, although his critics would seem to deny him any stature as an actor at all &#x96; I often wonder if they mixed up his off-screen life with his on-screen roles? Apparently he was promiscuous, bi-sexual, perennially late on set, and used people to gain advantage &#x96; not unlike Joe Lampton &#x96; but all that was off camera, it's not the Laurence Harvey 99.9% of us ever saw.When British actor Robert Stephens described Harvey in his autobiography as an appalling man and, even more unforgivably, an appalling actor. It's hard to take that as a particularly astute observation when we watch not only this film, but also Darling, Butterfield Eight, The Manchurian Candidate and even The Alamo, where Laurence Harvey's cultivated Colonel Travis is the perfect counterpoint to the testosterone charged performances of just about everyone else in the cast. But maybe those smooth good looks and that superb voice just got up the nose of less photogenic peers &#x96; there seems much peevishness in their comments.There is considerable depth to his performance in Room at the Top, especially at the end when the anguish over what he has done breaks through his icy demeanour; it's understated and all the more powerful for it. Made in 1959, but set in the late 40's, the film looks good, and has that sense of timelessness often achieved by films made at a later date than when they are set.The sequel, Life at the Top, made in 1965, was a polished production that had something to say about the politics of the time, and also featured a more mature performance by Laurence Harvey. However, it didn't have the immediacy of the original, which ushered in that brilliant period in British cinema in the late 50's and early 60's. History aside, Room at the Top is a powerful experience full of fascinating and attractive stars. "},{"Title":"Not Larry Harvey's finest hour dear.","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This could have been so much better with almost any other actor in the lead role.Laurence Harvey could do yiddish cockney(see the wonderful Expresso Bongo) American (The Alamo),britposh(most of his other movies) but he couldn't do northern.Couldn't even do J.Arthur Rank northern,which was a bit of a handicap in the circumstances.Room at the top was considered very daring when I were a lad,and John Braine the greatest thing since Hovis.Sadly Mr Braine turned out to be rather a one-hit wonder and Room at the top was soon eclipsed by the likes of Saturday night and Sunday morning,starring actors who could do northern. However,it is by no means a bad film.Simone Signoret is outstanding,Donald Wolfit is Sir in The Dresser to a T and Freddie Clayton's directorial debut is a very assured one.There is nothing novel about the Working class lad on the make plot but it is nicely realised and photographed. I hope this isn't the film Laurence Harvey will be remembered for. The good die young(tough),Three men in a boat(nob) Expresso Bongo(cockney geezer)The long and the short and the tall('orrible little man soldier) are much better examples of his rather singular talent. So,Room at the top is a better movie than most of his others - but he isn't much cop in it. "},{"Title":"None too subtle","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'd rather watch an old, high-aiming movie than just about anything, especially one I haven't seen before. And Britain's Kitchen Sink school intrigues me quite a bit. If the entirety of Room at the Top was as good/modern/shocking as three or four of its best scenes, it would be a remarkable movie, but unfortunately, normative conventions of the era end up burying the more original moments. It's far less subtle than the uniformly great reviews led me to expect.It adopts a controversy-seeking position with its characters, but it also underscores every point, so you don't miss the morality of the film's viewpoint.I find Signoret to be miscast. She's looking pretty long in the tooth, and worldly, to be so impressionable and go to pieces over a man. I don't buy her character or her situation for a minute. She's a tough cookie.I pull this DVD out now and again, when I doubt my mediocre opinion of it. And I'm always disappointed to see again that there's too much dross, and too many melodramatic flourishes. Room at the Top is corny. "},{"Title":"Gritty, somewhat dated class tale","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A tough-talking kitchen sinker about a low-bred northerner with aspirations above his station, this is grim-up-north stuff about the working classes and how they shouldn't try to marry the bosses daughter. Very angry. "},{"Title":"Well-Shod In Attica","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although it was clearly not intended to be, nor promoted as, a two-hander the fact remains that there are only two actors in Room At The Top; Simone Signoret and Everyone Else. Co-star (and if this isn't a joke I don't know what is) who had actually played Shakespeare on screen may well have paraphrased the Bard and felt moved to say, 'Why, she doth bestride this narrow film like a colossus and we, like petty men, creep under her huge legs to find ourselves dishonourable roles'. Of course Signoret brought considerable acting chops to bear, in the nineteen fifties alone she had appeared in Manages, La Ronde, Casque d'Or, Les Diaboliques, and Therese Raquin, all distinguished titles; Harvey had also managed to amass the odd credit in the same decade, The Dancing Years, The Scarlet Thread, There Is Another Sun, A Killer Walks, Knights Of The Round Table, King Richard And The Crusaders, The Truth About Women. He also managed to stink up the screen as Romeo in an ill-judged Romeo and Juliet. In Room At The Top he is playing Laurence Harvey in much the same way Frank Sinatra played aspects of himself in Meet Danny Wilson; Joe Lampton is an arrogant chip-on-both-shoulders ambitious social climber quite prepared to marry his way to the top in real life Harvey was an arrogant, ambitious, social climber who married a far better actor, Margaret Leighton, as a stepping-stone' if not an entree to life at the top. At the time (1959) the film probably packed quite a punch but things had come to a pretty pass when an actor who towered over Harvey as a performer, Wilfrid Lawson, was reduced to a couple of uncredited scenes whilst Mr. Mahogany got second billing after Signoret. This rates ten out of ten for Signoret and about half that for the film itself. "},{"Title":"Sleazy pseudorealism","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    This film's major problem is that it's plot is so ridiculous. Has anyone ever known people like  this? I mean, walking around and living amongst us. The idea of a girl taking so long to suddenly (Aha!) realize that she loves someone is pure Hollywood.  Two choices  either she's mistaken, or she's the world's greatest chowderhead. Filming in black and white is an obvious machination  to get you to believe the story is realistic.  Lawrence Harvey acted much like a wooden Indian  might and Simone has all the sex appeal of a  prostitute. "}]