[{"Title":"Gregory Peck, glorious black and white, and intense action--what more do you want?","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"30 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I think when movies like Saving Private Ryan or Platoon came out people thought that these represented new insights on the war movie. Unfortunately, I guess they'd never seen a number of classic old films, such as Hell Is For Heroes (Steve McQueen), Sahara (Humphrey Bogart), or, indeed, Pork Chop Hill, starring Gregory Peck.I've seen Pork Chop Hill three or four times.  It is, from what I understand, a historically accurate account of one of the last fifty years' most famous battles, based on the book by famous military historian Gen. S. L. A. Slam Marshall.  The scene is at the end of the Korean War. Negotiations between the combatants have stalemated.  LT1 Joe Clemons (played by Gregory Peck) is ordered to take Pork Chop Hill, a basically worthless piece of territory to demonstrate to the Chinese and North Koreans that resolve had not flagged.  So a night attack is ordered.  Fog of war messes the whole thing up repeatedly and Clemons is left holding the bag, with his company of men stuck in the assault without the backup they expected to happen.  The story is very human, particularly the interaction between Clemons and his second in command, Ohashi.  You see men determined to win even though they know they might die (and for what?), men on the verge of breaking only to be rallied or not, the utter confusion of battle. The movie's got a lot of then-unknowns, but later stars, e.g., George Peppard, Rip Torn, etc. "},{"Title":"intense movie","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"28 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I love Gregory Peck and have seen many of his movies.  He can't save a bad movie but he always adds a star in my book.  Fortunately he does not need to save this one.  I am also a fan of classic war movies (lately that's about all I've been watching as I slowly work my way through the local video store's collection).  So I really liked this one.The B&W filming was really gritty and captured the whole pointlessness of the battle that was Pork Chop Hill, right before the 1953 Armistice.  We take it, the Chinese take it, we decide to take it back....  You really get a sense of the tactics employed by the troops on both sides and the tough job that is the infantryman's assaulting a hill, amid confusion, snafus, and the ever-present risk of death.  "},{"Title":"A Dramatic Moment in The Forgotten War","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"23 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  On the very short list of Korean War films, `Pork Chop Hill' has many admirable features. Lewis Milestone's direction is never sluggish, yet allows for introspective moments. His orchestration of combat scenes is effective, while not memorably exciting. There is much beauty in the cinematography, and several shots have a spare, otherwordly feeling that underscores the plight of the GIs in this true story.  The musical score, by the underrated Leonard Rosenman,  contributes to the mainly grim tone of the circumstances.Actors are all at, or near, their best Peck, Edwards, Strode, Guardino, Shibata, a very young Robert Blake.. Closeups are rare, and group scenes so full of motion, that it is easy to miss many well-known names in supporting roles Harry Dean Stanton, Charles Aidman,  Paul Comi, Kevin Hagen.  While some characters besides Peck's lieutenant are singled out-Woody Strode's Franklin, in particular-most are only given very brief scenes to establish their individuality.With all its fine qualities, `Pork Chop Hill' somehow misses greatness. The build toward the climax lacks the thrust it should have in a film of modest length and dimensions. And when the climax arrives, it does not have the impact that was surely intended.  Nevertheless, this film honorably commemorates a singular operation in `the forgotten war' and the men who died carrying it out. "},{"Title":"accurate battle scene","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Friend of mine who fought in that area during the korean war felt it was very accurately portrayed as to fighting conditions,landscape,confusion in battle.  Believe it was the best war movie when it comes to depicting what it was like for a ground pounder in korea. "},{"Title":"They don't make them like this anymore...","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  War movie? Anti-war movie? For you to judge on this one.Fact is that this is a crude depiction of what happened a bit everywhere in the Korean war.Gregory Peck, a gentleman of an actor, delivers a very strong performance as an officer tasked to take that darn hill. His conflict goes both ways. He has to order his men to get out there and take the Hill at all costs and at the same time he has to keep their spirits together before they totally crack-up.In fact, you actually can feel the bombs and the mortars shelling you throughout the movie. Imagine how you would feel if you had actually been there...This is probably a good companion to M*A*S*H (the Movie and/or the TV series). It's just on the other side of those Hills. It's these boys who were delivered on Hawkeye's operation table.Never forget that!It's honest, well played and has much less war-glorifying aspects than one would imagine or expect.The DVD edition is a bit better than its VHS counterpart and is in the correct 1.851 aspect ratio.Now, if some producer is still able to make a 90 minute movie with a similar gripping story nowadays, then you may call me Santa Claus!  "},{"Title":"one of the best and one of the few about Korean War","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Pork Chop Hill is to films about the Korean War (when more than 50,000 men die, it is a war, not a conflict) what Go Tell the Spartans is to the Viet Nam War. Neither of them are artificially dramatic, both are understated, both tell the story pretty much as it was, or, at least, as close as Hollywood gets. This entire movie represents the Korean War very well including the posturing at the peace talks. Some people are now calling Korea the forgotten war. This is regrettably true. More people should see Pork Chop Hill.  "},{"Title":"All in all, a great war movie","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" I like this movie and while it lacks the realistic and detailed gore of modern war films, and it does have its glitches and goofs, it did not do a bad job for a 1959 production.The attention to detail given to King Company's organizational structure, and many other technical aspects of the platoon and company level combat operation portrayed was outstanding thanks to Captain Joseph G. Clemons Jr., the movies' technical director and actual commander of King Company during the battle. In addition, there was also an in your face, down in the dirt grittiness about the film that many other war films even to this day lack. One of my favorite parts of this movie was the on going confrontation between Lieutenant Clemons and Private Franklin. The way the conflict played out in the movie brought out the motivational traits from Clemons that makes a great leader and the final acceptance of Franklin of his obligation as a soldier and his willingness to share the fate of his brother in arms, what ever it may be; I love Woody Strode. As one living in the real world, I shaped my views of this film not from the anti-war intent of director Milestone, but from a war movie fan, and real life Grunt perspective. While it does have anti-war overtones courtesy of director Milestone and others, Pork Chop Hill was based on an actual Korean War battle, and book of the same title by U.S. Army historian S.L.A. Marshal, and the movie does contain many factual events such as the friendly fire incident at the command post. I like Pork Chop Hill for the Hollywood production that it is, and would recommend that its critics be ignored, and enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"Fine antiwar drama from one of the genre's greatest directors.","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" One of the finest (anti)war movies ever made is undoubtedly the 1930 epic All Quiet On The Western Front, directed by the incomparable Lewis Milestone. 29 years later, Milestone once again turned his attention to the waste and futility of war with Pork Chop Hill. This powerful and well-made Korean War drama is not quite in the same league as Milestone's earlier classic, but it still paints a vivid picture of the harsh realities of combat, and conveys a palpable sense of the pointlessness of war.Lieutenant Clemons (Gregory Peck) is a honest, dependable American soldier fighting in the Korean War. He believes in carrying out orders whatever they may be, but his attitude is put to the ultimate test when he is instructed to lead an attack on a tactically insignificant hill in the dying days of the war. Issuing orders which he knows will lead to pointless loss of life, Clemons leads his men up the titular hill into a maelstrom of enemy gunfire, looking on in horror and dismay as his boys are gunned down or blown to bits in their futile quest.After the film had been shot, Milestone was somewhat irritated to discover that the studio had tampered with his intentions, adding a misleading last-scene voice-over which tried to suggest that the victory on Pork Chop Hill made a significant difference to the future of millions of Koreans. The film is at its best when delivering its anti-war sensibilities, especially the bitter scenes showing honest young soldiers losing their lives for no particular reason. In historical terms, the capture of Pork Chop Hill was both costly in lives and irrelevant in consequence. The performances are generally first-rate. Peck is excellent as the man who tries to justify the insanity of what his platoon have been ordered to do. He gives his best performance since Twelve O'Clock High a decade earlier. Giving memorable supporting turns are familiar character actors like Harry Guardino, Rip Torn, George Peppard and Martin Landau, all of them resisting the urge to appear as gung-ho heroes to add to the film's stance that war is a meaningless and expensive pursuit. There have been few genuinely worthy Korean War films but this one and M*A*S*H - released 11 years later - are recommended titles for anyone looking for authentic film treatments about the subject. "},{"Title":"It's Value Is, It Has No Value","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" Take a look at the jagged line that represents the boundary truce line between North and South Korea on a map. You'll then have some idea of what Pork Chop Hill is all about. While the armistice talks are going on in Panmunjom, both sides are jockeying for position on both sides. The truce line will be on a prescribed latitude parallel, but owing to various hills and valleys, adjustments are in order. Those adjustments are costing lives though.While the talks are in their final stages the Communists prove intransigent about a particular piece of real estate called Pork Chop Hill that really has no significant value. But as Carl Benton Reid at the talks says it's value is it has no value. The Communists are just using it as a test of wills, filed for future reference.Gregory Peck as Lieutenant Joe Clemons gets the dirty task of leading his men into battle for no real discernible reason. How he keeps his men going is the real story here.Joe Clemons was a real army lieutenant who wrote a book on his real experiences on literally the last day of the Korean War. Peck is an inspirational Clemons and I'm sure the real Clemons must have liked it.Scattered in the cast are such future movie and television names as George Peppard, Harry Guardino, Gavin McLeod, Robert Blake, and Norman Fell. But the best performance in the film without a doubt belongs to Woody Strode. He's fully conscious of the racism he's feeling at home just before the civil rights revolution and can't really come up with a reason to die for Korea or do time in the army stockade for desertion. His scenes with Peck and with fellow black GI James Edwards just crackle with heat and talent. I'm surprised no one considered Strode for Best Supporting Actor.Lewis Milestone who directed THE anti-war film, All Quiet On the Western Front is at the top of his game in Pork Chop Hill. A really good film about a sadly forgotten conflict. "},{"Title":"A Fine War Film","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" One of the few classic films about the Korean war, Pork Chop Hill is a genuinely good specimen of a nitty gritty war film in the pre-blood and guts era. What the movie lacks in realistic language and violence it more than makes up for in intensity. Peck is amazing, as usual, as Lt. Joe Clemons, the man leading the charge on the hill. His performance of a man on the edge is very believable. Sympathizing with his plight to try and get reinforcements or the heck outta there is an easy task. The early civil rights-era film seems to also touch on some social issues, showing a camaraderie between all ethnicities. Overall, this is a fine example of a classic war film with one of the finest American actors of all time in the lead role...you can't go wrong. "}{"Title":"A great battle film in every way","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" This is one of the greatest movies about a single battle. It stands alongside Zulu and Hamburger Hill as the best, in my opinion. An all-star cast of both established actors and future stars under the able direction of Lewis Milestone brings this desperate battle to life. Crisp black and white cinematography is used to great effect. Gregory Peck is outstanding as Lt Clemons, the supporting cast featuring Woody Strode,Harry Guardino, George Peppard, Martin Landau and Robert Blake is top notch. An added bonus is George Shibata, the first Japanese-American graduate of West Point, who plays Lt Ohashi. This film is well paced, building to the assault on Pork Chop hill by introducing the men and establishing their positions in the company. The movie also shows the tedious and frustrating talks to end the war. The men are presented as individuals, but not clichés. Gregory Peck's performance is Oscar worthy, he projects command presence and competence. Lewis Milestone is known for his great All Quiet On The Western Front and A Walk In The Sun. This picture is easily on a level with both of them. The battle scenes are realistic, the emotions; fear, hope, frustration and determination are portrayed brilliantly. This is a must-see for war movie fans A 10 star movie! "},{"Title":"Victory is fragile and fleeting.","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Excellent war drama and realistic account of a courageous U.S. infantry unit trying to gain control of high ground held by snipers and flame throwers in Korea on the edge of Armistice in 1953. All-star cast that features Gregory Peck, Rip Torn, George Peppard, Woody Strode, Harry Guardino and Bob Steele. Also look for Robert Blake, Martin Landau and Gavin MacLeod in this grim and desperate military action. Peck is rock solid and in command. Directed by Lewis Milestone.  "},{"Title":"What happened to the push button war we heard about?","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" It's the Korean War, Lt. Clemons and his company are ordered to retake from the Chinese a ridge known as Pork Chop Hill, it's a futile exercise as the hill itself has no significant tactical worth. Disillusioned about their superiors and frightened to the hilt, the men must battle for the hill knowing they could well be killed just because the top brass want to save face.Based on actual events and lifted from the story by S.L.A. Marshall, Pork Chop Hill is a poignantly effective drama that impacts hard about the grimness of war. Playing out (with some justification) as a paean to the wonderful infantrymen that fight the wars, it's an engrossing viewing that never feels preachy or self indulgent, a charge that sticks with many other acclaimed war dramas. Directed by Lewis Milestone (All Quiet On The Western Front), the picture benefits from a feeling of authenticity, a sense of desperation hangs heavy for those viewers willing to fully invest into the picture. Photography is expertly handled by Sam Leavitt, with the cast, led by a brilliant show from Gregory Peck as the compassionate Clemons, firing from the top draw. A powerful and memorable movie for sure and certainly an important one because the Korean War is largely forgotten these days, so Pork Chop Hill now stands proud for those that died during the conflict, for this is a wonderful testament to the brave fighting under stupid circumstances. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fragile Victory","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" As much as I despised the television show M*A*S*H, with its fraudulent substitution of Vietnam War era attitudes and Korean War settings, that's nothing compared to the disappointment I have in the average American's total disregard of history. Movies like Pork Chop Hill, while not a masterpiece, sometimes emerge from obscurity as a singular reminder of forgotten sacrifice.By the '70s, the media was confusing the Korean and Vietnam War,to the point where the average American saw the two conflicts as part of one big imperialist US government scam, designed to beat down the poor and oppressed and mislead generations of American citizens for reasons of pure rascality. In reality, Korea was a United Nations effort that should have had the support of even the most fanatical leftist.In Pork Chop Hill Gregory Peck's character talks of the sacrifice American soldiers made. Because of what they did, millions live in freedom today, he says. This is as true now as it was in the '50s. Just watch the news reports comparing the horrors of North Korea to the booming South Korean economy. It is all thanks to the American GI.The action in this movie was as good as it got in 1959. The battle action was the best yet seen, though not on the same graphic level that we can expect today. However, the cast is much more interesting, mainly because we don't have the outstanding character actors now that we had then. Woody Strode, Harry Dean Stanton... They are all here, and they can't be beat.This is a fast moving film that can be enjoyed on more than one level. The best line is the one spoken by Peck's lieutenant Victory is a fragile thing. In war, as in life, no statement ever rang more true. I believe this film should be seen as a tribute to the sacrifice of the 36,000 Americans who died in combat in Korea. "},{"Title":"A good film but not quite what the director had in mind","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" This was one of my favorite war movies whenever it came on TV as I was growing up. One of the few Korean War films it's based on the true story of the fight for marginally strategic piece of land on the eve of the armistice that halted the conflicts combat. Realistic battlefield environment but in 1950's film style without graphic simulation. Gregory Peck is the commander of a company of 135 men who knowing that peace talks are being held and the fighting will soon be halted must still take charge of his command and follow his orders to take Pork Chop Hill. It shows the futility of war and how ground combat will become obsolete. Of course ground combat never did become obsolete. In the cast are Harry Guardino, Rip torn, George Peppard, Norman Fell, Martin Landau, Harry Dean Stanton, Robert Blake, George Shibata and Woody Strode. Director Lewis Milestone made a career in war movies directing World War I films Two Arabian Knights and All Quiet on the Western Front for both he won Academy Awards and World War II films Those Who Dare, Halls of Montezuma, Arch of Triumph, A Walk in the Sun, The Purple Heart, The North Star and Edge of Darkness. Cinematographer Sam Leavitt photographs a dark and gritty look at war filmed in black and white. It's reputed that Milestone was unsatisfied with the creative control he was given with picture and the final cut was not what he intended. As Executive Producer Gregory Peck is said to have had the original 20 minutes of the film cut from the theatrical final version because he wasn't in it and felt too much time would be spent before the star of the film makes his on first screen appearance. The film envisioned by Milestone was also not to end with a voice-over saying how important the battle really was. This is a good movie and I would give it an 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Anti-G.I. Joe (mild spoiler)","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Director Lewis Milestone has created several landmarks in the study of war and cinema.  All Quiet on the Western Front remains his number one effort, but he has made other works on others wars (notably A Walk in the Sun) as time goes by.  Pork Chop Hill, Milestone's ode to the Korean War, remains the best film ever made on the topic, superseding MASH as a depiction of life and death in the Forgotten War.The film itself is considerably well-made given the year of release.  In many instances you can spot shots duplicated by Oliver Stone for Platoon the slow pans around the littered battlefield, the awkward confrontations between squadmembers, and the lurking sensation between advances.  While the film is nicely edited, the middle section lags terrifically, resulting in a botched jobs that requires the obligatory Last Battle to fix.  Sound work is decent, but nothing to rave about (it is better than Patton, I will admit that).  There are people at IMDB who love to lambaste Saving Private Ryan for its use of senseless, excessive gore and violence or other flaws in its execution.  Spielberg merely enhanced or lifted many aspects of Pork Chop Hill in making that movie.  There is no gore in the movie, but there is a disturbing sense of violence mixed with the typical Milestone message of futility.  While I was not expecting a deep message from this movie, I was pleased that Gregory Peck remained the most resilient actor I have ever seen.  His ability to stay in command is both obnoxiously monotonous and resilient.  Other than that, the rest of the grunts, that's right grunts, are given much of the stereotypical problems you'd expect in a 50s movie.  Thankfully, the consistent presence of death by a largely faceless foe helps destroy any overt patriotism in them and keep any gung-ho shenanigans to a minimum.  Even when they try, they only get killed or injured.Overall, an interesting war film worth viewing once.  People who liked Enemy at the Gates or Black Hawk Down should avoid this one, though.  I felt the use of black & white was exceptionally gritty.  3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"An Accurate Account of Pork Chop Hill and a Great Movie","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" This is a very well-written, well-directed, and well-acted movie. The faults are few, but real soldiers can find them. This was a horrific battle, but it would have been deadlier if the real soldiers faced open fire with the poor tactics used in the film.This isn't a pro-war film or an anti-war film, although I can see why the fanatics on both sides would like to claim it. It is an honest depiction of what happened in Korea. Both sides wanted this hill, and both sides were willing to lose great amounts of men to take this hill.Although most people miss it, there was a real reason for this battle, even though it happened right before the ceasefire. Both sides wanted to end the war, but they had not agreed on the terms. Both sides wanted to show that they were willing to continue to fight in order to secure the best peace agreement. Both sides wanted to show that if peace was not accepted on their terms, then the future terms would be worse.Some people say that the Americans won because the North Koreans did sign the peace treaty shortly afterwards. Others say that the North Koreans won because they got better terms than they should have. Either way, the true battle was not over Pork Chop Hill. That was merely where the battle took place. The true battle was to see which side could suffer such huge losses and not back down.Neither side quit. Nothing was gained. Damn fine movie. "},{"Title":"Grim realistic war movie for the 1950's","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" Pork Chop Hill is one of a small group of films that deal with the Korea War realistically. The other two are Men at War and the Steel Helmet. Peck's character is carrying out orders to take a worthless hill with peace on the horizon. The movie shows that the fog of war clouds and confuses everything. They are reluctant warriors in a war nobody wanted to win or lose. Lewis Milstone's direction in the panorama of battlefield is his trademark. The cast was made up of familiar faces, Harry Guardino, George Peppard, Norman Fell, Rip Torn, Kevin Hagen, Robert Blake, Woody Strode. What makes the film more interesting is that the Korea War had only been over for six years and Peck's character was still alive. "},{"Title":"Great, Dark War Movie","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" For a film made in the 1950s, Pork Chop Hill is incredibly grim in its approach to war. Focusing on a battle late in the Korean War, the movie emphasizes the futility of the fighting, which served no other purpose than to assert American resolve during peace talks.The film's realism is complemented by a good performance from Gregory Peck as an officer in charge of the attack on the insignificant hill. Peck balances just the right amounts of determination and recognition of the futility of what he is doing. It stands alongside Tom Hanks's performance in Saving Private Ryan as one of the greatest performances in a war movie.The film does suffer at the conclusion from the studio's insertion of a patriotic coda, as was typical for the era. Nevertheless, Pork Chop Hill stands as an accomplishment in war movie realism. "},{"Title":" The   value   of   Pork   Chop,   is   that   it   has   no   value  ","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" Every now and then, a story emerges from Hollywood which affixes itself squarely on the pages of history. This is one such film. It's called  Pork Chop Hill. Amid the history of the Forgotten War, namely Korea, you will find this seemly insignificant event. While the North Koreans and their Chineese Allies, endlessly bickered with the American and their Nato forces, courageous soldiers fought and died by the truck load on the barren slopes of Pork Chop. This film, directed by Lewis Milestone convincingly captured the tragic tale on film. In it, we have a bevy of the finest actors ever to grace Hollywood, some of which have made memorable projects in their own right. In this movie, we have Gregory Peck playing Lt. Joe Clemons an officer ordered to take and hold the tiny hill known as Pork Chop. In his Company you will see Martin Landau, Harry Guardino, Rip Torn, George Peppard, Bob Steele, Woody Strode, Gavin MacLeod, Norman Fell, Harry Dean Stanton and a very young Robert Blake as Pvt. Velie. As impressive a line up as one can get. Everyone destined to become notable as this movie should have become. Except for becoming a Classic, the anti-war message was lost and it garnered few awards. Nevertheless, this film continues to ranks among the very finest of War memorials offered in tribute to American's fighting men. Recommended to all. **** "}{"Title":"Futility of War","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" A war film that doesn't pull any punches in it's depiction of the inherent futility of war. It's a lions led by donkeys affair with Gregory Peck and his men sent on a propaganda mission to secure a strategically irrelevant mound of rock and dirt in the last days of the Korean war.The ensuing slog and mindless carnage, along with the screaming ineptitude of the brass coordinating the debacle from the relative safety of command posts, make for gripping and affecting viewing. Filmed in grainy black and white, it's a tough and stark depiction of a type of warfare the pointlessness of which the world continues to fail to learn by to this day. Most everyone gets blown away. For no good reason. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable performance of the forgotten war","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" Since the Korean War, nothing has been said about it. Yes it is mentioned in history books but even then, the subject matter is skimmed over. No one really knows what happened during that time except for the individuals who took part in the battle. Unfortunately, not many are left to tell their story. Thankfully director Lewis Milestone had the ambition to make this film in honor of those who fought during that time.Gregory Peck plays Lt. Joe Clemons, a tired soldier who is on the boarder of losing all his men because communication ties are running thin between him and headquarters. Along side Peck is Harry Guardino, George Peppard and Rip Torn. At first, it may seem a little difficult to see who's who, because the film is black and white but it doesn't take long before these recognizable faces come clear. What's nice though is how well each actor portrays their character. Each one has a specific background and when they talk about themselves, it reflects the time of the era very accurately. Another great feature is the set design. Every piece of the set is like what it would be if the viewer were in the soldier's shoes. There's nothing comforting about warfare and that is what's in this film. Barb wire, bunkers, sandbags, flood lights, bayonets and dirt is all that will be seen; which is anything but cozy. Also the fact that the psychological aspect being inserted into the story makes things even more accurate. Trying to persuade the Americans to leave over a loudspeaker can make them very uneasy, which is understandable.As for action, I suspect some viewers will be turned off that there's no blood and guts. But what could someone ask for from the era of conformity? Realistic gore was considered taboo at the time and probably would have freaked too many people out. Especially since the government didn't want the families at home to see what war was really like. For this element, the audience must suspend from their minds that gore just wasn't permissible at the time, and there for, omit it from affecting their judgment of the film.For the few films that focus on the Korean War, this film shows the best reflection of what times were like. The actors perform well, and the set is accurately grimy which is all due to Milestone's direction. "},{"Title":"Non-stop action on a dusty Korean hill.","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" This, despite its weaknesses, is quite a good movie. There is little sentimentality and no romance. It's all dust and death on both sides, the dwindling American force commanded by Gregory Peck and the Communist Chinese enemy.It's based on S. L. A. Marshall's book of the same name, which focused, as does the film, on small-scale operations while not ignoring the larger picture. The larger picture is roughly this. Pork Chop Hill is a salient in the dividing line between two opposing armies and the cease fire is about to be signed at Panmunjom. In itself it is of no military importance, and all logic -- not just military reasoning but common sense -- dictates that the cease-fire line be straightened out and the hill ignored. Instead, both sides pour troops onto this insignificant little mountain, denuded of vegetation by long bombardment, a heap of rocky rubble laced with trenches.It's sometimes said that Gregory Peck is a wooden actor and I guess I'd agree he's nobody's idea of Cary Grant when it comes to light comedy. His specialty lay in radiating an understated sincerity and leadership quality. He never pulled it off in a mechanical way either. There were always at least a few lines in which we recognized the human being behind the mask, and that's the case here. When he's handed an order that means he must send back his recently arrived, desperately needed reinforcements, he pauses and says quietly, Well, they can't mean this, and we believe that he believes that they can't mean this. The rest of the cast has many familiar faces and none of them let the film down. One scene is perhaps the best that Harry Guardino has left on celluloid. The very air of the movie seems filled with fear, sweat, and dust.But then there are the weaknesses. Marshall's book was unforgiving. When the higher echelons screwed up, Marshall noted it just as matter-of-factly as he noted the number of rounds expended by a given platoon during a given incident. In this film, somebody makes a mistake and turns on the searchlights at the wrong time. It's quickly corrected and the miscreants later explain that they mixed up Peck's unit with another -- and they apologize! And that's about it as far as errors on our side go. The later contretemps that deprive Peck of reinforcements and supplies are due to an unavoidable failure in communication, so it's nobody's fault.Then there's the Here comes the cavalry! ending, which didn't happen, according to Marshall's book, if I remember it correctly. And sometimes the script spells things out in an unnecessary way. Guardino's friend is killed and Peck has to drag him away from the body, while he screams, He was my BUDDY. Well -- we know that. It's already been demonstrated. So to whom is that line addressed? Audience members who don't know that stress generates fierce friendships? And there's a final, even more unsettling failure to stand back from events and view them objectively, an unwillingness or inability to step outside the box. We see the Peace Talks taking place. The representative for our side explains to the Chinese, According to the truce, Pork Chop Hill is right in the middle of the truce zone. You know it has no value so why don't you withdraw your men? (The Chinese negotiator turns down his ear plug.) The Allied negotiators step outside and mutter angrily that the Chinese just don't want to lose the hill for symbolic reasons.Well, what kind of cockeyed moral calculus is this? Isn't OUR side equally willing to sacrifice lives for the symbolic value of the hill? If the reasoning of the Chinese is wrong, isn't our reasoning, which is precisely the same, equally wrong? Soccer riots are better justified.Enough preaching. This is one tough film. Despite the injections from Hollywood of the 1950s, we get a convincing picture of what combat is like. Death comes almost at random, and it's not always pretty. Bodies don't always have neat bullet holes through the shoulder. Sometimes they're visibly mangled, although the visuals aren't in any way offensive. And Peck does a superb job. So this is well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"better than average war flick","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" This is a very well made war movie, though I've got to admit that this is a genre that usually doesn't do that much for me. What sets this movie apart is its strong desire for realism--instead of a Hollywood version of war, this WAS war as it really appeared. Fanatics who love realism will really be pleased about this. Plus, it focuses on the Korean War, a period in our history that is generally ignored in movies.Gregory Peck does a fine job in the lead, though I thought he looked a little old to be such a fine career soldier and only a lieutenant. At his age, he could have easily been playing colonels or even a general.The supporting cast are a lot of then unknowns who later went on to more visible careers. Watch the movie and see all the familiar faces.About the only negative of this movie is its pace. It involves one engagement and seems a bit claustrophobic or static at times, as you have trench after trench and explosion after explosion. Still, it's pretty good stuff. "},{"Title":"Forgotten War, Forgotten Film, From Lewis Milestone","Date":"17 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" This is one of my very favourite war films. I count this movie in the same company as All Quiet On The Western Front (1930)The Cruel Sea (1953) The Dam Busters (1955)Saving Private Ryan (1998)And The Thin Red Line (Also 1998).These for me are all seriously esteemed and important films and i put Pork Chop (1959) right up there with the best.It has mood (Black & White photography) deep in shadows and drenched with the fear of the darkness, it has the fog and muddle of war, the random nature of death, where luck is as vital as the will to survive. The value of self, the nature of courage, the call of duty, and more than a fair semblance of authentic action and historical place time and location.Maybe Pork Chop is perhaps a simple justification of the cold war (then Raging)and the assertion of the American WAY superior to all others. The American civil war and the war of Independence is referenced early in case some in the audience might just be a communist sympathizer. Gregory Peck plays the authentically real Lt Joe Clemons, with the honest sincerity of American values only he could ever portray to such a degree of believability. Is this a film only of its time. Off coarse it is, but that is the very reason i find it so captivating. "},{"Title":"gritty war action","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" It's 1953 at the end of the Korean War. Lt. Joe Clemons (Gregory Peck) leads his under-equipped men expecting an imminent armistice. The Chinese take Pork Chop Hill, around 70 miles away from the peace conference at Panmunjom. Clemons' company is ordered to retake it. The night attack is hampered by mistakes. They retake the hill suffering heavy casualties. With communication breakdowns and confused objectives, Clemons' reinforcements are recalled while he isn't allowed to retreat. The Chinese are willing to spend lives on a worthless hill and testing whether the Americans are willing to do the same.This is a gritty and realistic portrayal of ground combat especially considering the era. There is shell-shock, lingering, confusion, friendly-fire, and basic heroism. The action is rough and unglamorous. It feels more like a Vietnam era film. Peck is his great self projecting a leader of men. "},{"Title":"I was in King Co. when this happened .","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" I read all the reviews and just had to mention (you had to be there to feel the terror). I was lucky enough to survive this and a few other battles. I was on Bloody ridge when the fighting stopped and the chinks came out of there caves by the hundreds only a few hundred yards in front of us.Yes they did use music by Doris day ,and at night they would shout Yankee, tonight we come,and tonight you die.We would answer with a few choice words of our own. It's too bad this was known as the forgotten war. I ask my 12 year old grand son what he knew about the Korea war.All he could remember was MASH on TV. They didn't want to mention that nasty POLICE action in History class. I'M not bitter now .At least i lived to come home to my wife and produce four children that in turn produce four more children,and life goes on. I didn't think about the war much until a few years ago.That was my generation.A lot of the guys i went to school with were there,in fact one of my close friends was on Sand Bag Castle at the same time and we never knew until last year that we were both there at the same time.SMALL WORLD. SGT.BILL SCHALLER "},{"Title":"They went up a hill...and they held it too","Date":"3 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" Plot As an end to the Korean War is negotiated, US and Chinese troops battle over a hill vital to the negotiationsBased on the non-fiction book by the (in)famous SLA Slam Marshall, this is more of a docudrama than a film; therein lies both its success and its failure. Gregory Peck brings conviction to the role of a company commander whose mission is to seize and hold a hill that has just been lost to the enemy. The hill is militarily worthless but politically vital. So up he goes. The rest of the characters are one-note grunts and a politely malevolent Chinese propagandist. Where this film differs from the rest is in the combat people get lost, mistakes are made, there are friendly fire incidents, orders go missing, and some soldiers simply don't want to fight. In short, nothing goes according to plan -- which was the message of most of Slam's books. An example a lone soldier finds an enemy machine gun nest and, in a scene we've all seen before, gets ready to blow it up with a hand-grenade -- only he misses the gun slit and nearly blows himself up! Beating the enemy also means overcoming the mistakes on your side too. The combat sequences are among the best ever shot troops really hug the ground, it takes a lot of shots to kill people, units manoeuvre, the battlefield is littered in detritus, and leadership really matters. However, despite the compelling story, the tight focus, the excellent battle scenes, the lack of bombastic Hollywood heroics, the insight into combat, the rising tension and Mr Peck, the film never quite becomes a classic because the characters are too thinly sketched. Nonetheless, this is one of the best war films ever made. "},{"Title":"contrived ending","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" I recently saw this film on television. I usually like Gregory Peck, but he seemed a bit too wooden in this role. Two things stick out in my mind that are so unreal that the film has been diminished.The first thing is the radio announcer. It would have been fairly simple to shhot out the loudspeakers. The announcer seemed so up-to-date on events, it was as if he was on the front line.The second thing is the abrupt ending. AT one moment we're being told that a million Chinese are surging up the hill, and the next moment Gregory Peck receives a message that help is on the way, they should be there any minute. And in the span of about 15 seconds, the million Chinese are routed. "},{"Title":"Milestone misses the point","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" This supposedly anti-war film is perhaps a textbook example as to how intellectually dishonest most war films are.On June 25th, 1950, North Korea invaded South Korea. It did this, it insisted, in reply to an invasion of their territory by South Korea. In response, the United Nations sided with the South, demanding the withdrawal of all North Korean troops. Of course North Korea ignored the UN, and promptly went on to capture Seoul, the capital of South Korea.Three days later, US ground troops entered the fray, determined to halt the spread of the North Korean Communists. After a series of defeats, however, the US troops promptly fell back. As a result of these defeats, General Douglas MacArtur was appointed by the UN to lead the fight against the North Koreans, leaving no doubt that the UN was primarily functioning as an extension of US foreign policy. Meanwhile, North Korea continued in its victories and by early August, both the Soviet Union and China were pronouncing that the North-South conflict was a civil war and that all foreign troops should withdraw. Days later, the US, through a UN representative, stated that this war was really a police action and that their aims were to unify Korea, implicitly at the expense of the communist North. In other words, the North/South Korean border had become the location for a proxy war between the US and the Soviet Union, the West squaring off against the ideology of communism.China, of course, didn't want to be left out of the action, and so sided with the North Koreans, stating that they would not tolerate their neighbours being savagely invaded! By the end of the year, Chinese troops had crossed the borders and joined North Koreans in a major offensive against the UN and US. The war went back and forth for many weeks, neither side gaining an advantage, until cease-fire talks began and peace arrangements were made. These peace arrangements promptly broke down, however, as both sides interpreted the peace deals as they saw fit. Thus, in June 1952, UN forces began bombing targets in North Korea, which in turn resulted in heightened North Korean violence, which in turn finally resulted in shaky cease fire agreements, the war finally ending weeks later. The result Korea wasn't unified, communism didn't spread and the US and UN began erecting large forts and military emplacements along the North/South border. Over three million civilians were killed in the conflict.Released one year after Kubrick's Paths of Glory, Lewis Milestone's Pork Chop Hill essentially tells the same story, the film focusing on group of soldiers who die in vain for a strategically unimportant hill in the middle of Korea. Milestone (who famously directed the anti-war film, All Quiet on the Western Front) points fingers at callous generals and politicians, condemning the faceless decision makers who wage war by proxy, but his script is heavy-handed and his dialogue at times too obvious.What's problematic about Pork Chop Hill, though, is the way that it makes no mention of the Koreans, and instead reduces the Korean conflict to a battle between Americans and Chinese on a hill. The film then goes on to depict the Red Chinese as snarling savages, a communist horde which rarely rises above the way the Nazis are portrayed in WW2 propaganda movies. Given the time of the film's production and release (1958-9), this makes perfect sense. Partly because they sensed America's unbroadcasted failure in the war, Americans had swept the Korean experience under the rug, the Korean conflict promptly becoming the forgotten American war. It therefore would do nothing for the film's financial prospects to attempt to revive these memories. (US amnesia about Korea contributed to the next US war, where Americans felt they might erase their vague sense of defeat by succeeding in Indo-China where their predecessors, the French, had failed.) But though Korea was wiped from the public's consciousness, the Cold War between the US and the Reds (ie Soviet communists) persisted. Thus, it is really to this conflict that Pork Chop Hill constantly refers, with the Chinese filling in for their communist brethren, the Soviets. (In reality, China and Russia were only ever very volatile allies) The film is therefore entirely contradictory, muddling together two diverse and inherently opposed agendas. On the one hand, the makers want to say something about how grunts are manipulated and sacrificed by distant generals and politicians. They wish to show war as horrifically out of the hands of those who fight and die in it. This aim, of course, predicts a pessimistic, even a tragic outcome and outlook. On the other hand, the makers also want something else entirely. They want to curry the favour of 1959 audiences by invoking the fears of the Cold War, a war to which these audiences can directly relate, a procedure that needs to predict an optimistic, even a celebratory outcome and outlook. Since the substitution of the Cold War for the Korean War was deemed by the makers incapable of being acknowledged, the film's contradictory aims result in an ambivalence towards the entire Korean conflict and its consequences. It wants to celebrate the soldiers of the Cold War, a war which it sees as necessary, whilst also mourning the loss of those who died in the Korean conflict (historically a part of the Cold War). Celebratory vs Tragedy it is in this fashion that most war films (even those which proclaim themselves to be antiwar) veer pathologically between antiwar statement and gung-ho propaganda.7/10 &#x96; Like Milestone's earlier Halls of Montezuma, the film uses a near-expressionistic tone for its battle scenes. It's in these wordless moments that the film works best.Worth one viewing. "}{"Title":"All About Realism","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" ONCE AGAIN, WE betray our age by reporting that we saw this picture while it was playing during its initial release. The venue was the old Ogden Theatre; which was then located at 63rd Street and Marshfield Avenue in the West Englewood (St. Theodore Parish), Chicago, Illinois.BEING IN JUNIOR High School and 12 years old, we tended to view it as just another War Picture; albeit one about the Korean Police Action, rather than World War II. It probably didn't rate with the more action oriented matinée fodder such as American-International's HELL SQUAD and TANK BATALLION; which played on a double bill at the very same picture show.BUT WHEN ONE revisits the film, as we just did thanks to Turner Classic Movies, we find a very different picture, indeed. To begin with, we have a story based on the true incident of the Korean War, that wastes no time in getting things moving and makes its 97 minute running time go by in a seeming instant.IT WAS THE product of star Gregory Peck's own Melville Productions and Mr. Peck is the only actor of Star Status to appear. That is not to say that the cast was not talent laden; for it certainly was that, having assembled a group of supporting players who were either established veterans or young pups, who were on their way up the ladder.EVEN A QUICK GLANCE over the roster would leave even the casual movie buff impressed. The list contains names such as Harry Guardino, Rip Torn, George Peppard, James Edwards, Bob Steele, Woody Strode, Norman Fell, George Shibata, Robert Blake, Ken Lynch, Abel Fernandez, Gavin Mac Cloud, Martin Landau, Harry Dean Stanton, Clarence Williams III and many others.ONE PARTICULAR INCIDENT in the story concerned Private Franklin (Woody Strode), who is given to a touch of fearful apprehension about being in combat and feigns injury in order to escape the front and return to the rear echelon. Lt. Clemons (Gregory Peck) recognizes the situation and forces Franklin into service. Franklin's behavior continues that way until he is a candidate for a firing squad.BUT, THE LEVEL headed Lieutenant uses some psychology and Franklin redeems himself, serves honorably & even heroically.* THE FILM IS the story of one incident at the last days of the Korean War. Pork Chop Hill offers no advantage to either side, military or otherwise. But its 'importance' lies in the fact that it is there and it becomes a sort of symbol of just how far the negotiating sides (the United Nations forces and the Communist Chinese) would go in securing a truce.SURELY MANY WOULD argue about the classification of PORK CHOP HILL as a film genre. Some say it's a war film, whereas others just as vehemently argue that its 'message' is one of anti-war.WE TEND TO agree with neither as the sentiments of author, producer/star Gregory Peck and Director Lewis Milestone; whom all would agree. It's just a story about the horrors of war, all war. And that really has nothing to do with political belief; although it is usually the pols who get us into these things! TO SUM IT all up, we quote U.S. Army Civil General, William Tecumseh Sherman who so eloquently stated War is Hell! SO BE IT!! "},{"Title":"It was named lightly-This hill that became the hell torn part of a war!","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" Korea,1953.The battle weary Americans believe that an armistice is just around the corner, but the arduous peace talks at Panmunjom say otherwise. Pork Chop hill, which is of ominous significance to both the Americans and the Chinese, is in the firm grip of American forces. This is soon changed however, by a successful thrust from the Chinese, which leaves the hill in Communist hands.Lieutennant Joe Clemons(GREGORY PECK)is ordered to counterattack Pork Chop hill and re-take it.Clemons and his men make a costly advance up the hill, with heavy casualties.The peace talks are constantly prolonged by the Chinese,leaving Clemons unsure as to whether he and his remaining men can hold the hill...The film basically tells the story of the first stage of the battle of Pork Chop hill in Spring 1953.It presents a semi-fictionalised account of this bloody battle, most of the film seems to be historically accurate, whilst other parts are invented for the sake of the plot, which gave the film an engaging edge. At times, PORK CHOP HILL is a mixed bag, but overall an engrossing and gripping flag waver with bite. The main actors turn in tough and ruggedly stupendous performances, but I couldn't help feeling that the actors playing smaller parts were somewhat wooden and stiff. Nearly all of the characters are in Military uniform and as the film is shot in monochrome, one actor is indistinguishable from the other. The steel jawed characters were easy to like, but somewhat dry(which echoes my comment about the stiff acting),so it was hard for me to care when they were killed.However,this sort of worked in the film's favour as it is a cast iron depiction of men in war. Gregory Peck is on fantastic form as the granite edged Lieutenant Joe Clemons, it's one of his greatest performances.Woody Strode was also on stellar form as the hardened Private Franklin.Carl Benton Reid and a young George Peppard also acquitted themselves impressively. Barry Atwater was very rigid, but still great as the firm Lieutenant Colonel Davis. Veteran cowboy actor Bob Steele has a fleeting cameo as the hard nosed Colonel Kern. His short performance was terrific and I would have liked his character to feature more heavily in the film. Look out for a young Martin Landau in his first film performance as a young Lieutenant.The film benefits from a robust and cleverly written script thanks to James R. Webb. The script is based on the factual book penned by Brigadier General S.L.A Marshall who was present at the battle of Pork Chop hill. The dialogue between Lieutenant Clemons and Colonel Davis discussing the strategy for attacking the hill was superb, as was the dialogue in the peace conference scenes. Although in other places it was terribly dry, making the film drag a little. The pacing is alright,although at times the film does feel incredibly slow. Director Lewis Milestone uses tight close-ups to brilliant effect and there is a tense atmosphere throughout most of the film. The battle scenes succeeded in clenching my attention and were impressively shot. The ingenuity and grit of the Soldiers fighting is spectacularly depicted.Although,greater emphasis is placed on the characters, thus most of the action is happening in the background or offscreen.It is firmly restrained and at times,the carnage is only heard rather than seen. The final battle was rather abrupt and anti climatic, but still finger biting and taut nonetheless. I thought the special effects, for example the explosions, were excellent and there's some masterful shots of heavy Machine guns being fired.Overall, PORK CHOP HILL is a staunch effort worthy of praise. It's not without flaws but nothing that would stop me recommending it.The acting, direction and script are really the glue holding the film together. A fine way to pass a couple of boring hours.7.5/10. "},{"Title":"The Korean War Front.","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" Lewis Milestone directed this Korean War story, based on fact and set near the end of the war, where Lt. Joe Clemons(played by Gregory Peck) is ordered to retake an enemy position called Pork Chop Hill(because it resembles an actual pork chop on a map). Trouble is, morale is uneasy because the war may be coming to an end soon, and nobody wants to be the last soldier killed in this war, especially when the hill in question is of little military value, it would be just to show the Chinese, American resolve. Harry Guardino, Rip Torn, and George Peppard costar. Insightful and intelligent war story with good acting and direction. Some editing is a bit ragged, but otherwise compelling. "},{"Title":"They are not Orientals...They are Communists","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" The realistic battlefield photography, especially the static shots of the aftermath of conflict are outstanding. The solid cast of up and coming character actors and a contemplative, meditative mood, all combine for a glimpse at the futility of fighting a forgotten war.The propaganda inserted for the cold-war effort (they are not orientals, they are communists), and the pat rescue ending are forced into the movie and really do nothing to enhance the realism of the rest. There are a few other distractions of disbelief. The loudspeaker brainwashing and the heavy handed peace talks scenarios are typical Hollywood hokum.But overall, the film succeeds mostly on the better parts, and is a worthwhile effort. It almost gives a glimpse of what was to come in the 1960's and that was not a pretty picture. No amount of mind-control would make us forget the next police action. "},{"Title":"Who do you think you are Audie Murphy!","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Non stop action war movie that never lets up for a moment as the US Army and Chinese Communists square off on hill 255 also known as Pork Chop Hill in the spring of 1953. With peace or cease fire negotiations going nowhere at Panmujeom the Red Chinese open up a full scale attack, using ear splitting bugles and human wave assaults, on Pork Chop Hill trying to dislodge the US Army company, Company K, that's holding it. With the battered and pot marked, from artillery shelling, hill being of no real strategic significance to either sides it turns out to be a battle of wills between the two side with the Chinese Communists more then willing to sacrifice their men in order to win!With Lt. Joe Celmons', Gregory Peck, company trying to hold off the fanatical and suicidal Red Chinese attacks it's decided by his superiors safely behind the lines not to reinforce him and thus let him and his men, now down from 135 to just 25 men, to twist in the wind with the Red Chinese planning to launch a final do or die attack on his positions at dusk April 17, 1953. Digging in and waiting for the final curtain to fall Let. Clemons feels that he and his men have been deserted or sacrificed for political expediency in the name of peace in order to get the stalled cease fire talks re-started! Where at least with the Communist Chinese their losses will be rewarded with taking the hill, Pork Chop Hill, and using it as a bargaining chip in the Panmunjeom cease fire negations!One of he best movies about the Korean War ever made Pork Chop Hill shows the frustration that the GI's suffered in fighting in it. Like in the film there was no hope of winning on the part of the US with the war being fought mostly along the 38th Parallel with the front lines moving no more then ten miles on either direction for more then, From May 1951 to July 1953, two years! Gregory Peck who made only two war movies up until then as a Russian guerrilla fighter in Days of Glory in 1943 and a US Army Air Force General in 12 O'Clock high in 1949 fits right in the part as a grunt down in the mud GI in the film who's sense of loyalty to is country made him forget that it was deserting him and his men at their most argent time of need. Happily the ending of the movie like the battle of Pork Chop Hill in real life restored Lt. Clemons' faith in his country even though most of the men under his command didn't live long enough to see or realize it! P.S One of the oddest as well as poignant scenes in the film was just before the final assault on the hill by the Red Chinese. That's when their radio propagandist commentator started playing the song Autumn in New York, this in the spring in Korea, just in order to fry the GI's brains in order to get them to surrender. "},{"Title":"Not as good as I first thought!","Date":"17 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" I gave this movie a rave review when I previewed it at a trade screening in 1959, commenting that director Lewis Milestone was still the master of action battle sequences and that the movie was brilliantly photographed by Sam Leavitt, an expert in difficult location cinematography. On a second viewing, however, the movie is not as impressive. The characters are ciphers. Although we critics often complain about the stereotyped characters and the all-too-cozy flashbacks of the typical war picture, that doesn't mean that they should be replaced by shadows. The Gregory Peck character is just too tight-lipped and we know little about him. Similarly, Woody Strode's cowardice and malignity are merely taken for granted and never explained. Ditto Robert Blake's confusion and heroism &#x96; an interesting blend and doubtless realistic, but still a shadow. Yet incorporated within all this enthusiastic realism, we get the unlikely coincidence of the brother-in-law! Milestone's gritty direction with its sweeping tracking shots over craters of dead, becomes the film's justification, but the script's overall anti-Chinese philosophy now seems more dated than the anti-German stance of All Quiet on the Western Front. For all its gritty realism, locations, black-and-white photography, lack of background music (enemy records are used very effectively), this movie is more a pro-American tract for the times, whereas All Quiet delivers a message for all time. "},{"Title":"They tried.  What happened in Korea can never be told in a movie.","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" They also tried to be correct, but Woody Strode wasn't the only race faux pas. The lieutenant portrayed by Rip Torn was an American Negro. He didn't know that Hollywood didn't know, or maybe didn't care, that he was a black man, so when he was told his character would be featured prominently in the movie he assumed a well known black actor would be cast in the role. He took his family to see the movie so they could get an idea of what he went through in Korea to win his medals. Surprise, surprise. When the word got out you could hear the movie moguls shrug their shoulders all the way to Malibu. As Fred Allen once observed, You could take all the sincerity in Hollywood, drop it into a flea's navel and still have room for an agent's heart. Does it make you wonder what else they got wrong? Or overlooked? Or made up as they went along? "},{"Title":"Never As Anti-War As It Claims","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" As I write this NATO has been involved in Afghanistan for twelve years . A political breakthrough almost came about this week when the United States were going to have peace talks in Qatar with the Taliban but due to anger from the Afghan government led by Hamid Karzai the talks were cancelled at the last minute . Even if the talks had gone ahead the talks probably wouldn't have gained much due . NATO will pull out of the country next year regardless of any settlement or political deal . There is a rather sad dimension to this and that is NATO soldiers will still die in combat between then and now and there's something much more poignant about dying in a conflict when the end - regardless of the outcome - is in sight The battle of Pork Chop Hill was the last major battle of the Korean War and this film tells the story of the battle . The UN and communist forces were weeks away from signing an armistice but for reasons of not losing face and to hold bigger bargaining chips continued to commit thousands of troops to a battle that had no strategic value . This is patently absurd and the film tries to put a human and ugly face to this absurdity but never manages it The film is directed by Lewis Milestone who won an Oscar for ALL QUITE ON THE WESTERN FRONT so he should in theory be the number one contender for making an anti-war movie . However the screenwriter is James R Webb who had previous and subsequent tradition in writing Westerns . Is there any genre that's more black and white than a Western ? This explains the rather sketchy characterisation of the soldiers involved , the a man's got to do what a man's got to do commanding officer , the reluctant hero , the malingerer etc . Even the climatic battle where the US forces are besieged and saved at the last minute resembles a Western cliché and negates any anti-war comment the film is trying to make . From a technical point of view it is a good war film but never becomes an anti-war film "},{"Title":"A film on the Korean War, did not convince.","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" The Lieutenant Joe Clemons (Gregory Peck) has received the order to take the hill Pork Chop. If it is taken by the Chinese, U.S.. negotiators lost all its prestige in the Peace Conference of Panmunjom compared to their adversaries communists. Thus, Clemons directs his troops toward the struggle to fight for an objective to know is strategically useless; but they also know that an order is an order, and should take the Hill Pork Chop or to die in the attempt...This film tells one of those battles unknown in this war so little known theatrically as was the Korean War. It could has been a great film, but has lacked a good indent, a good narration, so that the thread of the film, each a little confusing, which does not help nor some dialogs mediocre.Its actor Gregory Peck makes a performance only acceptable in comparison with other characters interpreted magnificently by him. The photography and the scenarios are good, but highly repetitive throughout the film. "},{"Title":"A Gosh awful Film","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Wow, is this bad film. You'd think with this cast it would be a great one. But you would be very wrong.With lines like, Have some raisins. Or, when Gregory Peck asks Martin Landau how many men he has left in Love Company. Twelve. And then a cannon shell blows up 2 of them. Bring along your ten men, is Peck's response. What depth. What compassion. This film is surely laughable.  "}]