[{"Title":"Thinly veiled story about the unspeakable!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"97 out of 132 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The moral majority's campaign to censor anything on the movie screen considered too taboo had an incredible impact on Hollywood during the 1930's right through to the 1970's.  Censors went through Hollywood scripts, tearing out anything considered unspeakable, no matter how important it was to the plot at hand.  It became an art form of sorts, for Hollywood film makers to veil their nasty little subjects so that the censors (who weren't that bright anyway) couldn't find it, but so that a smart audience could. Suddenly Last Summer is a classic example of this art in action.Tennessee Williams was the toast of Broadway in the 1950's, with his melodramatic plays that often tackled heavy subjects such as addiction, adultery and in the case of this story, homosexuality.  Katherine Hepburn plays a classic Tennessee Williams vamp, Violet Venable, a lady of means who is mourning the loss of her son.  She has sought the help of a psychiatrist, played by Montgomery Clift, as she would like to have a lobotomy performed on her niece, who is apparently off her rocker (as most of Tennessee Williams' ladies are) and is spouting nasty rumors about the dead son.Like most of Williams' work, Suddenly Last Summer flows along with over the top dialogue, the kind that actors love to sink their teeth into.  I have not seen the original stage play but I suspect that this screenplay has been severely hacked to obliterate any talk of homosexuality.  Venable's son was murdered while on vacation in Europe.  If you take the dialogue literally you might believe that he was murdered for his religious convictions.  If you read between the lines you will see that this was clearly a gay bashing.Hepburn and Taylor both shine in their roles, that seem almost custom made for them.  It's rare that Hepburn is cast as a villain, however, her performance leaves me wondering why she hasn't done it more often. Taylor's hyper-active hyper-ventilating, Catherine Holly works well here.  Her own brand of melodramatic acting seems to compliment Williams' work.Clift was a tad cardboard in his role as the psychiatrist, however, it is still interesting to watch this performance that was filmed after his face-altering car accident.  One might think that he recently underwent a lobotomy.  On the other hand, he is competent, and the performances of the actresses more than compensate.Suddenly Last Summer works as a film, but I am hesitant to recommend to everyone.  This is not an action flick, by any means, but rather a character piece.  Scenes are long and they require your concentration, as important statements can be found between the lines.  For fans of any of these actors, this is a must see!  "},{"Title":"Suddenly, last summer in Cabeza de Lobo","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"57 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Suddenly, Last Summer was perhaps Tennessee Williams most autobiographical play. Mr. Williams never forgave his mother for letting his sister Rose undergo a lobotomy to cure her anxiety problems, something that he dealt with in this work, as well. As a play, this was done Off-Broadway, something unheard in those days about the work of one of last century's best regarded playwright. It proved to be a great artistic success for the author, even with a cast of non stars in it. In fact, Suddenly, Last Summer was paired with a shorter play, Something Unspoken, under the title Garden District.Joseph L. Mankiewicz, one of the best directors and writers that ever worked in Hollywood, undertook the direction of Gore Vidal's screen adaptation. In a way, it must have been a daring decision to bring it to the movies, since the play speaks about things that in the theater it could get away with, but in the movies, a different medium, and with the censure of those years, not even a distinguished team as the one assembled here, could get away with a movie that seemed to be years ahead of its time. The film is set in 1937.If you haven't seen the film, please stop reading here.We meet young doctor Cukrowicz at the start of the film as he is about to perform a lobotomy on one of the patients in the public hospital, where the lights go out during the operation. The ambitious director, Dr. Hockstader, wants to send the young doctor to talk to Mrs. Violet Venable, one of the richest ladies in New Orleans, because she is interested in donating money toward a hospital's improvements, with the caveat that her young niece, Catherine, undergoes the operation. Evidently, she has been babbling all kinds of nonsense and has been diagnosed suffering from schizophrenia.What Mrs. Venable doesn't tell the young doctor is the reason why her niece is acting in such a strange manner. During the visit, she speaks of her dead young son, Sebastian, who died tragically, suddenly, last summer of a heart attack. Violet doesn't go into details, but it seems there is much more to the story than she tells Dr. Cuckrowicz. Mrs. Venable talks about her summer trips with Sebastian and the horrible experience she had in the Galapagos watching the young turtles rushing to the sea falling prey to the predatory black birds that seem to cloud the sky.That there's something more, is clearly noticed by the young doctor when he meets Catherine, the lovely young woman being kept in another hospital's mental ward. Catherine comes across as quite sane, which poses a moral dilemma for the Cukrowicz, who is under pressure to rush Catherine's lobotomy. Since he has so many doubts and in trying to see what's wrong with the girl, he hears about how Catherine and Violet have served as procurers to the late Sebastian.The climax comes as a family reunion in which Dr. Cukrowicz gathers in the Venable mansion's patio all the people involved in the case. It is in this setting that he is able to extract from Catherine's memory what she has kept bottled up there. In a sequence that plays as a film within Catherine's mind, we watch the horrors this young woman went through when the situation gets out of hand between Sebastian and the young men of Cabeza de Lobo, where they had spent part of their vacation.Tennessee Williams, the playwright, and Gore Vidal, the adapter, both spent time in Italy. It's somehow disorienting that Catherine is talking about Amalfi and changes to another location, the scene of what appears to be the martyrdom of Sebastian, paralleling the life of the saint of the same name, to Cabeza de Lobo, which sounds more as being set in Spain than in Italy. Nevertheless, these starving children Sebastian lures to him by using his gorgeous cousin in revealing swimsuit, are key to what happens to him in that shocking day.Katherine Hepburn is about the best thing in the film. She plays a refined and dignified wealthy New Orleans matron with great assurance. Ms. Hepburn gave an understated performance showing a restraint that with some other actress might have develop into caricature. Her Mrs. Venable is a woman whose sorrow for the lost of the son knows no bounds and is trying to shut up the only person that knows the truth about what really happened to him.Elizabeth Taylor makes an invaluable contribution to the film with her luminous portrayal of Catherine. She was seen in the film at the height of her beauty and youth. Ms. Taylor, in one of her best appearances in any film, is convincing as the young woman who has been traumatized by what she had witnessed that fateful summer.Montgomery Clift, who has the lesser part of Dr. Cukrowicz, does what he can with his role. Mercedes McCambridge, on the other hand is perfect as the ambitious poor relative without scruples, who will do anything to receive the crumbs of her richer relative and couldn't care what happens to her daughter.This film was ahead of its times and still packs a lot of power because of the direction of Mr. Mankiewicz and his stellar cast. "},{"Title":"good adaptation of Williams play","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Katharine Hepburn is a wealthy woman who uses her checkbook in the hopes of having her niece lobotomized in Suddenly, Last Summer, a 1959 film directed by Joseph Mankiewicz and starring Elizabeth Taylor, Katharine Hepburn, Montgomery Clift, and Mercedes McCambridge. Hepburn plays Mrs. Venable, whose son, Sebastian, died the previous summer of a heart attack. However, her niece Cathy, who accompanied Sebastian, has had a sort of breakdown and is institutionalized. Mrs. Venable wants Cathy lobotomized. Before doing so, however, the gifted surgeon (Clift), sent there by his boss as Mrs. Venable dangles money for the hospital in front of him, becomes determined instead to find out what happened and how Sebastian really died.This is a film that would never be made today - it's character-driven and has too much dialogue. It's a shame because the dialogue is excellent. A previous Mankiewicz film, All About Eve, is word-rich as well, and there the dialogue sparkles. Here it is more poetic. And, like Eve, the great roles are the womens.Though references to homosexuality are only inferred, this film and the much more poorly adapted Cat on a Hot Tin Roof hold up very well today. With homosexuality much more discussed, the role this plays in both plots is very obvious, at least to this viewer. In Suddenly, Last Summer, Sebastian's proclivities are evident from the beginning as Mrs. Venable describes an almost husband-wife relationship with her son, claiming to the surgeon that Sebastian was chaste and that her relationship with him was enough for her son.One of the comments here mentioned that Cathy is crazy, like all Williams heroines. But in truth, Cathy like Blanche is disturbed (though Blanche may be a little closer to being nuts) and both are put away to shut them up - Blanche for her accusations against Stanley and Cathy because she knows how Sebastian really died.Katharine Hepburn gives a brilliant performance as Mrs. Venable - charming but made of steel, her anger and jealousy toward her niece just barely beneath the surface. Elizabeth Taylor gives one of her best performances under the strong direction of Mankiewicz. Taylor was blessed with great beauty but alas, not a great speaking voice. However, she is nevertheless very effective, particularly in her long, harrowing monologue near the end of the film.Clift's passive portrayal of the surgeon is problematic, and one wonders why he was cast. The opening scene in which he performs an operation had to be redone many times because of his drunkenness and codeine addiction - he was washing down the pills with brandy; his voice quavers, he is unsteady on his feet, and his eyes are glassy. He comes off a little better in the previous year's Lonelyhearts, though in that film, he actually winces in pain when he has to sit. While Clift had the support of his fellow actors, he had none from Mankiewicz and producer Sam Spiegel. Had it not been for Elizabeth Taylor's insistence, he would have been replaced. It seems cruel (as it did to Hepburn at the time) but Mankiewicz was trying to make a movie and Spiegel wanted it to be on budget - Clift's addictions and physical problems weren't helping. He couldn't remember lines; when he finally said them, he was often inaudible; and he was always late arriving on the set. Fortunately for audiences, this wasn't his last big-budget role. Under the direction of Elia Kazan, he would do the magnificent Wild River and seemingly be more in control.Despite this, Suddenly, Last Summer is an excellent, disturbing film, and is highly recommended. It's not Williams' best play, but it is served well in its film adaptation. "},{"Title":"One of the better film versions of a Williams classic","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"49 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Film versions of Tennessee Williams great plays can be a little frustrating, especially for those of us lucky enough to have seen a fine production of the play on stage.  I saw a fine production of this piece in London in 1999, with Sheila Gish as Mrs Venable, Rachel Weisz as Catherine and Gerard Butler as Doctor Cukrowicz.But this film version is actually extremely good.  The cast more or less speaks for itself.  Katherine Hepburn is not quite as repulsive as I imagine Mrs Venable to have become, but this is a movie version after all and somehow Katherine Hepburn seemed to become increasingly ghastly as the movie goes on - strong work on her part and the Director's part I shouldn't wonder.  Taylor and Clift are predictably good.Most Tennessee William's plays had their endings tampered with for Hollywood and this piece is no exception.  However, there is only a subtle difference between the ending of the film and the ending of the play, unlike the cringe-inducing changes to some (Streetcar and Cat being the main offenders).This is not William's best-known piece, but it is one of my favourites and this film version also slots in right up there with the very, very best.Well worth seeing, is this.  "},{"Title":"(POSSIBLE SPOILER)...Gothic decadence gives Taylor and Hepburn striking roles...","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"32 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While the symbolism here is about as heavy as a sledgehammer, it's offered in such artfully poetic style that only writers of the caliber of Tennessee Williams and Gore Vidal could give us. What they have done is provide KATHARINE HEPBURN with a role that fits her like a glove and where her mannered acting sits comfortably on a role she was born to play. She is totally mesmerizing as Mrs. Venable, a woman who has lavished all her hopes and dreams on her only son only to have them all swept away on a brutal summer day, suddenly, last summer, under the hot Mediteranean sun. She gets to spout the most poetic dialog in the film, with ELIZABETH TAYLOR not far behind, especially during their frequent monologues.This leaves MONTGOMERY CLIFT, as a surgeon who is asked to perform a lobotomy on Miss Taylor, hovering in the background and looking like a frightened sparrow most of the time, although it is he who uncovers the truth about last summer. Mr. Clift must have been at a difficult phase of his own personal life because he performs in a stiff, robot-like manner that makes him seem dubious as a skilled surgeon with steady hands.All of this is highly melodramatic as only Tennessee Williams can muster, while at the same time affording us the luxury of watching two commanding performances from Hepburn and Taylor that were justifiably nominated for Oscars.The tale seems burdened by too much heavy-handed poetry but somehow it holds the attention because of the forceful acting by a fine cast. Mercedes McCambridge is a standout as Taylor's mother in the sort of fluttery, birdbrain role one might suspect would be offered to Billie Burke if this had been filmed in the 1940s.By the end of the film, Miss Hepburn is so far removed from reality that she thinks Dr. Sugar (Montgomery Clift) is her son Sebastian and seems more like a candidate for lobotomy than the plucky Miss Taylor. Taylor never quite has the air of vulnerability that the role demands, but she gives a colorful, if strident, performance as the poor victimized girl who was used as bait by her playboy cousin. "},{"Title":"The love that dared not speak its name.","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"33 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Being an admirer of both Monty Clift and Tennessee Williams, I went to see this film with great anticipation. I was eighteen at the time and topics such as homosexuality were taboo in the cinema back then. But with the by Tennessee Williams attached to it, I expected to be confronted with material, characters and situations that challenged my sheltered mind. But with Suddenly, Last Summer, I was amazed to learn that Williams surpassed even himself! From the very beginning, I beheld a Katharine Hepburn playing a character so bizarre and cryptic, that it bordered on the comical. Even Monty Clift, his youth and tender looks despoiled by accident, pills & booze, looked tired. But Liz Taylor seemed perfectly okay, her beauty never more radiant. The only thing wrong with her character was her sanity. Apparently she witnessed something so awful the summer in question happening to her cousin Sebastian, that it drove her over the edge of sanity into madness. But the eccentric aunt and the deranged cousin aren't the focal point of this grim tale. Sebastian is the one who motivates all the others. The one we are tantalized with and shocked by and made so mysterious, that we don't even get to see his face, hear his voice or learn what made him the way he was. He's always shot from behind, as if to see his face might just make the audience care about him, know his humanity and, possibly, even sympathize with him. Sebastian was made to be abstract, and censorship being what it was, that made the producers breathe easier. Although he meets a horrible death at the hands of some Third World beach boys, he's not meant to be the victim of the film. Instead, his pretty cousin is the one who must be sacrificed to protect the memory and reputation of her cousin. Mama wants it that way and what Hepburn wants, she gets, even going so far as to blackmail two doctors to silence her niece! Mama Hepburn, to me, is the real monster of the film and Taylor her helpless victim. Made helpless by the need for secrecy at all costs. If anything, this tale can be about how an obsession with secrecy leads to madness.As for Sebastian, we are supposed to think he got what he deserved. As for me, the movie left me emotionally drained. The predatory beasts unleashed, the primeval garden(replete with insect-devouring plants), the attempted suicide and gang rape by loony inmates of Taylor.... the long speech at the beginning about swooping blackbirds preying on baby turtles that Hepburn delivers, all made me limp at the end. Hepburn and Taylor both received worthy Oscar nominations for their work. The set designer as well for the foreboding lunatic asylum and simmering garden; the primitive operating room where lobotomies are performed - - all excellent. Rent the video if you can. But remember, this is set in 1937 when homosexuals weren't getting elected to Congress. Remember, also, that Sebastian is a martyr if only because he was before his time. Just like the saint he's named after. I was made to realize above all else from this film that there is a beast that lurks in our unconscious mind; a remnant from our prehistoric past; and of which we are reminded by the frequent animal imagery used in this film. Something to think about whenever we see the strong preying upon the weak. To quote a line from the film Nature is not made in the image of man's compassion.- - Sound Track "},{"Title":"This film should have earned Taylor her first Oscar","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"31 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Suddenly, Last Summer brought Elizabeth Taylor her third Oscar nomination, and she probably should have won (though winner Simone Signoret's performance in Room at the Top was also outstanding). Taylor is awesome in this film ----- most notably in the final twenty minutes, which she virtually dominates. This entire scene was reportedly shot in one take, which makes sense, since the character begins with a narrative and gradually builds to an emotionally shattering climax. Taylor's previous film, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, was also Oscar caliber, but this performance is even more impressive. The 1960 Oscar for Butterfield 8 was probably a consolation prize for the Oscar she should have received for either of these two previous films. "},{"Title":"Florid and fevered, it is Williams' Southern Gothic at its full flavor...","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"33 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Acted with violent enthusiasm by Liz Taylor and Katharine Hepburn as the arch-rivals for the savagery poet, Suddenly, Last Summer is a steamy blend of venality and insanity, a truth and falsehood of a very high order&#133; Her homosexual cousin used her as a procuress; her vindictive aunt demands that she be given a lobotomy Liz is again the unappreciated beauty&#133; But she's also the abandoned innocent, a girl fighting to remember what happened to her cousin Sebastian Venable died suddenly, in North Africa, during the summer&#133; Taylor's performance is like a melody, rising toward the end to an emotional crescendo of desperation and release&#133; And Taylor handles it expertly; she is ironical, self-deprecating, and self-aware&#133;For all that Catherine Holly starts out as a neurotic kid in the woods, she ends the film as a courageously woman set free by her confession&#133; The film belongs to the women; even McCambridge, in her relatively small role, has a showier part than Clift's&#133; Clift is thoughtful, considering, and considerate&#133; Hepburn's performance is quite restrained&#133; Feeding insects to a carnivorous plant in a gesture that is a metaphor for the incestuous nature of the relationship with her son, Hepburn is all cool rationally and sweet reason&#133; Violet Venable is an expert at getting her own way and Hepburn makes her most outrageous actions seem those of a moderate and kind-hearted woman&#133; "},{"Title":"Born to play Tennessee Willams","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This screen version, by Joseph L Mankiewicz, of Tennessee Williams' play isn't as highly thought of as it should be. It's not a classic and on occasions it comes over as crude and stilted, but it also has many fine things going for it. Although he never really opens it out, Mankiewicz gives it a fluency that isn't at all theatrical and although he often films scenes intimately and between only two characters, he ensures it is photographed and cut in a very cinematic fashion.Unfortunately, one of the two people on screen during these 'cinematic' sequences is Montgomery Clift who is at his worst here. It was after his accident and he looks as if he's in pain. When he walks it's as if there is a board up his back and he talks as if out of the side of his mouth. Luckily, with him in these scenes is either Elizabeth Taylor or Katharine Hepburn or both and when they are on screen you don't pay too much attention to Clift.Dilys Powell said Elizabeth Taylor was born to play Tennessee Williams and she was right. Indeed this may be her best performance after Virginia Woolf. Catherine's lines don't have the kind of poetry in them that Violet Venable's does but Taylor finds a poetry of her own in her readings. She builds on her long speech at the end and is very moving, even if Mankiewicz can't resist 'showing' us, in flashbacks, what Taylor is telling us, as if he doesn't trust an audience to sit still and just listen to Taylor. (They would have to in the theatre).As Violet, Hepburn has the showier part and she milks it for all it's worth. It's a great piece of acting because Violet never seems to be acting, though she tends to think of her life as a kind of performance, something she has passed on to her homosexual son, Sebastian. (If the old adage, 'my mother made me a homosexual', has any validity you don't have to look any further than here). She enters from above, descending in her small baroque lift, and Hepburn can see the comic potential in such an entrance. Moments later, however, she is recounting how the sea-turtles were devoured by flesh-eating birds in the Galapogos, and you can see just how dangerously unstable this woman really is.Any film that has acting of this calibre automatically qualifies as worth seeking out, (you forgive the lame work of Clift and Gary Raymond and draw a blind over Mercedes McCambridge, though Albert Dekker is very fine), but this qualifies on other grounds; as one of the better Tennessee Williams adaptations, (he co-wrote it with Gore Vidal), as a flawed, dated but strangely fascinating example of how Hollywood viewed homosexuality at the time, (negatively, naturally, but any face, no matter how horribly distorted, so long as it was in the public gaze, was better than no face at all), and as a serious addition to the Joe Mankiewicz canon. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Script by Gore Vidal","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Superb acting by Katharine Hepburn, Elizabeth Taylor, and Montgomery Clift spark this nifty adaptation of Tennessee Williams' play. This Southern Gothic tale is worthy of Flannery O'Connor as it pits innocent Catherine against her aunt Violet as they battle over the memory and reality of Sebastian Venable. With hints of incest and homosexuality along with family jealousies and squabbling, the women go at each other as they each go after the new doctor from Chicago (Clift). Violet wants the girl committed to an asylum where she will be given a lobotomy. The girl battles back as she recalls the real truth about Sebastian. Her greedy family (Mercedes McCambridge, Gary Raymond) are perfectly willing to sacrifice Catherine for a chunk of money. Everyone is a vulture in this story. The asylum is run by another greedy man (Albert Dekker) who only wants Venable money for a new hospital wing.After Sebastian casts aside mother (Hepburn) for his summer trip and takes Catherine (Taylor), the older woman starts working to get her revenge. But when Sebastian dies, she goes into mourning as well. Complicated story of innuendo and symbol, one is never quite sure what happens to Sebastian who is symbolically eaten by the boys he has sexually preyed on (heavens to Michael Jackson!). But the sight of his death drives Catherine nuts. The mother of course is in denial of every unsavory trait Sebastian possessed.Brilliant, florid dialog and two wonderful, long soliloquies by Hepburn and Taylor are highlights. The symbolism is fairly obvious but works well within the context of Southern Gothic. All the supporting cast is fine. Taylor and Hepburn earned best actress Oscar nominations. Gore Vidal, Tennessee Williams, and his partner, Frank Merlo, are in the opening surgery scene. A fascinating story and some great performances.Special mention must be made of Gore Vidal's brilliant screenplay, expanding the one-act play by Tennessee Williams (who had nothing to do with the screenplay, despite his billing). Vidal perfectly captures the cadence of Williams' speeches and maintains the Gothic mystery Williams was trying for. Vidal lost his chance for an Oscar nomination after the film Catholic Church attacked the film his its implied (gasp!) tale of homosexuality. "}{"Title":"The Name Tennessee Williams Says It All","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"33 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In 1930's New Orleans, a wealthy and eccentric older woman named Mrs. Venable (Katharine Hepburn), wants a surgeon (Montgomery Clift) to perform a lobotomy on her niece (Elizabeth Taylor), for reasons that become clear toward the end of the film. This macabre Tennessee Williams story, with overlapping adult themes, must surely have been a shock to audiences in 1959. The film provides a great vehicle for the talents of both Hepburn whose acting is engaging, and Taylor whose performance is superb.The Mankiewicz script is very talky. The characters of both Hepburn and Taylor engage in lengthy and at times tedious monologues. In all that talking, at least there are some really good lines. My favorite is near the beginning. In a nonchalant tone, Mrs. Venable tells us about the daily vicissitudes of Lady, the Venus flytrap that Mrs. Venable keeps in her garden. Lady must be kept under glass, and while she is under glass, we have to provide her with flies, flown in at great expense. Priceless.As one would expect for a film derived from a stage play, cinematography and music are less important than dialogue and acting. Suddenly Last Summer is worth viewing for its unusual story, and for the acting accomplishments of Hepburn and Taylor. "},{"Title":"Unsung, surreal masterpiece","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Long-fabled as one of the most bizarre films to come out Hollywood during the years of the Production Code's strict enforcement, SUDDENLY, LAST SUMMER is a riveting psychological drama that remains absolutely gut-wrenching even after nearly fifty years since it's original release. Screenwriter Gore Vidal takes Tennessee Williams' one-act play and runs with it, fleshing out the central characters and expanding the story's central arc. Vidal had the seemingly impossibly task of taking a tale involving homosexuality, incest, pedophilia, and even cannibalism and presenting it all in a manner that would be acceptable to the rigid Production Code, yet still coherent to the average film audience. Not only did Vidal succeed victoriously, but the slightly ambiguous nature of the film's climax and denouncement actually makes the twice as unsettling and disturbing.With relatively few characters to populate the story the performances are absolutely crucial, and the tight-knit cast delivers the goods in spades. Long after many of her acting contemporaries of the thirties and forties had been forgotten, Katharine Hepburn continued to reign supreme on the silver screen and her sublime performance as the manipulative and cunning Mrs. Venable ranks among Hepburn's best work of the decade. The wounded vulnerability of a post-car accident Montgomery Clift serves him well in a difficult role as the middle man between the film's leading ladies, and the still-handsome actor provides a humane, completely genuine performance that supplies viewers with level-headed window into the off-kilter story. Albert Dekker, Mercedes McCambridge and Gary Raymond also excel in minor roles.The film's biggest surprise, however, is the exceptional portrayal of Elizabeth Taylor in the film's central performance. Although usually somewhat of an uneven actress, Taylor completely nails a dauntingly difficult role in a complex, multilayered performance that deservedly won her a Golden Globe Award as well as her third consecutive Oscar nomination. During the film's climatic revelation, Taylor lets out a series of bone-chilling screams that I could never imagine coming out of any other actress. Not only does it remain Taylor's finest performance (which is a considerable achievement when one considers that WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA WOOLF is also on her resume), but it is also a performance that simply could not be bettered.Although perhaps he could never surpass 1949's A LETTER TO THREE WIVES or 1950's ALL ABOUT EVE in the eyes of most viewers, SUMMER contains some of the finest work of director Joseph L. Mankiewicz' legendary career. Brilliantly combining southern Gothicism with straight-faced psychodrama and even grandiose horror, Mankiewicz stitches the various seemingly disparate threads together in a harrowing, yet perversely satisfying whole. Even the lengthy, sometimes criticized flashback sequence is an absolute tour de force of film-making that leaves viewers emotionally exhausted as one experiences the on screen turmoil more than simply watching it. An often unheralded classic, the film remains of the most sorely underrated films of its era. "},{"Title":"Flamboyant Southern Gothic Tennessee Williams Served Up by Masters","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's hard to take your eyes off an impossibly beautiful, 27-year old Elizabeth Taylor, especially in her skintight white bathing suit, and the fact that she gives a powerhouse performance, likely her best prior to Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, is reason enough to watch this 1959 Gothic melodrama from the fulsome pen of Tennessee Williams. She plays Catherine Holly, a mentally unstable young woman traumatized by a violent incident which ended with her cousin Sebastian's death last summer in a Mexican beach resort.Trapped in a mental hospital that recalls the bowels of the asylum presented in The Snake Pit ten years earlier, she cannot remember what happened and is constantly drugged but manages to exhibit enough credibility to make Dr. Cukrowicz assess that she may not be disturbed enough to warrant a lobotomy. The procedure is being pushed by the late Sebastian's grande dame mother, Violet Venable, who wants to silence Catherine lest she reveal the shocking secrets of Sebastian's life and death. A doyenne of New Orleans society, Mrs. Venable dangles a tempting carrot of a $1 million donation to Cukrowicz's hospital for brain research if the lobotomy is done.As was common under the production code in the 1950's and similar to what was done to dilute Williams' Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, the film only alludes to Sebastian's homosexuality, using rather graphic symbolism to bring across the dramatic tension of the situation. In this case, it works because it's consistent with the Baroque style of the entire movie. Taylor goes toe-to-toe with the formidable Katharine Hepburn playing against type as Mrs. Venable, a cold and manipulative character whose flamboyant hypocrisy hides her own unsteady state. Each actress gets a showy monologue with Catherine's climactic description of that infamous summer the true capper of the story.Saddled with the purely observational role of Cukrowicz, Montgomery Clift seems rather passive as he has to explain the more convoluted plot points in a becalmed manner. Co-adapted for the screen by Gore Vidal and Williams, the film is dialogue-heavy as most of Williams' works are, and director Joseph Mankiewicz (All About Eve, A Letter to Three Wives) is a master at this type of character interplay. Jack Hildyard's crisp black-and-white cinematography works well for this story as color would have emphasized the melodramatic excesses (note how pale Taylor's violent eyes look). The only notable extras on the 2000 DVD are some vintage photo stills. Unfortunately, this film was not included as part of the recently released, six-film Tennessee Williams Film Collection. "},{"Title":"Tennesse Does it Again","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Catherine Holly, played by the indelible Elizabeth Taylor,is a woman whose conscience and memory continue to cast a foreboding shadow. Enshrouded in her memory is the unforgettable realization to which she came, suddenly last summer. Katherine Hepburn plays somewhat of a southern anchoress, Mrs. Violet Venable,whose only repose comes from memorializing her late son Sebastian in the fantastic jungalesque garden he created. On the surface Sebastian seems pensive, sincere, and wise; however, Holly knows a secret, a disturbing secret about the late Sebastian that Mrs. Venable must suppress at all costs. It remains in the hands of Dr. Cukrowicz, Montgomery Clift, to extract this secret from Holly's memory, before the secret is lost forever. I enjoyed this movie, and it kept my attention even though I had read the play I knew the outcome. It is another fine story from the mind of Tennessee Williams. The movie sticks to the play unlike other Williams' movies, like Cat on a Hot Tin Roof. The only problem is that like so many other Tennesse Williams'stories, depravity and decadence are central themes, which make it difficult at times to really like any characters or develop a fondness for the story itself. "},{"Title":"One of the Scariest Films I've seen","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"19 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Suddenly, Last Summer - is one of the scariest films I've seen. Directed in 1959 by Joseph Mankievitz and based on one of Tennessee Williams' plays, it deals with very disturbing topics. Elizabeth Taylor is sensational, playing Catherine, the girl who may have lost her mind after having witnessed her cousin's bizarre death that occurred suddenly, last summer during the vacation. Katherine Hepburn is magnificent as his adoring mother who wants the disturbing memories been surgically removed from the girl's memory.Production design, set decorations, and costumes are absolutely stunning. Both, Hepburn and Taylor received very deserving Oscar nominations for the best leading performance. "},{"Title":"Movie theme and summary","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As with many works by Tennessee Williams, this is a tale of devourment. The universe of Tennesse Williams was not a kind or forgiving place. Very little redemption here, for viewers who require a story with a happy ending. Mother Nature, God, the natural order of things, are all consuming ferocious entities. Violet Venable's monologue regarding the consumption of Galapagos sea turtles by swarming birds of prey offers the prescient philosophic foundation of this theme. Remember, this is a one- act character study, eventually cinematized by Mankiewiscz. Therefore, the author can't invoke too many plots and sub-textsJust as the Venus Fly trap plant in the Venable garden devours to survive, Catherine's brain will be surgically devoured to serve the needs of her aunt. Sebastian devoured his procured boys to serve his own sexual needs, and they in-turn, devoured him. The instruments of devourment here are money, sex, rich co-dependent mommies, curvacious cousins, medical science's need for new funds, etc.The brilliant story repeatedly utilizes the obvious metaphor of devourment, to present this theme. The language is quite literal and should be construed as such! No need for much interpretation or reading between the lines. Again -- we are dealing with what was originally a one-act play.Ironically, the work's author, Tennesse Williams; and the the lead cast members -- Montgomery Clift and Elizabeth Taylor --must have felt similarly consumed in puritanical Hollywood and the restrictive political times of this type of consumptive, controlling, and cruel universe. "},{"Title":"NOBODY believed me...","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...how impressed, shocked, sad, touched, concerned and ALIVE I have been, after having watched this movie! In my dreams the scenes came back again - but please don't misunderstand me it was not like the coming back of scenes while having a nightmare. I have lived this movie again Katherine Hepurn as mother (Mrs. Venable), who decided to continue life in a white world of lies after her son's (Sebastian's) death . This white silhouette of Sebastian...whose favorite color was also white. This (white) shiny world that got smaller and smaller. WHITE - what a sad color it can be...Sebastian Venable, it was decided by the producers, would not appear in the flesh. He was to be a glimmer, an occasion for memory. This faceless creature is finally destroyed by an angry mob of street urchins in a climax not much different from that of James Whale's Frankenstein, in which the peasants pursue the monster to the top of a hill, where fire engulfs him. Anyway, you really MUST have seen this movie! Mentally, you'll die again and again and then you'll be born again and again.Homosexuality had to be explained to Actress Katherine Hepurn (I'm not talking about the content of the movie now...). She flatly refused to believe that such people existed. In years later, Mrs. Hepurn has been a vocal opponent of homosexuality, linking it with other social ills of society (Thank you Katherine for becoming an actress without political influence and not the first lady!).And the last thing I have to say Elizabeth Taylor - words can not express her shown talent, and how beautiful she looks here - so, let me close with it is an honor to sit in the audience... "},{"Title":"Lots of Symbolism, Dramatic Performances, Frightening Visuals.","Date":"6 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A mother is desperate to save the reputation of her dead son. So to do this, she wants to have a lobotomy performed on her niece who knows too much about her dead cousin. She offers lots of money to a local mental hospital if they will perform the operation, putting an idealistic young doctor in a very difficult position. Mama is Katharine Hepburn; Niece is Elizabeth Taylor; Doctor is Montgomery Clift. Writers are Tennessee Williams and Gore Vidal. Mama has kept her dead son Sebastian's garden exactly the same since his death (complete with Venus Fly Traps and other exotic plants you've never seen in your life.) She tells the doctor that on one of their many vacations, her son claimed to have seen the face of God. Not really the face of God, have you, but the symbolism of death, his own death, and a scary sub-reality that can only come from the mind of one of the greatest playwrights of any time, Tennesee Williams.The play Garden District was probably something that was very difficult to adopt to film, that's why Gore Vidal (recently deceased as of this writing) came in to assist him. This is a story that is certainly not for all audiences, and those expecting Elizabeth Taylor to be like she was as Maggie in Williams' Cat on a Hot Tin Roof won't find that here. Hepburn, too, has crossed the line from her witty comedies with Spencer Tracy into the bizarre, a tale of carnal lust that uses the tale of sea turtles burying their eggs in the sand and the flesh-eating birds who wait for them to hatch, as well as tales of using beautiful women to procure, and the eventual cannibalism that destroys its dead protagonist.Huh? you ask. In this viewing (out of about half a dozen), I had to research other people's thoughts on the film as well, and came up with the thought that people will see things differently, as they do in many of Tennessee Williams' writings. Having seen most of his work, I can only conclude that he was writing through a tortured soul, even as a genius though as they say, every genius has some touch of madness.The performances are outstanding, although some may see them as a lot over the top. But seeing Taylor and Hepburn together is a film lover's dream, and they play well off of each other, with Montgomery Clift (still recovering from that dreadful car accident) forced to be more of an earpiece to their dramatics. This asks the question, Who really is sane?, and gives some frightening visuals of an old fashioned Bellevue like mental institution. The sight of a delighted crazy woman rocking violently as everybody laughs at the sight of Taylor threatening to jump off a stairwell may give some people nightmares, yet you feel strangely sad for the crying man whose cards fell when Taylor made her way onto the stairwell of the men's recreation area. Mercedes McCambridge is believably befuddled, although I had a hard time accepting her as Taylor's mother. "},{"Title":"Powerful stuff (for the time) with a great performance from Hepburn","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  New Orleans, 1937.  Doctor Cukrowicz is summoned to the home of Violet Venable, he is encouraged to go by his father who sees a ripe opportunity to get a significant amount of funding directly out of the rich widow.  Venable tells Cukrowicz of her niece, Catherine, who has been diagnosed as having a mental disease that causes her to have outbursts etc.  She wants Cukrowicz to carry out a lobotomy on Kathryn without question.  However Cukrowicz meets with Catherine and finds her trapped behind memories that she won't let herself remember.  He tries to draw out whatever her stepmother is so desperate to have cut out.I watched this with no prior knowledge of what it was about or any of the hidden themes that are brought out after viewing.  I suspect I was able to come to it `clean' as a result.  The plot starts simply and I wasn't sure where it was going.  Then Mrs Venable is introduced and we learn of her desire to have Catherine lobotomised.  This is followed by the question what happened to Sebastion (Venable's son) that has sent Catherine mad and sent Mrs Venable to the point where she wants to cut it out of her memory.  This question looms large over the film and is very effective in driving the plot forward.The clues are given all along to what a messed up situation the whole thing is and the final 15 minutes are powerful despite some weaknesses.  The plot has talked up the romance part of the film between Catherine and Dr Cukrowicz, I assume to try and cover the unpleasant business and make it easier on a fifties audience, this takes away a little bit but didn't distract me too much from the central tale.Hepburn is magnificent in her role and her opening scene does much to captivate you for the rest of the movie.  Taylor is good but at times feels too polished to be in her character's predicament.  Clift was too stale for me and didn't really stand out when placed beside these two actresses going hell for leather for their roles.Overall I enjoyed this film.  The tension of the central questions is built on well with mystery and dark secrets hinted at constantly.  The underlying themes add to it but you don't lose anything if you don't see them and the dark secret is powerful and meaningful even if it must do well by the censors of the day.  Glad I stumbled onto it. "},{"Title":"A multi-layered performance by the great Elizabeth Taylor","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What you must know, if you haven't seen this, is that Suddenly, Last Summer is film noir in the extreme. You must be in the right mood for some serious drama before watching this. And don't expect some cutesy, happy ending. If that's what you want, watch Harvey. Harvey and Suddenly, Last Summer are polar opposites of the same theme A family member wanting to commit a relative to an insane asylum for questionable reasons. The parallels are so distinct I wonder if Tennessee Williams set out to do this.I see no one else has written a review since Elizabeth Taylor's death on March 23, 2011. Some people assumed that a woman with such flawless beauty could not possibly also be blessed with great acting talent. I was never one of them, and this movie certainly proves she was a great actress. We all know of the difficulties child actors have transitioning to adult roles, even for great ones such as Margaret O'Brien or Shirley Temple. This movie illustrates the challenge You must also be able to convey adult emotions like anger, fear, terror, sometimes even madness. Taylor comes through in spades. It is interesting comparing the performances of Taylor and Katherine Hepburn, who normally is renown for her radiance and vitality. Here it is Taylor who exudes vitality, while Hepburn appears to be a sparkling personality with an empty soul. This was surely deliberate and took great acting skill, not to mention humility to stand in Taylor's shadow. What I admire about Taylor's performance is its many layers. We hear about her long before she appears on screen, that she is a basket case in need of a lobotomy. And at first we might believe this to be true, but gradually she transforms her character as the truth unfolds. We learn that she is acting crazy, more or less deliberately, but why? It is not clear whether she wants Clift to believe her to be sane or insane, or even whether she might actually want the lobotomy, though in the end she fights against it with every ounce in her. The problem is Taylor doesn't even know the truth herself, is afraid of the truth, but must face it, or face a lobotomy, a powerful incentive. What you get is a multi-layered, dynamic performance. It reminds me of Marilyn Monroe in Bus Stop, another great beauty who did really have great acting ability. The madness of the scenario brings to mind Shakespeare, and Taylor's acting rises to the Shakespearian level.The threat of a lobotomy provides a powerful driving force in the plot, but what really charges it up is the issue of Hepburn's potential donation of $1 million if the lobotomy is performed. Now you have the issue of misuse of psychiatric diagnostics for money, for prestige, for social convenience. Not every psychiatrist would have had the integrity of Clift to insist on digging for the truth. As Taylor's character unfolds, we see a very real, very alive human being whom we can relate to. Taylor has produced such empathy, it is we who are threatened with a lobotomy, and all the horrors this would mean. This is not electroshock therapy, a more common cinematic device, but a method to keep the body alive while killing the mind, a truth we suspect, and she realizes as she looks down into the pit of mad women. The movie is becoming a living nightmare.And so we find a very beautiful, privileged actress who somehow finds within herself the full breadth and depth of human experience, much as Marlon Brando did. Taylor did not live a charmed life. Despite the beauty, talent and glamor, she had more than her share of tragedy and illness, though this came later. She was also the first great movie star to allow her real private life to be covered in the press honestly, without the PR hokum. I don't think that it was because she craved fame, which she had since she was a child, unlike some some modern celebrities without a fraction of her talent. What you see in Suddenly is a very open, honest, vulnerable Taylor who is able to project her humanness onto the screen. This isn't something you can fake. Elizabeth Taylor was a great actress and a fine human being who lived an extraordinary life. You won't soon forget Suddenly. But you might need an antidote for its bitterness. I suggest you follow it by watching Harvey. "}{"Title":"Disturbing and controversial...","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have viewed this several times and have looked at it from different angles. It is a noteworthy and disturbing film which requires analysis.Certainly, Clift and Taylor are the meat of the film. Clift as Dr. Kukrowicz, a psycho-surgeon reluctant to perform lobotomy on the always beautiful Elizabeth Taylor.Mercedes McCambridge is the awful mother- wanting her daughter lobotomized for financial gain. Mrs. Venable (the late, great Kate Hepburn) does not disappoint and delivers a performance of arrogance secrecy and contempt for societal standards (which includes her protective stance for her homosexual son, Sebastian).This was quite unusual for 1959- to address such important issues. There is quite a bit of symbolism and drama, but in a clear and disturbing fashion. I highly recommend this as a must see Tennessee Williams delineates the savagery, and mans inhumanity to man in this story. 9/10. "},{"Title":"An impressive Elizabeth Taylor...as actress, not simply star","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've never been a particular fan of Elizabeth Taylor, and the last time I saw this film on television I was just a kid, and too young to really understand all that the plot implies. I am glad to have seen this film now, at a time when it seems likely that Taylor's life is slipping away. Finally I can see the greatness of Taylor the actress, rather than merely Taylor the star.This melodrama/mystery, based on the play by Tennessee Williams, and directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz, delves into topics that were nearly verboten at the time of its making -- psycho-surgery and homosexuality. The latter, in particular, was soft-pedaled in the film, although as the film winds down it becomes more and more clear that homosexuality and the procuring of boys for sex was the underlying theme of the plot. In terms of lobotomies, it is interesting to know that playwright Tennessee Williams's older sister underwent a lobotomy which left her permanently incapacitated.Elizabeth Taylor is riveting throughout the film -- a true tour de force. It's not often that Katharine Hepburn comes in second in any film, but she does here, although she is superb, as well. Montgomery Clift is also excellent, although apparently this was filmed during a particularly difficult time of his sad life. Albert Dekker is fine as the elder and greedy doctor seeking an endowment, and Mercedes McCambridge is her usual quirky self.Yes, the film now seems a bit dated, but perhaps that is another of its strengths. I'm not sure it would be done as well nowadays, although certainly the topic of homosexuality would be handled much differently.A gem of a film, though somewhat disturbing. "},{"Title":"A Small Observation on one of William's finer plays...","Date":"22 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" To begin with, I won't go into the plot of this play as that has been done so very well in other commentary here for Suddenly Last Summer. If you haven't yet seen the film version, be prepared for extensive dialog, exquisitely delivered, yet for today's viewers who see nothing but five-second scenes and hear twenty-word lines, the film requires real listening, just as a very good book requires paying close attention to the plot line.Williams always has intriguing comparisons and contrasts in his plays, it's part of his genius in his character studies. In this film we see it in the comparison of Lady, the Venus Flytrap plant kept under glass in Sebastian's garden, to his mother, the supposedly genteel Southern lady, Violet Venable. Does it strike anyone else how alike Lady and dear Violet truly are? And Williams' placing the scene where Violet is seen feeding Lady is absolutely perfect, particularly as he has set the scene early in the story. Here we are able to truly see the juxtaposition of the two living beings, the ruthless Violet and the equally ruthless Lady.Flytraps aren't normally kept under glass nor are they as HUGE as the pant is portrayed here. I speak from the experience of having a Flytrap of my own a few years ago and the 'trap' part of the plant is no more than barely an inch in diameter. I never had to feed it as it existed in whatever happened to land in the trap! However,Lady IS given a size bordering on the ridiculous. She has such extreme and demanding appetites that she must be constantly fed and physically contained, as though to do anything otherwise would unleash those same appetites to the unaware. Obviously, a plant isn't going to attack anyone, but Lady, like Violet, is a voracious being. And Violet herself, is caged within the social morals and traditions of a good Southern lady, unable to be her true venal and atavistic self.Violet Venable, unlike her silly but very loving sister (so well played by Mercedes McCambridge) doesn't care a whit about who may be hurt, or whose life may be ruined in her ruthless zealotry in protecting her murdered son Sebastian. The plant goes for living insects, the woman goes for living human beings. Yet perhaps the greatest irony of all in this tale is in Williams giving this quietly monstrous matriarch the same name of what most people see as the epitome of gentleness, the lovely little violet.Fascinating, indeed, n'est pas? "},{"Title":"Talky and twisted, but great","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Tennessee Williams really emptied out all his bitterness here. The film seethes with rage and indignation at society, family, evolution, God, but mainly at the inescapable, innermost core of emotional frailty that straddles happiness and unhappiness, sanity and madness, creation and destruction, life and death &#150; which is to say, at himself. Screenwritten by Williams' more-than-close friend Gore Vidal, we can expect an accurate and meaningful adaptation.Mongomery Clift is a brain surgeon performing lobotomies. His clinic has been promised funds by the wealthy, genteel Katherine Hepburn, and in return she wants Clift to perform the dread operation on her deranged niece, played by Elizabeth Taylor. But Taylor is not as mad as she seems.At the bottom of everyone's strange behaviour is an unspeakable truth, the truth about the death of Hepburn's son, the 'perfect' Sebastian, the previous summer. But this is not a murder mystery, rather a psychological one. Hepburn is studied and poised, descending elegantly from the heavens in a quaint old elevator, betraying herself only in an odd hesitancy. Her rigid technique works well when the character she is also playing is putting on a performance. An intense, smothering, symbol-laden monologue near the beginning contains the hidden keys to all that follows. Taylor is equally brilliant playing a character who is also playing a part &#150; in this case, the opposite &#150; derangement and aggression.Sebastian's fate, the sight of which triggered Taylor's madness, turns out to have been a bizarre kind of bestial, orgiastic self-sacrifice, the like of which cinema audiences at the time would have been completely unprepared for and were probably at a loss to explain. The homosexual issues were smokescreened and may not have been understood by audiences at all &#150; Tennessee Williams didn't come out until 1970 (during a David Frost interview) and was in a state of denial about it himself during the early part of his life. As expected, there are some significant fudges that confuse the issue with alternate readings, for example, in that Taylor, who we discover had been 'procuring' for Sebastian, would obviously attract the wrong type of man. Also, to William's annoyance, Mankiewicz had Sebastian trying frantically to escape from his fate &#150; as depicted in concurrent flashback during the second of the film's long monologues at the end, delivered to cataclysmic effect by Taylor. Emotionally wrecked by the horror of the final revelation (and it is pretty horrible), the audience are left to puzzle it out for themselves. "},{"Title":"More or less astonishing on every level...imperfect, but astonishing","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Suddenly, Last Summer (1959)High drama, with astonishing performances by Katherine Hepburn, Elizabeth Taylor (at least until the final flashback sequence), and a somber Montgomery Clift. Filmed in wide screen black and white, with beautiful sets (both the garden and the institution in particular), and with careful framing and focus in every shot. And the music is by contemporary classical master Malcolm Arnold, who finds a great blend of conventional Hollywood score and light conservatory invention.The play, of course, underpins it all, and Tennessee Williams knows how to be melodramatic, and to write like an angel on fire (with help here from Gore Vidal, no less). And the themes are searing--mental illness, for sure, but homosexuality above all, in a late 1950s culture where gays were not just shunned, but arrested, committed, and brutalized. All these are suggested here--but only suggested. The Hays code, though weakening at the knees, is still in force, and the movie uses inventive, sly ways of pushing into forbidden territory.The one uncomfortable section of the movie is the dream-like flashback at the end, which is meant to be terrifying and suggestive and a bit racy, but which has a forced drama to it that borders on embarrassing, or if not quite that, that it gets out of control. Director Joseph L. Mankiewicz is not Orson Welles, thankfully--he doesn't have the avant-garde bones for this scene, perhaps, but he knows people and feelings, and he gets the really human parts of the movie to glow and cut and explode. The best of this will bring goose-bumps to your arms and tears to your eyes. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  So much could be written here, but will leave it with -- Two of the most wonderful moments in the history of movies -- Liz and that white bathing suit, the Ultra Vixen of her time, and Kate delivers her last lines of true Tennessee Williams madness while ascending into the darkness. Arousing. Indelible. Chilling. Who could ask for more? "},{"Title":"Great first half, but movie falters because of its sanitized script","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Wow did I love the first 2/3 of this film. All of the actors are in top form and the movie is so wonderful EXCEPT that the whole crux of Liz's mental problems is only vaguely alluded to due to the social conventions of the time. I'll discuss this at the end of the review, so if you don't want to know what it is, skip this portion.Liz plays the niece of a very rich and very controlling matriarch (Katherine Hepburn) who is dead set on having her lobotomized by the psychiatrist, played by Montgomery Clift. Since returning from a trip with Sebastian, Liz has been very troubled. Something traumatic obviously happened there and Sebastian died, but instead of investigating what occurred, it seems that Katherine Hepburn wants her lobotomized to shut her up once and for all.But Clift is an ethical and reasonable doctor who won't just do a lobotomy just to please the aunt--even if it means that the huge endowment she is dangling in front of him is withheld. Of all the characters in the film, he seems like the only sane one with a soul.Instead of discussing the plot further, I want to point out that the direction and writing were excellent as was most of the acting (though Liz Taylor's delivery of her lines sounded very staccato--like James T. Kirk), but the main problem was the sanitized script. Some idiots at the studio decided to drastically change Tennessee Williams' play due to 1950s sensibilities. In a way, I almost wished they had just waited a decade and then filmed it so they could honestly reproduce the play. Instead, what was apparent in the play is boiled down to a deep dark secret--and it never is directly talked about. So in other words, why Liz went with Sebastian and why he died (awfully important parts of the story, don't you think?) were never dealt with! It turns out that the entire deep dark secret is that Sebastian was GAY! But, they instead make allusions such as his closeness to his mother and the fact that he liked to have her around on a vacation because she attracted men (of course, she would most likely have attracted straight men, so this didn't make a lot of sense)! So much would have been cleared up if they just said he was gay. I knew that this must be the unspoken secret--or, perhaps the crowd killed him because he was a pedophile. It sure makes a difference to me, as in the first case you feel pity for Sebastian.This COULD have been a great film instead of an excellent one in search of a remake. "},{"Title":"Great story, great acting...","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Elizabeth Taylor gives a great performance in this dark, but interesting story. Katharine Hepburn is also brilliant in her lengthy monologues- as are the rest of the actors. Montgomery Clift is overshadowed somewhat although he is very much a part of the story and should not be ignored. I found this movie to be as good an adaptation of playwright Tennessee Williams work, as Cat on a Hot Tin Roof was. Watch this movie for the brilliant and moving acting. "},{"Title":"A Gothic Romp","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Joseph Mankiewicz directed this adaptation of one of Tennessee Williams' weirder plays, which owes more than a thing or two to Euripides' The Bacchae and the collected works of Sigmund Freud. As to which is more influential, I'd say it's a toss-up, but I lean a bit more toward Freud. Poor Williams, perhaps America's most gifted playwright in terms of language, he came the nearest to creating a body of theatre work that lives not just in one mind, but in another sense, as speech. One can recall lines from his plays years after one first heard them. O'Neill was maybe the more talented all-round dramatist, and he enjoyed a longer career at the top. Williams burned out fairly quickly after his great early successes of The Glass Menagerie and A Streetcar Named Desire, and one can see him beginning to crash and burn in this one,--ah, but he gives such a beautiful light.This one is about a strange, wealthy Southern woman, Mrs. Venable, who wants to have her beautiful, apparently mentally unstable niece, Catherine, lobotomized. The doctor who is to perform the operation is unable to find a compelling reason to do so, and does a little mental probing first, and discovers that the young woman has suffered a severe traumatic shock due to the circumstances of her late cousin's death. As things turn out, the young man, whose mother is so eager to have her niece lobotomized, was a poet and homosexual who lured destitute boys and young men for sex, and who also sought in them lovers for his mother. Clearly, the poor young woman knows too much. The dramatic and visual centrepiece of the film is Catherine's description of cousin Sebastian's death at the hands of starving boys, who chase him up a hill and proceed to literally rip him to pieces.Gore Vidal's script alters the play somewhat so as to make it palatable (to the extent that it can be) for 1959 moviegoers, downplaying its kinkier aspects and emphasizing the relationship between Catherine and the neurosurgeon, making it a kind of romance. This was common enough practice at the time, and while it makes the movie less Tennessee Williams in spirit, it does make it more watchable and, to the extent this word can be used to describe any of the author's plays, normal. The result is a quite good movie if rather so-so Tennessee Williams. One must read or see the play to wholly capture the spirit of the thing.The performance of Katherine Hepburn as the barmy and aging Mrs. Venable is competent enough if one can accept the character as an eccentric Yankee spinster. Hepburn comes off as neither maternal nor anti-maternal. Her lack of a strong sexual presence, whether as woman or mother, makes her occasionally tomboyish line readings absurd. Still, she's Hepburn, and has, as the saying goes, charisma to burn, and is in a purely movie sense acceptable. Elizabeth Taylor as the daughter-in-law is good in her hysterical moments but otherwise uninteresting. She was not as a type a million miles from what Williams intended, but Mankniewicz fails to get her to do good, consistent work here. Montgomery Clift, just past his leading man prime, and going down the tubes fast, does not make a convincing doctor, and the vibes he sends out suggest a more fragile, disturbed soul than the woman he's treating.This is a good movie, but as with most screen adaptations of Williams' work, something is lacking. The personal touch maybe. A certain immediacy. Hollywood in the fifties and early sixties clasped this author to its bosom, making Williams seem at times like one of their own. One is so inclined so associate his work with film versions of it that one tends to forget that the author was often saying quite different things from the movies based on his work. He was working on all manner of demon, personal and sexual, in Suddenly, Last Summer, and also attempting, less successfully I believe, to connect his concerns with those of the Greek tragedians. This movie version, for all the bona fide Williams dialogue and insight preserved in it, is essentially a gothic romp, a freak show for suburbanites to see what messes the idle rich, and especially idle rich aesthetes, make of their lives. "},{"Title":"Three movie greats together in this drama.","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have been watching movies since the early 1950s, and the title Suddenly, Last Summer has bounced around my brain a number of times, but until I watched it yesterday on the Movies! channel I had no idea what it was all about or who was in it. It is set in 1937 New Orleans for some reason, but nothing of that city is shown and it was likely filmed in a studio somewhere. As it begins we learn that a young doctor has perfected the technique of performing partial brain lobotomies as a way to calm otherwise crazy people, where conventional treatments do not work.Now along comes a rich older woman who wants to hire the doctor to do the procedure on her 20-something niece, she is convinced that the young woman desperately needs this. Remarkably the girl's mother seems anxious to go along with it, perhaps because of the large sum of money she stands to gain.All of this very distasteful because as soon as we meet the young woman, as the doctor also discovers quickly, there really isn't anything wrong with her. So what is this lobotomy all about? That is the real mystery here. Elizabeth Taylor, looking beautiful in her mid-20s, is the young woman Catherine Holly. Her rich aunt is Katharine Hepburn as Mrs. Violet Venable. The young doctor is Montgomery Clift as Dr. Cukrowicz. Even though I was already familiar with all the actors, I had not seen much of their work in movies. It was a pleasure to see all three of them. The acting is fine but some of the 1950s melodrama gets a bit much, especially when the characters are talking in circles while carefully avoiding discussing the actual issue at hand. SPOILERS Ms Venable just wanted to shut Katherine up to protect her poet son Sebastian who died suddenly, last summer, while on a trip to Spain with Katherine. The official cause was heart attack, but when pressed to remember we see a reenactment, Sebastian was a homosexual and his mother didn't want that to be generally known. He would spend his time at the beach attracting young men and in a strange finish to his life he was chased and then the young men tore at his flesh. "}{"Title":"Fine young cannibal","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Elizabeth Taylor gives a fine performance in a story taken from one of Tennessee Williams' more contrived plays. Revised significantly for the Hollywood film, subplots and additional characters are added, and references to Sebastian being a homosexual are made less explicit. The cannibalism of Sebastian is still referenced, but of course, not directly shown. The story draws heavily from the author's own life, as his sister Rose had undergone a lobotomy in the 1930s; and Williams himself was gay. Williams had also begun psychoanalysis in the mid-to-late 1950s, and that is very much reflected in the scenes with Miss Taylor's character and her doctor, played by Montgomery Clift. "},{"Title":"Tennessee Williams tale of homosexuality, Southern aristocracy and madness","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Suddenly, Last Summer is a dark tale involving a New Orleans matriarch whose twisted relationship with her only son results in his murder. The matriarch is willing to spend millions in order to rewrite her son's history, and those millions are earmarked to go toward lobotomizing her niece, who knows the truth.The dysfunctional relationship between Violet Venable (Katharine Hepburn) and her late son Sebastian is apparent during her initial consultation with a neurosurgeon, played by Montgomery Clift. She speaks of Sebastian in the present tense, and it becomes obvious that Sebastian, rather than her late husband, was her primary love interest.Elizabeth Taylor portrays Catherine, Ms. Venable's niece, who was with Sebastian when he was killed. Catherine is well aware of Sebastian's sexual preferences and her statements to that effect provide the impetus for Violet to insist on ensuring her silence. She first has her admitted to a private sanitarium that has a no visitors policy; then she contacts Dr. Cukrowicz and insists that Catherine needs a lobotomy in order to be at peace. In the end, Cukrowicz puts the pieces of Catherine's alleged hallucinations together, injects her with truth serum and allows her to tell the story of Sebastian's death, hinting that the reason he was killed was because of his sexual involvement with one or more of the young men he used Catherine to attract.Freudian imagery abounds throughout this movie, which is something that may be lost on modern audiences and may well offend those who are gay. The Freudian concept that homosexuals are made, not born, by being in the presence of an overbearing, controlling female is reinforced in several scenes Violet maintains a Venus flytrap that she pampers in a glass house while feeding it live flies; Violet describes a journey to the Galapagos Islands during which flesh eating birds attack newly hatched sea turtles and devour them. Violet embodies the devouring female archetype, and the fact that she followed Sebastian to Asia when he decided to become a Buddhist monk instead of remaining with her dying husband makes this even more clear.Overall, the movie is well made, although Clift's character tends to be more subdued than would be expected and it's difficult to make Taylor's character less than glamorous. It makes no judgments toward homosexuality; rather, it depicts how the denial of reality can destroy those who insist on whitewashing the truth. "},{"Title":"Strange and fascinating.","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Tennessee Williams' play about repression in the 1930s New Orleans got a big billing with three of the biggest stars in Hollywood at the time in Elizabeth Taylor, Montgomery Clift and Katharine Hepburn. Here, a rich and influential widow tries to have her young niece lobotomized in order to rid her of what she claims are delusional nonsense. She hires a successful doctor to diagnose her to see if that is necessary. What results is much more dramatic and shocking than most of them can realize.The three stars here shine like no others. Clift is steady and solid as the persistent doctor, even though he looks pretty run down in most scenes. Hepburn is her usual reliable self, but Taylor gives a great performance as a girl who witnessed a horrible event that has affected her greatly so that no one around her knows how to deal with it. She is completely believable in all her scenes and gives a great sense of trying to walk the fine line between sanity and insanity. The movie does suffer some with its lack of any real type of cinema action. It may run too long in some parts, but for the majority it is a strange and fascinating story about the tragedies of life and the effects we all feel. "},{"Title":"Kate and Liz Shine","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After witnessing the death of her cousin, an unstable young woman is confined to a mental institution but is forced to revisit the painful memories. Although Williams' play is toned down somewhat, it is still surprising that homosexuality could be so openly discussed in 1959. The writing features some great dialog, particularly for the two women played by Hepburn and Taylor. Sinking their teeth into the juicy roles, the two actresses turn in stellar performances (each received an Oscar nomination). Clift, who was struggling to get roles after his car accident, is given little to do but play the straight man to Hepburn and Taylor, but he does OK. "},{"Title":"Interesting look back","Date":"15 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A small state mental hospital, desperate for funds for adequate maintenance, is suddenly offered a huge sum of money by an extremely wealthy widow, Violet (Hepburn), if they'll lobotomize her niece Catherine (Taylor). A neurosurgeon (Clift) has recently joined its staff and lobotomies are his specialty.An intense relationship (we slowly learn) existed between Violet and her only child, Sebastian, a poet who wrote one poem a year. Each summer for some years, he & she traveled abroad on extended vacations. Last summer, he left Mom behind and instead took his cousin Catherine who admired him almost as much as his mother. Sebastian died on this trip and Catherine was returned to the States in a very disturbed mental state, diagnosed with dementia praecox (schizophrenia), and then confined in a nearby Catholic hospital for mental illness.Violet arranges Catherine's transfer to the state institution where this neurosurgeon (Clift) works, dangling before the hospital's superintendent, the surgeon, Catherine's mother, and son large sums of money to facilitate lobotomizing Catherine.Why? To prevent Catherine from remembering and revealing the truth of what really occurred on these trips (hint related to don't ask).But the surgeon is unwilling to lobotomize Catherine unless truly convinced the operation would help her condition. The superintendent, Catherine's mother & C's brother chafe against any delays in getting Violet's money; likewise, Violet wants to permanently seal Catherine's memory ASAP.The doctor, using semi-therapy and counseling techniques, arranges a confrontation in which much of the truth is revealed.Points of especial interest Elizabeth Taylor's bosom (bigger than I remembered); Hepburn feeds flies to a gigantic Venus Flycatcher (plant) that parallels her own & Sebastian's use of people; and especially the ward scenes in the mental hospital.Lobotomies (begun around '37) were among several physical techniques (insulin, thermal & electric shock) used in trying to control or calm the agitation of mental patients; the introduction in the mid '50s of pharmaceutical tranquilizers (Thorazine, etc.) decreased the use of these previous physical techniques enormously. But the appearance of patients on the wards in this movie was quite similar to those I worked with in the '60s except most of ours were far calmer as long as medication had enough time to work. And the film brought back memories of working with a few who'd been lobotomized. "},{"Title":"Really Intense","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I had to see this film after reading about it in a film book I've been using for a class I'm taking. It is viewed as a great work of symbolism and I can't argue. The two principle female characters played by Katharine Hepburn and Elizabeth Taylor dominate the screen. Hepburn enjoys the Venus flytrap that she keeps in her garden with all the other prehistoric plants. She is a devourer herself and we learn to what extent as the film progresses. Since this is about homosexuality and takes place in 1959 it must have really raised eyebrows. I lived in a small town where there is a spooky old house where they once performed lobotomies. This was certainly a dark time in the history of psychiatry. As a successor to The Snake Pit this has some of the same gratuitous use of insane people as props. This is a weakness but the acting which is extremely stage like carries the story along. Taylor is trapped by her inability to dredge up facts that have traumatized her. Insanity is certainly in the eye of the beholder and this shows how vulnerable a person can be for just lapsing into depression or acting out against her accusers. The best part of this film is that the conclusion is worth the effort. It's one of those films that will stay with me for a long time. "},{"Title":"Talk is never cheap when sourced from Tennessee Williams.","Date":"12 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Millionairess, Violet Venable is obsessed with her now dead son, Sebastian. Sebastian met his untimely end whilst on vacation with his cousin Catharine, an end that has sent Catharine almost to the edge of insanity. Violet, very concerned about Catharine and her hurtful ramblings, enlists brain surgeon Dr Cukrowicz to see if he will perform a lobotomy on the poor girl, but as Cukrowicz digs deeper, motives and facts come crashing together to reveal something far more worrying.As one expects from a Tennessee Williams adaptation, this picture is very talky, perhaps borderline annoyingly so? Yet it has to be said that for those willing to invest the time with it, the pay off is well worth the wait. Suddenly Last Summer is an odd mix of campy melodrama and Gothic horror leanings, a mix that personally doesn't quite hit all the intended spots. It could have been so different, tho, for if Gore Vidal and Joseph Mankiewicz had been given free rein back in this day of code restrictions, well the picture would surely have been close to masterpiece status. This adaptation only gives us little snippets on which to feed, we are aware of the homosexuality of the departed Sebastian, and other hints that come our way include incest, sadism and dubious class issues, but ultimately such strong material is never fully formed.Elizabeth Taylor owns the picture as Catharine, sultry with heaving bosom, she does an excellent line in borderline nut case, all woe is me martyrdom and her final scenes are what pays the viewer off for their patience. Katharine Hepburn plays Violet and manages to chew the scenery and spit it out, it's an elegant performance but you really want more than we actually get! Montgomery Clift is the good doctor, not one of his better performances because he isn't asked to expand the character, just say his lines right, look baleful from time to time and play off Taylor's lead, job done really.It's a recommended film to a degree, certainly one that simmers with an almost oppressive feel, but if the film is one to revisit often? Well that's up for debate and dependant on the viewer's inclination towards dialogue driven film's. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Literate screen adaptation of consummate Tennessee Williams themes.","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When The New York Times used to print clever little blurbs to describe the movies scheduled for broadcast, it had this to say about Suddenly, Last Summer Tennessee Williams' three way talkathon. The movie is full of talk, yet what a fascinating gabfest! Just look at the credentials. Based on a play by Tennessee Williams, the script was adapted by Gore Vidal and directed by Joseph Mankiewicz. Mankiewicz is known for his emphasis on literate dialogue, as in his All About Eve and A Letter To Three Wives. The cast remains a powerhouse of strong personalities Elizabeth Taylor at the height of her beauty, Katherine Hepburn in a wise and controlled performance, and Montgomery Clift, ironically playing the straight man (pun intended). All the talk is about Sebastian, a character we never meet and only see from the neck down in the final flashback, but he becomes clearly etched in our minds. The movie could easily have slipped into camp, but somehow doesn't. Instead it radiates a mysterious and hypnotic allure. "},{"Title":"great adaptation of the play","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Even though this film was made in l959, it still has the power to stun today's viewers. It has closeted homosexuality taken to extreme limits, putting Liz Taylor in a very grim and almost dangerous southern state asylum at one point, while at another has her dolled up in a beautiful white one piece swimsuit at a beach in Italy, as a lure to attract as many men as possible. It's keeps you watching with its incredible luridness, presenting the horror any sane person would feel who was about to be involuntarily committed to a state asylum, a virtual life sentence spent amidst a classic Hollywood portrayal that doesn't skimp on the stereotypes of the crazy. The central plot of a convenient lobotomy to excise from Liz's memory what happened in Europe, and Liz's beauty and vulnerability to the whims of the state and her truly disturbed aunt played by Katherine Hepburn, as well as the whims of her unforgivably greedy mother (Mercedes McCambridge) and brother (Gary Raymond) made for one heck of a play, and with this cinematography and direction, a pretty unforgettable movie. "},{"Title":"The Unmentioned Taboo","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Suddenly, Last Summer, directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz and based on a play by the famous playwright Tennesee Williams, was made in 1959 - the golden age of Hollywood. The film has quite an impressive cast with Katharine Hepburn, Elizabeth Taylor and Montgomery Clift. Suddenly, Last Summer is a story about a young woman who has gone crazy after seeing something horrible. It's a tragedy about family, secrets, denial and cruelty.An American man dies in Europe in dark circumstances. In result of this his sister, Catherine Holly (Elizabeth Taylor) gets sent to a mental institution. After a while Catherine's mother, Mrs. Violet Venable (Katherine Hepburn) finds a talented doctor (Montgomery Clift) who is specialized in a certain brain surgery, lobotomy. She wants Dr. Cukrowicz to do it for he daughter in hope of keeping her family's reputation, and not to let people find out the darkness of her son's death.The fact why this film gets tagged as a thriller/horror film is mostly because of the noir-like cinematography, and the use of shadows and claustrophobic spaces at times resemble Gothic-photography. I would call it a suspenseful melodrama but perhaps the horror-genre shouldn't be forgotten in this case since the film does reveal the dark horrors behind a wealthy family.Tennesee Williams' use of bizarre symbols is brilliant in Suddenly, Last Summer. I was very pleasantly surprised with the way this film dealt with death, for instance. This obviously is a very rare treat from Hollywood. It also discusses about an important issue, our family structure. It's usually seen as a holy thing and it is not alright to talk about the decay of it.The unmentioned taboo of the film is homosexuality. According to what I've read Montgomery Clift and Tennesee Williams were both homosexuals, but that's not the point. In the year of 1959 it wasn't easy to discuss about a thing like that especially in Hollywood. But many filmmakers did - Alfred Hitchcock for instance in Strangers on a Train and The Rope. Homosexuality is hidden in the dialog, in metaphors and symbols. I can only recall another as strong survey of homosexuality from the same era, The Children's Hour (1961) which tells the tragic story of two women.The narrative of Suddenly, Last Summer is based on dialog. There are many long, slow-paced scenes with calm camera-work but with furious writing. I loved it. This is one of the reasons why many young people of today might not be able to appreciate it. The acting in this film was superb, I don't even bother to mention it because everybody knows those three names and the fact that they can act. Salute to Elizabeth Taylor.The ending of the film has been often criticized. I don't know why people have a need to claim that it's unrealistic. I'm shocked how people can't understand art anymore. The ending is allegorical, artistic and beautiful. Film is art of light and art of state. It is not supposed to be realistic, but that's how people usually want to see it. Theater, for instance, is allowed to be much more absurd and surreal, without losing its intensity and touch to the modern world.I felt a little sad after seeing this. Because I remembered the age I live in, the age where the most popular movie is Iron Man or Avatar. What happened to Hollywood? I guess it was in the 1960's when the studios collapsed and started to find new paths, unfortunately these new paths we're wrong ones, to my mind. Suddenly, Last Summer is a beautiful piece of art. Bizarre symbolism, superb acting and fine directing. Comments on a taboo brilliantly, without mentioning it. "}{"Title":"She Procures in the Movie Her Presence Surely Sold the Idea of This Outlandish Movie","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Elizabeth Taylor looks gorgeous and does her very best acting. That was good indeed but a little out-of-step with the fetid air of the plot.Yet, I can't imagine that had she not signed on to it, it would have been made. It really is, even almost 50 years later, shocking.Mercedes McCambridge doesn't have much to do but she fits in with the milieu. The actor playing her son does too, as does Albert Dekker. Montgomery Clift mumbles and his character seems improbably dense.There are a few missteps into garish melodrama Primary among these are Ms. Taylor's stumbling into a room filled with Central Casting male loonies and, later, onto a balcony overlooking female stereotypes of mentally ill people.Overall, though, the Gore Vidal screenplay is trenchant indeed. I would rank this behind Baby Doll as the best movie based on a Tennessee Williams play.The great surprise is Katharine Hepburn. In my opinion, she was a charming comedienne. Bringing Up Baby is a great movie, in no small part owing to her. Her movies with Spencer Tracy (excluding the leaden Guess Who's Coming To Dinner) are fun, as well.She did make some good serious movies. Alice Adams is an early one. Her role in Stage Door is essentially non-comic. Regardless of Arthur Laurents's comments to the contrary, she is to the disinterested viewer touching in Summertime. But often her serious performances, especially after the mid-1950s, are mannered beyond endurance. (By me, anyway.) Here, though, she is brilliant. That mannered quality is perfect for the cruel and incestuous Violet Venable. She was cast and plays perfectly as an extension of the exotic jungle garden her son had planted. Is she over-the-top? Almost. But the role is a combination of Grand Guignol and pathos. She is right at home with the acidly literate dialogue. It is one of the very few unsympathetic roles she ever took and she plays it to perfection. "},{"Title":"Don't look back.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Tennessee Williams is perhaps America's finest playwright of the last (!) century.He used to say he did not like Mankiewicz's treatment of his work.But in my humble opinion,it ranks along with kazan's streetcar named desire and Brooks' cat on a hot tin roof as the peak of M.Lanier's adaptations.First of all,there are the actorsKatherine Hepburn,the grande dame of American cinema.Her rendition of Mrs Venable is stunning.When she delivers the lines of her famous Encatadas monologue(and the sand all alive ,all alive as the hatched sea-turtles made their dash for the sea..),she's so convincing that we do see the whole scene !There are skeletons in her closet ,so she does not want to look back,and does not want her niece Catherine to remember.Traps are everywherethe carnivorous plants in her garden have an equivalent in the old doctor's study mundane flypaper!Elizabeth Taylor(Catherine),who has perhaps never been better,epitomizes scorned innocence this character is very important for Williams because it echoes his sister's lobotomy.Fortunately ,after a real catharsis,one of the  Mankiewicz's peaks(Catherine's memories come back ,and they finally use the full screen as she screams nobody,nobody on earth could possibly believe it!)And however,we do!Because of the masterful actor direction,we are forced to believe the unbelievable.The shrink,Monty Clift,who was to feature in John Huston's Freud (sic)a couple of years later , succeeds in bringing Catherine back to life,although his face looks tormented .(He was disfigured in an accident)Mercedes MacCambridge provides good support in a thankless part .Suddenly last summer ,in a nutshellFreud meets Gothic drama meets Greek myths.Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Wealth and hedonism of a dysfunctional family","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One can't fault the performances by the entire cast in Suddenly, Last Summer. Elizabeth Taylor, Katherine Hepburn, Montgomery Clift, Albert Dekker, Mercedes McCambridge and Gary Raymond handle their roles very well. Taylor and Hepburn are superb. The direction and technical aspects of this film are excellent as well. What then is relegates this movie to only six stars. Two things &#x96; the heavy, stage-driven script and dialog are taxing for a movie. At times, it seems as though the drama is overdone in big measures. And that relates to the second debit &#x96; the story itself. The initial mystery of the plot helps keep one interested for a while, but the dark background leaves a sour taste for the story. In short, it's not entertaining, and there's not sufficient intrigue to overcome its debits. This is a movie about a character whom we never see because he died the previous year. Everyone loved Sebastian, so we hear repeatedly in the film. But the truth was that he disdained people and only used them for his selfish ends. He was a spoiled rich kid who lived off his parents' wealth. He was a manipulator and user of people &#x96; including his mother and cousin Catherine (played by Taylor) to lure boys and young men for his homosexual pleasures. The film touches on still more depravity, including a possible incestuous relationship between son and mother. Hepburn's Mrs. Venable shows signs of and makes remarks that hint at such an incestuous infatuation with her son. The film has other references to unstable relationships, depravity and mental imbalance. As I said, it's not an enjoyable or entertaining movie to watch. Some reviewers lament the movie industry code (the Hays Code and office were self-imposed by the movie industry), that it doesn't allow Sebastian's homosexuality to be discussed openly. Well, the year of the film is 1937, and everything I've read about the mid-20th century tells me that this was not a subject discussed openly in society. It was hush- hush when I was growing up in the 1940s and 1950s. So, with the Hollywood self-imposed code, this film actually portrays a story as it was more likely to happen in real life. Indeed, much of Hepburn's Mrs. Venable character is built around the unspeakable subject, just as such. The film is based on a one-act play by Tennessee Williams, and he and Gore Vidal revised the original, adding many scenes, roles and subplots. Apparently, the play, which ran off-Broadway initially in 1958, made direct references to homosexuality. The theater and films have always pushed the envelope on what is acceptable to discuss and show openly according to the mores of the time. In so doing, they may break ground and sometimes create works of art. But when they are about stories of the past, they often fail to portray the past accurately. By superimposing a current culture on a past time, the film industry takes away the ability of modern audiences to understand or learn something about that culture of the past. So, we lose something in the end and may wind up with a skewered notion of a particular time in history. Perhaps this type of story of hedonism, depravity and overt self- indulgence does best in a one-act play on the stage. But feature films of such dysfunctional families are few and far between. "},{"Title":"Madness or truth?","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Violet Venable had a very close relationship with her son Sebastian. Too close. Then suddenly, last summer, Sebastian died while vacationing in Europe with his cousin Catherine. How exactly did Sebastian die? A heart attack says Violet. But Catherine said something different. Her obscene babbling, as Violet puts it, about the events of last summer landed Catherine in a mental institution. And Violet wants that obscene babbling stopped. She wants Catherine lobotomized, wants those thoughts cut out of her brain. And with the wealthy Violet willing to make a large donation to the local mental hospital, financing a whole new surgical wing, hospital administrator Dr. Hockstader is all too ready and willing to have a chunk of Catherine's brain cut out. But young Dr. Cukrowicz, the man who's actually going to be doing the cutting, has serious reservations. Catherine doesn't seem particularly insane to him. She now can't remember what happened last summer. But she wants to. Why is her aunt so desperate to see this surgery performed? Is Violet looking to have insane thoughts cut out of Catherine's brain? Or is she looking to remove some horrible, unspeakable truth about Sebastian before Catherine can remember it? From the moment we, and Dr. Cukrowicz, meet Violet it is obvious there is something off about this woman. It really doesn't seem like she's all there. Her relationship with her son, as she herself describes it, was rather bizarre. It's all a mystery, everything is unclear. Well, one thing is clear actually. Violet wants Catherine lobotomized and she wants it done now. Why? Dr. Cukrowicz would sure love to find out. When he goes to meet Catherine he doesn't find her to be insane. She's a young woman who went through a traumatic event who now must deal with an aunt who would like to see her turned into a mindless zombie. If only she could remember what really happened last summer. But Violet is not going to let that happen. She's putting the pressure on Dr. Hockstader and the administrator wants his new surgical wing. He wants Dr. Cukrowicz to slice that girl's brain open right now. Time is running out.Tension really builds as the knife hangs above Catherine's head. Dr. Cukrowicz is a good man who wants to help Catherine. He wants to find the truth. As things progress it becomes more and more obvious that Violet is quite the villain. She wants that truth hidden away forever. If Catherine's brain must be destroyed to accomplish that so be it. It will all come to a head in a gripping, dramatic conclusion. Who will be able to handle the truth? The film is very well performed. Katharine Hepburn creates that air of bizarre mystery around Violet and is suitably cold and villainous as needed. Elizabeth Taylor is excellent as Catherine. She may seem a little over-the-top at times, a bit hysterical. But with Catherine confronted with a lobotomy, and trying to face up to the horrors of what happened with Sebastian, a little hysteria seems appropriate. It's a very strong, powerful performance. And it had to be to match up with Hepburn who, as always, has such a presence about her. Montgomery Clift, in playing Dr. Cukrowicz, has a much less showy part than either of the leading ladies. He has to ground the film a bit and he does so quite well. A desperately needed cool head. The film is a bit talky, there is nothing very cinematic about it. The story's origins as a stage play show up in lengthy monologues which work less well on screen than on stage. But at least those monologues are in capable hands, performed by a pair of legendary actresses who can make the most of the material. Give Clift credit for his contribution but it is clearly Hepburn and Taylor who make the film. Violet or Catherine. Which, if either of them, is truly mad? To know this we must get to the truth of what happened suddenly, last summer. The truth shall set you free? We shall see. This film's journey towards the truth is a very compelling one. "},{"Title":"A lot of big acting","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's 1937. Dr. Cukrowicz (Montgomery Clift) is frustrated by primitive facilities at Lions View State Asylum. Wealthy widow Mrs. Violet Venable (Katharine Hepburn) wants Cukrowicz to do a lobotomy on her niece Catherine Holly (Elizabeth Taylor). Violet lost her beloved son Sebastian during an European vacation in which Catherine is supposedly driven mad. Cukrowicz goes to interview Catherine who is confined with the nuns. She can't remember the incident which killed Sebastian. Violet is dangling a $1 million for the hospital to get Cukrowicz to do the operation. Catherine's mother and brother reveals that Sebastian left them $100k but Violet won't release it until her mother commits her to the asylum.Elizabeth Taylor is overacting a bit in the melodramatic way that people back then expected from the mentally disturbed. It's too much big acting. It's more compelling for her to be calm and sane as Violet maneuvers against her. Even in the flashbacks, she is overacting way too much. It's also probably more compelling for Catherine to be played by a weaker personality. She needs to be the underdog and overwhelmed by Violet's scheming. Also Cukrowicz needs to be the doctor who wants to lobotomize anybody and everybody. Montgomery Clift is also playing dumb badly. I guess back in the day, people would be that clueless about that subject matter but it's very annoying to have him be THIS clueless. While I understand why the homosexuality is written out, I don't understand why the gay bashing turns into cannibalism. Why are they eating him? Is this some kind of metaphor? The overacting and the changes hit me all wrong. It's really annoying to have the characters dance so much around the subject without actually saying it. "},{"Title":"Very Strange Allegory","Date":"24 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The only son of wealthy widow Violet Venable (Katharine Hepburn) dies while on vacation with his cousin Catherine (Elizabeth Taylor). What the girl saw was so horrible that she went insane; now Mrs. Venable wants Catherine lobotomized to cover up the truth.New York Times reviewer Bosley Crowther says the film is full of tedious talking, that Joseph L. Mankiewicz' direction is strained and sluggish and the review only gets worse from there. He rightly complains that the movie does not capture the story the way the theater does, in part because it never really says why the man died. It says how, but not why. (Should I say why? I think I should not.) Strangely enough, Tennessee Williams hated this adaptation of his play, Gore Vidal hated what the director did to his screenplay and Mankiewicz said it was terrible because the original material he had to work with was bad. I am unclear why none of these men recognized the good qualities of the film and focused on the bad, but oh well. "},{"Title":"Boys will be boys","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Now here's a minor gem of a movie I haven't seen in years. Adapted with some changes from a Tennessee Williams play, SLS is the story of a girl (Taylor) driven mad when her male cousin suddenly dies while they are vacationing. The dead guy's mother (Hepburn) wants her niece lobotomized and uses money, lots of money, to persuade a prominent neurosurgeon (Clift) to perform the operation. But wait a minute. Is the girl really nuts? Or is there more to this story? Clift, who a few years later would portray Sigmund Freud on the big screen, here plays shrink to the troubled girl while the cold and calculating aunt keeps pushing for the operation. While certain sexual predilections are never mentioned outright, it is clear from the get-go that the dead cousin was twisted sexually. And we soon learn he was as cruel and manipulative as good old mom. The cast is a terrific, and the young Taylor holds her own against the veteran Hepburn. A couple of looney bin scenes may remind of you of similar scenes in THE SNAKE PIT. "},{"Title":"Coldness and traumatic reality of underdevelopment","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Suddenly, last Summer (1959) directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz holds in itself a scandal about sexuality and apparently of both main characters, a woman and her doctor (from New Orleans), the hysterical and the obsessive in human beings. Apparently too without cure but only conscientious for living with it, but it was still worst because that woman is more foolish than the man, either in past homosexuality with young and children from another country, nearby a slum in a Mexican coast resort in which this scene is remembered in the present past (in Spain ?), supposedly as it was like one woman tells the truth to another about her loved object transformed in hallucination. Mankiewicz brings us a new world about conservative prejudice and with his own solid structure explains the lack of objectivity of memory, demonstrates and selections in it what is in each character. Facing all them to the Summer that never was really, but only what suddenly fragments it and was retentive as memory of the recent past. The awful scene with the youngsters from the streets, as marginality of the poor's society of low status and subliminal restless for the troubled mind of a civilized man, whom they invited for making forbidden sex, it is the point of infusion in the boiled brains of a beautiful young lady, whose obsession is linked by her attraction from this kind of boyfriend. Two moments of great acting are  when the character of Elizabeth Taylor came with her tight in white suit for swimming pool, but it works on the beach very well like a feline brunette as she was here with her new bathing-costume ; another it is the place for the return in her mind of these sordid images from her bottom of conscience, from the space garden at home, near the green environment as it was for Mankiewicz the better place for avoiding the lie. By her beauty and furious behavior quite static, this young character of a woman wake up for her forgotten vitality - in a foreclosed space dictated by the story -, not enough strong for imposing her own word to the world of violence and exploitation, without any other helpfully protection from the social environment than a doctor and the mother of Sebastian, her cousin and the motive of the death's poet. When the screen is broken in two sides - with her aside of her own remembering of the past scene -, the director made a framework of the word as cure of the personal world of this character, searching the escape from her own past as rather an avoidable suicide by the precarious and medieval fortune of the choice for sisterhood out of the near blood's family of interests. "},{"Title":"A Little Unpleasant At Times, But Great Tenness Williams","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Why is this movie so frightening? One might cite the bizarre elements of an image of a savage God, incest and cannibalism. Yet these are really only strongly inferred, but not shown. Actually, what is really frightening is the situation of Catherine. She has to prove her sanity, but the people she needs to prove it to have a big financial interest in finding her insane. The corrupting power of money is the real horror the film exposes. We should remember that many women were victims of sexist psychological practices throughout the 20th century. Most lobotomies were performed on women.Acting wise, I love Kate, Montgomery and Elizabeth, so I think I can be fair. Kate and Montgomery are good, but they didn't deliver their usual Oscar-worthy performances. Kate's transitions are not believable and Montgomery comes off as too namby-pamby (as William Shatner once said on Boston Legal). Elizabeth Taylor, on the other hand, surprised me. She does give an Oscar worthy performance. Although she does not appear in the first third of the movie, she really takes over and carries the film. the climax of the film is a difficult ten minute monologue and she is riveting.We should remember that the Hollywood censorship office was still active at the time. Homosexuality could not be openly discussed. William Wyler couldn't even do it a year later when he made the gay themed The Children's Hour. In the 1946 film Crossfire a man is killed because he is Jewish. In the original novel that it was based on, the man was killed because he was a homosexual. Homosexuality had to be recoded as Jewishness. It is a testament to Tennessee Williams that he didn't recode it to fit the sexual censorship conventions. We should remember that Williams fought the censorship in Hollywood toe to toe for more than ten years, and in the end the sexual censors were beaten.This movie is still a bit unpleasant and edgy, even after 50 years, but isn't that what most great art usually is? Not for the faint of heart, but a must see for people who like serious theater. "},{"Title":"A Gothic horror story still relevant today&#133;","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Joseph Mankiewicz directed some of the best dramatic movies to ever come out of Tinsel Town, among them being All About Eve (1950), The Quiet American (1958), Julius Caesar (1953) and others. This Tennessee Williams stage play set to film is arguably his most psychologically disturbing and compelling.This story centers upon Catherine Holly (Elizabeth Taylor), confined to a psychiatric ward for the insane when her cousin Sebastian died suddenly, while she was on holiday with him last summer, the shock of the experience had completely traumatized her mind. All efforts to bring her back to reality, and unearth the mystery of her illness and his death, were fruitless.Her aunt, Mrs Violet Venable (Katharine Hepburn) enlists the aid of Dr Cukrowicz (Montgomery Clift) to assist with Catharine's recovery and suggests, forcibly, that Catharine should undergo a lobotomy to &#150; in her aunt's words &#150; bring her peace; in reality, Mrs Venable wants to conceal forever the truth about her son's death. And using the enticement of a large cash injection for his financially strapped hospital, Mrs Venable seeks to seduce Dr Cukrowicz to her point of view.The good doctor, however, is not a fool, nor will he be fooled. He cautions Mrs Venable about the use of lobotomy, stressing that it's only for the hopeless. He starts digging into Catharine's mind and gradually she begins to talk about the true nature of the relationship between Sebastian, Mrs Venable and herself, but is unable to recollect the circumstances of Sebastian's death, as though her mind had already been erased.The story progresses with a series of verbal jousts between the doctor, Mrs Venable and Dr Hockstader (Albert Dekker) &#150; his boss. Overcoming strong objections from both, Cukrowicz finally gets Catharine to submit to a (much simplified for the movie) form of quasi-hypnosis, during which he succeeds in extracting the awful truth about Sebastian and his mother Catharine had been used as bait for young men at the holiday resort &#150; so that he could then satisfy his homosexual inclinations; and all done with complete approval from Mrs Venable who, on all prior holidays, had acted as the metaphorical Venus fly-trap.But, Dr Cukrowicz digs even deeper, forcing Catharine to face the day that Sebastian died, thus setting the stage, so to speak, for a tour-de-force monologue &#150; with a montage of visual memories meshing with Catharine's tortured face &#150; that achingly reveals one of the most horrific death scenes yet put to film. Today, the shock of that montage still reverberates; in 1959, when released, this viewer &#150; like many others -- was stunned to the very core.The casting and acting are all uniformly superb, particularly the two female leads, Taylor and Hepburn; arguably, the former should have gained an Academy Award, for which she was nominated. Monty Clift was more or less overshadowed by both, but he performed well as the very necessary catalyst for the action. Significantly, the character of Sebastian is never fully seen, and the actor who played the part was uncredited.Being a stage play first, Mankiewicz followed the same format tight framing giving the appearance of a stage, dark interiors in black and white, a variety of shots from medium through to extreme close-up, standard use of the 180 degree continuity line, and mostly static cameras. At times, I thought the music soundtrack too intrusive &#150; except during the dramatic revelation about Sebastian's death &#150; while the 1937 mise-en-scene is picture perfect. And the dialog, from Gore Vidal's screenplay, is scintillating, as one would expect from the pens of two heavyweight playwrights.Viewed in the context of those times, the practice of lobotomy was hotly debated with studies showing that such procedures came up with largely ambiguous results, and this play may have been Williams' (and Hollywood's) attempt to raise public awareness. Williams, apparently, had a sister who had been subject to a lobotomy operation.With a rating of M, Suddenly, Last Summer is still not a film for children, of course; but I highly recommend it for all those interested in high quality cinema and high drama. "}{"Title":"The relevance of this adaptation of Williams' play consists in its role as a cultural document.","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The story premise of Suddenly, Last Summer apparently derives from the mythos of primordial man found in the literature of English novelist D.H.Lawrence.  It would seem that Williams decided to put some of Lawrence's themes on stage.  On a more mundane -- albeit equally interesting -- level, Williams continues his quest to honestly document homosexuality amidst repression and censorship.The cast, generally speaking, give a serviceable rendering of an outlandish story.  But Katharine Hepburn's performance is masterful.  It is a compelling evocation of the tragical grandeur of a strong mind and spirit engulfed in madness.  Her character's fate is filled with classical pathos. "},{"Title":"Wild, weird, and totally compelling - a truly fascinating film","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A wild, weird, and totally compelling adaptation of what is arguably Tennessee Williams' most luridly affecting play. The center of the play is the gradual revelation of the events of one character's death; he is seen only in flashback, but is the cousin of Taylor and the son of the magnificent Hepburn. His demise incorporates aspects of cannibalism, prostitution, and homosexuality, though 1950s film censorship makes the play's drawn-out suggestion of these elements even more elliptical and haunted than they were on the page or on stage.  Hepburn's brilliance and Williams' magic make this film truly fascinating. "},{"Title":"wildly offbeat and totally fascinating, i.e. typical Tennessee Williams","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Violet and Sebastian, Sebastian and Violet. They were a truly inseparable couple, loving and devoted, especially during those long summer trips to Europe. True, the fact that they were mother and son caused a few heads to turn, but so what?  But then came that horrible summer of 1937 when Sebastian left Violet at home and took his cousin Catherine with him instead. Why? And just how did he die that summer? And why is Catherine in an asylum now? And why is Violet so anxious for Dr. Cukrowicz to perform that operation - what's it called? a lobotomy? - on Catherine? Exactly what happened on the Tierra del Lobo that summer?Here's an oldie from the late 50's, early 60's, based on a Tennessee Williams play. Superb acting by Katharine Hepburn, Elizabeth Taylor, and Montgomery Clift. It's a psychodrama (with a surprisingly racy subject for the 50's!) that has a good deal of suspense and a well-crafted plot line. I thought it would be a bit tedious but it moved along well and kept my interest going. Well worth renting.  "},{"Title":"Whoa...","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this movie, or at least the tail-end of it, about a year ago on a late-night movie channel.  It was around two o'clock in the morning, I was channel-flipping, and I had no intention of actually staying up to watch a movie.  However, I came across the end of Suddenly, Last Summer during the incredibly affecting scene where Catherine finally explains what happened to Sebastian...and I was frozen.  My headline for this comment is absolutely right...it was all I could say.Whoa.I have not watched another movie that affected and disturbed me so deeply as this movie.  Elizabeth Taylor, looking incredibly beautiful here, is breathtakingly wonderful in her semi-demented role as Catherine, and Katharine Hepburn steals every scene she's in.  My hat's off to you, ladies -- you are undoubtedly the queens of the silver screen.  I was finally able to watch the whole movie (well, except for the first ten or fifteen minutes, anyway...I always seem to come in a beat too late...) a few months ago, and I'm still reeling.  By the end of the movie, and the most powerful climactic scene in dramatic history, I was shaking with dozens of different emotions running through me.  I was filled with first pity, then hatred, then anger, then fear, then disgust, then relief, then anger again, then frustration, then...well, you get the idea.I have never seen a movie that reached inside me, pulled my heart all over my chest, and actually left me emotionally exhausted as this movie did. Sheesh, and I thought Streetcar Named Desire was powerful...If you have loved any of Tennessee Williams other works, or if you loved Hitchcock's psychological thrillers (Vertigo and Rebecca come to mind...), I highly suggest you see this movie.  Even if you didn't, I guarantee that the ending of this movie will NOT disappoint you -- even die-hard action/shock/horror/drama fans will be freaked out by it.  Truly a classic, and a fabulous work for all involved to be proud of.  "},{"Title":"Sebastian died; rather Suddenly Last Summer","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Something extremely terrifying and traumatic happened to Sebastian Venable on a trip to the Mediterranean last summer. His cousin Catherine Holly was along on the trip and has tried to block it from her mind and it's driven her to the brink. Mother Violet Venable, the richest woman in these here parts, has her own nefarious reason to make sure that secret doesn't come out. She wants a lobotomy performed on her niece and is willing to endow the hospital and out of town brain surgeon Dr. Cukrowicz all kinds of money to see it happens.This was Montgomery Clift's third and final picture with Elizabeth Taylor. This time they're not lovers. He's the outsider from Chicago imported like a hit man to do this dirty deed. As Doctor Cukrowicz it's through his eyes that we see what is happening. Everyone else in the film is ready to jump at Violet Venable's command, but not the doctor. In a way, this may have been the most heroic role Montgomery Clift ever essayed, saving Catherine Holly's life and mind by showing the highest form of medical ethics. Tennessee Williams characters are usually not so noble.Katherine Hepburn and Elizabeth Taylor were both nominated for playing Violet Venable and Catherine Holly respectively. Both canceled each other out in the Oscar sweepstakes with the big prize going to Simone Signoret.This was Liz Taylor's third nomination in a row without a winner. In 1957 and 1958 she went to the post with Raintree County and Cat on a Hot Tin Roof respectively. And this was her second venture into Tennessee Williams. The following year she got the big prize for a film she didn't much care for, Butterfield 8. Of course the film is about homosexuality though in 1959 the name wasn't even mentioned. But with Tennessee Williams as the original playwright, Gore Vidal helping adapt the play to the screen and Montgomery Clift, Albert Dekker,and Merecedes McCambridge in the cast, this certainly was one gay old set.Dekker plays the head of the hospital where Clift is employed and he's blinded by the vision of the money that Katherine Hepburn is about to bestow on his institution. It's a nice job Dekker does.I have to mention Mercedes McCambridge though. She completely switches type in this film. Usually she's one tough as nails broad. Here she's an empty headed aging southern belle, a kind of updated Aunt Pittypat Hamilton. She really is quite dense here and so readily manipulated by Katherine Hepburn. McCambridge does a great job as Taylor's mother.This is one film for the ages, as fresh today as when it was first released. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but not for everyone","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've seen this film twice, and I liked it better the second time. Once I knew how it ended, it was easier to piece together the clues that were scattered throughout the rest of the film. This is a Tennessee Williams movie, so you should know there is going to be a lot of dialogue, and not very much action. In fact, like the rest of his films, this one feels like if it had been filmed on stage. But his work usually tends to be more successful on stage than on film.Katherine Hepburn and Liz Taylor really stand out in this film. I am usually impressed with Taylor, but she really did an outstanding job portraying a young woman who has gone insane after witnessing her cousin's death. Hepburn seems to have really sunk her teeth into the role as her aunt, and a widow. Both actresses were very impressive, and their performances are worth the price of admission by themselves.Montgomery Clift plays a medical doctor whose specialty is operating on the brain. Hepburn's character wants the doctor to perform a lobotomy on her niece to help cure her insanity.The storyline is not very pleasant, and in some places, it's hard to watch. You really have to listen to the dialogue, and you might have to rewind a bit to catch everything. But in general this is a very impressive and well-made movie that will be entertaining for fans of Hepburn, Taylor, or Williams. But the subject matter and nature of the film won't appeal to everyone. "},{"Title":"Taylor is terrific in this great Williams drama","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" La Liz won the Oscar in 1960 for Butterfield 8- she should have won it a year earlier for her work in SUDDENLY, LAST SUMMER. She is far better in SUDDENLY, providing her best screen performance and giving us another great portrayal of a Tennesse Williams female.Legend Katharine Hepburn and Taylor go head-to-head in this compelling, interesting, if over-wrought Williams drama. Taylor is Catherine Holly, a young, beautiful woman who is shut up in a mental asylum having lost her memory of what happened over the last fateful summer. We gradually learn it has everything to do with Hepburn's Violet Venable- or, rather, everything to do with her homosexual son Sebastian, who also died last summer. The film then follows the fight to save Catherine by a concerned doctor (Monty Clift) and the fight to uncover the truth of what really happened...It is a powerful drama with even more powerful themes- homosexuality, hints of incest, cannibalism and mental illness. The acting from Taylor and Hepburn matches- both are extraordinary in their long, taxing monologues, with great beauty Taylor even taking points off acting goddess Hepburn. Dekker and McCambridge provide admirable support and are well-cast as members of Taylor's family. The only query is over Clift. Clift, who was in a car wreck two years earlier that destroyed his looks and much of his best acting, is a painful shadow of his former brilliant self here. He appears to mumble much of his dialogue (I don't think he could move one side of his face very well) and is virtually swamped by the two female leads. If you want to see Clift in all his greatness, watch A PLACE IN THE SUN or FROM HERE TO ETERNITY. The Monty you see here as the doctor is barely a shadow of what he was really capable of. "},{"Title":"Who was the confused or who are NOT confused?","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" SUDDENLY, LAST SUMMER, which in my opinion stands as the finest screen adaptation of Tennesee Williams's plays second only to A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE, is one of the most affecting movies I've seen in my life, apart from a few terrific performances. Taken into consideration that the movie was released in 1959, the presentation of certain taboo-subjects (most noticeably homosexuality and mental illness) is undoubtedly groundbreaking, yet when compared with today's standards, few things are really obvious. This makes the viewer puzzled, but the story all the more interesting.Violet Venable (Katharine Hepburn) desperately attempts to convince a psycho-surgeon named Cukrowicz (Montgomery Clift) in a mental hospital that her niece Catherine (Elizabeth Taylor) is in seriously need of being lobotomized, in order to delete her memories of Violet's son Sebastian, who died under mysterious circumstances while on summer holiday in Spain, which Catherine apparently witnessed. The doctor is skeptical, and decides to hear Catherine's story before making any further decisions. It eventually turns out that to express her emotions, which had been distorted either by the terrible memories themselves or through the psychiatrists's lack of understanding of her situation, was what she needed.Many different thoughts came across my mind while watching SUDDENLY, LAST SUMMER; some of them were contradictory. Indeed, as with any work from Williams' hand, this play can be interpreted in several ways. For example, if you've watched the movie more than once, it seems increasingly obvious that the memories Violet wanted to delete from her niece's mind weren't necessarily the terrible shock it must have been to see her cousin be killed, but rather about Sebastian's sexuality. Catherine confesses that at a younger age, Sebastian frequently used his own mother to procure men; obviously not for his mother's sake. Some would perhaps claim that this put homosexuals into a bad light, and it might have done so depending on how you interpret it, but I certainly don't believe that was Williams' intention. I'd rather say it works as a perfect example on the difficulties of being homosexual (which still largely characterizes the society of today) Sebastian was obliged to use his own mother in order to love or have sex with people he wanted to. What Catherine's aunt didn't realize, was that the family's attitude towards homosexuality was in fact what had destroyed Sebastian, and thus also Catherine, as she surely was affected by the family's view on her cousin. In the end, I believe Catherine was the least confused member of her family; but when everybody else around you are nuts, the exception is of course the person who is treated like a retard.Still, what impressed me the most with SUDDENLY, LAST SUMMER was the brilliant, so terrifyingly true presentation of psychiatrists and nurses in mental hospitals; in one scene, Catherine lights on a cigarette and accidentally hits a nurse with a match. The nurse gets hysterical and claims that the girl did it on purpose. In psychiatry, dear readers, casual accidents are planned incidents.Of course, there are some good therapists out there and Clift's character definitely represents one of them, although he is misled by his colleagues. Cukrowicz is a very calm man and Clift is offered few (if any) moments to express eccentricity similar to the raving emotions in his portrayals of Eastman in A PLACE IN THE SUN and Prewitt in FROM HERE TO ETERNITY, but his performance is one of his most effective and memorable nonetheless. Katharine Hepburn is also remarkable as Violet. Still, Elizabeth Taylor was the center of the show performance-wise here, as I see it. She arguably delivers her most complex and thrilling portrayal throughout her career; in the finale she is downright outstanding.The behavior of the characters we witness on the screen is far from what the circumstances actually were on the set, however. Elizabeth Taylor, who had appeared with Clift in two previous movies and was a close friend of his, begged director Joseph Mankiewicz to hire the actor whose popularity had faded during the past few years. Mankiewicz gave in, but threatened to quit the production several times, as he couldn't tolerate Clift's drinking and drugs. Hepburn reportedly defended Clift as far as she could along with Taylor, but most of the crew shared the director's opinion that Monty was plain hopeless. Production-problems or not, almost no Hollywood-films are made smoothly, but the results can turn out terrific anyway; which this movie stands as a proof to. SUDDENLY, LAST SUMMER is a cleverly directed, stunningly acted and overwhelmingly well written movie which covers some problems which mostly would not have been problems if people had not condemned them as such. Highly recommended, but be aware&#151;it requires repeated viewings as well as preparation for strong emotions. "},{"Title":"Good intentions","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Beautfull images. Lovely story. Impresive ambitions.A page of American history. A legendary character and a director who desire to create all in same measure, in same time.Elisabeth Taylor is an enigma. So, only can be authentic slices of her life. Speculations are strange if the clothes are inappropriate. In this case, Hepburn lumps details,emotions, assumptions. But remains unfinished mosaic. The desire to create a great movie , build gaps and chaotic spaces. Result - stiffness. The dialogs are artificial. The story is unclear. The myths are ink traces. And the consolation is presence ofa Montgomery Clint. The recipes of ambiguous reality is wrong applicate. But the details , the presume atmosphere, the real good intentions are not denied. A film. About shadows of an existence. "},{"Title":"Taylor & Cliff  Had Great Chemistry Together","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Have viewed this film many times and each time I find a deeper meaning to this film which shows a deeper struggle for love among men and women and how it all effected the lives of so many people in this family. Katherine Hepburn, (Mrs. Violet Venable) loved her son very much who was Sebastian and as a mother she protected him from the outside world as much as she could because she loved him more than a mother should. However, Sebastian liked to go on vacation with his mother in order to met other people he was interested in and on one occasion he did not travel with his mother and took his cousin, Catherine Holly, (Elizabeth Taylor) who was a very attractive gal who also loved Sebastian and did everything she could to please him. Violet seems to feel that after her son's death that Catherine lost her mind and she seeks the assistance of a Dr. Caskowiz, (Montgomery Cliff) to perform an operation on her brain and it is at this point in the film when the story begins to become very interesting as to just what killed Sebastian. "}{"Title":"..a 10, anyway..","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have been privileged to see several Hepburn movies this week, because they were being celebrated on TCM. Loved all of them, from the early silliness to the final icon Ms. Hepburn became........PLUS being so lucky to see one of the few interviews ever telecast with her. A nutty gal who knew exactly what she was doing and made tons of money doing it, that was Kate. If you didn't see her hobbling-out onto a stage on crutches for some benefit, after all the other stars had appeared in their borrowed finery, you missed it. Kate was just showing the world that she was a real person.......Suddenly, Last Summer has been chewed-up by most of the people who have commented here. Indeed, it WAS crazy, but what did you expect from Tennessee Williams and Gore Vidal ? I loved it because it was crazy. I don't think there ARE people who could play these kinds of scenes today, but their efforts would be interesting to see. If if weren't known before, it is now La Taylor DID and does love gay people. Being a part of the studio-scene for so many years certainly taught her about that.If you want your movies to be plain-ole, don't watch Suddenly, Last Summer. Read all of the commentaries posted here for the plot. A few posters knew of the devastating accident Cliff Montgomery had - Taylor helped him back to a productive life and supported him all the way. If Hepburn didn't understand nor like gay folk, that's sho-biz. I'm gay and loved the drag-queen in her. Bravo! Kate.Don't listen to those dull folk who panned Suddenly, Last Summer - watch it and learn something about the dark side of all of us.... there's a monster very much life Sebastian in every family, no matter how long ago it was, or maybe happening right now. "},{"Title":"Suddenly, SHE'S INSANE!","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I did not enjoy Suddenly, Last Summer. The only thing I really enjoyed was Hepburn's performance. It's subtle, effective, and chilling. I found Elizabeth Taylor, though good, a bit over the top. Monty Clift can be a brilliant actor when he tries, but in this film, I really don't think he tried. The big plot twist at the end is unpredictable, but not really that exciting, unless you're Hannibal Lecter.The plot centers around Clift's doctor character, who in order to get funding for his institution, agrees to except a generation from Katharine Hepburn's wealthy donor. The only catch, he has to preform a lobotomy on Katharine Hepburn's niece, as soon as possible. Most of the plot revolves around Hepburn's son and Taylor's cousin, Sebastion, who died Suddenly, Last Summer. Apparently when Hepburn had filmed her last scene, she asked the director, Joseph L. Manckiewicz, is they were done shooting. Mankiewicz said yes and Hepburn then proceeded to spit at him and Sam Spiegal. This was probably due to their treatment of Clift during shooting.The film is not bad, it's just not that good. I give it a seven solely for Hepburn. It is my personal opinion that she never gave a bad performance. Here she gives, amazing performance. It's not her best performance, it is also not Taylor's best performance. Overall, if you're a fan of Hepburn, or Taylor, watch it. But be prepared to be disappointed. "},{"Title":"great performances from the ladies","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  From an era when Elizabeth Taylor was still known primarily as an actress, and before all that stuff about multi-marriages (I know she was on her fourth by this time ...), 'Suddenly Last Summer' gives her a second Tennessee Williams' role after Maggie the Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.  Catherine is supposed to be on the fringes of madness according to her aunt (the marvellous Katharine Hepburn, in a role she hated doing), and is lined up to be lobotomised by sympathetic psychiatrist Monty Clift (who is also very good in this).  The story suffers from a certain amount of censorship on Williams' original play so what happens to Sebastian is a little more murky than it appears on stage.  The material that's left, however, is top-class and the three principals run with it. And Clift and Taylor look fantastic in the black and white photography. "},{"Title":"In 2003, it's tame now; but, in 1959 this was daring stuff","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film as a young teen and really had no idea what the film was about.  I recall having been impressed with the dialogue, the sumptious overripe photography and the beauty of Elizabeth Taylor.  When I grew up and saw it later, it became one of my favourite films. The film was adapted by Gore Vidal from Tennessee William's novella.  The whole story revolves around cousin Sebastian Venable who had been using his mother, Violet (Katharine Hepburn), to attract the company of men.  When her charms waned, he chose to use his cousin, Catherine Holly (Elizabeth Taylor), for the same purposes.  Sebastian meets a gruesome end witnessed by Catherine.  This sets up the story whereby Violet wants to have Catherine lobotomized for the strange tales she has been telling about the circumstances of Sebastian's death.    Katharine Hepburn is never so strong as when she is antagonized.  Everything about her performance suggests imperial corruption.  Her clipped, monotome line readings are hypnotic. It is one of her great performance, and she was nominated for an Oscar for it. Elizabeth Taylor is even better.  Here she has never been photographed more lovingly, nor has she ever looked as ravishing.  Miss Taylor's strength as an actress favours roles where she is on the defensive.  Here fighting for her sanity, she drawns upon all her instinctive resources.  She went up against Katharine Hepburn for the best actress oscar and split the vote (although Elizabeth Taylor won the Golden Globe.)  Montgomery Clift is painful to watch, after his disfiguring car accident.  Mercedes McCambridge, always good as a sycophant scores as well.  The best of the movie is the dialogue which is absolutely resonant, either breathily uttered by Tayor or crispily by Hepburn.    This is not a film that will win a lot of fans because it deals with themes of homosexuality, cannibalism, incest, etc., and it has to do so with a 1950s sensibility.  Fans of Taylor and Hepburn (this is the first time Hepburn ever took second billing to another actress) must see this.  Anyone who is interested in films that deal with ideas rather than action might love this. I did. "},{"Title":"Fascinating","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Suddenly Last Summer is a great movie, though its hard to actually recommend it, as it is usually unpleasant, bleak and very sad.  The performances of Hepburn & Taylor are magnificent & both of them deserved their nominations.  Hepburn, in particular, really shows you the madness her character possesses.   "},{"Title":"Over-the-top entertainment","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" *Spoiler warning* This is a movie you can't take seriously, but you can enjoy all the same if you approach it with an awareness that it IS Tennessee Williams and it is lush and lurid, with gorgeous dialogue that is totally unbelievable coming out of the character's mouths. It is a fun and entertaining movie to watch, with emotions running high and emoting even higher. Kate Hepburn and Liz Taylor are both mesmerizing; Monty Clift didn't stand a chance, poor guy.I thought that the final scenes with Liz over-acting her little heart out could have been more suspenseful had the script not given away Sebastian's secret so early in the movie. I also believe that some reviewers of this film underestimate just how much the first audiences viewing the film understood what was going on. Maybe it wasn't talked about openly, but it is my impression from histories and diaries I've read that most adults were aware of homosexuality and I suspect they caught on as quickly as we do today to just what Liz was talking about in that scene in the sun-room when she makes it clear that she and Violet were bait Sebastian used to get his hooks into kids.I also disagree with the reviewer who said Sebastian's death was a gay-bashing. I don't believe the boys killed Sebastian because he was gay. It was extremely common in those days (and maybe still today- I don't know for sure) for men vacationing in Europe to solicit sex from younger men in places like Italy and Greece.I think the boys killed him because he was a mean, evil SOB. Catherine all but said so, at one point. He was clearly, like his mother, a user who took from others without giving anything back. I don't believe this movie is making a universal statement that homosexuality is evil and gay characters should die horrible deaths. I think THIS particular gay character, who was seriously screwed-up and all but emotionally suffocated by his mother, was killed because of the way he treated people, not because he was gay. True, a lot of movies at the time showed gays in the worst light possible; but I don't get the impression that Williams, in this, was saying homosexuality was evil, even if he was conflicted, himself.Don't expect a work of art, going into this movie. The symbolism isn't subtle; it knocks you over the head again and again. There are a few boring moments where the dialogue tends to get repetitive and runs on a little interminably. Those particular moments I passed just enjoying Hepburn's and Taylor's acting, or over-acting as the case may be. "},{"Title":"He saw the face of God!","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Institutionalized in Saint Mary's Catholic hospital after she had a complete emotional breakdown suddenly last summer Cathy Holly, Elizabeth Taylor,has become so incorrigible that her aunt Violet Venable, Katherine Hepburn, had to get in touch with the famous neurosurgeon Dr. Ckrowicz, Montgomery Clift. Violet got a hold of Dr. Ckrowicz in order to have him preform a lobotomy on Cathy in order to keep her from hurting herself or anyone else. With the medical facility, The Lions View Asylum,in New Orleans in desperate need of money to stay afloat Mrs. Venable is willing to donate one million dollars to it if Dr. Cukrowicz preforms the lobotomy on Cathy. Putting medical ethics before money to the great distress of Lions View founder and chief administrator Dr.Hockstader, Albert Dekker, Dr. Cukrowicz holds off the operation until he's positive that Cathy should have it. It's during that critical time that he gets to the bottom of what caused Cathy to not only have a breakdown but what were the reasons for it! And why her aunt is so desperately trying to keep it a secret. Since he was a young boy Sebastian Venable,???,has been spending his summers together with his mother Violet in and around the secluded and sun drenched islands of the North and Central Atlantic. Being shy and unable to makes friends easily Violet would go out to the local beaches and bars and pick up young people to come over and entertainer Sebastian. Sebastian was anything but a swinger and he just wanted to have young people around him to make him feel wanted and paid big money for that type of action. Suddenly last summer, the summer of 1937, Sebastian broke with tradition and instead of having his mother go with him on his yearly summer vacation he insisted that his cousin Cathy Holly take her place. Sebastian & Cathy were to spend that faithful summer on the little island of Cabeza De Lobo. What happened that summer to Sebastian had been locked up deep inside Cathy's brain and it was those terrible events on Cabeza De Lobo, that lead to her son's tragic death, that Violet wanted Cathy to never remember again. The movie Suddendly Last Summer really gets to the meat of the matter when Dr.Cukrowicz gives Cathy an injection of truth serum and regresses her back to that terrible summer of 1937 in Cabeza De Lobo. Slowly the story about Sebastian's secret life comes to the surface. A life where he used those women closes to him, Violet & Cathy, to act as bait in improving his social and personal life. Sabastian did that, using Violet & Cathy, in order to attract young boys and men to go to his hotel room so he could have a good time partying with them. After a while things got so out of hand with the number of people swarming around Sebastian, and wanting money from him for their services, that it had him suffer a sever panic attack. Breaking and running from the hungry mob, in the broiling summer heat, and having a weak heart Sebastian collapsed on the dusty streets and before the local police could come to his rescue he was literally ripped to pieces by the hungry out of control mob. It was sad that Sebastian had to end up that way since up until then he followed a life long philosophy, which he believed was God's grand design in creating the universe, in letting things happen no matter how good or bad they turned out to be. It was in Sabastians hackneyed philosophy that it was God that let things happen no matter how bad and unpleasant they were and not to try to change them. Yet this time Sabastian panicked and ran and that emboldened the mob, sensing his fear, to attack run down and murder as well as shockingly cannibalize him. With that strong dose of shock therapy, that caused her to remember what happened that summer, it had Cathy snap out of her self-imposed world of denial and at the same time caused Violet to lose her mind and go into a state of dementia. It got that Violet didn't know if she were awake or asleep dreaming that her dear and darling son Sebastian was still alive and with her. In fact as she was being lead away to the asylum, that she had Cathy committed into, Violet's mind was so destroyed that she mistakenly thought that Dr. Cukrowicz was her dead and beloved son Sebastian! "},{"Title":"Suddenly, Last Summer, a remake is desperately in need!","Date":"14 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A Tennessee Williams' play's film adaption, with Gore Vidal as the screenplay writer, stars three Hollywood luminaries, Hepburn, Taylor and Clift, and considering its glaringly contentious but majorly underplayed theme of taboos in the carnal knowledge (owing to the rigid censorship at that time), it is a technically thespians' wheelhouse with a chiefly in-door production scale (nabbed two Oscar nominations for Hepburn and Taylor), last but not the least, it is directed by Joseph. L. Mankiewicz, the consummate actor's director (ALL ABOUT EVE 1950, 9/10; CLEOPATRA 1963, 6/10; SLEUTH 1972, 7/10), so if you are oblivious of the play or the story, wait and see to be shocked and amazed spontaneously. A wealthy widow Ms. Violet Venable (Hepburn), loses her mollycoddling son Sebastian one year earlier during his vocation in Spain with her niece Catherine Holly (Taylor), who after witnessing Sebastian's death, goes mad and acts erratically during her confinement in the convent, so Violet finds Doctor Cukrowicz (Clift), a first-rate dab hand of psychosurgery,with a munificent proposition to finance the state asylum where he works, under one conditional that he should lobotomise Catherine. This is a moral challenge for Cukrowicz firstly, but when he meets Catherine in person and is intrigued by her side of story, his decision tips the scale in her favour. Finally under the influence of hypnotherapy, Catherine is induced to divulge what had happened last summer, the superimposition of her narrative and footages build up to the shocking truth of Sebastian's demise. The story provides a substantial platform for Hepburn and Taylor to duke it out, a ruthless matriarch will go to great lengths to cover up his dead son's nature vs. an innocent lamb with a perturbed soul suffering from beholding a Mondo Cane brutality. Both are at the top of their games, Taylor is shockingly vulnerable in her plain attire and make-up free candidness, all the more voluptuously alluring, her final recount of what she saw suddenly, last summer is one of the most emotionally-charging showpiece ever, it is the spectacle you only need to watch once. Hepburn, is not endowed with as much screen time as Taylor, however, exudes her majestic viciousness through the tour-de-force eloquence and cadences of her utterance, from her first scene descending as an imposing empress from a lift, viewers will be ceaselessly enthralled by her domineering splendour, and in the end, one can even partially side with her as a mother entrapped by the over-bonding relationship with her only son, which is ghastly unhealthy, but a mother's love is unreserved, remorse can invoke the cruelest retaliation and her final scenes indicate she is another living victim as well. Clift, is the bridge between the two strong female roles, as we would know, it was the twilight years of his career, a physical jadedness is pervading with his presence, he is a listener, a reluctant mediator, a conscientious doctor, yet never dare to steal the thunder from his two extraordinary co-stars. Mercedes McCambridge and Gary Raymond are Catherine's avaricious mother and brother respectively, ludicrously dampens the madhouse intensity with their simpleton's wickedness. The suspenseful score from Malcolm Arnold sets the primary tone in the very beginning, a recurring skeleton in the luxuriant garden with the Venus' flytrap is a not-too-subtle clue of the theme, quiet desperation is the word for most lives, words with wisdom are bountiful, the indelible sea turtle fable at the Encantadas echoes Sebastian's singular destiny, the most mystifying character we have learnt from a post-mortem viewpoint, a self-reflective plea from Williams maybe, and indeed should be put on the remake list, Todd Haynes will be a right choice for the director chair, someone who is competent and independent enough to explicate on the taboos and enliven the mise-en-scene, then pass the roles to Julianne Moore and Michelle Williams, and if there is any justice in the Oscar game, their time would finally arrive! "},{"Title":"Desire corpse","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The postponement of lost. Fight with ambiguous guilt. Mimic of power and normal situation. The great lie who lives in your nature like second skin.It is easy to write about acting or Williams huge talent. It is easy speak about the subtle art of Joseph Mankiewicz but it has not any importance.The world of film is the circle of any sin or lost. Any age has his memories and his victims, his regrets and his secret. For everybody a mask, the adequate mask is best solution for deep crisis. But is it enough? Sebastian is the only character of film. The others are only his accessories, toys of a gorgeous commanding god. His death is another end of Antinous sacrifice the master is victim like price of slave's freedom.A cruel tale about hypocrisy and appearance. About the subtle soul death and fear like refuge. A temptation's anatomy and desire corpse. "},{"Title":"Hepburn, Taylor & Clift in ahead-of-its-time Williams drama","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Liz Taylor (Catherine), beautiful as ever, plays opposite Katherine Hepburn (Aunt Violet) and Montgomery Clift (Dr. Cukrowicz) in this typical Tennessee Williams play (which does appear rather stagy). Catherine appears to be hopelessly tortured by painful memories of the horrifying way in which Aunt Violet's son was killed during a European vacation the two took last summer. These memories, blocked out by some sort of amnesia, seem to be a great cause for worry to Aunt Violet. The grotesquely wealthy widow offers Dr. Cukovicz a large donation to build a medical facility for his pioneer work in lebodomy procedures in exchange for destroying those tormenting memories in her niece's head.The doctor wants to study Catherine prior to agreeing to operate, since the procedure was still experimental (in the 1938 setting) and involved considerable risk. Spending only about 2 days with the young beauty, the doctor discovers many family secrets, including the obsessive relationship Violet has had with her son, as well as the young man's troubled psyche.The ending will shock the viewer, yet add many (but not all) pieces to the puzzle. The actual conclusion of the matter will be up to each viewer's own interpretation. Katherine Hepburn's exit reminds of the great final scene in Sunset Boulevard, where Gloria Swanson is ready for her close-up. The story is definitely a classic, rivaling the work of American Greats like Hemmingway and Steinbeck. A must-see film for fans of the 3 stars. "}{"Title":"Dinner Chimes at Cabeza de Loco.","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Neat set decoration on display here as Aunt Violet Venable (Hepburn) takes Dr. Cucrovitz (Clift) on a tour of Sebastian's, her deceased son's, botanical gardens while trying to persuade him to perform a lobotomy on her niece Cathy (Taylor) who is making a nuisance of herself. The indoor gardens are a vast place filled with primitive plants that were once eaten by the dinosaurs -- the first dinosaurs, the herbivorous ones, not the flesh-eating dinosaurs that came later. Aunt Violet demonstrates the feeding of a carnivorous plant, the aptly name Venus flytrap, whose diet of live flies must be flown in at considerable expense during the winter months.Well, to let the cat out of the bag, Aunt Violet promises to fund a new building devoted to psychosurgery at Cucrovitz's underfunded state hospital if only he will do a slice-and-dice number on Catherine's frontal lobes and cut those lies out of her mind. The lies, as it turns out, aren't really lies. For years, first Aunt Violet and then Catherine acted as bait for attractive young men, whom Sebastian would then seduce -- two tummlers, one replacing the aging other. The operation does not take place.I don't know about Aunt Violet but Catherine would have made pretty good bait. When we first meet Elizabeth Taylor she is a patient in a psychiatric hospital with a diagnosis of dementia praecox (schizophrenia). She apologizes to Clift for her appearance. They don't let her groom herself. However, she looks okay. Her eyes are properly colored and though her hair is a bit messy and her dress a little drab, she has a magnificent bosom and a face that would light up a room. Clift himself was staggeringly handsome a few years earlier but had since been in a car wreck that ruined his good looks even as it cemented his friendship with Taylor, his co-star in George Stevens' superb A Place in the Sun. His acting, however, is up to par, despite the fact that by this time Clift was bombed and strung out from morning till night. Can't imagine how he remained so thin.The story is engaging, no doubt about it. Rich Aunt wants troublesome niece silenced by what amounts to medical murder. Lobotomies are no longer used, having been replaced by powerful and (mostly) effective anti-psychotic drugs. They were pretty brutal anyway, taking away extreme anxiety and the distress associated with terrifying symptoms, but also leaving behind little more than a raw and bleeding stub of the patient's original personality. This film is set in 1937. Two years later, the innovator responsible for lobotomies, Egon Munoz, won a Nobel prize in medicine for it.There's a problem with the screenplay. Williams' best play was Streetcar Named Desire. It was studded with short and flowery phrases, sometimes extending into brief, intense monologues. (Don't you just love these long rainy afternoons in N'Awlins? When an hour's not just an hour but a little piece of eternity dropped into our hands -- and who knows what to do with it? That's Blanche, just before she puts some moves on a teen aged boy.) In this film the flowery speeches come more often, and they're longer. Only a few minutes into the story and Aunt Violet is carrying on about the baby sea turtles being eaten by birds on the beaches of the Galapagos Islands. Catherine's big Reveal about Sebastian's homosexuality and his recruiting tactics is split into two parts. It's all a bit much, and these long speeches constitute an extreme demand on the performers. Hepburn is up to it because hers is shorter. Taylor gives it her best but it's almost too much and a viewer can sense the effort being put into it, the rising, almost hysterical pitch.The story lacks Streetcar's sense of place too, the ambiance. Arnold Malcom's scores have done yeoman work in other films, like The Bridge on the River Kwai, but Streetcar had Alex North's slouching, slightly menacing Southern rhythms and this film needs such support badly. Here we feel uneasily that Aunt Violet should be slashing her way through the jungle behind William Holden.Well, those speeches may be long and difficult to read out for the audience, but what imagery. And Williams scores some points in the dialog. Sebastian makes a point of producing one poem every nine months, the length of human gestation. Clift I hope they weren't hard to deliver. And Taylor has a line about people being like children, trying to spell God's name with the wrong alphabet blocks.Not Williams' best, but by no means a clunker. "},{"Title":"Mercurial cast and handling should have resulted in a more gripping melodrama","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Wicked, uptight Katharine Hepburn tries preventing her hysterical niece (Elizabeth Taylor) from telling the grisly details about her son's bizarre demise; she hopes to have the girl lobotomized, but a sympathetic doctor would rather hear the truth. Tennessee Williams' play was watered down by Hollywood, but even still it isn't one of the great playwright's better works. Taylor is gorgeously photographed and works hard at her revelation sequence, but screenwriter Gore Vidal has her covering the same territory again and again, constantly repeating the film's ungainly title. It's a kick to see La Liz matching tics with Katharine Hepburn, regal and eccentric and vulgarly decadent, but poor Montgomery Clift is out of it as the doctor who intercedes. Picture has a very handsome production design, some good and/or interesting bits, and enough curiosity value to keep one watching. But considering these high-powered talents, it should have certainly been stronger. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Insane is such a meaningless word ...","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It became the vogue in the 1960s for mature actresses to prolong their shaky careers by a movie or two by appearing in horror films. It is significant that, as the youth culture was taking over the medium and society in general, Hollywood opted to show former icons of the silver screens in roles that often cruelly revealed their ages as terrorized victims of violence or equally terrorizing purveyors of violence. Bette Davis, Joan Crawford, Tallulah Bankhead, Olivia de Havilland, Geraldine Page, Ruth Gordon, Shelley Winters and even Debbie Reynolds gave it a shot and, surprisingly, some of their movies were really pretty good WHATEVER HAPPENED TO BABY JANE?; HUSH...HUSH, SWEET CHARLOTTE; WHATEVER HAPPENED TO AUNT ALICE? and ROSEMARY'S BABY.The ever classy Katharine Hepburn is generally thought to have avoided such films, but in reality she was part of the vanguard in 1959 having contributed SUDDENLY, LAST SUMMER to the genre. Oh, SUDDENLY, LAST SUMMER does pretend to be anything but a horror movie and bears the pedigree of being a high-toned art film. In addition to Hepburn, the cast includes Elizabeth Taylor and Montgomery Clift; the script is by Gore Vidal from a play by Tennessee Williams; and it is all delivered under the direction of Joseph L. Mankiewicz. Such talent, plus the droningly pretentious dialogue concerning art and insanity, create the illusion of serious drama, but this is nonetheless a freak show horror movie that simply lacks the good grace to include any genuine suspense.Traipsing around her Gothic manse with all the coy sinister villainy of a Vincent Price, Hepburn plays Violet Venable in a performance that is so deliciously awful that it flirts with being pure camp. She plans to commemorate her grown son's untimely death by having her niece lobotomized. It seems her niece, Catherine, played with breathless hysteria by Taylor, knows the wicked truth about the life and death of Violet's only child, Sebastian he was a poet, a code word for homosexual. Though, depending on how you decipher the film's confusing dialogue, he could also be a bisexual, a pedophile, a rapist and/or a victim of incest. Apparently, Sebastian used his mother as a procurer of young boys (how young is left vague) -- though just why a wealthy, handsome, educated, globe-trotting sophisticate like Sebastian would need his mommy to get him playmates is not at all clear -- unless mommy was a playmate too. When Violet got too old to attract worthy young twinks, Sebastian enlisted the aid of Catherine (which makes a tad more sense, given Taylor's well-known gift for cultivating friendships with various gay men, including costar Clift).Anyway, as pointed out in the book and movie THE CELLULOID CLOSET, Sebastian is portrayed as a monster and in scenes that echo the climax of FRANKENSTEIN, he is either literally or metaphorically cannibalized by a band of street urchins he had unwisely attempted to victimize. But if Sebastian is The Creature, then it follows that Violet must be his Dr. Frankenstein, a madwoman with the compulsion to play God. The film's unspoken evil is often thought to be homosexuality, but in reality it is incest. Violet catered to Sebastian's homosexual desires as a way of being part of his sex life and she wants Catherine destroyed because she thinks of her as a rival for Sebastian's affections, even posthumously. It all goes beyond kinky and straight to just plain weird.SUDDENLY, LAST SUMMER could have been an intriguing dark comedy, but as it plays hide and seek around the central issues it raises, it becomes a confusing morass of suggested perversions and sordid behaviors, made all the more obscure by a film production code that refused to admit the existence of the very issues the film tries to exploit. Add this to the fact that both of the women in question could be totally bonkers -- they are, after all, creations of Tennessee Williams -- and what is fact and what is bombastic silliness is further confused.To a great degree, SUDDENLY, LAST SUMMER is a distorted funhouse mirror image of Alfred Hitchcock's PSYCHO. Hitchcock, however, had the good sense to first craft a nifty little thriller and to save the twisted Oedipus backstory for his shocking ending. SUMMER talks all the psychological matters to death, yet manages the amazing feat of never actually discussing anything with any clarity. With some effort, this sort of peek-a-boo game-playing with the dialogue could have been amusing, but the only humor here is unintentional, provided by the overwrought performances.It is alleged that Williams wrote the original play on orders from his psychiatrist as a way of dealing with his own conflicted feelings over his homosexuality. Such psycho-sexual therapy is best left to dream diaries rather than stage plays, let alone big budget motion pictures, though amateur Freudians would no doubt have a field day analyzing (or chuckling over) all the film's simplistic symbolism. (Violet's concern over the care and feeding of her carnivorous Venus Flytrap would be touching were it not so, well, creepy.) SUDDENLY, LAST SUMMER is a really bad movie. It is a mystery that leaves most of its questions unanswered and supplies an explanation for its main puzzle that is, to say the least, ridiculous. The production is obviously hamstrung by the censorship of the era, but even if were made today with complete freedom, it would still be more befuddled than bold. Williams clearly had issues in that, assuming Sebastian was his alter ego, he made one of the screen's first clearly homosexual characters to be both a villain and a victim, both omnipresent and totally invisible, both predator and prey. As a pseudo horror film SUMMER has little of relevance to say; but as a look into Williams' psyche it might be quite frightening.I wonder what Tennessee's psychiatrist had to say about it? "},{"Title":"Puh-leese","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Suddenly, Last Summer is one of those works of art that make idol-worshippers look like idiots.First, the script. By 1959, Tennessee Williams was worshipped as a sort of Golden Calf of poetic Southern Gothic depravity. His memory play, The Glass Menagerie, in 1944 was sheer genius that holds up as powerfully today as it did originally.A Streetcar Named Desire, just three years later, is also powerful, yet already exhibits a self-conscious straining for effect that would finally grow laughable in the excesses of Orpheus Descending (The Fugitive Kind) and Suddenly, Last Summer. At the climax of Orpheus, there's a clown and a calliope and a gang of redneck castrationists bent on mutilating the Marlon Brando character's manhood.At the climax of Summer, Catherine (the Elizabeth Taylor character) shriekingly recounts the stalking, dismemberment and cannibalism of her gay cousin, Sebastian, by the underage Spanish boy-urchins she was unwittingly helping him procure -- thus saving herself from a lobotomy ordered by her loony aunt Violet (the Katharine Hepburn character), who immediately goes over the edge.Got all that?This isn't High Art. This is melodramatic Soap Opera written in sometimes glorious but more often precious poetry and Symbolism with a capital S. These are the deliberately shocking plottings of a Pulitzer Prize winning playwright who debuted at his peak (with Menagerie) and went downhill from there.The characters in Summer simply don't exist outside of Williams' fevered imagination.Ever meet a gay guy whose Mother procured young boys for him, because she was attractive (or looked like Katharine Hepburn)? No. You haven't. Young boys aren't attracted to old mothers.And what kind of Mother, or cousin (the Elizabeth Taylor role) would procure young boys for Sebastian in the first place? Even in 1937 (the setting of the play), it would take about five minutes to know what's going on and refuse to be any part of it.But no. In Tennessee Williams Land, it's not about reality. It's about the words. It's about art and poetry versus the animal debasement of real life (Stanley in Steetcar). Sebastian writes one perfect poem every summer, dedicated to Violet, his mother. They're a couple.Too bad there wasn't PFLAG in 1937.We're supposed to be so transfixed by Williams' language that we ignore the ludicrous characters and plots.Back then they seemed shocking. Today they're just silly and overwrought.The cast -- Katherine Hepburn, Elizabeth Taylor, Montgomery Clift, et al. -- are fine. Actors LOVE Tennessee Williams. His lines are so beautiful.Yes. And so phony.In the end we're stuck with an unbelievable script about unbelievable characters in unbelievable situations speaking unbelievably pretentious poetry. For all the ostensibly fiery theatrics, there's nothing there except sheer artifice on everybody's part.Just a talented ambitious wordsmith on a cultural lucky streak who's managed to bamboozle the public and some fine Hollywood actors into chewing up the scenery by convincing people that any of this is somehow profound. Or even Art.It's not. It's pretentious self-impressed trash on every level.Except for 27 year old Elizabeth Taylor in that bathing suit.THAT'S art.Tennessee Williams had nothing to do with that. "},{"Title":"Pretentious psychoanalytic nonsense","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ironically, Elizabeth Taylor, who plays a woman who is used as a decoy to attract young men in this film, was also used to attract customers to the film. The film was advertised with a picture of Elizabeth in a bathing suit. She was a wonder of nature, indeed.This was made during the heyday of psychoanalysis. The psychoanalysts felt free to talk about cannibalistic fantasies, relating them to everything from their beloved Oedipus complex to hot dog eating contests.Thus, the cannibal behavior was a familiar trope to that segment of the population who were likely to see this movie. It wouldn't have been strange at all.Family members regularly interfe3rred with the treatment of mental patients in the era which is depicted in the film. This would not have seemed strange to a 1960 audience either.Nevertheless, the whole endeavor still came across as overheated pretentious nonsense. Hepburn was being uberHepburn, Taylor was also over the top at times, and Clift seemed so lost that he looked like he was a patient at the institution. "},{"Title":"Cinematically, way ahead of its time!","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Suddenly, Last Summer was a 1959 potboiler that a lot of moviegoers (films were still called movies back then) had no idea of what they had seen other than Liz looking gorgeous in a transparent bathing suit and Kate looking rather creepy sitting in her personal elevator. This film really stretched the Hays code (and the Catholic League of Decency) to the max with its subject matter that had to be delicately handled because most  of the themes and language could only be suggested. While it may not be one of Tennessee Williams' best works, it's still a touching tale with Gore Vidal doing a great job on the screenplay to make it barely slide past the censors (although a sizeable chunk of  the viewing public didn't have a clue what was transpiring on the silver screen). The acting, directing, and production values are all top notch. Both Liz and Kate were nominated for Oscars, but cancelled each other out. It was also the last of the three films that Taylor and Clift made together. Joseph Mankiewicz's next directing venture was Liz  as Cleopatra. This film is a bit dated but definitely a must see for fans of the participants.  "},{"Title":"psychological battle of wills","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Williams' story about the battle of wills between two women (Hepburn and Taylor), both of whom are forced to face the truth regarding the life and death of their relative (son/cousin) and traveling companion Sebastian. Taylor, having witnessed the death, is too traumatized to remember it and faces the threat of insanity (and lobotomy) if she can't come to terms with it quickly. Hepburn, having been unable to protect the son whose life and poetry she carefully protected and supported, must recognize why her son allowed her to continue such a close involvement in his work (and why he replaced her, in that fateful summer, with Taylor). Clift, as the doctor who wants something from both women (Hepburn's money and Taylor's sanity) must referee this battle, deciding for himself whose side he will defend more vigorously, and where his priorities will be.As can be expected in a work by Williams, with such a cast, the dialogue and exposition are top rate. My main problem is that director Joseph Mankiewicz (in his only filmed attempt at Williams) takes a very slow approach in getting us into the real story initially; neither Hepburn nor Taylor - the real opponents here - appears for several minutes into the film. And the more baroque aspects of Williams' work seem better suited to directors like Kazan, who certainly was more effective with it. Also, Taylor (who has a tendency to go over the top a bit, which I admit some like) is always a dangerous factor in a Williams story, which certainly lends itself to overacting. For me, she's more effective in her earlier scenes with lift  - and the flashbacks - than in the later scenes where she has to relate the lurid details of her experience. And her final reaction to the ordeal was presented a little too smoothly for my belief.The look of the film is outstanding, from the backyard jungle where the film really gets going, to the multiple exposures (and remarkably effective editing) used in the flashback sequences later on. 8 of 10 "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is not one of my favorite films because it makes me very uncomfortable to view it. I watch it to see Elizabeth Taylor at her most beautiful and distressingly fragile. And to see Kate Hepburn at her most autocratic and undeserving of sympathy. And finally to see Montgomery Clift after his terrible accident which disfigured his handsome face. The same type of morbid curiosity which makes one stay to the end to find out what happened - suddenly - last summer.And when you do find out you don't find the need to view it again - except to feast upon the loveliness of La Liz.I guess homosexuality was considered an ugly thing back in the 50s and Sebastian a horrible monster who met a proper end. It is meant to shock and upset the viewer - my question is why? It does nothing to increase any feeling of sympathy and I feel that is a shame. You feel repulsed after seeing this film. One scene in particular gave me the absolute creeps - the scene with Elizabeth in the asylum about to be subjected to a fate worse than death Is this some kind of analogy or a comment about heterosexual men? Or merely designed to shock.No - I would put this movie in the same category as Whatever Happened to Baby Jane or Lady in a Cage - if you are a voyeur of the woman in harms way genre that became popular in the late 50s and early 60s, then see it. Otherwise, I would give it a miss. Except for the reasons I have stated above.  "},{"Title":"TOTALLY micast, but fab...","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This was Elizabeth Taylor's second Tennessee Williams' script and the third in a series of increasingly hysterical, over-wrought characterizations--Raintree County and Cat On A Hot Tin Roof preceding Suddenly. In Raintree she's crazy because she thinks she she part black. In Cat she's half crazy with desire for her hubby who won't sleep with her because (maybe) he's gay. In Suddenly she's half-crazy because her very definitely gay cousin was cannibalized before her eyes, while they were vacationing where the boys are.Miss Taylor is loads of fun in these roles, shrill and noisy and petulant. She is actually very good in Cat perhaps never better--perhaps because the death of her husband Mike Todd just days after filming began, gave her more than her usual commitment to a role.But the thing is, Elizabeth Taylor's essence, is NOT unhinged. She always seems quite sane, really. Her high-pitched, breathy neurosis always rings false--if, again, it is always watchable (to the dedicated fan, anyway.)In no other film is this as evident as Suddenly Last Summer. At no time, no matter what words pour out of Catherine Holly's mouth, does she come across as she should--a fragile thing who is driven to a near-breakdown over a sexual tryst in a gazebo and then goes over the edge after allowing herself to be used to procure boys for her cousin. Taylor's Catherine is way too assured, sophisticated, healthy, vital. She is quick to anger, quick to argue. She looks like she could take apart the sanitarium with her bare hands--or at least the sound of her voice. Taylor performs brilliantly (though Mank, who would also direct her in Cleopatra encourages Taylor's actressy heavy-breathing, when restraint serves her best--Giant, anyone?) But it is clear she's no victim.Katharine Hepburn on the other hand comes off like a lunatic from her first scene. THIS woman wants somebody else to be lobotomized?! (to keep Miz Liz from all that obscene babbling about cousin Sebastian.) Monty Clift looks stunned and behaves with the kind of nervous hesitation that Miss Taylor should have used in her own performance.And yet, all this miscasting works for the film, precisely because the subject matter is so bizarre. Had it been properly cast--Audrey Hepburn (all vulnerability) or Kim Novak (all somnambulism) or Marilyn Monroe (vulnerability, sex and raw nerves--go see Bus Stop) the movie wouldn't have nearly the same over-ripe aroma.And speaking of ripe, Suddenly offers Miss Taylor at her womanly peak so lush, so sexy...so WRONG for mental patient on the edge. But Miss Catherine is clearly having her three squares a day, lobotomy be damned.The Taylor face, in crisp black-and-white, is gorgeous. Though depressed, Miss Catherine still manages to apply that liquid liner expertly.Suddenly Last Summer It's so off the tract, but a fascinating train wreck none the less. "},{"Title":"Feed that Venus, Foxhill!","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was still in high school when this movie came out. Interested in theater arts, I thought the  world of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof and Streetcar Named Desire. And now here was a new  Tennessee Williams play transferred to film. I remember prior to its release a radio or TV  interview with the stars which centered upon the fact that the true protagonist never appears  but is only discussed. I did not realize prior to seeing the movie what the taboo topics were.  In fact non of my peer group had any trouble diagnosing Sebastian and his relationships. I do  remember that the now-defunct Legion of Decency condemned the movie (which I am sure  enhanced the box office receipts) and that John Wayne publicly trashed it as anti-American .Au contraire, M. le Duc, Suddenly Last Summer is a prime example of great acting in the  grand style. Kathryn Hepburn and Elizabeth Taylor really enjoy digging their teeth in this  meaty work. Montgomery Clift is not as bad as some posters feel, after all Dr. Sugar is  basically there for the two women to talk to. A special bonus in the casting are Hollywood  legends Albert Dekker and Mercedes McCambridge. Gore Vidal did a terrific job of expanding  a 1-act play into a full-length screenplay. The score lends intensity to the drama. What a  movie!The final scene with Kate still sends delightful shivers up and down my back.It is a crime that neither Kate nor Liz were rewarded with an Oscar, although both were  nominated. Check this strange drama out. Today people would not blink twice at the subject  matter. If you've ever wondered why Liz is considered a great actress, this movie tells it all.  See it with an open mind. You may not see the face of God but you'll experience some of the  best acting you've ever enjoyed! "}{"Title":"Give Me a Break","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One has to wonder if Tennesse Williams had plum run out of ideas when he resorted to writing this ridiculous piece of Southern Gothic claptrap. I don't know if any actors could put this material over, but the ones gathered for this filmed version certainly can't. No doubt audiences at the time were fainting all over themselves at the subject matter -- homosexuality, cannibalism, lobotomies. Choose your psychological depravity, it's here. But now it all just seems so SILLY.All of the actors take the affair dreadfully seriously, and I don't know whether that makes the movie better or worse. Katharine Hepburn is the only one who you might suspect is in on the joke. She does an impersonation of Katharine Hepburn doing an impersonation of a loony Southern matriarch who likes to fondle venus fly traps while talking about turtles having their bellies plucked out by seagulls. Her nose pointed at the ceiling while delivering all of her lines in that haughty Eastern aristocratic accent makes you wonder if she showed up on the set, realized what she was in for, and decided to have some fun with it. Montgomery Clift delivers a zoned-out performance and wanders through the film like a zombie -- with all the talk about lobotomies, you wonder if his character has already had one. And it's a wonder there was any scenery left after Elizabeth Taylor was done chomping up her role as the young lass who saw her gay boyfriend eaten by a bunch of Italian hunks. Can't imagine why she would have any neuroses after that.Ah, well. For all of its ridiculousness, Suddenly, Last Summer does have a certain fascinating quality about it, mostly due to its lurid subject matter. You keep watching to see how much farther over the edge the film can possibly go. This doesn't make it a good movie, but it does make it watchable.Grade B- "},{"Title":"What would Dr. Phil think?","Date":"27 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Undeniably amusing Gothic farrago by Williams (with Vidal) that has none of the artistry or comic seriousness of BABY DOLL but in the way it lectures moralistically against its most ardent sentiments, an ingenious corrupt entertainment nonetheless. Gist of the mysterious back-story is that a decadent homosexual poet manque called (what else?) Sebastian, ends up, ironically, like Christ, being consumed, as host, by his own congregation. Ostensible moral is Don't get caught playing Magdalen to this type of fella because you're likely to have holes bored into your brain to protect the naive world from the scandal of it all. Of course, the play is actually venerating what it appears to be hysterically warning against. Almost deserves to get an honest guilty pleasure recommendation but Mankiewicz's direction is too vulgar by half (especially in the snake pit scenes at the hospital site and the flashback of the cacophonous cannibal party at the end.)Montgomery Clift looks severely ill-disposed as the terminally dim-witted Dr. Cuckoowitz (er, that's Cukrowicz) but Hepburn's skillful dragon lady turn as Aunt Vi and Taylor's pulchritude at its then luscious peak sustain one's low-grade fever interest until the finish.Grade - My usual cop-out rating of 6.5 * Williams' plays were never really very well served by their directors in screen translation - from the best (Kazan with BABY DOLL in 1956) to the worst (LAST OF THE MOBILE HOT SHOTS by Lumet in 1970, from the most critically acclaimed - A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE in 1951 (Kazan again) to the most brutally drubbed (Losey and BOOM in 1968) Only Lumet's low-key handling of ORPHEUS DESCENDING (THE FUGITIVE KIND (1959)) makes the material seem more interesting than it is but even that surprisingly intelligent production with good performances by Brando, Magnani and Victor Jory can't redeem the squawkish melodramatic absurdity of the playwright's original ending. "},{"Title":"Best movie ever made","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" OK, This isn't the best movie ever made, but all the reviews in this site seem to start this way, so I'm just adapting my writing style to this fact.Ambiguity is the key of the movie. Quoting one character, Truth is the bottom of a bottomless well. Also, a character mentions that, he thinks, We should at least consider the possibility that the girl's story is true. Both writers, Tennessee Williams and Gore Vidal were gays. Gayness without ambiguity was unthinkable at Hollywood, 1959. But there are more, much more. It's a melodrama, which means that relationships among characters are over the top. A fine example of what is over the top really this movie gives.Gothic is very often associated with darkness, yet this movie resolution is an example of white, luminous, Gothic style.There are four main characters. The manipulative Mrs. Venable, her son Sebastian, who remains always off screen, Sebastian's cousin Cathy, and a psycho-surgeon that maybe will make a lobotomy to Cathy. An aberration of the 20th Century, lobotomy has a story worthy of being read. It's a fact that Williams's sister was lobotomized, so maybe he put more personal issues here than one could suspect.All the technical aspects of the movie are first rate. There are divergences in the reviews I read about the performances, but I think the whole cast did it very well.And there are more, much more, but I don't want to spoil anything. I said enough.As a final note, I must say that I'm usually against remakes, but I would love to see a remake underlining the subtle movie eroticism. "},{"Title":"Ahead of its time (in its subject matter).","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is excessively talky, but the chilling, memorable climax is worth the wait. It's better to go into this unprepared (as I was the first time I saw it), so be very careful when you're reading other reviews of the film, because they kind of spoil the final twists. Elizabeth Taylor, who has never been more beautiful, also gives the best performance, but Montgomery Clift looks (understandably) uncomfortable.   (***) "},{"Title":"Old Fashioned Movie-making at Its Worst","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Movie-making has changed over the years so that it's unlikely a filmed play (which is basically what this is) is hardly watchable. There are long scenes in which the actors recite well-rehearsed, lugubrious Tennessee Williams dialogue (by way of Gore Vidal).Monty Clift, perhaps due to the drugs and alcohol, is fairly wooden as -- get this -- some sort of psychiatric surgeon. Katherine Hepburn (does she ever open her teeth to talk?) acts more like she's an older lady trying to seduce a younger man on the beach. Elizabeth Taylor, as always, is overwrought. I suppose she appealed to an older generation that liked full-figured women so she could get away with murder with her histrionics.If you can sit through the early scenes of this movie without squirming in your chair, you're a better man than I am, Gunga Din. The fact that the film was later disowned not only by original playwright, Tennessee Williams, but by adapter Gore Vidal, carries heavy implications. When you have two noteworthy writers on a project and both of them loathe the finished product, you know you have problems.So, heavy-handed acting (except Hepburn, who seems to think she's playing a sound-era Pola Negri) and dialogue so self-important it might by Holy Writ. If you can tolerate it, or if you're a fan of one of the many stars clogging the works, try it on for size. Otherwise, be wary. "},{"Title":"A little bit...overdone","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When I first saw that this title existed I was immediately drawn to the Southern angle. I always love those but this one was just overacted with some characters and the plausibility/believability of the story are just...for the lack of a better word...ridiculous.That being said this isn't a bad movie by any stretch. It's very well cast and production is good but what it comes down to in the end is the story/plot and this one was as thick as melted butter and transparent as a pane of glass.The plot itself is interesting enough but by half-way through it you realize her son is gay and even earlier than that you realize that the mother character wants to silence the niece by trying to force a lobotomy on her by way of lying to everyone about who her son really was. Needless to say this didn't take too long to figure out.I think a lot of my negative view of this film stems from is the overdone dialog. I mean you know when you hear this stuff that immediately we got a playwright or writer here with a poet's wanna-be complex. Hearing Katherine Hepburn drone on and on with these poetic phrases about how great her son was bored me to tears. I think with the lines she had the acting seemed very overacted.The same can be said about Elizabeth Taylor. She just seemed like she was trying to win an Oscar throughout this one. At the end her final speech that went on for 10 minutes or so was just...well...way overacted. I will say I liked her better cause there were no poetic notions in her dialog, just an almost camp-like feel to it. The one thing you do get from her is a nice look at her in a white 1-piece bathing suit freshly wet. Taking a close look she surely wasn't a thin lady, she was what they call these days...full figured...to say the least.What this film's plot came down to was a mother who's son died the summer before refuses to let anyone know that her son was gay so she tries to keep her niece institutionalized so she can't tell everyone why he really died and the real secret of the family. That dear ole Mom went on long vacations with her poet son to get young boys to have relations with. Can anyone believe that the mother, in her 50's, is gonna get any young guy with her old looks?...gimme a break. To me the only believable part of the film was the mother's attempt to hide her son's preference. Can you imagine being gay back in the 30's? This is an almost autobiographical account of Tennessee Williams and Hart Crane's life. The latter being a poet in the early 1900's everyone admired...and happened to be gay. Watch the movie then read the credits on who wrote it and you get an A-ha moment at why this movie is the way it is...Tennessee Williams and Gore Vidal. What this film really was was a thinly disguised message movie about the persecution of homosexuals. Where's the persecution part you say? How about the cannibalism of the gay son? Where's the plausibility in that? Well it happened in this film and there's no other reason to put it in there except for what it obviously is...an overly dramatic attempt at letting people know about what gays deal with back in the day. The problem is...I saw right through it.Even though I didn't care much for this film I can certainly see why the high ratings in here so I would recommend it for the star power. But if its for a story...meh "},{"Title":"Guess Who's Coming To Dinner","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As a director Mank was always at his best working from his own Original Screenplays and the ones we mostly remember - Three Wives, Eve, Contessa - we remember for their dialogue rather than visuals so notwithstanding George Apley and Five Fingers we always felt uneasy when he was involved in 'adaptations' especially when those adaptations were the works of major players, like The Honeypot - Mank out of Ben Johnson and this one in which Tom Williams adapted his own one-actor with a little help from Gore Vidal. It's something of a shame that this movie may be best remembered for the incident on Katie Hepburn's last day of filming. Appalled at the way Mank had treated a damaged and vulnerable Monty Clift throughout the shoot Hepburn ascertained from Mank that there was no way she would be required for retakes, dubbing, etc and then spat in his face. Unlike some of the posters here I still found things to admire in Clift's performance even though light years from his best; Taylor, of course, has the big scene at the end and makes the most of it but Hepburn is no slouch herself so in terms of emoting it's the viewer who comes off best. "},{"Title":"Psychological Horror Film","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I view this picture as a psychological horror film because it lacks the drama and characterization of the more popular plays and films of Tennessee Williams' works.  Like the genre of horror, it relies on grotesque imagery and shocking the audience, much like Silence of the Lambs.  Because of this, I can not recommend it for everyone; only tried and true Tennessee Williams' fans.  If you are not sure you like the works of Tennessee Williams, I suggest you see A Streetcar Named Desire, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, Night of the Iguana, The Rose Tattoo, or The Glass Menagerie.  "},{"Title":"Bad machine","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Tennessee Williams formula always involved a frustrated, aging beauty and sexual peccadilloes and frequently involved mental illness. In A Streetcar named Desire, the revelation of aging, poseur cousin Blanche's sexual past drives her over the edge. In Suddenly Last Summer, young Catherine must be prevented from sharing what she knows about promiscuous cousin Sebastian and how his partners killed and cannibalized him. Because of course, when a doozie like that occurs, only one person would know about it.Williams reminds me of that line in Vonneguts least readable book Breakfast of Champions Dwayne was a bad machine who could not stop doing the same thing because spirochetes were eating his brain. (paraphrased). Every time Williams sat down to write a play, there must have been a few glorious seconds of potential before he decided to just run one of his old stories through the machinery again, so he'd have more time to drink. His oeuvre is ridiculously uniform. And drama here was creaky, antiquated, and designed to thrust actors to the most privileged position in film production for decades. I'm grateful this era is over.Some of it is photographed really well. Hepburn turned every character she played into an arrogant New Englander, but she's competent in the role of Sebastian's imperious, atrocious mother who (in the end) is driven over the edge... again. For people who doubt the central ruse works, Elsa Lanchester used to go out and troll for young men to hand off to her gay husband Charles Laughton. Now with 100 percent more cannibalism! (Tennessee Williams southern Gothic drifts into Guignol.) "},{"Title":"one of the truly great movies of all time","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  indeed one of the best movies ever made, if you ask me. All three main characters are very well acted, the whole movie is one big dark menacing entity, unveiling itself slowly but never totally. There is this awful secret that we will never understand but, we will surely understand the evilness of it. This is the dark side, the one we always feel is there but that we never get to see or grasp. Nor do we in this movie, but it graps us to never let go, probably even after we're dead.    "}{"Title":"a comedy disguised as drama","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If one can't laugh at this film one has a serious problem with his sense of humor. The dialogue is unintentionally funny. Does any one on the planet talk like Mrs. Venable? The symbolism in Sebastian's garconerie is ridiculously heavy handed and obvious. Monty Clifts performance is so woefully bad that it defies description. Somehow Clift's acting had drifted into the nerdy, wimpy school and almost all of his later roles portrayed him as a simpering idiot, Noah in The Young Lions and the victim in Judgment at Nuremberg. What happened to the virile Matt of Red River? The redeeming feature of the movie is the scene of Liz in her diaphanous bathing suit. Wow! Prefrontal lobotomy was used in the 40's as a means of dealing with uncontrollable mental patients. There were no effective psychotropic drugs available and psychosurgery was the alternative treatment. JFK's sister had the procedure but it was unsuccessful and she spent the rest of her life in an institution. "},{"Title":"Wouldn't it be funny to re-make this film today?","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Wouldn't this film last about five minutes today?(spoiler alert) If we made this film now, it would come off like thisDoctor What happened? Taylor Uh...well...Sebastian used to travel the world, using his mother to attract young men that he could seduce. When she got too old, he invited me. It wasn't too fun, and it got to be a drag. Look, he was gay, okay? Doctor Sounds fun to me! I mean...uh... Mom Don't listen to her! Cut her brain out! Taylor No, listen...this gets weird. The boys on the island had had enough, so they chased him out of a restaurant and overpowered him and castrated him. Doctor Crap...really? That's so gross. Taylor Get me out of this place. Doctor Okay. Mom I can't handle this. I'm going to go insane. (credits roll)It says something about a society when it takes the entirety of a feature film to tell something that simple. They dance around the crux of the matter for a whole hour. "},{"Title":"Cohen Bros.' Inspiration for Lebowski's Maude?","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw Suddenly Last Summer the other night and I found there to be a distinct similarity between Katherine Hepburn's character Violet and Julianna Moore's Maude from The Big Lebowski.  Now I don't think that Maude is a copy of Violet but if you listen to the way she talks and the way she leads a conversation you can hear a distinct similarity between them.  The best part of the movie to make this comparison is when Hepburn is showing Montgomery Clift around her son's garden and the way she talks about flowers and her niece Catherine (Elizabeth Taylor) and then compare that to when Maude first meets The Dude and she is talking about art, the female form, sex, and her step mother Bunny.  I don't know, maybe it's just me.  For other Cohen Brother inspiration check out The Alan Ladd/Veronica Lake film The Glass Key, as inspiration for Miller's Crossing, and check out Akim Tamiroff as Uncle Joe Grande in Touch of Evil as a model for several characters that Jon Polito plays in a bunch of Cohen Brother's movies.   "},{"Title":"I hated the plot, but love the actors...","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I found this story very dark and disturbing, which of course I know it is meant to be. But with that said, I just didn't like it much. However, I am big fans of Hepburn, Taylor and Clift. I think they did an amazing job with their characters.I know this is an adaptation of a Tennessee Williams play, which I know should impress me but it doesn't. I found the storyline about the young boys being lured, and then the chase scene up the hill that leads to the poets death VERY disturbing. I just find it hard to glean entertainment value from such a dark, disturbing storyline.I did find it interesting that this was filmed 2-3 yrs after Clift's accident - you can see his lip scar and that he has aged immensely. However, I think he manages to deliver a strong performance in spite of his physical difficulties. "},{"Title":"Lobotomies, Carnivorous Plants, and Dear Old Aunt Violet . . .","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The plot is a mish-mash of Gothic horror, family psychodrama, Catholic guilt, and The Love That Dare Not Squeak Its Name. But the original was written by Tennessee Williams, who was a poet masquerading as a playwright, and it ran only one act.The film version was written by Gore Vidal. To his credit, he retained as much of Williams' dialog as possible, particularly towards the beginning and the end of the film, but there is considerable padding in-between, and Vidal, who was Clever at best, does not live up to the standard of Williams, no doubt one of the factors that fueled his obvious, and seething, jealousy towards his good friend. The padding includes mad-house scenes where the extras were obviously encouraged to whoop it up like the extras in 28 DAYS LATER, and lots of heavy-handed hints about Sebastian's, er, proclivities.Violet Venable (Katherine Hepburn) is a rich widow with a million dollars to give away. She's thinking about giving it away to the Lion's View Sanitarium, a public mental hospital in New Orleans, to help pay for such things as, well, keeping the power on. There's only one catch; she'd like their hot-shot brain surgeon, Dr. Cukrowicz (Montgomery Clift), a recent transplant from Chicago, to perform a lobotomy on her niece Catherine Holly (Elizabeth Taylor), the better to end her obscene babblings about Mrs. Venable's son Sebastian, who had died the previous summer. Eventually, Cukrowicz injects the young woman with Sodium Pentothal and discovers that Sebastian was homosexual and that he used first his mother, and then his cousin, as beards to arrange homosexual liaisons with other men. His mother was useful when he was young and trying to hook up with sophisticated older men. He started using his cousin the year before to pick up the rough trade at public beaches (she caught their eye and then he started handing out the cash). Eventually, a gang of the young men he had exploited attacked him on a hillside overlooking the town and then killed and partially cannibalized his corpse.The acting is a mixed bag. Hepburn comes off best, despite the dragon-lady nature of her role and the ghastly hats she has to wear in several scenes. The arrogance that often made her off-putting in many roles is perfect for the role of a woman who has been raised to believe that the fact she came from money and married more of it makes her some sort of superior being. And she also makes you feel the loneliness beneath that arrogance, the loneliness that made her attach herself to her son like a barnacle as the years went by, because he was the only real company she ever had.Elizabeth Taylor starts out very nicely in the role of Catherine, showing flashes of great humor and poignancy. And then she remembers to Act. Bang! Up pops the breathless little voice and the big eyes, and she turns into Catherine O'Hara spoofing Elizabeth Taylor trying to Act. She only connects in flashes after that, although she is genuinely affecting at the end when she recalls finding the dead man's munched-upon remains. Her scream and the crying after that are filled with genuine horror and sadness.As the doctor, Cukrowicz, Montgomery Clift has a nothing part, but he displays a certain amused reserve while doing nothing much and is the audience's connection to the real world of sane people, where rich old ladies aren't trying to get people's brains chopped up and their gay sons come back from the Mediterranean with a tan . . .Joseph L. Mankiewicz did his usual job as a director; hire some vivid actors and point the camera at them. The results aren't as much fun as A LETTER TO THREE WIVES, but they're still a hell of a lot better than CLEOPATRA. So, for that matter, was the average episode of THE BEVERLY HILLBILLIES . . . "},{"Title":"Suddenly I got bored","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I do not really know what I was expecting from a screen adaptation from a Williams play with big names as Taylor, Hepburn and Clift, especially not after reading almost only admiring comments, as if no one really dared to reduce this movie to its real proportions. I'm quite fond of good US movies, but this one really irritated me in all ways. I found it too arty farty, too slow, with irritating main characters and a sound track and music that made things even worse. Sure, it probably was all meant this way by the author, with the intention of creating a specific neurotic or unstable atmosphere... To me, this whole atmosphere made me feel like throwing the video out of the recorder, in a Dream Team-like way straight into the dustbin . The rather emotionless voice and mimics and the almost robot-like performance of Clift (why the heck is everyone applauding, finding his performance soooo terribly good, what do they see I don't see ???). Possessive Violet (Hepburn) is babbling as much and as fast as Babs Streissand about all kind of trivialities, to make a smokescreen for her real question (oh by the way doctor could you perform a nice little lobotomy on my niece) the first half of the movie. Maybe you'll like Hepburns' performance, but I got quickly seriously annoyed by her pepsodent-like mouth firing words like a Vulcan 20 mm canon... Than there is Catherine's (Taylor) mother and brother, overacting with as much brio as Patrick McGoohan in Ice Station Zebra, to make sure everyone hates their guts because of their greediness during the rest of the movie... Or what to think about the Agatha Christie-like finale (everyone together in one room, waiting for the truth to finally pop up), or the terribly loooooooooong loooooong monologue by E. Taylor in which she explains what has happened to Sebastian, how he died (but will the average viewer, the one who didn't read the play, who didn't went to the theater understand what really happened, after that monologue long as a 1970's song by Yes ? By the way, several other questions remain unanswered to give just one example what did the doctor think about the book of poems of Sebastian Violet gave him ? Prrrrrr.... Viewing this movie left me with a feeling I have been eating too much french fries, and with a strong urge to look at a show of the Muppets or to the adventures of Daffy Duck in Bugs Bunny-land. The only thing worth while I associate with the tittle of this movie is the beautiful song by the Motels..... Benoit Vanhees Antwerp Belgium (sorry for possible mistakes in my English) "},{"Title":"Sebastian's problem","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sebastian was a homosexual. Violet knew it and actually promoted it. That way he would truly love only her. The movie is about Violet's insanity, not Cathy's, and she wanted Cathy lobotomized to hide the truth. Unfortunately, when this movie was made people such as Sebastian had to die or go crazy because of the production code's rules. Homosexuals were considered crazy or bad at that time and like all bad or defective people, they had to pay the price for their badness. I found this film a little confusing in places, but when you have actors like Katharine Hepburn, Elizabeth Taylor and Montgomery Clift working together, it is always worth watching. "},{"Title":"Freudian Taylor","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Suddenly Last Summer (1959) Another Tennessee Williams vehicle only this time the playwright delves too deeply into the twisted psyches of his players, resulting in a storyline that crashes in on itself. Wait till you get a load of this plot Mother in-law Katherine Hepburn is strong arming Doctor Montgomery Clift into performing a lobotomy on her niece (Taylor) in order to silence her seemingly mad ravings.Apparently Taylor has lots of secrets locked inside that pretty little head of hers concerning her cousin. Add a pinch of incest, a dash of homosexuality and a dollop of cannibalism, boil on high for an hour and half and you have the recipe for the dawning of the sixties!Famous shot from movie, Taylor on the beach in a form fitting bathing suit, directed to wear by cousin so all the boys will flock around. It's a hoot! Though I would advise not letting young adolescents watch this. It will screw em up for years. "},{"Title":"Does is matter what's behind?","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Saw it on TV a few nights ago in a series of programs paying tribute to the late Tennessee Williams, him being gay as one focal aspect (not again!!). The film itself is quite long (feels long, at least),  the setting more theatric rather than screen play.  In terms of acting, well you've got K. Hepburn and E. Taylor at their best (probably a bit of an overstatement).  The story would probably be categorized as a classical psychological thriller.What really happened to Sebastian (who died a mysterious death during a trip)? is the question everyone (including the viewer) keeps asking until the end of the film (you'll get the answer, don't worry).  His mother, already a widow, mourns over his death, the only witness to the event, his cousin Katherine, is being diagnosed insane (allegedly because she saw the scene), and a medical doctor tries to unveil the truth on the viewers' behalf.  The medical doctor (a brain surgeon, to be precise) comes into the picture because this mother wants her niece to have the memory of her son removed surgically in hope to bring back sanity (hmm..strange...).Most reviews are swift to point out the hidden themes of homosexuality etc. and the censorship which dealt with them in those days (it's the 50s!!).  But viewing the film WITHOUT such background information would be healthier, I must say.  The effect of subtlety is already void (the very fact that we are publicly discussing the hidden message is killing it!), and it seems unnecessary that every viewer must be notified of what is behind.   I felt I was forced to see the hidden agenda, and as a result, I could neither focus on nor enjoy the plot as it is.  If you say it's no use unless one knows the significance of the background, I say, then it's time to put this in the basement of the library.  Suddenly Last Summer perhaps is a significant item for studying cinematic history, but not so much a film to enjoy any more.  Perhaps it wasn't meant to be entertaining in the first place. "},{"Title":"One of the great ones....","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a hard movie to describe.The torment that Catherine (Elizabeth Taylor) is forced to endure so that the deep, dark Venable family secret will not be exposed is an acting tour d'force.This is Montgomery Cliff's first movie after the drunken accident that destroyed his face -- which had to be completely reconstructed.  For this reason he looks just a little wooden.This is a very dark movie -- Sebastian's garden of flesh eating plants is the first clue.The scenes set in the insane asylums where Catherine is to receive a lobotomy to keep her quiet are chilling and grotesque.Finally the question arises  What is sanity and who defines it? "}{"Title":"goofy, ridiculous, badly acted and probably racist","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" let's tell it straight away it's pretty badly acted, Liz Taylor is awful, on a psychological point of view, and probably even in those years, the reactions of people seem to be ridiculous, plenty of goofs (Liz Taylor doesn't sound as a lunatic at all, but when she runs away from the room in the hospital, no-one gets out and look for her, etc.), the history of a bunch of cannibal children in Spain is the most grotesque thing ever seen in a movie, you would laugh it away if it weren't just so sordid, carachters are not thick at all, look at Montgomery cliff's one for instance. also, all that babbling about god and the cruelty of life is not well-developed and ends up being confused and sounds pretentious. Dull and sordid at the same time, gross and self-indulgent. - my English is poor, but my belief is as sound as rock ^^ - "},{"Title":"Overwrought junk","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This overwrought mess is so tightly wound it's barely watchable. Elizabeth Taylor goes insane-VERY insane-after witnessing the murder of her cousin, a homosexual poet. Her aunt, played by Katherine Hepburn, wants doctor Montgomery Clift to lobotomize Taylor before she tells too much about her son. Hepburn plays a Southern ghoul that borders on camp -- surely a drag queen could have played her part! Taylor acts and acts and acts. She so shrill and out of sync with the other actors it's difficult to believe that director Joseph L. Mankiewicz didn't try to reel her in. Clift walks around in a daze appearing to have given HIMSELF the lobotomy Hepburn is hoping he'll perform on Taylor! The squalid screenplay is credited to Gore Vidal. "},{"Title":"On Suddenly Last Summer !!","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was confused on the plot of this movie!!! What is the reality of this movie without the surrealism? What was with the sea turtles, Mom coming done the elevator cage, ? I would like the real answers for Sebastian's personal life.WHAT IS THE TRUE ENDING OF THIS MOVIE. I AIN'T BUYING THIS CANNALBALISM WITH THOSE Latin YOUTHS.I do not like trying to cypher a movie and the deep mental undertones of a movie.Would somebody explain some of the mysterious of this movie.Why did they even try to handle movies that were so coded in those times and the movie could not explain itself.I liked the acting of Katherine Hepburn, Montgomery Cliff and Liz Taylor. "},{"Title":"Impressive performances","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While the movie starts out slowly it comes to life as Elizabeth Taylor's narrative unfolds, reaching a crescendo in her description of Sebastian's final tragedy in a powerful dramatic performance that justifiably earned her an Oscar nomination.Apparently there were a number of tensions on the set, they seem to have benefited the film in the tautness that helped emphasize the conflict between Katherine Hepburn's and Elizabeth Taylor's respective characters.Notably, this is also one of Hollywood's first attempts to deal with a gay character. Probably a result of the Gore Vidal/Tenessee Williams screenplay; two pioneers in the gay rights movement.This is a landmark film, both for Elizabeth Taylor's performance, which must have surprised critics at the time, and the audacity of the script.It's a pity this is one of Katherine Hepburn's and Elizabeth Taylors less widely known movies "},{"Title":"Distance, Closeness","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Many times a movie just outlives its purpose, that is unless you can keep some sort of  reason for it to exist in the fires of nostalgia. This might have been such a thing. After all, it  deals with `serious' matters that don't seem so serious these days. And it uses dramatic  conventions that are nearly laughable, at least obsolete.But it has transcended obsolescence with time to become something of a comment on itself,  which is what I though the writers intended. It is set twenty years before its release, long enough before (before the Great War II) to  portray the time as primitive. The sexual and psychological perspectives of the characters  were supposed to be understood by the audience as quaintly outdated. Now with time, we  get to see both the story and the reality behind the story as pathologically engaging.The story is about what in 58 would be called a flaming queer. It is written (play and  screenplay) by two such. And the only character who is not severely broken (the wise doctor)  is played by yet another flamer!Clift's character was a renown psychiatrist, but Clift himself was nearly out of his skin by  that time with madness and all that goes with it. Taylor herself had saved his life from a  probable suicide attempt and the rebuilding of his face is apparent. (He would in fact later  succumb to demons and kill himself.)Now this is what I call `folding,' where the movie in some fashion becomes about itself,  ideally untrary. I believe Williams and Gore intended this that's why they staged the `viewing' of the  operation with (nearly) themselves watching. Its why there's such a clever metaphor about  life as poetry. Its why both Taylor and her character are procurers. Its why the words are so  near and the images (handled by mere mechanics) are inapposite.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Silly.","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is without question one of the silliest I have ever seen. It's just really, really silly. I enjoy melodrama, but this goes beyond dumb. Its almost as crass and unbelievable as an episode of 'Eastenders'.And Liz Taylor. Listening to her read Tennessee Williams' laugh-out-loud stoo-pid, histrionic lines in that unbelievably irritating southern accent she does is as close to torture as I want to get. Yes, she looks great in the bathing costume. But she was the Kelly Brook of her day. A total non talent.Montgomery Clift moves through the whole thing wearing one, almost indescribable, expression. It's poised, painfully, somewhere between complete surprise and abject terror. And thats just to deliver expository dialogue like How are you today?. Very strange.One point of interest. Rita Webb, a familiar face from things like 'The Benny Hill show' and various British sex comedies of the seventies, appears briefly as an inmate in a mental asylum. Naturally, its a mental asylum where the patients laugh maniacally and leer into the camera from frenziedly undulating rocking chairs. "},{"Title":"Silly , dated, and unbelievable drama.","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This expansion of Tennesse Williams' one act off-Broadway play is a prolonged melodrama. Adapted by Williams and Gore Vidal, the silly, unconvincing plot asks the audience to believe that doctors, with the family's consent, would perform a totally unnecessary lobotomy on a beautiful young woman (Taylor) who is clearly not insane. Her aunt(Hepburn) wants her lobotomized so she won't be able to tell, or remember, witnessing the events that lead to the cannibalization of Hephurn's homosexual son, Sebastion. This high-on-the-hog melodramatic plot serves as an excuse to exploit mental illness and homosexuality for shock and horror. The never-more-gorgeous Taylor looks absurdly out of place in the mental institution and her character seems more grounded than anyone else. Taylor was Oscar nominated for her showy performance the highlight of which is her big monologue scene at the end. The also nominated Hepburn is amusing as she flounces about dispensing her dotty vocal mannerisms, and ironically, Montgomery Clift as the neurosurgeon acts as if he's been lobotomized. The film is talky and long, and it takes the doctor and the director Joseph Mankiewicz too long to crank out the obvious. Some campy interest here; not much else. "},{"Title":"Shocked that this was an Award Winner","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I found this movie to be very tedious and drawn out. The monologues were monotonous and added little to the plot. It did have an all star cast but even they seemed out of their element. Katherine Hepburn was overly dramatic and not a believable character with the exception of her last scene. Her monologue about the sea turtles was almost painful to watch. Elizabeth Taylor's character was better acted but not enough to redeem the movie. Mercedes McCambridge was an incredibly annoying character in this movie but to her credit, I believe she was meant to be annoying. I was hard pressed not to cringe every time she opened her mouth and I heard her voice. In all the write ups that I read before viewing this movie there was no mention of Adult themes. Yet I found this movie quite risqu for 1959 and not tame even for today. It would definitely qualify for a PG-13 movie if not a stronger rating. Last but not least, one sits through all the build up to find no real climax. Very dramatic movie that seemingly adds up to an Alfred Hitchcock ending only to find no such ending. Just fizzle. This may have been the most disappointing part. A couple hours of wasted time. On a scale one to ten, I give it a 1.5 "},{"Title":"Dragged out","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie takes place in 1937 where a Dr. Cukowicz (Montgomery Clift) is performing lobotomies (revolutionary for its time). Rich Mrs. Violet Venable (Katharine Hepburn) wants her niece Catherine Holly (Elizabeth Taylor) lobotomized because she has been acting very strange over something she saw last summer. Slowly (VERY slowly) we find out what it was.I never saw the play but I heard it was short and runs just under 90 minutes--this movie goes on for almost 2 hours! It's full of long endless conversations half of which had nothing to do with the plot (especially the first conversation between Hepburn and Clift). It was pretty obvious (to me at least) what was going on fairly early in the movie but this just drags everything out to a ridiculous degree.**SPOILER ALERT--ENDING GIVEN AWAY!!** It seems that Taylor was being used to lure young men for her gay cousin Sebastian to have sex with. Before that his mother (Hepburn) was doing it! Some of the kids rebel and kill and partially devour him in front of Taylor's horrified eyes (not shown BTW).**SPOILER END**The play was also cleaned up for the screen version but (for its time) this was pretty shocking. It does have its good points. It was well-directed by Joseph Mankiewicz (especially at the end) and it looks great. Hepburn was just perfect in her role and Taylor is incredible--this had to be a tough role but she's great in it and really lets loose (especially during her confession scene at the end). Unfortunately Clift is pretty terrible but he was in pain and addicted to drugs and alcohol when this was made. The treatment of a gay man may be offensive to some but it didn't bother me (for the record I'm gay). Also it was written by Gore Vidal and Tennessee Williams who were also gay. Also Sebastian's face is never shown--which makes sense.I really didn't like this but there is one thing I admire--it deals with madness, lobotomies, homosexuality, pedophilia, cannibalism and incest and still manages to be dull! Only Hepburn and Taylors considerable acting talents pull this through. It was a huge hit in its day and did break new ground on what a movie could show and talk about (the Hayes Code was still in effect when this came out). So historically this is important but I don't find it particularly good or entertaining. I can only give it a 6. "},{"Title":"Once is enough - more than enough","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Let's see. What can I do to ensure that my late son's cousin won't tell anybody about my son's sexual proclivities and embarrass me? Mmmm, let me see. I know!! We'll get her a lobotomy.As the mother, Katharine Hepburn sounded like a cat with a sour stomach. Elizabeth Taylor delivered lines as if she'd already had a lobotomy. Montgomery Clift schlepped around, and it seemed as if even a lobotomy might add a little life to him. It appeared that Mercedes McCambridge had run-out of nasal spray. With these actors and Tennessee Williams the writer, it seems most feel the need to heap praise on this film.However, after viewing, I felt a lobotomy would be preferable to having to sit through it again. "}{"Title":"very strange story","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The acting is superb, but the story is very strange. Without spoiling, the crucial scene took place in Amalfi, which is in Italy, not Spain. It was interesting to see Katherine Hepburn playing against Elizabeth Taylor. Montgomery Clift seemed rather wooden, but that was due to his role as the sympathetic doctor. As usual, Elizabeth Taylor stole the show. She is at her most beautiful and dramatic in her role as Catherine. She is, really, the main--if not the only--reason to watch this movie in its entirety. The contrast between the rich and poor is very revealing in this film. It was interesting to see whether the doctor played by Albert Dekker would overlook his principles, to obtain the funding for his proposed new hospital. And, the elevator in the patron's home seemed rather ostentatious. But,what do I know? "},{"Title":"Purely Silly - It's Gotta Be a Joke!","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Everyone in this movie goes around being very intense, and we are supposed to believe Tennessee Williams take on homosexual-ism and cannibalism is ever so intelligent, BUT..........Beautiful and young Elizabeth Taylor's brother is the rich-boy homosexual. We are supposed to believe he snags young men for gay sex by using his sexy sister as bait. I'm serious! Elizabeth Taylor goes out on the beach in Mexico, looking good in her one-piece black bathing suit, and we are supposed to believe this serves as a decoy to get her brother a ---- job; and that this scheme works over-and-over again. Hmmmm! I've known lots of guys that were hot for Miss Taylor, but not one ever suddenly turned gay, or would fall for such a silly bait-n-switch.But it turns worse. The Mexican guys the evil brother has been preying upon suddenly have ENOUGH. About two dozen of these guys chase the evil brother all over the place and when they trap him the Mexicans cut him to shreds using the jagged lids of Campbell Soup cans to rip the flesh off his body --- and they EAT him. Good grief! Tennessee Williams likely never met a cannibal. Or read about them except in his own foolish script. Elsewise he'd know that cannibals do not eat other people as revenge; nor do they eat people they dislike. This movie was a box office and critical success, proving you can often fool most of the people, even 50 years ago. "},{"Title":"Absolutely terrible film","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Where does one begin on a such a waste of time this film is--for those who made it and for those unfortunate enough to watch it? And why such praise for such a dud? This is right up there with Reflections of a Golden Eye as films with supposedly progressive themes that are not only trash, they're not even good trash.Enough has been said in other comments about the plot line, so I won't rehash. But geez, what a story! If Gore Vidal was, again, supposedly so progressive in his handling of gay themes, do you think he could have written something more credible than crazy gay man using family to lure boys to sexual encounters routine? Wouldn't progressive have been to create a portrait of a normal, well adjusted gay man? Other writers have touched on the biggest blunders of the screenplay--why would guys oogling Liz be interested in Sebastian? Is the bisexual population of Spain all at the beach? And what could possibly be the motivation of murder....the suggestions of some writers here are laughable...'well, the young men knew he was leaving and never coming back, so they killed him'. What??!!! And how about that eating his flesh bit? Hilarious! Just beyond belief.Other unintentionally hilarious bits *--Clift walking around with his eyes huge and with a semi-lobotomized look on his own face. At the beginning of the film he has a German accent. Then he doesn't. Then he does again.*--Liz doing the same character she always does. Liz. And her recounting of the events at the end had me rolling.*--How about when Liz starts yelling at Hepburn who starts the palsy shaking thing that would mirror her normal state a few decades later. Add to it that fringy hat she is wearing and he is like a shaking poodle.*--The guys at the beach. They all look like 20s to me. Someone insinuated perhaps some child molestation occurred. Where were the children, you mean the guys jumping over the fence to get at Liz? *--When would Hepburn have ever been a lure for young boys? *--How about the garden scene at the beginning that goes on, and on, and on, and on, and on, and on, and on and....*--Hepburn's elevator rides--let me see, metaphor for her descent into madness? How clever. How stupid.It's not bad enough to be camp, but it almost is. And in between all the insane parts, it's incredibly boring. No one here is interesting, amusing, or thought provoking. I cannot believe I even got through it, and just thought I would do a service to the community to help prevent more collective time wasting by watching such unbelievable garbage. "},{"Title":"Hilarious dried ham, baked in the sun.","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" AWFUL..... awful .....hilarious .....awful ....hilarious..... awful silly shrill ridiculous. Gee, where do I start? Goaded by the promise of ghastly revelations, and with a spectacular cast including gorgeous Taylor and regal Hepburn legitimizing its babble, 1960s moviegoers flocked to this ridiculous hammy 'important' film in 1960 apparently to see if the whispers were true... that this film was about queers and their mothers bla bla bla... today it is so hilarious it should be a ROCKY HORROR late-show for ticket-buyers to dress up and yell back at the screen. In the realm of the senseless like WHITE MISCHIEF or THE APPLE or MOMMIE DEAREST the idea of this shrill operatic psychobabble being riveting viewing allows anyone with a ripe sense of humor (like me, presumably) to simply roar with laughter at every overwritten scene and every screeched line by Liz and every piece of Hepburn's turn imitating Miss Gulch from the Wizard Of Oz. SUDDENLY LAST SUMMER is impossible to take seriously and many other comments on this site point out the hilarious nonsense of the premise of this wretched rubbish that the women were luring men to have silly Sebastian have a go instead. Who'd wanna have sex with Hepburn as Mom in this? And if lured by Liz, well, who'd toss her off for dippy dainty Sebastian? How millions of moviegoers fell for this in 1960 is beyond me, because as someone else aptly says here today this film would last 30 seconds. As usual the Brits did it all better in VICTIM. "},{"Title":"A hysterical mess","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERT!!!!! (although most of the comments I've seen contain this same possible spoiler, and the film itself is also quite a spoiler, in my opinion but just in case...)I fell asleep repeatedly during this maudlin movie, and the friend I was watching it with had to keep waking me up, so maybe I missed what's supposed to be so great about watching Kate Hepburn and Elizabeth Taylor make fools of themselves in a Tennessee Williams storyline about a crazy rich lady who--no joke--wants to get her niece LOBOTOMIZED so she won't tell anyone that a bunch of boys ATE her homosexual son! The creepiest thing about Suddenly Last Summer is that it ever got made. It would be funny if it wasn't so painful to watch. "}]