[{"Title":"Enjoyable sequel, not on par with the original","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  THE FLY was a fairly classy, atmospheric sci-fi movie with some horror overtones.  It was fun and campy, but also somewhat disturbing in its depiction of a man losing his humanity, a theme which was explored more deeply in David Cronenberg's astonishing remake.RETURN OF THE FLY is basically a cheap follow-up which is better than it should be.  This is mostly due to the always reliable Vincent Price, who returns as the brother of the scientist who became the fly-monster in the original.  Here, he desperately tries to sway his nephew from following in his father's footsteps.The movie concentrates on the son's attempts to recreate his father's teleportation equipment with a hesitant Price helping out, then shifts gears as his other partner, a British ex-con, is discovered to be attempting to steal the research.This leads to a few misadventures with the teleportation machine resulting in a man becoming a human guinea pig (literally), and ultimately the son becoming a fly-monster himself.Shot in stark black and white (as opposed to the original's lush Technicolor), RETURN OF THE FLY has a sleazy, grindhouse quality to it.  Whereas the original explored the horror of losing one's mind and physical being, this time it's basically just a monster roaming the countryside scenario, with any psychological or philisophical aspects thrown out the window in favor of cheap thrills.  And while the make-up effects are somewhat improved upon, the ridiculous optical effect of the son's head on a fly's body is unintentionally funny. Overall, however, it's entertaining enough, and above average for the B-horror movies of the era, though it may be disappointing for fans of the original. "},{"Title":"A quickie capitalizes on the popularity of the original...","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" BRETT HALSEY is one of those handsome young actors from the '50s who never quite made it to stardom, and following the trend of other such actors, he fled to Europe where he found a niche for a decade or so in adventure films. He was certainly a competent enough actor and it's a shame Fox never groomed him for major stardom.Nor did Fox have enough faith in this one to use technicolor (as they did for the original). As sequels go, it's just a fair job on an obviously shoestring budget--and basically, without giving any of the storyline away, it's a story of revenge.It's all suitably photographed in low key B&W lighting that gives it the proper atmosphere. The performers are capable enough--including Halsey, Vincent Price, John Sutton and Dan Seymour--but their material is scarcely worthy of their combined talents. Fans of this sort of science fiction will no doubt find it has a certain amount of interest.Anyone who enjoyed The Fly will want to see this and probably not be too critical of the shortcomings--although the special effects are not quite as harrowing as they could be.Summing up Okay for a viewing, but not likely to be the kind of horror flick anyone will want to revisit. "},{"Title":"Solid Sequel!","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This rushed sequel to 1958's classic THE FLY is actually more entertaining than the original thanks to a faster pace and a greater emphasis on action and chills.The original fly's son, Philippe, is now a brilliant young scientist in his own right. He seeks to reconstruct the teleportation device that erroneously turned his pops into a frightening (well, silly, actually) insect man. With the project a success, a crooked assistant -- in an apparent murder attempt -- teleports Philippe along with a fly (clever writing, I must say). Like father, like son, this bug man is out to terrorize. But maybe, just maybe the man within the beast can be salvaged. With decent performances from Brett Halsey and the returning Vincent Price, this 1959 outing deserves its own place on the mantle of great black and white horror entries. "},{"Title":"Works Well As Light Entertainment, As Long As It's Not Compared With the Original","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the kind of sequel that can be rather enjoyable as long as you don't hold it up to the standard of the original. It does bear the signs of a movie that was conceived primarily to capitalize on the popularity of its predecessor, and as a result it is hardly as carefully constructed. But as light entertainment, it works well enough.The first part of the movie connects things up pretty efficiently with the original story, and it's kind of fun to go back to André's wrecked lab, which looks just as it should. Brett Halsey plays André's son Philippe, who is determined to follow in his father's footsteps. While the setup could have led in a number of different directions, the story that actually follows puts an emphasis on action, and it uses the special visual effects rather more freely than in the original Fly.From a scientific viewpoint, the whole premise of both movies is far-fetched at best, but in the original, you rarely thought about it because the story was so tightly constructed. In the sequel, the implausibility of the whole thing is harder to ignore. It doesn't detract that much from the entertainment value, but it is a noticeable difference from the first movie.Except for Vincent Price, the cast is new, but solid. While the production might have a couple of rough edges this time, most of it still looks good enough. Overall, with the right expectations this is a generally entertaining light feature. "},{"Title":"Following in father's footsteps.","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Phillippe the son of the infamous Dr. Delambre, who still has an air of mystery around his death, is now a young man who has taken over his father's work, which his uncle Francois wants him to forget about. Though he gets conned into backing the experiment and that's only if he can supervise the project, so it doesn't happen again. The experiment is going quite well, up until later on when Phillippe finds out his mischievous assistant has betrayed him, as he's secretly selling the idea of the teleportation device to another backer. So, to stop the word getting out, his assistant provides him with the same fate that his father had fought. Now, it's a race against time for Francois and Inspector Beecham to save Phillippe from the same aftermath of his father.Right of the back of the original film, comes a rather quickie of a sequel that doesn't push any limits. Firstly, no way does it come close to the superior original, but as an automatic b-grade monster feature, it's provides enough rollicking fun. Well, when you got Price on show, how can you go wrong? What we get is a bland story structure that lacks an ounce of life and astuteness, though it does have a few inspired moments, but these are far and in between many inferior sequences that come off just plain ordinary with some confusing plot details. The original managed to work around the silly context, but here it tends accept it by working in laughable story turns and monster effects. Even the dialog seems more like schlock, without the savvy and witty dialog that made the first film naturally engaging. The performances are all but cold and lifeless, but with the obvious exception of Vincent Price. He just has a spellbinding presence that when the words roll of his tongue, it has a Shakespearean vibe, no matter how bad the lines were. Price's performance is definitely this film's anchor. The rest of the characters I didn't care for, as they are rather unsympathetic and foolish.There was just more attention to fabricating unpleasant and cheap thrills, which are more out of control with a monster out for revenge hook-line. It's more violent than its predecessor too. I give it credit that it's more exciting in its basic dementia of its creation, but hell the treatment of the story and effects were laughable. That's unintentionally, though. This one seems more serious, but it's outlandishly executed in a drab fashion. But ironically everything works out in the long run with a happy ending for all&#133; well for the good guys. Now the effects are decent, but when it came to the fly's head on the human body. Why was it that huge!? It looks stupid! Sure, it looks even more hideous, but you got to be kidding, it was funny watching the guy running along while holding onto it, so it doesn't fall off. You could easily tell the guy was having trouble with it, even so when walking! They really out did themselves on that one.Another note was that the pacing is rather brisk, gladly. Also it does provide slight dose of suspense and atmosphere, but more so it's preoccupied in its second-rate chills and mayhem instead. The flick is shot in black and white, and it does look rather sharp and crisp in detail. Plus there's some showy photography and framework that adds a bit more creative eye to the wailing production. The story's actions on this occasion were just too ridiculous to take seriously with it getting more risible the further it goes, but it seems pretty unaware to all of that.It's not all that bad, but the quality is replaced by big chunks of camp that's more interested in wowing us with ludicrous action, rather then the strain it has on the characters and their relationships. Still, there's b-grade fun to be had here. "},{"Title":"It's actually not bad","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Not as good as the first one. But it is still good. I watched this recently because I bought the box set(I have yet to watch Curse of the Fly but I will soon) a month ago. Now on to my review. If you are expecting the Fly to return, then you are going to be disappointed because he does not. It is about his son. His son turns into a Fly. The movie should be called The New Fly. Phillipe as a man/Fly his head is even bigger then Andre's in Part 1. This movie takes place 15 years after Part one. If the first one takes place in 1958(the year it was made) then that means that this one takes place in 1973. Funny because I do not recall seeing disco balls in this movie. LOL. Well this was shot in 1959. I enjoyed this movie. I think that Vincent Price does a better job of acting then he did in the first one. He actually has a bigger role in this one. I recommend this film. If you liked the first part then you will like the second part I believe. My overall rating is 7 out of 10 flies. Enjoy. P.S. The scene where Vincent Price faints is priceless. "},{"Title":"Enjoyably Cheezy","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's not as howlingly bad as Plan Nine From Outer SPace but there are plenty of laugh inducing effects to sing your fly claws into but what do expect from a teensy budget and a director that was used to doing The Three Stooges Episodes with Shemp.Most of the cast strives for dignity in the face of a script that was hurriedly written and probably uncared for even though you do get the standard over the top moments that were in just about every 50's sci-fi. The effects are legendarily bad and many folks(myself included) have a fondness for them. Where else are you going to see a guinea pig with tiny human appendages? Glen Danzig of Misfits fame even writes about it in a song Return Of The Fly. Return Of The Fly,with Vincent Price.You guinea pig,Return of the Fly,human hands and feet,Return of the fly. It's a lot of fun and one of my Saturday night TV chiller show faves as a kid. "},{"Title":"Return of the classic buzz!","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nice black & white follow-up to the colorful 1958's original. Philippe Delambre decides to continue his father's work, at the disapproval of his uncle François (an ever so great Vincent Price, reprising his role from the first film, this time having a lot more screen time). Inevitably, things go wrong again, but not the way one might expect they would. Actually, the subplot about betrayal and revenge is the one that drives this film and keeps it all interesting. And if you want to know what comes out of the second tele-pod when you throw a human and a hamster together in the first, then all you have to do is watch this sequel to know the answer. Decent classic horror entertainment. And a damn decent sequel to boot. "},{"Title":"Very Good Sequel","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Return Of The Fly of 1959 is a surprisingly good, and vastly underrated sequel to the fascinating 1958 Sci-Fi/Horror classic The Fly. While the film does not quite reach the greatness of its predecessor, of course, it is definitely a creepy and highly recommendable film that no lover of Classic Sci-Fi and Horror should miss. This was directed by Edward Berns, as the director of the original, Kurt Neumann, sadly died only shortly after its premiere. The great Vincent Price is back in his role of Francois Delambre, whose brother Andre Delambre (played by David Hedison) was turned into a Human Fly in the original film. Fifteen years are supposed to have passed since the events in the first film, and Andre Delambre's son Philippe (Brad Halsey) has become a dedicated scientist himself. In spite of his worried uncle's warnings, Philippe is determined to carry on his father's experiments. With objectionable results, of course... Vincent Price is my favorite actor, and even though the role of the reasonable, worried uncle may not be typical for the master of sinister and macabre characters, he is once again excellent in his role. Besides Price, none of the other actors from the original appears. The new actors also deliver good performances, however, especially David Frankham is good as an English gangster (as its predecessor, the film is set in Canada). Visually, Return Of The Fly is something rare, namely a black and white sequel to a film that was actually in color. It is not clear what reason they had to make the sequel in black and white, but it is save to assume that the budget was lower. The Film has a great plot, however, including a number of sub-plots. The settings from the first film were used again for this, which is a good thing, as far as I am considered. Overall, Return Of The Fly may not be quite as essential a film as its predecessor, but it is definitely more than worth a look for any lover of Sci-Fi and Horror in general, and for my fellow Vincent Price fans in particular. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly GREAT sequel","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Granted, I initially feared that this film would be disastrous and a complete waste of time. All the available indicators pointed out that it was just an attempt to cash in on the huge success of the original The Fly, release not even a year before quickly scripted, re-using sets and scenery of the original and the plot sounded too much like a repeating of the events occurring in the first. Well, I'm more than happy to announce that I couldn't be more wrong! Return of the Fly is an excellent film and definitely worthy of its classic predecessor. It already opens terrific, with grim images of the funeral of Helene Delambre, the heroine of the first film. Her brother-in-law François is forced to tell Helene's son Philippe about the tragedy that overcame his father all those years ago. The fade of his father encourages Philippe &#150; a devoted scientist as well &#150; to continue and finish his work, accompanied by a friend and François himself. I won't spoil what happens next, as it's too different from what you expect and certainly worth fining out yourself. Return of the Fly is a great film for multiple reasons. First and foremost, there's the more extended role of Vincent Price. I can't explain what it is about him, but his inimitable charisma makes every movie he stars in a must-see and his monologues (although often about tedious substance) are compelling beyond words. Whatever he speaks about I hang on Vincent Price's lips! Another reason to state this film's greatness is the ingenious use of multiple subplots. Aside being a cool sci-fi adventure, the Return of the Fly-script also focuses on typical human greed, betrayal and phobias/ghosts from the past. For some reason (budget-related, perhaps?) it's entirely filmed in black and white, while the original was in color. That's hardly an obstacle, though, since it increases the eerie atmosphere immensely. Besides, the make-up effects are a lot more repellent in this sequel, so the lack of color also neutralizes the effect of the nasty human fly images. The ending comes rather abrupt, unfortunately and it's my own personal opinion that Brett Halsey can't handle the leading role David Hedinson did in the first. Luckily, there's the almighty Vincent Price for the good acting and the incredibly beautiful Danielle De Metz as eye-candy. In conclusion you won't hear me say that Return of&#133; outshines the original milestone, but it equally is a must for genre fans and I can't deny that it was more fun to watch. Highest possible recommendation! "}{"Title":"Daft but endearing sequel","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" To be honest I've always thought the original Fly movie a decent effort but no great shakes - it keeps horror mainly off-screen for a tragic romance, and while it's stylish-looking and engaging Vincent Price gets very little to do. Here, at least, he has a slightly more central role. It may be a hasty knock-off but the sequel is a more traditional horror movie and fun to boot.Of course the Fly here - played by Brett Halsey as the son of the original transmigration inventor Andre Delambre - looks utterly silly, with a massive over-proportioned head that is unintentionally funny. What is often missed is the frequently mentioned problem of giganticism in the movie, which makes it perfectly logical I suppose. Several times characters say they've cracked the problem; the evidence here suggests not! The action has moved on about 15 years, and opens with the funeral of Helene Delambre. The movie incidentally is crisply photographed in black and white, and in no time at all we are back at Delambre Freres, scene of the original experiments. Even Michael Mark, the actor who carried his drowned daughter into the village way back in the original Frankenstein, pops up as the watchman, and Phillipe Delambre quickly expresses his determination to carry on in his father's footsteps. He, is, however, not particularly on the ball when choosing his assistants.....Along the way we get a human crossed with a Guinea Pig (yes, really!) and this time the script is clever enough to make sure the human/fly hybrid is no accident. It is not so clever in explaining how on earth The Fly knows of the existence of the dodgy undertaker, though!So, yep, the movie may be silly once the Fly gets loose, but it remains enjoyable. Turn your nose up if you wish, but there are many worse films than Return Of The Fly. "},{"Title":"I know something terrible happened, something even more terrible than suicide or murder","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Following the death of his mother, Philippe Delambre (Brett Halsey) decides to continue the work his father began 15 years previous. His father's experiments in matter transference ended disastrously. Philippe promises his uncle, Francois Delambre (Vincent Price), he'll be more careful and not make the same mistake that took his father's life. But as luck would have it, Philippe is destined to the same horrible fate. Through a one in a million accident, he's turned into a half fly, half human. Though he wasn't able to help Philippe's father, maybe this time Uncle Francois can find the fly and save Philippe.Return of the Fly is a quick and cheap follow-up to The Fly. Though there are things to enjoy, it's something of a disappointment given the original. The sequel lacks the mystery of the first movie. In this one, we are expected to just accept the whole transference process and that a man can be turned into a fly. No suspense, no atmosphere &#150; nothing. And what about the son Philippe meeting the same fate as his father? I called it a million to one accident &#150; well it's probably more like a trillion to one. Can't the Delambre family get some pest strips or hire an exterminator or something? The notion of a fly getting in the transference machine twice is ridiculous. There are other problems (the fly special effects and the theft subplot for example), but these are the two things that bothered me the most.Oh, but it's not all bad. The acting is okay. I've never been much of a fan of Brett Halsey, but here he's actually good. Vincent Price is always enjoyable even when, as here, he doesn't have much of anything to do. Also, the scenes of the fly stalking his prey in the funeral home are effective. I'll admit that I jumped every time he popped out of the shadows. Finally, despite the movie's problems and shortcomings, it's still fairly fun. As I've written any number of times now, entertainment is the most important thing when it comes to a movie for me. And while I wasn't bowled over or anything by Return of the Fly, I still had a decent time with it. "},{"Title":"An entertaining sequel to the classic original","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Late scientist Andre Delambre's ambitious son Philippe (a solid and sympathetic performance by the handsome Brett Halsey) decides to continue his father's experiments with teleportation. His worried uncle Francois (the always superb Vincent Price) disapproves. Philippe gets betrayed by his treacherous assistant Ronald Holmes (a pleasingly slimy turn by David Frankham), who turns poor Philippe into a grotesque half-man, half-fly hybrid creature. Writer/director Edward Bernds eschews the heart-wrenching pathos of the first picture in favor of a less subtle, but still enjoyably lurid crime noir sensibility. The good acting from an able cast helps a lot Halsey does impressive work in the lead, Price makes a welcome return, plus there are praiseworthy contributions by Dan Seymour as sleazy fat hoodlum Max Berthold, John Sutton as the helpful Inspector Beechum, the luscious Danielle De Metz as Philippe's charming and comely fiancé Cecile Bonnard, and Janine Grandel as loyal housekeeper Madame Bonnard. Brydon Baker's crisp black and white widescreen cinematography gives the movie an effectively gritty look. The moody, rousing score by Paul Sawtell and Bert Shefter likewise does the trick. The mutated fly-man is genuinely creepy. One definite skin-crawling highlight occurs when Holmes crosses a luckless police officer with a guinea pig (Holmes actually crushes said squealing guinea pig with shockingly sadistic relish!). Nice, pulpy fun. "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel (in 50s B sci-fi context)","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" (spoilers marked below)Return of the Fly is actually a cut above the average B movie of the 1950s. As a sequel, released only a year after the original, it works quite well as follow-up story.So many reviewers complain about wooden acting, as if every movie created must be Citizen Kane. The acting in Return of the Fly is many notches above the usual B-grade films. Watch Plan 9 From Outer Space (1959) or watch Killers From Space (1955), then watch Return of the Fly. You'll see that Vincent Price puts in an A-level performance. Brett Halsey plays Phillipe reasonably well. The others aren't on screen long enough to fail. David Frankham, as Phillipe's assistant actually does a creditable job too, in playing the spy.Some complain of laughable special effects, as if every movie ever made must be 90% CGI. Return of the Fly is no worse than the original. Yes, the disappearance in the chambers is more obviously just cuts, (they needed more bright flash to hide the cuts, as the original did), but the costuming is better. The fly-head in the original was a little underwhelming. The fly head in Return is much better.The rest of the set and props are very obviously re-used from the original, but since it's the continuation of the original story, this never feels like a cheap substitution. The ultimate morph of the movie -- Phillipe turning into a half-fly / half-man just like his father Andre had, was hardly a surprise when it happened. That's what the audiences expected. You knew it had to happen. But this time around, it's not so improbable as another mistaken fly getting in. No, this time around, there's some cruel irony behind it.---- spoiler parts below ----The Return plot adds the concept of things being disintegrated by held in electronic storage for later reintegration. (Consider how Star Trek and Stargate used this concept too, and you can see that Return was not just another Plan 9). Phillipe disintegrates a guinea pig for later reintegration the next day as a test of the storage concept. During the night, his assistant, Alan, (who is really an industrial spy wanted for murder in England out to steal the Disintegrator plans) kills a British agent who tracked him down. Alan uses the Disintegrator to get hide the policeman's body in storage following the scuffle. When everyone had gone back to bed, he brings the dead agent back out of storage but he cross merged with the guinea pig. Alan kills the guinea pig with human hands, and disposes of the dead agent with huge guinea pig hands.When Alan later knocks out Phillipe in a confrontation scuffle, he thinks to electronically hide Phillipe the same way, but gets a cruel additional idea. Phillipe was always visibly spooked by flies, knowing his father's fatal mistake. Alan, not knowing any of the history, saw Phillipe's agitation over flies. Alan catches a fly and puts it in the Disintegrator with Phillipe as an impromptu cruel-hearted twist.Return of the Fly is more of a revenge tale than a love-lost story like the original. Fly- headed-Phillipe seeks out and kills his betrayer Alan, and Alan's secrets merchant. Unlike the original, Return ends more happily. Fly-Phillipe and Phillipe-fly are put back into the Reintegrator again, and both return to normal. Another reviewer said the machine was destroyed, but it was not. Perhaps this left the door open to another sequel.All in all, Return of the Fly makes a good double-feature with the original. It's a high-grade B movie. "},{"Title":"The Fly is back","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Return of the Fly is the first sequel to The Fly and followed a year later in 1959.It is 15 years since the scientist who invented the transportation machine died and his son and brother decide to reactivate it. Once again, the experiments are fairly successful at first but things start to go wrong when he puts the pet guinea pig in the transfer chamber and a fly once again gets in it. The result is the guinea pig has acquired the fly's legs and is then trodden on and killed (animal lovers beware of this scene). He then puts himself in the machine and once again, a fly gets in and he ends up with one of the fly's legs. Towards the end, they capture the fly and the sequence is reversed and Philippe is OK once again and decides not to do any more experiments with the machine and it is destroyed.The Return of the Fly is not as good as The Fly but is still worth watching. A second sequel, the British made Curse of the Fly followed in 1965 but that was not very good at all. The Return of the Fly was remade as a sequel to 1986's Fly as The Fly 2 in 1989, but avoid, too gory.Vincent Price reprises his role from The Fly and is joined by Brett Halsey as Philippe, Dannielle De Metz as his lover and Dan Seymour.Return of the Fly is certainly worth watching and is quite good for a sequel. Excellent.Rating 3 and a half stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and Enjoyable","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  My words for this film are going to be less harsh than others for the simple fact that this film, in no way superior or even comparable to the original, is entertaining.  The story has the little boy from the first Fly film, Phillipe, coming back to carry out the work of his father, against the express wishes of Vincent Price, his uncle.  The plot is very predictable and the acting is nothing more than adequate(Vinnie notwithstanding).  The film is in black and white, and in general very cheaply made.  What then does it have going for it?  Well, for one it has a nice performance by Vincent Price.  Another thing is it has some bizarre scenes and murders, things lacking from the original.  The guinea pig scene is reason enough to see the film. "},{"Title":"It's quite hilarious, which, you know, wasn't probably the intention","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While the fly makeup is as ridiculous as in the original, it's got nothing on the guinea pig paws. Add in obvious, under-lining music, delayed reactions, a clumsy fly-man, some overacting, action reminiscent of the old Batman series, help me, help me revisited, some fly-staring, 50s special effects - the disintegrator-integrator machine of the old beep-beep type (you can imagine the sounds), not to mention the creatures themselves, is amusing as anything - and some rodent-squelching, and you got yourself laughs aplenty.The editing is really messy and ugly; there's much dead air in between, even though the film barely runs for 80 minutes! The camera-work is awkward as well.The cliché-filled dialogue is often amusing, intentionally or not, with some of the highlights being the if I tell you, it'll haunt you for the rest of your life exchange, the whole bad guy routine and the murderous brain of the fly. The what?I don't think this was done tongue-in-cheek. It's basically the same story as in the original, which makes it seem redundant, but hey, it's mostly entertaining, so I guess that evens it out. Notice how I used the word mostly. "},{"Title":"Cultish Follow-Up to the Horror Classic The Fly","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Return of the Fly suffers from comparison to the film it sequels. It feels like a B movie rather than an A-list production. Here, the heir to the Delambre fortune attempts to validate his dead father's work on the teleportation device. His involvement with a murderous swindler leads to a catastrophic transformation mirroring the tragedy of the first film. Vincent Price reprises his role as a concerned uncle trying to save the Delambre family from dangerous scientific experiments.The unconvincing creature design has a campy charm to it and overall The Return of the Fly can best be appreciated as a minor cult favorite. Followed by the slightly better Curse of the Fly. "},{"Title":"Return of the quick buck pain zone.","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Years after his father's experiments with matter transportation resulted in terror striking his family, Philippe Delambre decides he wishes to continue his father's work and break new ground in science. Unable to get financial help from his uncle François, Phillipe turns to a shady friend for assistance, a decision that will send Philippe and those around him into utter terror!.Much like the disastrous creatures that are born out of the family Delambre's experiments, this sequel to the 1958 adaptation of George Langelan's short story is an abomination that not only was a cash cow rush job, it's also a stain on the first pictures greatness. Unintentionally funny and wasting the obvious talents of Vincent Price who looks bemused by what's going on most of the time, it's a picture that really has no redeeming features, technically it's poor the superimposed head of pretty face actor for hire, Brett Halsey, on the fly is cringe worthy and it lacks any moments of unease to speak of. A quite disturbing sequence involving a mouse/guinea pig scores well in the sicko stakes, but by the time the Papier Mache headed fly goes for some emotional weight, well we no longer care what happens to it or those around it.Some times cheese can be fun and entertaining, but bad cheese tends to stink up the place very quickly indeed, Return Of The Fly is the Stilton of stupidly bad sequel movies. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Return Misses The Mark","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was not sure what to expect as all of the plans and equipment were destroyed in the first movie but leave it up to screen writers to force a plot from the ashes. Philippe Delambre has grown up and refuses to listen to his uncle, Francois Delambre Vincent Price from the first feature. Uncle tries to stop Philippe from following the experiments that killed Andre Delambre and lead to the death of Helene Delambre, Philippe's mother. The boy has become a hard headed and stubborn man that blackmails Francois into funding the experiments of matter transfer. Philippe's friend, a fellow scientist Alan Hinds plays the part of murderer and traitor. Because of Alan's greed, Philippe ends up becoming what his father did, a fly-man but very different, this monster seeks out and kills. That is what sets this film as different, the first film had love as a motive of the lone killing whereas this film, revenge is the centerpiece. There is certainly more action in this film but it lacks the sympathy the first one displays. Still, to watch both films in order is a worthwhile adventure. "}{"Title":"A Nice Twist on the First Film","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Fifteen years after the events of The Fly, Andre's son (Brett Halsey) does some transportation experimentation of his own.The most unfortunate thing about this film is that only Vincent Price returned. The wife is now dead, the detective was recast, and everyone else is gone. The son was recast, but at least that makes sense (we cannot expect a kid to age fifteen years in a few months). And strangely, we have a black and white sequel to a color film. Is that common? But this is generally a strong film, and perhaps in some ways a stronger film. The special effects are a bit cheesier and the fly head seems even more bulbous and far-fetched, but the plot is more interesting. We add in some spy network and get a sort of espionage film. Exactly why a spy would try to infiltrate a foundry is unclear, or why his financier works in a morgue... but oh well. "},{"Title":"Not a shadow of the original","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Return of the Fly is the inevitable sequel to the 1958's classic horror film The Fly, and like most of the sequels done to capitalize on the success of their predecessors, it doesn't hold a candle against the original. Written and directed by Edward Bernds (who directed many of The Three Stooges films), the film moves far away from the Gothic horror of its predecessor and gets closer to the many creature features of the 50s where a monster kills mercilessly those who oppose it causing havoc and horror among those who surrounds it.Set years after the events of the first film, Return of the Fly presents an adult Philippe Delambre (Brett Halsey) and his desires to continue his father's work on matter transportation now that his mother has died. His uncle Francois (Vincent Price) opposes him, as he knows the dangers that gave as a result his brother's death; however, after being blackmailed by Philippe he can't help but funding his research. To their misfortune, Philippe's assistant Alan Hinds (David Frankham) has a dark secret, a secret that will unleash the horror of the Fly again.To his credit, Edward Bernds connects very cleverly both films and the premise is actually quite exiting and original. However, the film develops in a way that favors action over the subtle suspense and the Gothic horror of the first film. While in the first one the horrors of the transformation where kept hidden most of the time, here the script uses every chance to show off the hideous monster as most as possible. Still, while the film is definitely more action oriented and way different from the first one, the plot is very entertaining on its own right.The direction is appropriate considering the whole change in tone and mood of the film, and Bernds' expertise in low-budget film-making crafts his film efficiently although with a very bland result. Gone are the Gothic feeling and the elegant camera-work, gone are the vivid colors and the dark imagery; this film is a full-fledged sci-fi film of its time and it shows. Bernds use of basically every visual effect available (without caring too much for quality) is notorious and while the Black & White photography is very well used to make an eerie atmosphere, the overall look of the film is a bit typical of the 50s.The cast is probably what saves the film from being just another cheap sequel, as despite the dull dialogs and the overall weak script, most of them deliver quite good performances. Vincent Price reprises his role as Francois and this time his character has more action. Easily the best of the cast, Price makes the most of what is probably the weakest character in his career. David Frankham is also very good as the mysterious Alan Hinds, and John Sutton is very effective as the Inspector Beecham. While Brett Halsey should be the best of the bunch given that he is the main character, his performance is a bit weak and definitely not up to the challenge.Return of the Fly suffers a lot from its low-budget, specially concerning the whole Fly make-up. Clearly designed to be more grotesque than the original, it looks exaggerated and clumsy, and the constant showing of the monster clearly doesn't help. Effects that in the original were used with great care to create horrifying scenes here are quickly wasted on useless scenes apparently done to show off as many effects as possible.This sequel is obviously inferior to the original, although it has an advantage over most of the countless cheap sequels it's entertaining. Although probably the movie is now a laughing matter, it's saved by the presence of Vincent Price that proves that his charisma and personality can make a film worthy. Return of the Fly is worth a watch, and while it is not a horror classic, it delivers entertainment despite all of its troubles. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Fly Boy","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Inevitably possessing none of the shock value of its successful predecessor, The Return of the Fly still manages to deliver a reasonably entertaining sci-fi/horror flick when judged by the standards of the genre. Ironically, the use of black-and-white film &#150; presumably due to budgetary restraints &#150; heightens the atmosphere immeasurably and writer/director Ed Bernds manages to add some memorable scenes to make this sequel better than you might expect.The film opens fifteen years after the original, with the funeral of the original's heroine, which is attended by both her son Philippe (Brett Halsey) and his uncle Francois Delambre (Vincent Price). Philippe determines to pick up the baton dropped by his father and, against the wishes of his uncle, resume his experiments in molecular transportation. He is aided in his experiments by a British colleague (David Frankham) who turns out to be something of a cad, and inevitably tragic consequences are suffered.After a stumbling start in which the plot of the previous film is clumsily related by a muck-raking journalist and fearful night-watch man for the benefit of those who missed it, the film manages to build up a nice atmosphere as Philippe sets about rebuilding his father's lab in the house he has inherited from his mother. The science on show is strictly B-movie drive-in stuff, all dials and gauges and big computers with synchronised flashing lights, but that's half the fun in a film like this, especially as it is lent something of a campy feel merely by the presence of the wonderful Vincent Price. Giantism! declares Philippe's assistant as their first guinea pig emerges from its transportation at a vastly increased size. Must be in the amplitude control, announces Philippe sagely. Despite all this scientific nonsense the special effects are largely the same as those practiced by Georges Melies back in 1896.What the film lacks in scientific credibility it makes up for with some pretty strong and atmospheric scenes. The fate of the detective on the trail of bad guy Holmes is particularly memorable, as is that of the luckless guinea pig who finds itself with new limbs after sharing a transportation chamber with him. I also liked Holmes's attempt to get out of the coffin in which the marauding fly has placed him. It's scenes like this that can lift a film above the ordinary, whatever its limitations, and for this reason The Return of the Fly is better than most of its counterparts. Only the rushed ending, presumably deemed necessary to avoid Philippe having to face the consequences of the murders he carried out while walking around with a giant fly's head on his shoulders, lets things down a little. "},{"Title":"Was very lacking on the whole for me, but has its good points","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I quite enjoyed The Fly, it had a creepy atmosphere and was well performed. Return of the Fly I wouldn't say was a terrible film but at the same time it was somewhat lacking. It certainly has redeeming values, the Guinea Pig moment is by far the most effective scene of the film and the lighting and sets are suitably haunting. Brett Halsey is very good, but I found Vincent Price to be the best asset. His role is bigger than in The Fly, which is always a treat for fans of his, and again he brings his natural charisma and distinctive voice to proceedings. Sadly, the camera work is awkward and the effects especially Halsey's make-up and fly-head are noticeably fake. The script is of cheesy quality, sometimes hilariously, often uncomfortably and the story is mostly too rushed with no real sense of terror or creepiness. All in all, a lacking sequel but not one of the worst. 4/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"He ventured into areas of knowledge where man wasn't meant to go","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" **SPOILERS** Even though Return of the Fly is supposed to take place at least 15 years after the original Fly film it was released a year later. In the film its star Vincent Price repeating his role in the original as Francois Deambre looks despite a ting of gray in his hair as if he didn't age as much as a day much less 15 years!With both his mother and father now gone forever grown up Phillippe Delambre, Brett Halsey, wants Uncle Francois to finally tell him the truth of what was the cause of his father's-Andre-horrific death and the mental collapse of his mother Helene. With the constantly nagging Phillippe on his back Francois finally reveals the truth about his dad's experiments in the transportation and both disintegration and integration of solid objects. It was during one of those experiments that Andre's body was integrated with a fly who accidentally got into the transportation machine with him! This had Andre ending up losing his head and arm as well as life because of it!Going against Uncle Francois' stern advice Phillippe goes the same insane route-I guess it runs in the family-that his old man did with the help of his assistant an escaped murder and financial crook Ronald Holmes, David Frankham. Holmes seeing money to be made with Phillippe's experiment gets together with unscrupulous undertaker Max Berthold, Dan Seymour, to steal the blueprint of his transportation machine and then sell it, for millions, to the highest bidder. It's when Phillippe finds out what Holmes has been doing behind his back that he tries to call the police but ends up knocked unconscious by him and put into the transportation machine with a fly to keep him company!***SPOILERS*** Much like the first Fly movie Fly II has Phillippe like his father Andre changed into a half man half house fly with his head, being that of a fly, almost as big as the rest of his body. The movie does have a happy ending with Fly-man Phillippe tracking down the bad guys, Holmes & Berthold, and giving them their just deserts. The most difficult part in the entire film is for Uncle Francois, who had since been shot by Holmes, and Police inspector Beecham, John Sutton, to track down the fly with Phillippe's head arm and foot and have it placed into the transportation machine along with him to put all the pieces of this very strange puzzle back together again. Something that Uncle Francios filed to do in the first Fly movie that lead his brother, and Phillippe's father, Andre to, with the help of his wife Helene, kill himself! "},{"Title":"better than I expected","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'The Return of the Fly' is a surprisingly effective sequel with some neat twists and turns; it also has some laughable special effects and so comes very close to the 'camp' category. What that means is that it can be enjoyed on two levels- as a decent low-budget sci-fi horror flick and also as an unintentional laugh-getter. Not an easy trick to pull off, but 'Return of the Fly' somehow manages. Edward Bernds, better known for directing dozens of Three Stooges shorts, directed here and also wrote the screenplay. A quick check of his other screen credits indicates 'Return of the Fly' was probably the peak of his cinematic career. It appears not much was expected of the film as he was given a budget of $225,000 to work with. In comparison, this is roughly half of what a typical Abbott & Costello movie cost. At first, it appears the story follows the 'Frankenstein' formula; another scientist takes up where the last left off, vowing to complete a failed experiment but THIS TIME won't make the same mistakes. Uh huh. In this case, it is the scientist's son, Phillipe, who takes up his father's mantle and determines to make his disintegrator/integrator a success. In case you don't remember, this device is like an early version of Star Trek's transporter. But his assistant, Alan, turns out to be a con man who is only interested in stealing the machine's secrets and selling them to the highest bidder on the international disintegrator/integrator market. His partner-in-crime (played by Dan Seymour, one of the greatest bad actors of all time) negotiates the price, which we never learn but assume is more than the budget of the picture. Vincent Price is back from the original 'Fly;' twenty or so years have passed but Price appears not to have aged a day. The adult Phillipe really does resemble his father (played by David Hedison) and when he suffers the same fate, his fly-head seems three times as large as the one in the original. I'm sure it isn't really (maybe it's the suit Phillippe is wearing), but it appears quite unwieldy at times, as when he runs through the wood or has to climb over gates or through windows. But the strangest visual moment has to be when evil Alan knocks out a nosy police inspector and puts him in the device after a guinea pig has already gone halfway through the process, so what reappears finally is the inspector with white furry hands and feet. And guess what the guinea pig has. 'The Return of the Fly' moves along at a good clip and it is the added intrigue of the disloyal Alan that keeps it from being a stale remake of the original. One can forgive certain excesses, such as one five minute stretch where it seems the disintegrator/integrator is activated about fifteen times. Every time it is, Phillipe, Alan, and Vincent Price's Francois raise their goggles to their eyes to shield them from the blinding light, then lower them afterward. Up and down. Up and down. I began to suspect I was watching the same footage over and over. "},{"Title":"EVEN BETTER THAN THE FIRST","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Return of the Fly doesn't look as slick as its' predecessor, but it has something going for it that the first didn't a better story and execution.The film stars Vincent Price, reprising his role from the original. The basic plot is that the son of the scientist decides to carry on with his old man's experiments. The title pretty much gives away what's going to happen.Or does it? One of the joys of Return of the Fly is that it's not a retread of the original film. It's a continuation that takes many unexpected twists and turns to its' (predictable) finale. The script, by 3 Stooges vet Edward L. Bernds (who also directed)also has large doses of black comedy in addition to the horror and drama. It also gives us characters we care about while the original had a scientific detachment to the characters. The result a film that somehow manages to top the original.One negative if the original was in color, why is this in black and white?**** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"The fly returns, this time on a budget","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Obviously, this sequel is nowhere near as good as the original 1958 film 'The Fly', but despite obviously being a cheap follow-up and working from a story that basically just rips off the first film, there are some good ideas here and the film is definitely worth watching. The only actor to return from the original movie is Vincent Price, but the story does lead directly on as in true horror sequel style, in this film we follow the fortunes of the original scientist's son, who naturally decides to follow on his father's experiments. Price isn't the only thing that was recycled for this film, however, as the film was apparently written to incorporate sets from the original, although this does make sense considering how the story follows on. The hapless scientist this time is Philippe Delambre, son of Andre Delambre, and a man who has decided to rebuild the transportation device. Along with his friend Alan Hinds and uncle Francois Delambre, they conduct a series of experiments in the hope of succeeding where Andre failed...but naturally, as nothing runs smoothly in a horror film, events take a turn for the macabre...I'm guessing that black and white film was cheap around 1959 as despite the fact that the original film was shot in colour, this one is in black and white. However, I actually prefer films like this in black and white, so this wasn't a problem for me. Vincent Price took a backseat in the original film, but as his star was rising by the release of this follow-up; he gets a more central role, although he still doesn't appear enough if you ask me. His role here isn't one of his strongest, but anything that features a performance from the great Mr Price is well worth seeing if you ask me. It has to be said that most of the performances (and dialogue) in this film are pretty ridiculous, but among the rest of the cast Brett Halsey, an actor who would go on to make Italian films along with this likes of Mario Bava and Lucio Fulci, stands out as the unlucky scientist. The film obviously isn't very graphic; although it's slightly more violent than the first film, and the transporter machine is put to much better use here. The special effects are inventive too, and work well despite obviously not costing much. Overall, this is at least a worthy follow-up, which while not as great as the original; has its moments and is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Sequel Not So bad","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Return of The Fly, while not considered as Good as the original, still has a lot of charm and atmosphere. It opens at the cemetery,(the death of the wife of the original Fly) and moves along at a good pace. Teleportation movies were not the common of the time, and that is what helps this film stick out.Brett Halsey(Phillipe Delambre), son of the original Fly, now grown up and wanting to fill in the shoes of his father, wants to advance the cause of Teleportation. Blinded by his ambition, he fails to see industrial espionage, and falls victim to the cross breeding effects of the transfer process. Vincent Price carries the burden of this film well, a credit to his acting ability ! Black and White serves this film , and adds to the suspense . The Curse of The Fly, makes this movie look like Academy Award winning material . I recommend  The Return of The Fly based on its broad appeal to science fiction fans . "},{"Title":"Goes Wrong Again...","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sequel to The Fly stars Brett Halsey as the now-grown Philippe Delambre, who, along with his uncle Francois(returning Vincent Price) have just attended the funeral of his mother Helene. They go back to his father's laboratory, where they decide to recreate Andre's teleportation experiment, only this time are determined to get it right. Unfortunately, Philippe becomes business partners with an untrustworthy man, who winds up betraying him, and after knocking him out, puts him in a cubicle with a fly, and the horror happens again... Predictable and equally ludicrous sequel further undermined by having a slashed budget, resulting in inadequate F/X and foolishly being filmed in black & white to the first being in color. "}{"Title":"Better than the original but pretty dull","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's an improvement on 'The Fly', and the black and white cinematography gives it an atmosphere that the original film lacked, but this first sequel is still a plodder. It's not bad, just not very interesting.This time the son of the original scientist (Brett Halsey) resurrects his father's experiments despite the warnings of old pal Vincent Price and suffers the same fate when his treacherous partner sends him through the teleporter with a fly. Despite the plot sounding like a rerun of the first movie this does go off in some new directions and has a really unsettling moment in which a guinea pig is squashed, but the dated fly head Halsey is lumbered with doesn't exactly exude menace and the pace is so slow that any goodwill the film starts out with soon disappears. "},{"Title":"Pale shadow of the first part","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One who has seen the first part, The Fly, will find this almost bearable. It might be slightly entertaining for those who haven't seen the original. Also, it is shot in black and white. I've seen The Fly in color, maybe it was colorized, though.The idea is simple the son of the scientist in The Fly is also a scientist. Through rather boring and uninteresting circumstances he becomes acquainted with the 143's descendant of the fly in the The Fly )Anyway, the horror is gone, the characters are cardboard and the plot is ludicrous. It barely touches 1950's average. "},{"Title":"What if he's not like Andre... what if he doesn't have the mind of a human, but the mindless, murdering brain of a fly?","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Picking up a little more than a decade after the original, the deceased Hedison character's son decides to pick up where his father left off in his experiments with teleportation, with some reluctant help from his uncle Vincent Price, reprising his role from the original. When the son is double crossed by his partner, a thief on the run, he turns into another, more hideous man-fly, and he's out for blood. After killing his back-stabbing partner, he returns to his home, collapses and Vincent Price and company manage to return him to normal. Sequel to first Fly is shot in black in white as opposed to technicolor. And like the first one it's not really scary but still fun to watch. Note that in both the originals and their remakes from the 1980s (which star Jeff Goldblum and Eric Stoltz, respectively), the father dies while the son lives after being betrayed by those he trusted. Rest in Peace, Vincent Price.  "},{"Title":"Return of the Fly","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The son of the doomed scientist from the original film, Philippe Delambre(Brett Halsey), decides to take up his father's work, unfortunately making the mistake of partnering up with a criminal con artist(..wanted for murder, under an alias, whose abilities in electronics helped land him in the position he's currently working)who plans to secretly sell the blueprints and notes to the highest bidder.Vincent Price returns from the original film as Francois Delambre, trying to persuade Philippe against pursuing his father's experiments. David Frankham is Alan Hinds(..actually Ronald Holmes), Philippe's underhanded colleague working closely with him in the laboratory. Francois is coerced into providing Philippe with the materials and equipment he needs or else sell his father's portion of the Delambre business. Everything seems to be going wonderfully, the integration / reintegration process appears to be a success, until Alan's scheming causes horrifying circumstances with Philippe a victim of his treachery.Much more actual plot in RETURN OF THE FLY than in the original which focused almost entirely on Andre's experiments and the awful consequences of an unfortunate mistake. In this sequel, Philippe's downfall is at the hands of Alan, who is cunning, until he runs out of tricks. The police are after Alan and one detective finds him, planning to arrest him, with the crafty criminal able to subdue him, melding the poor man with a guinea pig! Certainly the best moment in the film other than what Alan does purposely to Philippe, actually planting a fly in the transportation chamber with him. In this sequel, the fly head is gigantic and Philippe escapes police gun fire to find Alan who had commandeered Francois' car shooting him. Alan is working in concert with a funeral parlor director(!), portrayed by David Seymore, who finds those interested in maintaining ideas stolen from others.John Sutton is Francois' dedicated ally, Inspector Beecham, who helped settle the case of Andre, coming to the aid of the Delambre family when Philippe goes missing. This film strays away from the powerful tragedy of the original, instead focusing on betrayal and how a criminal can use a scientific device(..breakthrough), meant for positive influences on human travel, as a means to rid himself of those that threaten to expose his greedy grand design for obtaining wealth through the work of another. As others have mentioned, the budget was sparse, the human fly only emerges towards the end as Philippe is allowed to get his revenge on those that put him in his predicament, and Price is basically a glorified supporting character. An okay effort, but I personally found it rather forgettable. A good cast helps. "},{"Title":"The Return of one of Price's weakest roles","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In my opinion, The Fly was one of Mr. Price's weakest roles. It was a pretty good movie on it's other merits, however he simply wasn't at his best. Reviving his character in this mediocre sequel didn't help much either. Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed the film, but it's not hard to tell that it was made purely to cash in on the original's success. The biggest indicator of this is the plot, which is contrived and hard to believe. I don't mean the science-fiction parts were hard to believe; they made just as much sense as ever. The unbelievable part was how poor ol' Philipe becomes the Fly. Other than the derivative plot, this is a bit better than most cheesy sci-fi/horror flicks from the era. Though, as I've said, it's far from his best role, Price's presence is what elevates this to a higher level. The effects were good for the time as well, especially the guinea-pig/man. The hands on the guinea-pig looked pretty bad, but the guy looked great! The fly suit was better in the original, the head grew about 5 times as big for this! There are also some horribly cheesy lines, my personal favourite being He may have the murderous brain of a fly!. Overall this isn't a bad film if you're into this kind of movie, but it's flawed and not as good as the original.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Terrible...Sullies the good name of The Fly.","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In this sequel to The Fly, Andre Delambre's son is grown up and takes over his father's experiments, much to the chagrin of his Uncle Francois, once again played by Vincent Price. As you may well have guessed, the same thing happens all over again, and Phillipe Delambre's head and arm are swapped with a fly. Isn't that a funny coincidence, that the same thing happens again to the son of the original guy? What are the chances? The Return of the Fly quite simply doesn't have the same emotional depth or the same quality of plot at all. The Fly in this film is a giant lumbering idiot that just attacks people for no reason at all. They even add a stupid moment in the film where a man goes through the teleportation pod with a gerbil and comes out with gerbil paws. What's the point? To use up special effects.The direction, plot, and acting are terrible this time around, and it doesn't have the same feel as the original. It was also a big mistake to make this film in black and white after the original film was done is full colour. Ridiculous.3/10 "},{"Title":"As sequels go this coulda been worse...","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers Ahead**Vincent Price returns, recalls the horrors he witnessed in the  original, and tries to talk Andre Delambre's son (Brett Halsey) out of messing around with teleportation machines.  Delambre Jr. listens about as well as obsessed scientists ever do in these movies and the predictable situations arise.  A cop interferes and winds up with guinea pig paws.  The guinea pig with human hands is subsequently crushed in a scene that would make the Humane Society scream.  An industrial spy butts in and Halsey winds up with a giant fly head.  The original was a masterpiece of sheer horror and no way could a sequel measure up; considering how fast they cranked this out, with a Three Stooges director at the helm, it could have been worse.  Fans of teleportation machines had to wait six years for the next sequel, CURSE OF THE FLY. "},{"Title":"Return of the... Same Plot?","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A fairly silly sequel.  Granted, it has good acting for a '50s monster movie, and it does find an interesting way to recreate the same story, but it's just that... it simply recreates the original story, only in black and white (why wasn't this done in color like the original?).  It's not a total waste of time, but nowhere near as great as the original. "},{"Title":"good sequel","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  good sequel that i enjoyed a lot it is well made and almost as good as the original but suffers from a weak finale and hammy acting but other then that it was a decent little flick that i recommend **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Help me! Help me! Not again.","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This does not compare with the original. Appears to be a hurry up production. A scientist conducts the same transmission of matter experiments that did not bode well for his father fifteen years earlier. Science gone hay wire. More interesting the first time around.Vincent Price does nothing above or beyond; but his name sells tickets. Also in the cast are Brett Halsey, John Sutton and Dan Seymour.  "}{"Title":"Mad science gone absolutely haywire!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  '' Some aspects of science are not intended for man to experiment with.'' Such was a line of Mr. Vincent Price in this sci-fi horror mega classic. A tale of Four Demensional transport without direct human touch. But not without direct human involvement . Much  more so than television or movie screens  which merely projects the image. Most times in 2_d - or 3-D , and if you have the proper glasses. And most times pre - recorded.  A terrible attrosity is created in a laboratory, yet his life is spared through a reversal of process. Bravo, Mr. Price. Bravo to all other cast as well. "},{"Title":"Pretty silly, and unnecessary sequel","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Like father, like son.  This is a black & white sequel to the color original.  The sone of the originals' father starts the same experiments as his father and the same thing happens to him.  The acting is pretty good (Price and Halsey do a very good job) but the makeup on Halsey is laughable, the plot has nothing fresh or original to it and it's nowhere near as intelligent as the original.  A pretty dull little film.  For Vincent Price completists only.  Even the sequel after this Revenge of the Fly was better! "},{"Title":"Fun Sequel","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Return of the Fly (1959) *** (out of 4)Sequel to THE FLY takes place fifteen years after the events in that film. Here, the son (Brett Halsey) of the original scientist is trying out daddy's machine and ends up with the head and arm of a fly after his assistant double crosses him. Whereas the original film was a rather smart sci-fi tale, this one here pretty much throws all brains out the door and instead just delivers an old-fashioned monster-on-the-loose flick. There's certainly nothing wrong with that as in the end this is a pretty good little gem that manages to be quite fun. This film obviously falls into that B category as Fox cut the budget in half, which explains the B&W photography and the smaller sets and all around attempt at doing something bigger. This really doesn't hurt the film too much because, as I said earlier, this film here is pretty much your typical monster running around killing for revenge. Halsey is pretty good in his role as the studio was obviously hoping this type of film would bring him stardom, which it didn't. Vincent Price is back in the role of the uncle and manages to deliver a nice performance even though it's reported most of his scenes were cut out of the shooting script. The make up effects are extremely cheap and don't look as good as the previous film but I still like the look of the monster here with the bigger head. "},{"Title":"Great Follow up","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Great Follow Up To the original Classic. The Run time is a bit Shabby, But they spent every Minute drawing you closer and closer to the Naive Monster. Almost as Good as the Original, but not that Good. Fans of the First should find Enjoyment in the Well Written Second Installment. Fans of the First Should Try to hunt it Down. "},{"Title":"RETURN OF THE FLY (Edward L. Bernds, 1959) **1/2","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Unsurprisingly, this turned out to be an inferior sequel &#150; looking somewhat half-hearted in black-and-white (it was probably rushed into production and treated pretty much as a 'B' picture). That said, here, we're able to see the fly make-up in greater detail than in the first film (where it was kept hidden most of the time); on the other hand, however, the fly with the human head doesn't work quite so well this time around (similarly, the two hybrids of human and guinea pig were pretty hilarious)! The plot, at least, brings some novelty value to the table in the character of the duplicitous partner intent on selling the secret formula (I was wondering how the son would eventually turn into a fly, since he seemed determined not to repeat his father's mistake &#150; though the deliberate manner in which it happens is perhaps too nasty!), the fact that the monster goes on a rampage (rather than have the scientist simply lock himself away and pity his own fate), not to mention how it all manages to work its way to a happy ending (which is a rare commodity in horror films even to this day!).Brett Halsey is a handsome lead but merely O.K. in the role (though he would return to the genre a number of times), while David Frankham makes for an ineffectual villain; however, Dan Seymour is a welcome presence as Frankham's equally unscrupulous associate (amusingly using the funeral business as a cover a' la that underrated British noir gem,THEY MADE ME A FUGITIVE 1947!). As for Vincent Price, he comes across as rather too wimpish (a characteristic which would actually infuse many subsequent roles, particularly the Poe-inspired films of Roger Corman and other stuff he made for AIP) &#150; but, then, how tough can a man be when his brother and nephew are insects?! "}]