[{"Title":"The movie that first gave me an impression of 'cinema verite'","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"41 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1960, in a small Black Country town, I went to see this movie, with a male friend, at our local fleapit - it was a revelation. I found myself in a cinema that was a real setting for what appeared on the screen, for there Albert Finney was, not represented, was the working class bloke that sat in the picture house near to me.Equally I knew that, on leaving, I would see his aunt (Hilda Baker) in the local chippy, and that Norman Rossington would be cycling to some nearby canal to fish. Indeed when Ben (my friend) and I left we went to our local for a quick pint and, I swear,we both had the uncanny feeling of being part of the film.Time has passed and the working class East and West Midlands have change completely so it may not have such resonance for a new generation but if you want to know what a good slice of England looked and sounded like in the 1950s you should see it it's better than any documentary. Indeed it is a great film. "},{"Title":"Matching the mood of the times, this film transformed British cinema and was much imitated...","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" English history has been full of rebel heroes but the screen tradition really came to fruition during the late Fifties and early Sixties when England's postwar generation was in revolt&#133; In the theater, this revolt took the form of the kitchen sink drama and the era of the Angry Young Men&#133; In the movie industry, it was the era of Free Cinema, an attempt by young filmmakers to break away from established subjects and standard treatments&#133; This raw melodrama deals with Arthur Seaton (Finney), a working class young man who rejects the misery and grind of his home and factory, but whose only possible rebellion takes the form of a cynicism towards authority and a cheerful indulgence in sexual encounters with various ladies of the town&#133; His rebellion, though limited, is nevertheless genuine and the film's situation in a working class milieu is, for the habitually middle and upper class conscious British cinema, a much needed step forward... "},{"Title":"A classic - but cannot have the impact it once had","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie that made Albert Finney a star cannot, now, be viewed as anything more than an a (UK) cinematic gem in it own glass case. At the time of release it hit the audience like a bomb-shell due to its frank portrayal of life, sex and double standards in the late 50's.Today some will be puzzled by the dilemmas and themes to the point of so what?Writer Alan Silitoe (from his own novel) quickly draws us in the to real world of a Nottingham factory worker. This is not the factory work of normal movies with the made-up hero having a blob of black stage paint across his forehead; more the dishevelled, sweaty, badly lit world that he knows from first hand experience.In it we find Finney, smoking and gruff at his lathe. No actor, before him or after has ever made so much of an impression in a mundane situation as the ex-Shakespearen actor does here. Reality comes out of every pore. His matter-of-fact speaking voice, as a voice-over narrator, should not be underrated either - like someone giving testimony partly against their will.His world of is one of petite rebellion and cheap thrills. The fighting pit prop that wants a pint of beer. He is immoral and the wife of a friend is seen as fair game Although the consequences are beyond his immature mind.There is good supporting performances from British character actors such as Norman Rossington and Hylda Baker, but this movie belongs to one man and one man alone Sir Albert Finney.Twenty five years after he is dead the cinematic world is going to wake up and realize how brilliant an actor this man was Like they did with Humphrey Bogart "},{"Title":"best of the angry young man movies","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this film during its original u.s. run in 1961, loved it, and jumped at the chance to see it again at a local revival movie house. The movie is justly famous for Finney's brilliant performance (I think it was his first.), but has other virtues as well.  Karel Reisz and Freddie Francis succeed in making the film visually interesting, and it is well paced, with essentially no dead time.The thing that deserves the most praise, however, is Sillitoe's script, which puts virtually all modern dramatic screenplays to shame.  In a general way, the working class british films of the late 50s and 60s launched the tradition that leads to Loach, Leigh, Tim Roth, etc.  This film's subtlety and ambivalence towards its leading character reminds me specifically of Mike Leigh at his very best.  "},{"Title":"Working Class Hero","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Albert Finney is a rebel without a cause in this Kitchen Sink entry from 1960 that depicts the mind numbing existence of the British factory worker. Seaton is a hard worker but also a smart ass that rubs his work supervisor ( who calls him a Red ) and neighbors the wrong way. He is also sleeping with a co-workers wife.Albert Finney as the surly Seaton is uncomfortably excellent. His bitter tone and attitude cuts like a power saw. Sooner or later his arrogance will be rewarded and you can't wait. He does display a tender side occasionally with Brenda the married woman but the softness is soon washed away as he rails against the system and his predicament. He is also a world class beer drinker which makes him even more unpleasant as he insults pub patrons and takes a nasty fall down a flight of stairs, only to lie there smiling. Pain is a major source of his existence and rowdy nights out like this serve in a perverse way to blunt it.Director Karel Reisz moves the storyline along at a rapid pace capturing the grim existence of row house living and deafening factory work. It is a world of gray skies and defeated characters trying to make the best of what they have. They are not the Happy Breed of generations past.Made in the first year of the tumultuous decade that changed the world forever Night is pretty tame by today's standards. But in it's day it was condemned by the Catholic Church for its blatant immorality. One might venture that it had an influence on John Lennon who wrote Working Class Hero and on many occasions was witnessed to act like the unctuous Seaton in his life. It might also be argued that Seaton was a prototype for the futuristic angry young man Alex the Droog in Clockwork Orange.Betty Ann Field, Hylda Baker and Norman Rossington make up a convincing supporting cast in ably assisting Reisz in the world he depicts. Rachel Roberts is outstanding as the tragic Brenda. Smitten with Arthur and doomed by her predicament she perfectly conveys her situation with a tawdry lack of glamor.Saturday Night and Sunday Morning may be an unpleasant film but it is a powerful and important one. "},{"Title":"A different world","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Its amazing to look at this film which transformed British Cinema and introduced the angry young man that would later been seen in films like 'The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner' and 'This Sporting Life'.The fact that it shocked audiences and local authorities because of its themes covering sex and abortion show that this was a time when a great deal of change was taking place in British society. Although I wasn't around then, things must have been changing very rapidly as six years later 'Alfie' was able to confront these issues full on whereas Karel Reisz's film merely hints at them.This film also established Albert Finney as a national star and he was soon to become an international star with the wonderfully bawdy 'Tom Jones'. Its always interesting to see the films that established the actors we admire and I'm certainly a fan of Albert Finney so I was shocked when I saw this film and felt that he wasn't really very good in it.The opening scene where his character, Arthur Seaton, is counting the parts he is making in his factory seemed to introduce a highly overwrought man that shouted all the time. Thankfully the unnecessary 'anger' at the start was toned down later but I still felt at the end that Finney could have done greater justice to his role.Walking around with a straight back and his chest out, talking twice as loud as he needs to seemed to resemble an angry old man rather than an angry young man and I almost expected him to talk about how kids nowadays didn't know they were born.Its unusual that an actor from a working class background didn't convince me when playing a character that was not that dissimilar from himself whilst actors like Tom Courtenay in 'Loneliness...' and particularly Richard Harris in 'This Sporting Life' did it much better.However, I gradually found myself being more and more absorbed in this film as it started to develop a storyline and move away from a young man being angry simply for the sake of it.Rachel Roberts excels in her role as the married woman who becomes pregnant by Seaton and its a shame that this actress has been forgotten when you consider her performance here and the marvellous one she gave opposite Harris in 'This Sporting Life'.Shirley Anne Field also does well as Doreen the girl looking to settle down and it is in her relationship with Seaton where I disagree with many people's assessment of the film. Its generally said that Seaton hates the idea of conformity but in the end accepts it. However I feel that the film is much more hopeful than that as he realises that love and marriage is not necessarily a trap that only fools rush into and that there is much more to conventional life than he had originally anticipated. "},{"Title":"Nice film for an afternoon","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As James Dean imitated Brando, so it would appear Malcolm McDowell imitated Albert Finney. At least, McDowell's performance in A Clockwork Oragne owes a lot to Finney in this. Both characters are undeniably cocky and brimming with confidence and contempt, and both are highly entertaining!While not much of a story to write home about - I believe this is considered one of those 1960's British 'kitchen sink' drama's - this is however captivating. Finney plays a working class lout, tired of his factory job and always hoping for more, he goes about his business without care for any consequences. He swaggers around as if untouchable but soon gets his comeuppance when he is beaten by two army cadets, one of which is the brother of the husband of the woman he is sleeping with, who he has now got pregnant! But he is eventually tamed by the gorgeous Shirley Anne Field.While I'm no expert at this genre, I can see it's similarity to Ken Loach films and somewhat akin to (through it's simplicity) David Lean's 'Brief Encounter', though not as extravagant.A nice afternoon film with philosophies that still ring true today (Whatever they say I am , that's what I'm not. Arctic Monkeys anyone?). Even if you don't like the story you'll be in awe of Finney's cock-sure performance. "},{"Title":"Watch again and again and again....","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those types of films that actually lets you forget who the big stars in it really are (a young Albert Finney) - and just lets you enjoy the film for what it is - a classic and gritty British film. I've watched it over and over and seen it again today - and forgot how good - and funny in places it really is.Director Karel Reisz used his skills perfectly in this - he took places lit and furnished as he found them, let people naturally perform and simply laced together a piece of cinematographic brilliance.People forget that he also directed such films as The French Lieutenants Woman and produced This Sporting Life, but I personally feel this masterpiece, amongst his early and sadly rare work was the best by far.If you've not seen this film and claim to be a fan of 1960s British Cinema, you'd better get it into your collection and view it very soon - be prepared for some smiles, some laughs, some hard scenes but, overall, a treat.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"They don't come much better than this","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Albert Finney's first film is set in the North of England in the late 1950s. Times are changing as living standards rise quickly and social attitudes become more flexible - or are they? Whereby, of course, hangs the film. Arthur Seaton is out for a good time within the confines of his life and the film foreshadows attitudes that became prevalent in later decades.Shot in black and white, probably to give a realstic feel, and the scenes at the fairground are particularly good even today.I spotted a street and pub near to my home in London used as one of the night exteriors, so although some must have been shot in the grim North, parts of London stood in for Nottingham.The film is short, pithy and refreshing and even if the central character isn't that nice a guy, your sympathy is with him. British cinema at its best. 8 out of 10 from me. "},{"Title":"A Great Kitchen Sink Drama!","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the film which made Albert Finney a star. Filmed on location at Nottingham, Albert Finney plays Arthur Seaton a bored factory worker who is having an affair with his workmate's wife (Rachel Roberts). Controversial at the time because of its references to abortion, this film gives an idea of what life was like amongst the working classes during the 1950s. Shirley Anne Field also made her name in this film, but she never really fulfilled her potential as an actress. A well acted and produced gritty drama which is still watchable today. "}{"Title":"Albert Finney's star-making role","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Albert Finney is Arthur, a working-class Brit who lives for Saturday Night and Sunday Morning in this 1960 film also starring Rachel Roberts, Hylda Baker and Shirley Anne Field. It's impossible to believe that Albert Finney was ever that young, but he was - 24 in this film - robust and handsome. He plays a factory worker who hates his job and lives with his family. His life revolves around his weekends, when he drinks himself into oblivion and sees his married girlfriend Brenda (Roberts). Roberts is married to one of his co-workers. One day, he meets the beautiful Doreen (Shirly Anne Field) and starts to court her. Then Brenda becomes pregnant with his child.This film was considered quite shocking at the time of its release because of its frank sexual situations and the freely-discussed topic of abortion. These themes aren't shocking anymore, but one reason for that is the introduction of them in films like this. Shot in black and white, it gives the viewer a picture of life in a bleak factory town, portrayed very realistically by director Karl Reisz. The actors are these people, they're not merely playing them. This is especially true of Finney, who sports a low-class accent and epitomizes the angry young man so prevalent in the late '50s. Finney's performance as a young man who takes out his work-week aggression on women, booze and mischief, is as revolutionary as Dean's or Brando's was in American cinema.Finney is ably backed up by the supporting actors. Roberts is very effective as Brenda, a housewife married to a dull man, and Shirley Anne Field even dressed down is gorgeous as the ingénue who wins Arthur's heart and makes him look at the future. One wonders if he'll ever grow up sufficiently. She's going to have her hands full.The dialect is very authentic and difficult to understand at times - I actually used my closed captioning. The dialect adds to the whole atmosphere of Saturday Night and Sunday Morning, another of the rebel movies but in a class all by itself. "},{"Title":"A really good movie about a factory worker in the UK who parties a lot.","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The protagonist, Arthur Seaton, works hard and plays hard. Toiling in a factory by day, he parties to excess in the pubs every weekend. He chases the pretty girls and has a married girl for a girlfriend. Albert Finney plays the role of this working class rebel to perfection. I believe Finney's portrayal in this film was an inspiration for Malcolm McDowell in A Clockwork Orange. Seaton is nowhere near as evil as the hoodlums in A Clockwork Orange and has redeeming qualities. He might remind you of yourself or someone you know. Seaton's romances form the central plot and the film examines how he handles problems that occur due to his womanizing. But the movie is no more romantic than real life and shows a slice of life in the urban UK in a realistic manner. A good classic movie that will hold the interest of most movie lovers. "},{"Title":"A beautiful reason to see this movie","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Forget Albert Finney's excellent acting,forget the great cinematography,forget the great characters.The main reason to see this movie is simple, Shirley Anne Field  ,she is beautiful!Not only does she display fine acting talents she is pleasant on the eyes. "},{"Title":"Whatever people say I am, that's what I am not","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Alan Sillitoe was one of a number of young writers who emerged in the late fifties and sixties and who have become known as the kitchen sink school. (Other members of the group included the novelists Stan Barstow, John Braine, David Storey and Barry Hines and playwrights such as John Osborne and Shelagh Delaney). Their work was distinguished by a social- realist concentration on working-class life, often with a provincial setting.Sillitoe's first novel Saturday Night and Sunday Morning had an immediate impact when first published in 1958 and is still regarded today as one of the key texts of the kitchen sink movement. As with a number of other kitchen sink works such as Osborne's Look Back in Anger, Braine's Room at the Top, Delaney's A Taste of Honey and Barstow's A Kind of Loving, the British cinema, which was going through a similar social-realist phase at the time, was quick to adapt the novel for the screen. Both book and film are set in the author's native Nottingham and tell the story of Arthur Seaton, a young worker in a bicycle factory. In many ways Arthur is not a particularly admirable character. He is a heavy drinker and a womaniser who is conducting an affair with Brenda, the wife of a colleague at work. His relationship with Brenda, however, does not prevent him from courting a young single woman named Doreen. Yet in Arthur's own words (a quote later made famous by the Arctic Monkeys) whatever people say I am, that's what I am not. It would be too easy to dismiss him simply as a drunken, rebellious troublemaker. Unlike his father, who was frequently unemployed during the depression of the thirties, Arthur is fortunate enough to have come into manhood at a time of economic prosperity, a time when Britons were being assured by their Prime Minister, Harold Macmillan, that they had never had it so good, and is able to earn a reasonable wage by working hard. And yet, in Sillitoe's view, never had it so good was still not good enough. One of the themes of the novel is the way in which the class divisions of pre-war Britain still persisted despite the post-war economic boom. Arthur is not only angry with the System but also with his parents' generation, whom he sees as conformists, dead from the neck up. He is clearly intelligent and articulate, yet has only received a basic formal education and is unable to find anything other than mundane and repetitive factory work. His anger and resentment may stem from frustration at being unable to put his intelligence to more creative use. Sillitoe also wrote the screenplay for this film, and simplifies his story somewhat. For example, he omits Arthur's affair with another married lover, Brenda's sister Winnie this detail from the film. Shirley Anne Field as Doreen is rather older and more experienced that the innocent teenager of the novel. On the whole, however, the film remains faithful to the themes of the book. This was the first feature film directed by Karel Reisz, a Czech refugee to Britain from Nazism, who had earlier been one of the founders of the Free Cinema documentary movement. Two of his co-founders, Tony Richardson and Lindsay Anderson, also went on to work in the kitchen sink style; Richardson's work in the genre includes The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner, also based on a story by Sillitoe, and Anderson's includes This Sporting Life which also stars Rachel Roberts, who plays Brenda here. The influence of Reisz's career as a documentary film-maker is evident in his use of genuine Nottingham locations, especially the scenes set in the bicycle factory which have a very documentary feel to them. Another influence is visible in the scene at the funfair where Arthur is trapped on a merry-go-round by Brenda's husband Jack, who has discovered her affair with Arthur, and two soldier friends; the menace in this scene recalls the work of Alfred Hitchcock, who also set a key scene on a merry-go-round in Strangers on a Train. In the early sixties Albert Finney was one of the rising young stars of the British acting profession, and this was his second film. (The first was Richardson's The Entertainer, also from 1960). Although he was only 24 he gives a very assured performance here, bringing out Arthur's intelligence as well as his feral, rebellious streak. This is probably a better performance than Finney's next one in Tom Jones which was to win him the first of his five Oscar nominations, but he was never going to be nominated here. British social-realism never found much favour with the Academy who probably found it too depressing and (an even greater sin in American eyes) too left-wing. There are also some good contributions from the supporting cast, too many to single them all out but Roberts particularly stands out. Brenda is married to an older man whom she does not love, and in love with a younger one who only uses her for sex. In the earlier scenes she seems hard and brassy, but is tragic and pitiable in the later ones after she finds out she is pregnant by Arthur who she knows will abandon her. Kitchen-sink realism was a fairly short-lived phenomenon; a few good examples were made in colour in the late sixties (Alfie, Kes, Up the Junction, Spring and Port Wine), but it largely died out in the seventies, although occasional attempts have been made to revive it. The finest of the genre, however, have survived to become classics of the British cinema, and along with the likes of A Kind of Loving and A Taste of Honey Saturday Night and Sunday Morning is among the foremost of these. 8/10 "},{"Title":"gutsy, still raw, still works","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" a slice of brit life, 1960 and a bit before (club bands in jackets and ties, still); great finney, great screenplay (and loneliness of long distance runner), good rachel roberts but finny early 20s, she mid 30s and looking mid 40s, so as arthur's love interest has you wondering at the start; but that's part of it, a coworkers wife, easy to do, and another way of showing his contempt for family and getting ahead-all propaganda; on the other hand he gives money to his family, buy yourself something; the bleakness, work then play and drink, is tail end of the gin age (good book called gin on the history) when workers were 6 days a week, 10 or more hours a day, dickensian, and one day to get as blasted as possible- to forget it all; weak link is heralded director with one very not new-wave static shot after another; good part, movie wise, is there's no artifice; actors are all in, no later frills like alfie turning to the camera letting us in on his cynicism- like we didn't get that already; so a 7? not a great story; a humdrum story very well done "},{"Title":"Dramatic and quite perturbing capturing of inner-city life amidst the factory workers and terrace estates, Reisz's film is a blunt but involving piece which holds up.","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Saturday Night and Sunday Morning is a really stripped down, down-and-dirty covering of both life and the people in and around an early 1960s working Britain. At a time and in a place, you feel, in which living and getting by is hard enough all in itself, and that confrontation which comes with exterior events instigated by third parties would preferably be kept to a minimum for all involved such are life's other worries, the film centres around a man so embittered and carefree in relation to his actions and others around him that such events can only become apparent. Karel Reisz's film is a covering of this man; a man whose actions and feelings towards both the world and those he works with causes chaos and confrontation about every-which way of the place. Lumped, I read, with the 'X' certificate upon British release for its stark and confrontational attitude towards life in an English city seemingly devoid of soul, smiles and all else remotely pleasant; Saturday Night and Sunday Morning is a pulsating, stark and confrontational look at the dishevelment of the working class, sternly uninterested in conforming to either genre or concrete narrative framework, but morbidly fascinating as a result.The loose cannon at the heart of it all is Albert Finney's Arthur Seaton, a quite glorious portrayal on behalf of Finney of a factory worker pummelling himself into the ground both inside and outside of the work place. Occupying a simplistic terrace house overlooking a bricked up thoroughfare for pedestrians only, further more neighbouring a less-than-busy bricked up public street, Arthur lives a life amidst the gossipping middle aged female neighbours of sleaze, filth and unease. He's engaged in an affair with Brenda (Roberts), the wife of a co-worker, despite already living in with another woman, and spends most of his time drinking; womanising; smoking and as a rather hate filled man complete with big build and a mouth to match. He additionally has a penchant for gambling which, when challenged on the subject, merely replies with the hapless notion that it's not a waste of money, I quite enjoy betting. There just isn't much talking to him.When we first encounter him, it's through his own narration to himself highlighting the disdain and dishevelment he feels towards all of his job; his boss and his co-workers in there with him. The dismissive manner at which he brushes aside the elements with the tone he adopts as the heavy machinery whirls away enraptures us straight away; the combined noise that the machinery creates twinned with the movement from the man as he works it in a manner that seems just as strange and as alien to us as it does with a calculated sense of aggression painting immediate portraits of danger. Where the film will take us after this confrontational opening is a quite harrowing descent into this man's life and mind, those around him and their lives which he makes somewhat of a misery, given ample attention.By nights, predominantly weekends, Arthur works himself into a state of numbness or until he drops in another incarnation; specifically, in the way of alcohol at a local public house rather than at hard graft in a factory. His suiting up to go out to some jazz music post-work during the evening is deceptively upbeat, as if two different personas exist within the man's life and the deliberate montage of the man, quite literally, changing in-front of us so as to venture out and become someone away from the workplace with a different set of rules deliberately ringing false, effectively instilling even more of a sense of bleakness about things. Like the scary and dystopian world in which it is set, there is no neat little core around which a stone-wall narrative may unfold or revolve around for the best part. The atmosphere of aggression and general feeling of pained immorality is everywhere; Arthur's affair with Brenda standing alongside the relationship he's in with another woman named Doreen (Field) whereas the sorts of ill-conceived and childish antics he gets up in toying with other locals offers fleeting amusement away from the dirge of everything else in everyday life.The item that brings the film to a hilt is directly linked to that of Brenda; Arthur's affair with her resulting in a pregnancy as her husband Jack, a character of a downplayed and hushed nature played by a certain Bryan Pringle, continues to mingle around heightening tension and threatening things to a point of escalation. Jack's fairly innocent persona and victimisation has us dislike Arthur more than we might've done had he been of a similar ilk; his calling in of a brother who's in the army and his friends of a hardened nature to find the man Brenda committed infidelity with a taking of action we don't believe is ordinarily the run-of-the-mill for Jack. His actions that are taken puts things into perspective, his emotions effectively established to be running dangerously high. A brief retort even sees Arthur speak of how he once saw one man take on two soldiers and beat them half to death, the sight of so much blood causing him to look away &#x96; the unsettling sense that Arthur may have been that man involved first hand in the fight a rather than the onlooker another ingredient handled remarkably. Czech born director, and future producer of the similarly themed 1963 film This Sporting Life, Reisz takes us to the edge in his feature debut; revolving every scene around the character of Arthur and his stance on life and those around him; his film is taut, terrifying and tumultuous in equal measure as a gritty, realist piece is executed marvellously. "},{"Title":"Very well made but rather unpleasant","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If I were reviewing the movie and only scoring it based on the technical merit of the production, I probably would have scored Saturday NIGHT AND Sunday MORNING much higher. After all, the acting was excellent, the direction very good and the script really did a good job of showing the life of a completely selfish man. From a psychological point of view, it's an exceptional portrait of an antisocial personality who is rather functional within society and not in prison. However, at the same time, who wants to watch the life of a sociopathic man for two hours? After a while, you realize that he is indeed despicable and beyond redemption--and you really could care less about him. Because of this, I honestly wonder how many people will stick with this film until the conclusion--especially when, as in real life, the film ends without any major positive change in Arthur Seaton's personality--he's still self-absorbed, uses people and behaves like a jerk. The future, though not shown in the film, seems all too grim for those coming in contact with Seaton.This film is interesting when you think about it, as Albert Finney as Arthur Seaton is a lot like his character in TOM JONES--though without the charm and grace. At least in TOM JONES, you liked him and underneath the bravado Tom was basically a decent person and there is some redemption for this rogue by the time the movie concludes. "},{"Title":"I believe you, thousands wouldn't","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The above line is my favorite from the screenplay for this great movie.  There is clear evidence that Albert Finney was talented enough to be one of the screens most enduring actors, even to this day (he was Oscar nominated again today for that Julia Roberts movie).  He plays a young lad who is having an affair with his best friends wife. The fact that she is married means sex is available, unlike the other women he sees.  He hates his job, has constant battles with an elderly neighborhood woman and really only knows what he doesn't want - very angry young man stuff.The movie is worth seeing alone for the acting - for the debut of Finney, a great performance by Rachel Roberts, as the wife and Shirley Anne Field as another interest of Finney. There are many other reasons too.Finney & Roberts would later encounter each other in Murder on the Orient Express and Field would play a mistress in My Beautiful Laundrette.Highly recommended. PS - Ewan McGregor fans should see this - Finney's acting is very similar to Ewan's early work, and by seeing this you might be able to approximate what he'll be like in thirty/forty years.  Both actors are most prominent on my personal list of actors.  "},{"Title":"the patriarchal proletariat and the condition of working class women.","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" COULD CONTAIN SPOILERS! Although this film is a snapshot of a perspective of working class life in Northern England during the 1950s, it is still relevant today. This is because the working class culture, in the North of England remains predominantly the same, particularly for the proletariat woman, who like the character Doreen whose aspirations - which are shaped for her by her class and society - are limited to marrying a working man, having a home, and settling down. By submissively conforming to her condition, the likes of Doreen would succumb to a life of drudgery, and being dependent on a man. This was particularly the case during the 1950s when birth control, and abortion were off limits to women, as depicted in the film. Those working class women who did go out to work during this period - as they do now - would normally be employed in low skilled, menial work which was poorly paid. In addition to this such women would be subjected to discriminatory behaviour within the male dominated, institutionally patriarchal work place - as they often are today - here illustrated in this film when Albert Finney's character places a dead rat at a woman colleagues work station.Meanwhile the film shows Albert Finney's character being frustrated by his condition without the means to escape it. This was because education, particularly higher education was very limited to the working class, who at the time prided themselves on traditional skills. It was the traditional skills of the working class,which not only were the back bone of industrial England, and the economy, but which built up the Northern English proletariat culture, which was subsequently undermined along with opportunities to progress and aspire by Thatcher's neo - conservative agenda during the 1980s, which culminated in the closure of factories and traditional industries, ending in fatigue, and with a sense of hopelessness.Although the film is touted as a 'kitchen sink' drama, it does have a bit of Hollywood style glamour in the form of the actor who plays Doreen, who was apparently a model, prior to her film career. Apart from this, the film does portray Northern English working class life very well, especially in illustrating the conditions of proletariat women. For this effort alone the film deserves particular recognition. "},{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The film is about working-class alienation; end of.It portrays this brilliantly in the dismal Nottingham factory setting- day after day- in a world where you have one night to put on your teddy boy suit and winkle pickers, and numb yourself stupid with alcohol (and a loose and desperate colleague's wife)- before returning to the grime of your lathe, and another 1000 bolts to make before clock-off.Finney gives a gritty performance in this monochrome time-capsule of a movie; truly shocking and immoral at the time, but nevertheless timelessly relevant to every person who truly detests the capitalist system and those who perpetuate it.A work of sociological art. "}{"Title":"A Good Character Study and Social Commentary","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Don't let the b******s grind you down! The words which Arthur, the protagonist of Saturday Night and Sunday Morning, lives by. It is a powerful voice-over narration by Albert Finney which begins the film and introduces who his character is. The only problem is, he does not explain that this life motto - at least for him - means constant lying and a lack of consideration for women.We know from the get-go that Arthur is all about rebellion, specifically against his elders and their sense of tradition and manners; this is why he lacks any. He is also not the brightest star in the sky, letting his alcoholism (which he denies) get the best of him early on in the story.Arthur dreams big though. There is a great scene when he is fishing with his cousin talking about a new girl in his life Doreen, when he states never bite unless the bait's good. If this is another part of his philosophy on life, it is curious as to why he goes for the older, married woman Brenda early on in the film. Perhaps he is learning since his relationship with Brenda comes back to bite him later in the story.With scenes of Arthur working at the factory, this becomes a commentary on the working class in England, but the commentary is slightly confusing. A young working man is susceptible to fall into a lifestyle including womanizing and living life to one's own terms, yet other characters who are nothing like him work with Arthur at the factory as well. In fact, Brenda's husband works at the same factory and from what we see of him he is a loving father and generally caring person. Perhaps, then, this film is a commentary on the young adult in England rather than the entire working class.This is clearly a rebellion movie which gets its point across with some strong voice-over work by Albert Finney, and while the acting is great and Arthur is a well-developed, detestable person, at some points the audience can't help but ask so what?3.0/4.0 "},{"Title":"A timeless film about young adulthood.","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Albert Finney drives this film with his brilliant performance as Arthur Seaton, an angry young factory worker from Nottingham who lives for the weekend.He has an infectious appetite for trouble, developing a reputation for being a rogue in the terraces and ginnels of his neighbourhood. He likes the ladies, and although there would be plenty of single women out there for him, he chooses to sleep with Brenda (Rachel Roberts), who's married to his workmate Jack (Bryan Pringle). A scene early in the film shows Arthur gleefully finishing breakfast at Brenda's house when Jack is moments away from walking through the door. Arthur deliberately takes his time in escaping, relishing the close shave.Arthur is very opinionated, he often rants to his close friend Bert (Norman Rossington) about the banality of the quiet life and how he has 'fight' in him. Although he dislikes authority figures and the local old bag who pokes her nose in everyone's business, the enemy that he's fighting isn't a human, his enemy is conformity, the prospect of settling down and facing the daily grind makes him very anxious and fiery indeed.Arthur's trouble making can be very funny, in one moment he loads his rudimentary pellet gun, quietly opens a window and shoots Mrs. Bull (Edna Morris), the aforementioned nosey cow, in her fat backside whilst she gossips. I laughed excitedly like a naughty adolescent as if I was really with Arthur, frightened of what the butch old hag was going to do. Inevitably, Arthur treads on some toes, he doesn't always get away scot free, the gravest example of this being a fight scene that, unsurprisingly, is very dated. Arthur isn't bothered by fighting, 'It's not the first time I've been in a losing fight, won't be the last either I don't spose&#x85; I'm a fighting pit prop who wants a pint of bitter, that's me.' During a fishing trip, his friend Bert asks the ranting Arthur 'Where does all this fighting get you?' It's an important question and I don't think Arthur is sure of the answer.Arthur knows that he's following the same well-trodden path as all the old farts around him, it seems he has an existential crisis every time he considers it, but he'll probably soon mellow and learn to, in the words of Burt, 'go on working and hope something good'll turn up.' Either that or move away and do something completely different, something that breaks away from his area's cyclical nature that he detests so much.Unlike so many romantic dramas and especially comedies, the film has a romance that you genuinely care about. Arthur meets the lovely Doreen (Shirley Anne Field), a beautiful, measured and reserved woman who keeps Arthur's charm at bay, which entices him even further. You hope that the angsty, impetuous Arthur won't squander his chances of a good relationship with a good woman.Saturday Night, Sunday Morning is a epochal piece of realist British cinema that remains resonant and largely undated.85%www.hawkensian.com "},{"Title":"A Notable Portrayal of The Angry Young Man","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have a feeling this film might be judged differently by Brits. Americans have to slog through the rather dense colloquialisms and accent to understand the main character, in particular.When they do, they find that Arthur Seaton (Albert Finney) is something of an anti-hero. Brando's character in The Wild Bunch famously said, when asked what he was rebelling against Whatta ya got? Arthur is pretty much cut from the same cloth, though he doesn't go as far out of his way to offend the establishment. He is more of a libertarian who wants to be left alone to live by his own rules. He is also very selfish in the negative sense. He cares little for the feelings of others, even those he cares about. He is driven without any idea where he is headed.The acting in Saturday Night and Sunday Morning is quite good. All of the characterizations are strong. Opinions of posters here disagree about the ending. Has Arthur changed or not? Throughout the film, there are a few projectiles launched in rebellion. At the end of the film, Arthur throws a rock at a new house. When his girlfriend scolds him, he says, It won't be the last one I throw. Clearly, he maintains his attitude toward the world and its conformist rules. The lack of a personal arc is a little disappointing, but the character rings true. "},{"Title":"Arthurs Attitude","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Arthur is represented as a angry young man. For instance he rejects normal lifestyle; in one scene he says whatever people say i am, thats what I'm not. He does morally wrong actions and attitudes. He has an affair with an married lady; which was shocking during 1960s; later in the movie it is revealed that Brenda is pregnant which causes her to think about abortion which is also seems shocking during 1960s; for instance, the movie was rated x due to the fact that there were shocking activities happening. He commonly lies; for instance, in one scene with Brenda he says I always was a liar, a good'un and all. He does not respect his elders; in one specific scene he shoots Mrs.Bull and in other scene he calls her fat. He seems dominant; for instance in one scene with Brenda he says ..I don't want anybody to teach me either. In the end of the movie, he throws stones at the new terrace houses; this proves that he rejects new lifestyle and instead prefers the old lifestyle. After the 1960s, yobs subculture appeared (young men with their own style and attitude); Arthur is an early representation of a yob. I really appreciate the film due to the different ways they represent the character Arthur. I think Albert Finney does great acting; his expressions and actions are realistic. "},{"Title":"Not Conforming To Expectations","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Meeting an attractive young woman in a bar, Arthur Seaton wastes no time making his play. He asks her name, and is told with some embarrassment it's Doreen. She doesn't like her name. He doesn't like his, either.Neither of 'em's up to much, but it ain't our fault, he tells her. Like everything else in his unhappy life, it's all a matter of inheritance.Arthur may share a name with a heroic English king, but he's not one to wear his lower-middle-class crown agreeably. He drinks away his wages, lashes out at defenseless women, and lies with discomfiting ease. But Albert Finney and the filmmakers make sure you care about him anyway.As Seaton, Finney glowers a lot in the way you expect from a protagonist in a kitchen-sink drama, a celebrated product of British New Wave cinema. But the film plays with your expectations just as life does his. He doesn't want to settle for life as he finds it, and while Saturday Night And Sunday Morning, Alan Sillitoe's adaptation of his own novel directed by Karel Reisz, spits a lot in the direction of conformity, it belies its angry-young-man pedigree with a sense of cosmic acceptance at taking what life has to offer.Seaton's a madhead, make no mistake. But he's not an especially honest one. He lies impulsively, often to no purpose, and is even proud of it. I always was a liar, a good one and all, he tells the married woman he sleeps with, Brenda (Rachel Roberts). Ironically, it's his one honest moment on her behalf that lands him in real trouble.The film gives us other hints Seaton is not an admirable figure, like shooting an annoying neighbor with an air rifle in a manner that comes off more creepy than defiant. A working-class anti-hero, as other reviewers put it, and the real craft in both the direction and in Finney's performance is how it accomplishes the balancing act of establishing Seaton as both miserable company and a rooting interest.It's a well-structured film, too, a quick 90 minutes that breaks neatly into thirty minutes of establishing the situation, thirty minutes of developing a crisis (Seaton stringing along two women, one pregnant), and thirty minutes of tense resolution. At the same time, Reisz gives his film a grimy authenticity that feels real, never stagy, with scenes that have a real lived-in quality while serving the larger story.Saturday Night And Sunday Morning is a bleak film in many ways, not pleasant to watch. Laughs and insights are minimal, and Finney downplays his considerable screen charm. There are hardly any toothy grins like he'd bestow on his later breakout role, as the title character in Tom Jones. The handling of his relationship with Doreen is a trifle pat, and too-simply resolved. So is the issue of his relationship with Brenda, although Finney shares a good final scene with her character's husband, played effectively by Stephen Fry lookalike Bryan Pringle.There are a lot of good performances in this film, which blend together to create an effective if routine story. If it's not what you expect from angry-young-man cinema, it's nice to have your expectations batted down now and then. "},{"Title":"Attitude Readjustment","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Albert Finney gives a breakout performance in Saturday Night And Sunday Morning which launched him into stardom. But as for Great Britain's angry young men I much prefer Richard Burton in Look Back In Anger. But I will say it is certainly a tribute to Finney as an actor and to his charisma that he kept the audiences interested in such a lout of a character that he portrayed.Burton's Jimmy Porter was a lout himself, but someone capable of looking at the wider world and caring about it. His best scene in Look Back In Anger was him standing up to the market supervisor on behalf of an Indian merchant who was being discriminated against.But our protagonist Arthur Seaton could give less of an atom of human waste product about the wider world. He's stuck in a dull factory job and takes it out on the world. He lives only for the weekend when he's out carousing with his mates at the local pub and carousing with Rachel Roberts who is married to one of his supervisors at the job.Things change a bit when Finney meets up with Shirley Anne Field who's a pretty young thing and doesn't have an inconvenient husband around. He's keeping them both, but then Roberts gets inconveniently pregnant by Finney.There's some indication in the end that Finney might readjust his attitude on life in general and the opposite sex in particular under the tutelage of Field. Still I really haven't much hope for him.Rachel Roberts turns in a fine performance as a woman used and abused by a truly sexy lout of a man. And Finney despite the repellent nature of his character will keep you glued to the big screen or small. "},{"Title":"Saturday Night and Sunday Morning","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Three years before the big budget and Oscar winning Tom Jones, the actor who much later in his career starred in films like Big Fish, The Bourne Ultimatum and Skyfall got his debut in this all British film, which featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, from director Karel Reisz (The French Lieutenant's Woman). Basically, set in 1960's Nottingham, young factory machinist Arthur Seaton (BAFTA winning and nominated Albert Finney) is hardworking and only gets paid modest wages, he is angry at many things in his life, including his parents, and he does not to stay living in drudgery like all around him. The wages he earns he spends at weekends on drinking and having fun, he is having an affair with the wife of an older co-worker, Brenda (BAFTA winning Rachel Roberts), and he also starts a relationship with single and nearer his age Doreen Gretton (Shirley Anne Field). Arthur's personal life takes a drastic turn on Saturday night when Brenda tells him she is pregnant with his child, Arthur asks for advice from Aunt Ada (Hylda Baker) about an abortion, but this does work out and Brenda decides to keep the child and face the consequences. Brenda's husband finds out about the affair with Arthur and being pregnant with his child, and following this he gets his brother and a fellow soldier to try and catch him and give him a severe beating, they chase him through a town carnival. After these Brenda returns to her normal life with her husband and the children, Arthur recovers and returns to working at the factory, but he knows he cannot see his mistress or to be born child again, and in the end Arthur and Doreen discuss their future, i.e. possible marriage and a new home together. Also starring Norman Rossington as Bert, Bryan Pringle as Jack, Robert Cawdron as Robboe, Edna Morris as Mrs. Bull, Elsie Wagstaff as Mrs. Seaton and Frank Pettitt as Mr. Seaton. Finney gives a great performance as the young man struggling against authority and responsibility, Roberts is terrific as the older woman who causes a big dilemma, and Field is good as the young woman unaware about his disregard. You have to keep in mind that pregnancy between a young and older person was controversial in the 1960's, and of course abortions were illegal, so there are engaging issues to keep you watching, a powerful and most interesting classic drama. It won the BAFTA for Best British Film, and it was nominated for Best British Screenplay and Best Film from any Source. Albert Finney was number 33 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, and he was number 22 on The World's Greatest Actor, and the film was number 49 on The 50 Greatest British Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"Entertaining but pessimistic.","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Saturday Night Sunday Morning' Karel Reisz (1960) BFI 100 #14Don't let the bastards grind you down. That's one thing you learn. What I'm out for is a good time. All the rest is propaganda.This film begins with a blank screen and the clatter of busy, car crash drum solos that morph into a cacophony of machinery, as Reisz reveals that we're listening to a busy factory. Johnny Dankworth's importance to the cultural pantheon becomes clearer via the BFI 100 list. His distinctive jazz sensibility appears to have fashioned the soundtrack that directors like Joseph Losey, John Schlesinger and Karel Reisz needed, to bring a hip yet edgy finish to their bold new cinema. There is something hip and edgy about Albert Finney's Arthur Seaton a favourite moment in this film is his unlikely grace as he sprints down a Nottingham hill to jump onto a departing bus, quiff immaculate, suit spruced; when he leaps aboard and swings around the pole, it is pure cool, sheer class, but there is nothing classy about Arthur Seaton. The trouble with angry young men seems to be their misdirected rebellion. If one feels that one is a 'cut above,' does falling downstairs in a state of abject 'leglessness' properly demonstrate this? Is the best way to 'Show them!' to scowl suited and booted in a pub, where a naff band plays brush-daft ditties, while you're canoodling with a married woman, and watching an old soak attempting to force himself to drink more ale than he can handle? Arthur Seaton is introduced to us via a stroppy pout, a contemptible regard for his fellows and a bumptious voice-over that betrays barely any respect for anyone. The only thing that this particular young man can anticipate is a good hiding; family and busybody neighbours warn him and they're right. Slowly, the ratcheted tension builds around the inevitability of this thrashing; not at the hands of a gormless cuckold, but the fists of a highly trained fighting machine. Albert Finney's characterization is a fully dimensioned blend of angry, cocksure, rejected, malevolent, charming, puerile, and pathetic. Norman Rossington brings a very likable performance to the picture as Arthur's cousin Bert and Shirley Anne Field's Doreen elicits concern as the insipid Rose naïve enough to fall for Seaton's charms. Entertaining but pessimistic. "},{"Title":"Unsentimental, humorous and gripping...","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" British New Wave director and producer Karel Reisz' feature film debut, one of the earliest films from the kitchen sink realism movement, is an adaptation of the first novel by English writer Alan Sillitoe (1928-2010) from 1958. It tells the story about Arthur Steaton, a confident, charming and indignant young man who looks forward to every weekend when he can go out and have fun with women and his friends on the local pub. Arthur works at a factory operating on machines and lives a rather quiet life with his parents in Nottingham, England, but he has gotten himself involved in a secret relationship with a married woman named Brenda whom he has strong feelings for.This engagingly directed British production which was produced by director Tony Richardson (1928-1991) and Canadian producer Harry Saltzman (1915-1994) and shot on location in Nottingham and London in England, is a well-paced character-driven and dialog-driven romantic drama with acute portrayals of young love, interpersonal relations and everyday life. With his first feature film from 1960, Czech-born filmmaker Karel Reisz (1926-2002) creates exceptionally realistic milieu depictions of industrial working-class England during the early nineteen sixties and an accomplished study of character about a young man who keeps getting himself into trouble for acting on his strong opposition against a system which he thinks is suppressing the working-class and has left their evident mark on his parents.The prominent and heartened acting performance by English actor Albert Finney and the significant and understated acting performances by Welsh actress Rachel Roberts (1927-1980) and British actress Shirley Anne Field underlines the power of this unsentimental, humorous and gripping independent film which gained BAFTA Awards for Best British Film, Best British Actress Rachel Roberts and Most Promising Newcomer Albert Finney in 1961. The cheerful score and the great black-and-white cinematography by English cinematographer and director Freddie Francis emphasizes the poignant atmosphere in this ardent piece of social realism. "},{"Title":"Angry young bloke comes of age...","Date":"23 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Atmospheric, startlingly mature adaptation of Alan Sillitoe's novel (by the author) regarding Arthur Seaton, a 20-ish working-class Brit employed at the local factory and still living at home, who is 'knocking about' with a co-worker's wife while despairing against marriage (and the TV-watching rut his parents have slipped into). Just as he begins courting a local lovely with mother-troubles of her own, he finds out his married playmate is pregnant. Prickly film has fine moments of both tension and schoolboy humor, propelled by Albert Finney's flawless central performance. Highly-influential in its time, and still powerful today, the picture employs a confrontational tone with acerbic dialogue, never lapsing into fake pathos or dreary ruminations. It is ripe and alert and alive. *** from **** "}{"Title":"Great and effective minimalistic movie, showing a young Albert Finney.","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" You could say that this movie is being more of a low-key and black & white version of the Michael Caine movie Alfie. It handles basically all of the same themes and even the main character is comparable (actress Shirley Anne Field is also in both movies by the way). But by saying this I'm not claiming Saturday Night and Sunday Morning is a bad or unoriginal movie. On the contrary really!It's a special little movie, that is being simplistic and minimal in every way. Perhaps somewhat inspired by the more European movies from France and Italy, that are being like a random slice of life and follow one main character who goes by his life on his very own way but not without paying the price for it. Yes, it's a drama but it is being one that is very realistic with its approach, events, characters and emotions.I think it helped this movie that it had a fresh director at the helm. Czechoslovakian born Karel Reisz had shot some documentaries in the past but this movie was his first ever attempt at directing a motion picture. It shows but in a very refreshing way. He approaches some crucial sequences brilliantly, which also provides the movie with some powerful, effective but also beautiful looking moments.I'll admit that I only knew and had seen actor Albert Finney as an old man and in his newer movies. Even though I have always liked him a lot, I never seen any early movies with him, till this one. It's great to see him as a young 24 year old in this movie, playing a typical rebellious, post-WW II, British young bloke, who is working hard and enjoying his free time with chasing down women. It's funny how not much later after this movie he started playing old men already, that's why you probably will also have some difficulties recognizing him in this movie. You will probably recognize his voice before you'll recognize his face.This are the type of movies I often like watching and this movie is one fine genre example!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Saturday Night And Sunday Morning (1960) Is The Best Angry Young Man Movie Of All","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Saturday Night And Sunday Morning (1960) starring Albert Finney, Shirley Anne Field, Rachel Roberts, and Norman Rossington is a marvelous, compelling movie based on a story by Alan Sillitoe, who also wrote The Loneliness Of The Long Distance Runner which became a wonderful movie in 1962 starring Tom Courtenay (see my separate review for that film).The film is a portrait of young factory worker Arthur Seaton still living at home with his parents, and working as a lathe machinist making machined metal parts for industrial use, and doing it faster and better than most other workers in the grim and gray factory where he works, an open expanse where hundreds of workers tend hundreds of work stations under a high roof in dirty and depressing circumstances.Albert Finney plays the role of Arthur Seaton brilliantly, and this movie made him a star and led to Tom Jones (1963) also starring Albert Finney, made in color, done on a big budget, and filled with production values....but also about a young man who insists on being independent and refusing to cave into demands and expectations made by inferior people who surround and supervise him. He doesn't care about his reputation, and seems to emerge from the many fights and altercations he is faced with victoriously.Set backs he endures are minor. Victories he achieves seem major.Saturday Night And Sunday Morning (1960) is about a young man led and guided by an inner force which makes him a winner, in spite of lack of mentoring, money, social position, parental support or guidance, and the mediocre opportunities and people part of his dreary world.He wants to do better than those around him, and he does.Viewers watch his progress, come to like him immediately (Albert Finney has the most infectious grin I've ever seen in the movies....the same grin shines through in Miller's Crossing 1990, a movie he stared in 30 years later where he plays a crime boss of Irish descent in America.) The movie begins with scenes showing his successful adulterous sexual relationship with Brenda, the wife (played well by Rachel Roberts) of Finney's straitlaced boss at work.As the story continues, it shows the problems which result from that, then Finney's abandonment of that girl, and finally his connection with an unusually pretty, thoughtful, reliable, attentive young girl named Doreen (played well by Shirley Anne Field) to whom he becomes engaged and plans to marry at the movie's end.In a curious way, the movie has the same feel good ending which B cowboy movies were famous for in which the hero rides off into the sunset after having set wrong things right for grateful Westerners.Alan Sillitoe is a truly great and thoughtful writer who recognized the inner strength and potential of noble young men born to low circumstances, but who are guided and delivered to good things by an inner knowledge of qualities they have and were born to use, regardless of what surrounding circumstances and bad people decree.Sillitoe's portraits of angry young men who are winners seems to favor nature in the nature versus nurture controversy and explanation of social behavior and outcomes.---------------Written by Tex Allen, SAG Actor. Visit WWW.IMDb.Com and choose Tex Allen resume for contact information, movie credits, and biographical information about Tex Allen. Tex Allen has reviewed more than 40 movies posted on the website WWW.IMDb.Com (the world's largest movie information database, owned by Amazon.Com) as of January 2011.These include 1. Alfie (1966) 29 July 2009 2. Alien (1979) 24 July 2009 3. All the Loving Couples (1969) 17 January 2011 4. All the President's Men (1976) 16 November 2010 5. American Graffiti (1973) 22 November 2010 6. Animal House (1978) 16 August 2009 7. Bullitt (1968) 23 July 2009 8. Captain Kidd (1945) 28 July 2009 9. Child Bride (1938) 24 September 2009 10. Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954) 22 September 2010 11. Destination Moon (1950) 17 January 2011 12. Detour (1945) 19 November 2010 13. Die Hard 2 (1990) 23 December 2010 14. The Wonderful, Horrible Life of Leni Riefenstahl (1993) 19 November 2010 15. Jack and the Beanstalk (1952) 26 July 2009 16. King Solomon's Mines (1950) 1 December 2010 17. Knute Rockne All American (1940) 2 November 2010 18. Claire's Knee (1970) 15 August 2009 19. Melody Ranch (1940) 10 November 2010 20. Morning Glory (1933) 19 November 2010 21. Mush and Milk (1933) 17 January 2011 22. New Moon (1940) 3 November 2010 23. Pinocchio (1940) 6 November 2010 24. R2PC Road to Park City (2000) 19 November 2010 25. Salt (2010) 24 August 2010 26. Sunset Blvd. (1950) 1 December 2010 27. The Great Dictator (1940) 1 November 2010 28. The King's Speech (2010) 19 January 2011 29. The Last Emperor (1987) 20 January 2011 30. The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner (1962) 9 January 2011 31. The Man in the White Suit (1951) 5 August 2009 32. The Philadelphia Story (1940) 5 November 2010 33. The Social Network (2010) 19 January 2011 Written by Tex Allen, SAG-AFTRA movie actor. Visit WWW.IMDb.Me/TexAllen for more information about Tex Allen. Tex Allen's email address is TexAllen@Rocketmail.Com.See Tes Allen Movie Credits, Biography, and 2012 photos at WWW.IMDb.Me/TexAllen. See other Tex Allen written movie reviews....almost 100 titles.... at http//imdb.com/user/ur15279309/comments (paste this address into your URL Browser) "},{"Title":"Influential British New Wave drama that broke down barriers","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Saturday Night and Sunday Morning was at the time a fresh,innovative opus about the British working class that had previously been stereotyped and patronised by the public school,middle class dominated domestic cinema.Time has inevitably diminished it's impact,but it still remains a raw,no-nonsense,gritty and utterly absorbing slice of life with a sharp script,well-judged direction,excellent cinematography and a fine cast topped by an outstanding,star-making lead performance by Albert Finney.Arthur Seaton (Finney),a lathe operator at Nottingham's Raleigh Bicycle factory,is disillusioned with his humdrum life and surroundings,and compensates for the boredom with his rebellion against all kinds of authority,drunken weekends,his affair with a married woman,Brenda (Rachel Roberts) while courting the younger Doreen (Shirley Anne Field).Brenda becomes pregnant and Arthur tries to assist in having the baby aborted,but after being beaten up by some of Brenda's in-laws,seems to settle for conventional married life with Doreen on a new housing estate.The events described are pretty mild by modern standards,but this was startling and unprecedented for the late 50's/early 60's,as was the behaviour of it's working class anti-hero.As brilliantly portrayed by Finney,Arthur Seaton is a boorish,boozy,amoral,lying,selfish reprobate, yet audiences then and still do empathised with all the frustrations,disappointments and anger of a character who was prepared to rebel wholeheartedly against convention and his depressing lot.It is a tribute to Finney that he makes such a surly,unlikable,anti-social character as this oddly sympathetic,adding touches of warmth and humour while delivering some memorable lines written by Alan Sillitoe.Director Karel Reisz was admittedly from a patrician,public school background,but Finney (Salford) and Sillitoe (Nottingham), used experience of their humble backgrounds to great artistic advantage, which influenced many others from similar beginnings to express themselves artistically in years to come.The authentic locations are immaculately lensed by Freddie Francis,adding a kind of poetic realism that French cinema would be proud of,with fine acting work all round by Roberts,Field,Norman Rossington,Hylda Baker (better known for her comedy but giving a fine straight performance here),Bryan Pringle and others.The influence ofSaturday Night and Sunday Morning cannot be denied enough,bringing forth a new,more realistic if not compassionate view of the British working classes,with warts and all,and allowing new acting,writing and directing talent to express itself to the fore after years of stuffiness and stultification.Other New Wave films were to follow (A TASTE OF HONEY,LONELINESS OF THE LONG DISTANCE RUNNER,etc) and CORONATION STREET,still going after half a century,began on TV not long after with it's depictions of Northern working class life becoming an extraordinary success, but it is to this film, and talents like Karel Reisz,Alan Sillitoe and Albert Finney, that the breaking down of such barriers began, and that made it possible that realism in film could be every bit if not more entertaining than escapism.RATING8 and a half out of 10. "},{"Title":"Anti-hero for the working class","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Somewhat gloomy look at working class local lad (Finney) thumbing his nose at the establishment, living a hand-to-mouth existence with every discretionary penny sunk into booze-fuelled antics with local women and the occasional dust-up. There's no aspirations other than the simple pleasures of a hard-earned weekend bender. His hell-raising days appear to be drawing to an abrupt and premature end when his infidelity with a co-worker's wife (Roberts) results in an unwanted pregnancy. But there's soon the promise of new love (Field) and all the spontaneity and cheerful ignorance that he craves.Well photographed, the post war images of a semi-industrial England paints a vivid picture of the times, perfectly matched by Finney's rough diamond, an alpha male adored by all the women, morally and ethically in tune, but characteristically flawed. He totally immerses himself in the role, and his performance is underscored by the tragic Roberts character, forced to endure the ignominy of an abortion, along with the pain of rejection. One of the highlights in a succession of landmark British films that broke the mould, opening the door for the new wave of talent to emerge (Finney, Courtenay, Bates, Stamp, Hemmings etc) and forever change the British film landscape. Highly provocative subject matter was daring in its day and the open-ended resolution is by no means a bright one, offering no false promises that betray the context. But unlike its central character, the audience will be rewarded with this gritty, realistic drama of substance. "},{"Title":"Working class anti-hero","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm a great fan of the UK New-Wave of so-called kitchen-sink dramas of the early 60's, of which S.N.A.S.M. was a trail-blazing example. Born myself in 1960, the year this film was released, I thus just missed actually living in the factory-driven outside-toilet existence in the years in Britain just before the swinging sixties of Harold Wilson's white-heat technological era, but obviously my parents did and that makes this worm's eye slice of life all the more fascinating to view today some 50 years later.Remarkably candid in its depiction of life as it was lived among the working classes and in particular its treatment of hitherto taboo subjects like extra-marital affairs, sex and abortion, the film immediately drops us into the grinding factory-working conditions of Albert Finney's character Arthur. Unremitting in its picture of the bleakness not only of life in the factory itself but also the neighbouring industrial landscape, Finney rails against it the only ways he knows how - drinking hard, engaging in casual sex and causing trouble in his neighbourhood. Taking its lead from the title, we follow his errant lifestyle in almost real-time fly-on-the-wall fashion, before his character undergoes a kind of epiphany as he finds true love with the pretty Doreen (Shirley Ann Field) and decides to settle down and marry her, although their ambition stretches no further than a house in the same town with an inside toilet, This was a breakthrough part for Finney and he grasps it with both hands. Mostly unlikeable throughout with his outdated selfish, chauvinistic often cruel attitude to life, we nonetheless can identify with his restlessness against the stultifying confines of society. Whatever people say I am, that's what I'm not is the famous self-defining line he utters near the end (recently elevated to wider prominence by the Arctic Monkeys using it as their debut album title). The support work too is excellent, particularly Rachel Roberts as the bored housewife who knows exactly the bargain she's made in exchange for the passion Finney shows her in the bedroom her wet-sponge husband Bryan Pringle can't and Norman Rossington as his more conventional conformist mate who can't fully understand Finney's constant raging against the machine.Freddie Francis' photography is marvellous in conveying the grim backdrop to the drama and Karel Reisz's direction is always to the point and while I'm no fan of jazz music, Johnny Dankworth's off-beat soundtrack serves its subject matter well too.Life then as it was lived in the era that the prevailing Prime Minister of the time, Harold MacMillan said had never had it so good. One wonders what he made of this film if indeed he ever saw it. "},{"Title":"Captures a time in history and a time in British film","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There was a time in the late 1950s and early 1960s when there were a lot of movies coming out of England, such as this one, that dealt with the lives of the lower-classes, such movies as The L-Shaped Room, A Taste of Honey, Look Back in Anger, and This Sporting Life. These movies were small-scale and uncompromisingly realistic filmed in drab environments accentuated by the black-and-white photography. While there have been more recent films that examine lives of the British working classes, perhaps most notably some of the films of Ken Loach, none of these captures the look and feel of the early films. In Saturday Night and Sunday Morning Albert Finney plays Arthur Seaton, a rebellious and impish young man. Early on he sums up his philosophy with the comment, What I'm out for is a good time. By day Arthur works robotically at a milling machine turning out bicycle axles in a dismal factory and by the time the weekend rolls around he is anxious to let it all hang out. He goes to pubs, engages in drinking contests, and takes up with women. After establishing a relationship with one woman he simultaneously takes up with a married woman. Arthur thinks he is special and can get away with most anything, but he is brought up short by an unexpected pregnancy. The heart of the movie shows the effect this has on him and how he deals with it in a time when abortions were illegal. We find out things about Arthur that maybe he was not even aware of.The young Finney shows the talent that would ultimately result in his becoming a major actor. I couldn't get over how much he reminded me of Richard Burton, but without that world-weary cynicism that always seemed to be a part of many of Burton's screen personalities.You won't see anything like this kind of movie again, so such movies as Saturday Night and Sunday Morning are little treasures in and of themselves. "},{"Title":"Alfie's Big Brother","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm surprised I haven't read more (only one that I noticed in one of the other commentaries) about the similarities between this movie and its near clone, Alfie, six years later. Both Brit playboys, both ne'er do-wells, both involving unwed pregnancies and the consequences, and abortion. Maybe because of the music associated with Alfie, and that music (though nothing to do wit the song) having an upbeat attitude or reminding me of my youth, but Alfie seemed a much better, more polished, and more upbeat version of the same theme. Finney's acting is great, of course. Watching him the lens of my mind sort of came in and out of focus on him as a young man here and as an old man in later roles. And one of the women he woos is stunning, even in black and white. The story is a bit on the facile side, with various scrapes and though he gets a thrashing he comes up fine from that as well. No real consequences to him throughout so there's no real moral to the story or lesson to be learned here. Something of a boys will be boys edge.But it's an interesting film though as others have commented a bit dated and toothless today versus the impact it must have had in its day. Alfie it ain't. But entertaining it is. And sometimes, that's all a movie needs to be. "},{"Title":"Albert Finney as the angry young man","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie, by director Karel Reisz, is still watchable almost 50 years on. British cinema was going through its own cinema verite phase and Albert Finney was one of the angry young man actors of his generation. In this movie, he gives a superb performance as a young factory worker bent on breaking out of the mold in a dreary industrial town. Drinking, womanizing or setting up subjects for one of his gags are his idea of fun. He pays the price for getting involved with a married woman when two sailors hunt him down and give him his due. The woman's role is performed by Rachel Roberts, another actress who came into her own in the early 1960's. We sense that despite himself, this is a young man who is a cut above the others but who eventually lives out his life as one of the hollow men, as T.S. Elliot might have described. This is what happens when he eventually decides to settle down and marry. We have to wonder if times have changed or if this theme is as old as history. Do young people with great potential lose it because of the pressure to conform. If so, is this a positive outcome or do Western societies snuff out originality among youth instead of channelling those energies into more creative outlets? Is this a symptom of class structure or individual choice? The movie does not answer the question but hints at class structure as the reason for limiting the choices of young people. We sense the same in the other movies of this period. The outcome is not new but like other angry young man themes the portrait of the man and the town give us something to ponder. "},{"Title":"Come Sunday Morning...We're All the Same!","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Albert Finney shines as a young man rebelling against society and its imposed restrictions, labels, and norms on him and those around him. He does a have nine-to-five job, but he lives to raise hell on the weekends. Sound familiar? It starts out with him feeling angry at almost everybody and he feels like he's special and different. He's not taking the crap average slobs are. He means to turn the world on its ear, with of course no consequences. But, he soon finds himself confronted by an unexpected challenge. Rachel Roberts, from Peter Weir's Picnic at Hanging Rock is exceptional as a married woman who's in love with him. But, by the end of the movie, whether he realizes it or not, he's settling down in his small village with his small dreams; he's just another bloke. "},{"Title":"Another Britsh Angry Young Man film from the 60s...","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...but a good one.  Albert Finney plays an arrogant, young man who still lives with his family and has a dead end job in a factory.  He thinks he's got everything under control and doesn't want a life like his parents. Unfortunately, that just might happen.  The movie is short (90 min) and fast-moving and always interesting.  There are problems--the overall depression wears one down and the accents are (at times) indecipherable. Still, worth seeing.  Just don't expect an uplifting film. "}{"Title":"Brilliant! British 'realism' at its best!","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Karel Reisz's direction and the brilliant acting of Albert Finney enable this film to stand the test of time. The film was revolutionary for its time as it was one of the few movies that gave expression to the voice of a working-class character.The representation of vernacular speech, everyday humour, and location shooting makes this film stand out as a classic of 'realist' cinema. Arthur Seaton is a difficult character to sympathize with, but Finney's cheeky, brash performance makes him compelling.What is annoying is the interference by those imbeciles at the British Board of Film Censors, who would not allow the use of the word 'bogger' (in spite of allowing numerous other common swear words) because it sounded like 'bugger'. Also an off screen reference to Brenda successfully terminating her abortion was removed (abortion was illegal up until 1967). In retrospect it seems ridiculous now but it goes to show that there are often covert reasons behind censorship.  "},{"Title":"Affectionate but Edgy, Period Drama","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Viewed in 2010 this is a difficult call. It's status as being a slice of cinematic social history is undoubted, as is the fine performance of Albert Finney. However as a stand-alone piece, the impact and power that it had at the time has dissipated with age.The mechanics are very simple. A bleak drab setting, Finney as angry young man, Arthur, conventional love interest in Shirley-Ann Field as Doreen, and illicit love interest in married Rachel Roberts as Brenda who falls pregnant by Arthur.The social commentary is finely observed by Director Karel Reisz and writer Alan Sillitoe. Reisz's subsequent stage work with Pinter plays and his realisation of The French Lieutenant's Woman both showcase his ability to deal successfully with character which is much in evidence here. Several supporting roles are vital to the story's success with the bruising matriarchs of the time joyously in evidence.At the time a story which told of marital infidelity, abortion and changing attitudes to sex, anticipating the teenage rebellion that was to surface as the decade wore on, broke the shackles of cinema which was still wedded to the conventional morality of the War Spirit. Now it seems staple dramatic fare. At 90 minutes it does it's job well. Yet it lacks the raw spirit of Kess, the pain of Brassed Off or the dramatic sweep of the earlier How Green Was My Valley in its depiction of British Working Class life.So ultimately an important slice of cinematic history, but by no means a timeless classic. "},{"Title":"The Star never shone brighter","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This, playing the working class womaniser and heel, was Finney's finest hour. How similar to Michael Caine in Alfie? Both working class lads who 2o years earlier would have been forced to speak in strangulated received pronunciation but were in changed times able to play entirely authentic versions of the people they grew up with indeed perhaps were. And didn't they shine? Unremarked is the dazzling b&w photography in such ordinary dull locations including from a moving dodgem car. Thank Heavens Diana Doors was replaced by Rachel Roberts - she completed a superlative cast that portrayed ordinariness with complete naturalness. But after admiring this triumph of art and craftsmanship it dealt with an uninteresting and unappealing central character however so wonderfully brought to life. The film was a product of its times - that writer film-makers and stars could for the first time could give the best of everything to an unworthy fictional character. It marked the end of the rather puritanical movement which culminated with Atlee. It has nothing to affirm, it simply spectates. After this the deluge. "},{"Title":"Fun in the bike factory","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The main trouble with this film is that Arthur Seaton is such a complete prat that both Rachel Roberts and Shirley Anne Field would have run a mile over broken glass to get out of his way.He is arrogant,ignorant,smug,self -satisfied,opinionated,heavy-drinking and none-too-clean.He is a horrible,stroppy,loudmouth,just about holding down a job in a Nottingham factory making bicycle parts.Just the sort of bloke you'd want your daughter to marry if you were a few sandwiches short of a picnic in 1959. Not that our Arthur wants to get wed mind,nay lad,he's too fly for that. Fook 'em and forget 'em is his motto,and if one of 'em's his mate's wife..,well,what the eye don't see the 'eart don't grieve over. Readers of the Manchester Guardian had no doubt that this was what working class life was like and revelled in its sordidness from the insulated comfort of their duffel coats and raised their cups of expresso in the coffee bars of south east England.Dear Terry Rattigan was on his way out and style and wit were about to disappear from the theatre for a generation whilst self-loathing and contempt for every previous criterion of excellence became the byword.Criminals wrote plays,books and filmscripts and were lionised by the very people they had once preyed on.Actors feverishly practised their glottal stops,checked out their distant relatives up north to copy their strange speech patterns and auditioned for parts as caretakers or madmen.The English had had their theatrical revolution and,as usual with revolutions,it had been done on their behalf by those who knew better. Films soon fell into line and jobs for whippet wranglers increased exponentially.Saturday night and Sunday morning is ,depressingly,the template for a thousand subsequent TV soaps and dramas and Arthur Seaton's shade lives on long after he undoubtedly died in a pool of vomit on the floor of the gentlemen's lavatory in some smoke-filled workingmen's club on top of a bleak hill next to an abandoned coalmine. Mr Albert Finney does Arthur Seaton full on.It is not a subtle performance,when he isn't whining he's shouting.He obviously went for eye-catching rather than developing.Miss Roberts looks so careworn that Arthur clearly thinks he is doing her a favour and Miss Field would have been happier if someone had leapt in through the French doors and shoutedTennis anybody? I was an uncritical 19 year old when this all happened ,mistaking bombast for brilliance.Flirting with left wing politics,joining the Labour Party when it meant something,devouring Russian seven year plans. When the workers of the world had conspicuously failed to unite and a wall was built in Berlin I belatedly grew up.Sadly the British cinema didn't and third rate copies of Saturday night and Sunday morning continued to be made and Socialist tubs continued to be thumped right through the 1960s.After the failure of the October revolution in 1968 itsignalled the beginning of the end although faithful Guardianistas kept the dream alive for a while longer,at least until the Americans quit Vietnam. A fallow few years ensued before Chariots of fire started a renaissance for the British cinema,and it is noticeable that chariots had wit and style,energy and elegance.It was written by Colin Welland who undoubtedly could have written about a boorish womanising factory worker in Nottingham but instead chose to write about aristocratic Olympic athletes.Ah well,back to square one,comrades. "},{"Title":"Weak End","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this film for the price of a newspaper - the one with which the DVD of SNASM was given away - and frankly that's about all it's worth. This is not the same as saying that in 1959 it wasn't perhaps a breath of fresh air and maybe even 'daring' but in 2006 there's an awfully big 'so-what' factor to be overcome. For one thing it's referential; within one reel Arthur Seaton (Albert Finney) is saying 'no one's going to grind ME down' a low-budget version of Bogie's 'I stick my neck out for nobody' in Casablanca and just as Bogie keeps on saying this so does everyone here echo Arthur and tell us that he'll get his in the end, there's even a fade out shot of him walking away from camera with Shirley Anne Field that replicates Bogie and Claude Rains at the end of Casablanca. Then there's the scene in the pub where he first meets Shirley Anne Field and they seem to be doing their damnedest to outdo Cary Grant and Roz Russell in His Girl Friday but someone should have told them that machine-gun dialogue isn't really applicable to a working-class pub in Nottingham. I've always found Finney to be vastly overrated - and I've seen him on both stage and screen - and here he comes across as just an inarticulate lout both a chauvinist and a Me-generation disciple before either male chauvinist pigs or Me-generations had been identified as such. Students taking Film Studies at university will probably always have to deal with it in context but fortunately I'm not one of them. "}]