[{"Title":"Revered and reviled, but no longer ignored","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"143 out of 155 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In these supposed enlightened times, director Michael Powell is considered a genius of British cinema. Emerging during the War as one of Britain's finest craftsmen, Powell and his partner Emeric Pressburger created the undisputed classics The Life And Death Of Colonel Blimp (1943), Black Narcissus (1947) and The Red Shoes (1948).But despite critical and commercial success, his career was in tatters by the early 1960's.  The abrupt death of Powell's career can virtually be pinned down to one film, his most uncompromising portrait of madness, 1960's Peeping Tom.Powell's infamous shocker opens with a movie camera-wielding Mark Lewis (Carl Boehm) following a prostitute to her boarding house room. Once inside, he slides a spike from his tripod leg and films her action of terror before stabbing her to death. As the credits roll, we find Mark alone in his apartment, replaying the footage with wide-eyed fascination.As the film progresses, Mark is revealed as a stuttering loner whose sex drive has been somehow twisted into a murderous voyeuristic mania - working at a movie studio by day, he moonlights as a &#145;glamour' photographer above a seedy newsagents. His blonde buxom model (Pamela Green), constantly taunting his virility, is the embodiment of the female he despises. The inquisitive girl downstairs, on the other hand, becomes his ideal and his possible salvation. Ultimately she is doomed by her altruistic attraction when she insists Mark must show her one of his 'films'. Horrified, she watches Mark as a child, tortured by his father's camera experiment of recording a child's reaction to fear. Mark's own experiment of filming his murder victims leads him on a downward spiral of insanity to the film's tragic conclusion.Despite Peeping Tom's sensational subject matter, Powell's intention was deadly serious to make a sober study of sexual violence, as well as a meditation on the audience's role of voyeur. Powell's camera positions us directly behind Mark and his spectators so that we become his unwilling accomplices - the audience watches Mark watching his films. Carl Boehm as Mark gives a chilling performance, at once icy reserve and murderous rage. Powell creates a garish red and pale blue twilight landscape of backstreet London in perfect detail. At the film's completion, Powell believed he had made a masterpiece. Peeping Tom is certainly a personal film; Powell and his co-scriptwriter toiled for months until they had mastered a sympathetic three-dimensional serial killer. In later years, Powell would remain tight-lipped about his real reasons for making the film. But Britain's premiere 'glamour' pinup queen Pamela Green - Peeping Tom's photo-model and penultimate victim - would offer clues to Powell's hidden agenda.Green became his leading choice for the role, although she had not appeared outside 8mm stag films, after seeing a life-sized nude portrait in her business partner Harrison Mark's studio. Her initial reception on the set was one of polite British reserve - until Powell unleashed his Jekyll and Hyde personality and she became one among many targets for his boorish, intimidating manner. On the day of Green's death scene, Powell changed his former plans of prudence and demanded she sprawl topless across her bed before she is skewered with Mark's tripod leg. She reluctantly gave in. Mid-shot she looked across the studio in horror. Beneath Powell's camera were his two pre-teen sons, watching unwaveringly according to their father's instructions. This incident brought a chill over Powell's casting of his son as Mark junior and of himself as Mark's father.Whatever reasons drove Powell to make Peeping Tom, he had effectively signed his career's death warrant. The film opened to scathing reviews in April 1960, just months after the similarly-themed Psycho. Ironically, Hitchcock floated out of the controversy surrounding Psycho as the consummate old trickster, and saved his slowly sinking career.  The time seemed ripe for Peeping Tom among audiences and critics alike. Unfortunately for Powell, the critics could find none of Psycho's black humour in his sober tome. 'Sick' and &#145;vile' were a small sample of their vitriol. The papers were outraged that a filmmaker of Powell's calibre could sink his talents into material so vulgar and perverse. Powell hoped the distributor would weather the storm and allow the audience to find the film on its own merits. Instead, the plug was pulled on Peeping Tom after five days and at least in Britain the film was buried.The print was sold to the American Roadshow circuit, with a lurid ad campaign designed to sell the film to a jaded American public. Shorn of twenty minutes footage, the film was considered too 'British' and was shelved after a limited run. There it sat, gathering dust for almost 20 years. Then in 1978 a cabal of admiring filmmakers led by Martin Scorsese (himself no stranger to controversy) rescued a complete print from Britain.  Peeping Tom was thus relaunched in 1979 at the prestigious New York Film Festival to a predictably mixed reception. Correct-minded commentators grudgingly accepted its 'masterpiece' tag but were nonplussed with the Film's treatment of its sexual violence.As for Powell, the British film industry no longer considered him bankable after Peeping Tom. He made one more film in Britain before exiling himself to Australia. The antipodean They're A Weird Mob (1966) was on of his final films before his death in 1984. Luckily for Powell, the film he considers his masterpiece is still revered and reviled, but no longer ignored. "},{"Title":"Notorious murder thriller which was years ahead of its time, and resulted in the downfall of its great director.","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"123 out of 132 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" To understand the stir that Peeping Tom caused when it was released in 1960, you need to think about what audiences at that time were accustomed to when they went to the cinema. Innocent love stories, historical epics, action-packed westerns and colourful musicals were the staple cinematic diet of the time, certainly not dark, disturbing and intensely violent murder thrillers like this. What probably unsettled contemporary film-goers even more was the fact that a film of this kind could come from a much-loved and revered director like Michael Powell. In modern times, the equivalent would be if Steven Spielberg were to make a graphic and reviled film about paedophilia or bestiality, consequently never being allowed to stand behind a movie camera again. When Peeping Tom hit the big screen, it was rejected by the public and crucified by the critics, and left Powell's hitherto glorious career in ruin.A film cameraman, Mark Lewis (Karl Boehm), displays psychotic tendencies as he murders women with a spiked tripod attached to the bottom of his camera, capturing on celluloid their final screams of agony. It is revealed that when he was a child, Mark was used as a guinea pig by his father (Michael Powell) in a series of psychoanalytical experiments about the symptoms of fear. Among other things, Mark's delightful dad would wake him throughout the night and shine lights in his eyes, drop lizards into his bed, and on one occasion even forced him to pose for photographs next to the dead body of his mother. As a result, Mark has an unhealthy obsession with fear and, in particular, the expression that people have on their face during moments of fear.Peeping Tom is one of the few films that still has the power to shock all these years on. Psycho, released roughly at the same time, is still a great film but its shock value has been diminished by years of repeat viewings and increasing permissiveness in the cinema. But Peeping Tom is an altogether more disturbing piece of work. Boehm is excellent as the killer whose entire outlook has been skewed by his father's experiments. Also impressive is Anna Massey as the killer's fragile and unsuspecting fiancée. Powell directs the film brilliantly, using bold and dazzling colours to disguise the horrific atrocities that punctuate his film. It is understandable that the film was met with revulsion and rejection at that time, but in retrospect it is a film of real importance and power. In a 21st century world bombarded and desensitised by harrowing images on the news and in the movies, the theme of losing one's grasp on what is and isn't morally acceptable is more pertinent than ever. This is not easy viewing, but it IS essential viewing. "},{"Title":"Did You Get the Point?","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"94 out of 115 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Peeping Tom is a philosophical movie that investigates the nature of perception, rather than an edge-of-the seat thriller. The phrase snuff films hadn't even been invented in 1960, nor did videotape cameras exist, so the movie was far in advance of its time. You might be disappointed if you looking for pure excitement, you have to be willing to examine deeper issues.Carl Bohm is perfect in the role of the killer, and his faint German accent (which might be interpreted as a. psychogenic speech defect) adds to the creepiness of his character. Instead of an over-the-top maniac (Jack Nicholson, are you listening?), he portrays a frightened and insecure little person who can only relate to the world by looking at it, preferably through a camera lens. It is easy to condemn him for his obsession with peeping, but -um- aren't we doing the same thing by watching this movie, or any movie? The most interesting movies are those that  provoke such questions in us. This aspect also helps explain why Peeping Tom was so fiercely condemned in 1960.(The scenes between Bohm and Massey remind me of those between Gustav Diesel and Louise Brooks in the last part of Pandora's Box (1928), and you can bet the Michael Powell was familiar with Pabst's work.)The idea that scrutiny = punishment was explored by Michel Foucault in his book Surveiller et Punir, which I happened to read a long time ago. We will be finding out more about  this as the National Security State draws closer. Anyway, here you have a powerless little guy who tries to feel the same sense of control by turning  his camera - literally - into a murder-weapon. The technical details of this contrivance seem unrealistic, but the symbolism is so powerful they scarcely matter.The hard-edged sound of late-50s cool jazz works very nicely in setting the atmosphere, similar to Town Without Pity (1960). Nowadays we tend to think of that era as idyllic, so its useful to remind ourselves of the dark edges that existed.  "},{"Title":"Macabre voyeurism","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"71 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael Powell, the distinguished English director, probably contributed to his own demise from the film industry with Peeping Tom, a movie that proved to be well ahead of its times and a masterpiece by this man who gave so much to enhance the industry in Great Britain. In fact, it's a shame this was almost the last film he directed before going on to a kind of exile in Australia.Peeping Tom is an exercise in voyeurism Mr. Powell, and his screen writer, Leo Marks, created to prove to what extent how one is capable of watching things one shouldn't watch. At the same time, Mr. Powell created a psychological essay about what makes Mark Lewis, the central character of the film, act the way he acted. Mark has been scarred for life thanks to what his own father did to him during a period of his growing years that formed his character into the reclusive man who feels at home doing the despicable crimes he commits.One of the strengths of the film is the amazing portrayal of Mark Lewis by the German actor, Carl Boehm, who made a superb contribution to the movie. Mr. Boehm is perfect because by just looking at him, one would never guess what's inside his soul, or what motivates him to kill and record his crimes.Mr. Powell brought together an amazing cast that shines in the film. Moira Shearer, Anna Massey, Maxime Audley, Brenda Bruce, Bartlett Mullins, are among the most prominent players one sees in the film.The newly restored copy we saw as part of the retrospective shown at the Walter Reade this year has been enhanced in ways one didn't think would be possible and it's a tribute to the great director, who should have been proud of how today's audiences are reacting when they discover his movies that seem will live forever.It's ironic that Mr. Powell didn't get the recognition he deserved during his lifetime. "},{"Title":"Watch And Learn","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"53 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Despite a long and distinguished career the production team of Powell and Pressberger were effectively ruined by the furore of criticism and demands for censorship generated by this film.'Peeping Tom' is a great film and one that modern film makers could learn from.  Even good films like 'Seven' and 'Silence of the Lambs' have a regretable tendency toward melodrama and gross overacting in the portrayal of serial killers.  'John Doe' (Kevin Spacey) and 'Buffalo Bill' (Ted Levine) are laughable travesties of their real life counterparts, who seem harmless when approaching or luring a potential victim.One of the things that critics of his time could not forgive Powell is that he makes his killer 'Mark Lewis' (Karl Boehm) human and likeable.  a sensitive and intelligent young man, he is the product of bestial cruelty inflicted upon him in childhood (the scenes showing film of him being tortured as a boy by his scientist father are horrifying in the true sense of the word)This is a sophisticated film demanding of the viewer that he or she not only takes part in watching a compelling thriller but are also provoked into contemplating the forces that work on a man who commits such crimes.After watching 'Peeping Tom' one does not have the customary closure common in such thrillers of seeing a 'monster' the viewer could not emphasise with destroyed and the world made safe again, (much the theory behind the justification of capital punishment).  Rather we have the experience of seeing the tragic self destruction of a man arguably as much a victim as those he killed.To critics this was reprehensible - 'siding with the murderer'.  The man who wrote the script, however, knew at first hand what makes a killer - since he was responsible for selecting secret agents to fight behind enemy lines in World War 2.  He had to choose men - and women - who would not hesitate to kill.  How many writers can claim this level of insight?'Peeping Tom' is a classic and I rate it an eye catching 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A slasher flick with a heart of gold","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"53 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'll admit it I was completely stumped; for almost all of the running time I had no idea where Michael Powell was going with this one.  (Not that there are any twists in the plot - my uncertainty was of a different kind.)  I think this made me all the more delighted when I at last found out.Although it was made without co-archer Emeric Pressburger, we see the old Archers' logo at the start; except that this time it's overlaid with `A Michael Powell Production' - in tiny letters.  This gave me a pang of sadness.  `Peeping Tom' all but completely destroyed Powell's career; and however much and for whatever reasons critics and audiences may have loathed the film, this simply ought not have happened - especially since, good or bad, it's manifestly the work of a director at the height of his powers.  The photography is wonderfully assured, the colours are as bright and stark and controlled and fantastic as ever, the script is clever and trusts to our intelligence, and Powell still knows how to keep our minds glued to the screen even when our eyes tell us that nothing much is happening.  Every scene is unsettling.  Most are creepy.I could go on about the technical details - the use of sound and music is amazingly innovative, too - but what really elevates `Peeping Tom', what makes so many of the contemporary criticisms absurd, is its compassion.  There's none of that watered-down Freudian guff we encounter in `Psycho'.  Powell makes us feel for his serial killer - not so much by showing us that he feels pain but by showing us that he has ordinary, likeable human qualities as well as madness.  A number of Powell's war-time said the same thing about Nazis.  It's clear that he really meant it.Not that this is an overt message of `Peeping Tom', and not that there aren't a lot of other things going on as well.  I not only recommend, I BEG, that any admirer of Powell's earlier work give this one a try as well.  Since Powell is striking out in a new direction there's an excellent chance you won't like it; but it deserves to be tried. "},{"Title":"bizarre","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw Peeping Tom, it was exhilarating.  The clever films within the film, puns, raw Freudian imagery, the bold acting and the way the plot unfolds as logically as a fable kept me enthralled through to the end.  I tried watching it again last night and I couldn't shake an absolutely crushing sadness that emanates from Mark Lewis.  He's like some aborted twin of the director in 8 1/2.  But whereas Guido's creative instinct and drive emerged from a house full of women pampering him and a magical incantation that he was told will animate an ominous painting, Mark's is a murderous urge to have some of the control and power denied him by his father.  Like a record stuck playing the same sound over and over, Mark has grown into an emotional cul-de-sac where he watches the story of his torture and his revenge every night.  Mark is trying to work his way out of this loop by filming a documentary.  If he can create a record of sadistic control over everything around himself, maybe the act of making a story out of his life will at least give him an end to his suffering.  The frenzied excitement, practically joy, of his suicide is a miserable thing to contemplate.  He says that he's spent a long time preparing his walkway of cameras to capture his final rush to meet the fate he inflicted on so many others.  At previous points in the film, he's noted that he expected to get caught and it's clear he's very happy to have been revealed in exactly the circumstances he staged.  His documentary is a success.  Mark tries to develop a world outside of the documentary that he knows will kill him.  He talks to the psychologist about getting help and his expression clearly indicates that he just can't see giving years of therapy a chance.  Mark's clumsy and sincere attempts to develop a normal relationship with Helen fall into the same category - it would be so nice, but he's got something he has to do.  Something creative, albeit monstrous, hardwired into Mark has to express itself `regardless of the consequences.'As with other Michael Powell films, it's not for all audiences.  Powell tells his stories with lavish color-coded signals, revels in dramatic extremes, and is unapologetic about pulling dirty tricks like dragging out Moira Shearer's death scene to the point where 1) you fully realize that Mark is an exacting composer and 2) you long for him to get on with it and kill her already.  Like everything else filmed before 1999 (when The Matrix set the current standard for believable CGI and HBO programming made R-rated material ho-hum), the fx/gore do not live up to contemporary expectations. "},{"Title":"The British 'Psycho'","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's difficult to imagine the effect that this film had on critics and audiences when first shown as in the 90's we have become desensitized by the violence and cruelty of slasher movies.Yet even today this film is deeply disturbing.  The lead character is portrayed in a sympathetic light, thanks to a stunning performance from Carl Boem.  He is a victim of a cruel and abusive father, desperate to escape the curse that has been handed down to him. There are some memorable scenes the home movie showing him and his father (played by Michael Powell and his own son), the shot of the beautiful model turning round and showing her hare lip and the projection of one of the murders to the blind mother, with part of the frame projecting onto the murderer.This is a deeply unnerving film but brilliantly made.  Go see. "},{"Title":"Peeping Tom (1960)","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I've watched Michael Powell's PEEPING TOM a couple of times on TV but I've yet to give my Criterion DVD a spin. Certainly one of the most original, challenging and bleakest films ever made and to have come from a British film-maker, albeit an iconoclastic one, makes the achievement all the more remarkable. While I do think that comparisons to its contemporary PSYCHO (1960) are a bit tenuous, it has to be said that both films can be thought of as belonging to the horror genre &#150; in fact, PEEPING TOM was the third British slasher movie in a row, following HORRORS OF THE BLACK MUSEUM (1959) and CIRCUS OF HORRORS (1960) - but can also lay claim to being a very dark sort of black comedy. Besides, both films feature dysfunctional, immature, adult male protagonists haunted by a terrible upbringing which vents itself in a series of murders. Furthermore, while both films have been harshly reviled by critics when first released, in time, they have had their reputations make a complete about face and nowadays are numbered among their respective directors' unassailable masterpieces! "},{"Title":"not your usual horror film","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The film that did a large amount of damage to Michael Powell's film career remains as a prime example of an intellectual British horror film.  It has certainly retained the power to shock over four decades later, and leaves the viewer with more questions than have been answered during the fairly short running time.Carl Boehm plays Mark Lewis, a focus puller at a film studio who feeds his voyeuristic tendencies by filming people everyone he goes.  This preoccupation takes a disturbing twist in his need to kill, and film women as he kills them.  So far, so unsavoury.  Mark appears on the surface as a personable young man who just has this dangerous, psychotic tendency he can't always keep in check.  The audience is thus invited to have some sympathy with him, especially after the discovery that the young Mark was the focus for his father's experiments on the nature of fear in children (show in part as the film within the film featuring Michael Powell and his son Columba), and was filmed and recorded for the whole of his young life. No wonder, the film is saying, that he has grown into this disturbed person who has no real life away from either recording things on a camera, or watching the results in his darkened room.Anna Massey has perhaps the prime female role in the film, as Mark's downstairs neighbour Helen Stephens.  She is both repelled and attracted by Mark's movie-making, and perhaps she is closer to him that she would herself admit.  It is a restrained performance of considerable power.  Moira Shearer has a brief appearance as the studio stand-in who becomes his victim, while Shirley Anne Field provides light relief as the film actress who can never get her lines right and doesn't know how to faint on camera.&#145;Peeping Tom' is a clever piece of work which perhaps came too soon to be acceptable to the establishment.  After all, during Powell's collaborations with Emeric Pressburger, they often pushed their luck with their subject matter and the way they presented it.  This film was the natural progression of that anarchistic spirit.  It is humorous in places &#150; Mark is not presented as a one-dimensional monster &#150; while being a very dark and disturbing psychological thriller throughout.     "}{"Title":"Face of Fear","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In London, the lonely photographer Mark Lewis (Carl Boehm) works in a film studio and moonlights supplying cheesecake photos to a magazine store. He lives in the huge house that he had inherited from his parents that is rented to tenants to help him pay the bills and keep the building. Mark was the subject of bizarre experiments of effects of the fear conducted by his scientist father since he was a child and he has become a disturbed man obsessed by the face of frightened women in the moment of death. He kills women filming their faces while he stabs them in the throat. When Mark meets his neighbor and tenant Helen Stephens (Anna Massey) on the day of her birthday, he befriends her and sooner he dates the young woman. Mark has a crush on Helen and does not want to film her. But Mark is one of the suspects and a detective is tracking down Mark.Peeping Tom is a good film with an unusual serial-killer, since Mark Lewis is an educated and likable character and also a victim of the experiments of his cruel and abusive father. His character creates a great empathy with the viewers and despite being a murderer, he is charismatic. I believe that the feelings of Helen for him are shared by most of the viewers. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A Tortura do Medo (The Torture of the Fear) "},{"Title":"A controversial masterpiece.","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" PEEPING TOM concerns a shy young man called Mark Lewis (CARL BOEHM) who works as a focus puller at a London film studio by day. However, despite this respectable profession, Lewis has a more sinister side to him. When he was a child his father who was a celebrated scientist (played by Michael Powell himself) used him as a puppet for his experiments into fear. As a result, Lewis grew up to be a psychopathic killer who stalks his victims and films the fear on his victims faces as he kills them.Anglo-Amalgamated invested $560,000 into the making of this picture, which was more than they had ever spent on a single movie before. The company produced other horror movies such as HORRORS OF THE BLACK MUSEUM (1959 Arthur Crabtree) and CIRCUS OF HORRORS (1960 Sydney Hayers). Both of these films had a certain notoriety at the time especially the former with it's sequence where a girl looks into a pair of binoculars and spikes shoot out straight into her eyes. However, PEEPING TOM has a reputation as the most notorious film in the history of British cinema because of it's story about a particularly lethal form of voyeurism. As a result, director Michael Powell who was the acclaimed director of such prestige British films as A MATTER OF LIFE AND DEATH (1946 co-directed with Emeric Pressburger) had to leave the country and find work in Australia. Today the film is regarded as a masterpiece by people like Martin Scorcese and the noted film critic Dilys Powell who gave the film a scaving review at the time, but she later came round and called it a masterpiece.Viewed today, PEEPING TOM is a masterwork thanks to Powell's impeccable direction and great performances from Boehm as the disturbed Lewis, Anna Massey as his neighbour and girlfriend Helen Stephens and Moira Shearer is also brilliant as Helen's blind mother who suspects that Lewis isn't quite right from the start even though she lost her sight during an operation. Also deserving praise is Otto Heller whose Eastmancolor photography is outstanding with none of that awful day for night stuff. PEEPING TOM isn't a graphically violent film, in fact there isn't a spot of blood anywhere but one can see why the film caused such an uproar at the time as it really is a disturbing story. Yet thanks to the distinguished people involved, the story is told with a measure sympathy for it's troubled killer (even though it never justifies his actions) and if any one else (well almost anyone else) other than Powell had directed it - the film would be nothing more than exploitation rubbish! "},{"Title":"I'm ready for my close-up, Mr. Perverted Killer...","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Absolutely, positively BRILLIANT movie that single-handedly caused a major earthquake in the, until then, overly politically correct British horror industry. Many critics and audiences weren't ready for this type of groundbreaking disturbance (I doubt they even are nowadays), which regretfully meant an unfair boycott of the film, as well as of its genius director Michael Powell. The magnificence of Peeping Tom almost can't be described in words, since it's so all embracing and frighteningly up-to-date. Every single detail in the production&#133;every single line in the script&#133;every single movement by the actors & actresses reaches damn close to perfection. It already starts with a controversial &#150; but hugely courageous &#150; basic premise Scoptophelia, or the morbid desire to watch, as explained by a psychiatrist in the film. Mark Lewis, the main character, can't live without registering everything he sees on camera. This hardly causes any problems in his daily life, as he works in the film-industry and gains some extra cash as the photographer of nude-pictures. But the complexity of Mark's persona doesn't stop there. He constantly struggles with childhood traumas, brought on by his scientist-father who always used Mark as a guinea pig for his own psychological research regarding the study of human fear. As a result of these inhuman tests, Mark grew up a very timid and introvert man...but simultaneously with an insane and restless mind that can only be calmed down by committing gruesome murders...As you can read all over the Internet, Peeping Tom is often mentioned in one sentence along with Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho, released the same year. Supposedly because together they dragged horror-cinema into the present tense by introducing villains that show no obvious physical characteristics like these of typical horror monsters and mass-murderers. Indeed so, Norman Bates as well as Mark Lewis are both ordinary and colorless men that turn out mankind's most bizarre perverts, but that's pretty much where the comparison stops. Peeping Tom continues in intensity and controversy where Psycho eventually throws the towel in the ring. Other than Mark Lewis being a highly unlikely killer, the script successfully covers psychological eeriness (Mark's childhood is far more shocking than that of Norman Bates) AND the alarming confrontation with the omnipresent theme of voyeurism. The uncontrollable desire of observing people is of all ages, but an incredible taboo around the time this film got released. The prudishness and hypocrisy of society is masterfully illustrated near the beginning of the film, when a seemly prominent citizen quietly requests pictures of sexily dressed women in a newspaper shop. If you see how embarrassed he is for buying sexy pictures, you get an idea of how awry and difficult it must have been to shoot a film that actually puts the viewer in the position of a voyeur.Apart from being very intelligent, very influential and very complex&#133; Peeping Tom of course also is VERY frightening! Not in the least because of Carl Boehm's creepy performance (I can't believe the same guy played the fancy and well-behaving Austrian Prince in my mother's favorite epic film-series Sissi &#150; Die Junge Kaiserin!!!), but also because of the depressing atmosphere and the slow pacing. Not a single drop of blood is shed throughout the entire film, and yet I rarely felt this uncomfortable upon seeing simple 'suggestions'. Watching Peeping Tom feels like unintentionally crashing into the set of a snuff film and the only thing you can do is to close your eyes. But&#133;can you? Or, even worse, &#133;do you want to? "},{"Title":"Norman, Have I Got a Friend for You","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" An effectively off-beat serial killer film from Michael Powell, the visionary director that gave us Black Narcissus (one of my favorites of all time) and The Red Shoes. As with those films, he chooses to shoot everything in vibrant color, enhancing the luridness of this lurid story.Carl Boehm plays the disturbed young man who enjoys filming women as he kills them and then watching the films later. He and Norman Bates, the momma's boy serial killer from Psycho, released the same year, could write a manual on sexually motivated ritual killings. In both films, the psychology is laughably obvious and heavy-handed, though it probably seemed shocking to audiences at the time who weren't used to such frank discussions of the unsavory aspects of the human id. But the film is certainly accomplished, and reminded me somewhat of the films of Dario Argento, without the gore.Moira Shearer puts in a brief appearance as one of the victims, and even gets an inexplicable dance number to perform. While the number doesn't make a lot of sense in context of the film, she certainly looks lovely doing it. Too bad she ends up in a trunk.Grade A- "},{"Title":"A superb, iconic, and sophisticated horror story","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael Powell's masterful analysis of objectification and psychological frenzy is truly a deluxe thriller. Perhaps the most unsettling thing about Peeping Tom is that Mark actually isn't a bad guy. He isn't inherently evil -- he is simply a man that has become so consumed by his predilections and cerebral trauma that there's no turning back. Karlheinz Böhm (credited as Carl Boehm) gives a chilling and understated performance in this role. The actor portrays Mark as a stammering, nervous, awkward, and insecure fellow in the vein of Anthony Perkins' Norman Bates. He doesn't trust himself any more than we trust him. Because Mark is a fully-developed human being rather than a knife-wielding caricature, we become sympathetic towards him, to the extent that we are almost complicit in his murderous affairs -- certainly a disturbing experience with which audiences in 1960 likely didn't know how to cope. Böhm is supported by a game cast, including the winsome Anna Massey as the doe-eyed heroine and Maxine Audley as her mother (in a particularly eerie and poignant turn). The proceedings are buoyed by sumptuous cinematography and lighting design, which impart portentous feelings of dread and mystique.Sadly, Peeping Tom is also known for destroying the career of director Powell, who simply made the right movie at the wrong time. Imagine the penury that Alfred Hitchcock would have faced if Psycho were filmed in color! "},{"Title":"So good it ended badly...","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well hello new favorite horror film and easily one of my new favorite films of all time! Peeping Tom is a film about scopophilia, or the desire or urge to gaze at the intimate, the forbidden, the unattainable. It's main character, Mark, is a troubled but brilliant young man who for the most part leads a reserved life--he works focus on movie sets (the irony is intended), he lives a quiet life upstairs in his father's old house (he has tenants pay the rent), and he's really shy (which is why he doesn't meet the cute young lady who lives under his very house until after the movie starts). He also kills people by stabbing them with a tripod connected to a movie camera he totes around all day. The big skill in this movie, though, is that that's just the thing the emphasis is his shy sensibilities, his humanity, and his intelligence. The fact that he's a murderer is made all the more disturbing by how attractive and relatable he is.Now, I understand that that approach has been done before, but here it reaches a new synthesis. First of all, Carl Boehm's acting--Mark isn't just a character you can relate to, he's a character you recognize in your peers, on the street, in yourself. Secondly, Michael Powell's directing, which is second in Britain only to Hitchcock (and Hitchcock moved to America, so really it's second-to-none at this point), is solidly built around bringing the viewer into a magical, open world, only this time it's one that's more likely to shock than amaze. Thirdly, many horror movies use self-reflexivity in the use of cameras and the focus on the entertainment observed in horror movies to make a point about the nature of the violence and the audience's relationship to it, but this movie goes beyond that by introducing sound, set-design, and other parts of film-making that most self-reflexive movies bypass or ignore. Even better, it's subtle--Mark claims only to be looking for a specific image, and the drama is his attempt to find it. It is not Mark making the movie that we're watching.The approach was so subtle and effective, it almost ended Powell's career. Apparently audiences couldn't handle a monster they could relate to, their own liability in the action, and an utterly believable story of a person driven to do something he soberly knows is wrong. Worse, it's moments of Freudian or psychoanalytic explanation is more compelling than, for instance, Psycho, which came out the same year. Even today, when we've moved slightly beyond Freud, this movie is scoff-free.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Snore","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have been of two minds about Michael Powell, ever since I discovered that I couldn't understand how The Red Shoes would make any little girl want to be a ballerina--any more than I have never been able to figure out how The Little Prince or The Velveteen Rabbit could be liked by anyone under 30.Having just watched Colonel Blimp and Black Narcissus, both of which are certifiable masterpieces, I think thatPeeping Tom obviously shows the want of a Pressburger to make it a viable product. It's just plain bad. Bad cinematography, bad acting, bad screenplay, bad choice of material. Were this the film by which Powell is judged, he would be compared to Ed Wood. I know Martin Scorsese likes this movie, but for the life of me I can't figure out why.I understand that this film has been compared to Psycho. Can't figure that one out, either.Peeping Tom does bear comparison to a Hitchcock film, however Frenzy, the only one of Hitch's films whose trailer is better than the movie, and the only one in which Hitch resorted to cheap effects, including the choice of a bad musical score, gratuitous nudity, and that ludicrous shot of Barbara Leigh-Hunt's corpse. Powell doesn't quite go that far, simply showing the protagonist, Mark Lewis, played by Carl Boehm, unsheathing his hidden tripod spike to stab his victims in the throat. Powell used a stag film star as one of the victims, which I guess was kind of louche, and therefore attractive to some.The overall cheapness of the project, despite the use of Anna Massey and Moira Shearer, contributes to the overall tawdriness of Peeping Tom. While I certainly number some low- budget masterpieces among my favorites, it's obvious that Powell took some awful short- cuts in making this one, and never asked his actors to provide anything like acting.The plot of Peeping Tom is outlined elsewhere on this web page, and I don't feel it necessary to duplicate the efforts of others. I would like to see some of the later Powell efforts, especially Age of Consent and the two Pressburger collaborations in Australia from the 1970's, but I think none of these probably rises to the heights Powell and Pressburger reached in the 40's and 50's. There's some great Powell out there; however, undiscriminating praise of his art does him no favor. If Criterion is going to bother to release Peeping Tom, I think it might behoove them to release some of Anthony Asquith's previously unreleased (At lease in America) films, like The Way to the Stars. "},{"Title":"I don't trust a man who walks quietly......","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lonely photographer Mark Lewis works in a film studio and moonlights supplying cheesecake photos to a magazine store. He lives in the house that he inherited from his parents, and rents to tenants to help him pay the bills and keep the building. Mark was the subject of bizarre experiments of effects of the fear conducted by his scientist father when he was a child, and since has become obsessed by the faces of frightened women in the moment of death. He kills women, filming their face, so they can see their fear. When Mark meets his neighbour and tenant Helen on her birthday, he befriends her and soon becomes intimate. Mark has become infatuated with Helen, and begins to become even more unhinged......Powell risked his illustrious career with this movie, and all it's controversy and lambasting it received on its initial release has only helped its cause as the years have passed.It's a very unnerving film to say the least, because unlike other films in this genre, we are with Mark for the duration of the narrative, other characters are in the film to either help, hinder, vex, or endear him, thus making him the hero of the film, the only character you can really show empathy for.And this is why the film is so disturbing, Powell has made a film where all the characters are highly unlikeable dirty and insufferable, so in many instances, Mark is the hero, and you find yourself justifying his actions, because of his suffering, because of his isolation, and most of all, his choice of employment.It's a shocking movie that paved the way for many films that have referenced many of its scenes, and characters.Not comfortable viewing by any means, but essential.Would make a great companion piece with Blow up and Frenzy. "},{"Title":"You always hurt the one you film","Date":"27 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILER ALERT*** Early psychological thriller involving this introverted young man Mark Lewis, Karl Bohm, who's obsessed with photography. Mark carries his sturdy Bell & Howell 8mm movie camera around with him at all times as if it was part of, or connected to, his body. What Mark also has is a deep dark obsession of photographing women whom he, in order to get the very full impact, murders as they realize their about to be run through with a steel spike attached to his movie camera!Peeping Tom is the obvious British version of the American horror classic Paycho. The movie even has an Alfred Hitchcock look-alike Milles Malleson in the film in what seems to be its imitating the great directors, of the film Psycho, cameo scene in it.Mark against his better judgment ends up getting very friendly with one of the tenants in his boarding house, that he inherited from his late father, mosey Helen Stephens, Anna Massey, who seems to be just crazy about him. Not at all unattractive Mark despite his shyness and insecurity with the opposite sex looks like a very young Robert Redford! Which make it very believable that a girl like Helen would go for the guy without her knowing what a real grade triple A nut-case he really is.We soon find out that Mark's problems originated when he mother died and left him at the mercy of his crack pot father, a doctor of the human mind, who got him into photography as well as voyeurism. It was over the years that Mark developed a strong relationship with his movie camera that prevented him from having any real relationships with people that he came in contact with. This mental aberration lead Mark to become crazy in the fact that he ended up murdering a number of women, and photographing them as he butchered them, just to satisfy his sick voyeuristic craving!It was Helen who in fact brought the best out of Mark in him hesitating to murder her when he had the chance in that she was just about the only person, in treating Mark like a normal human being, who cared about him. It was this spark of humanity that in fact lead to Mark's demise as he used the very same tactic to do himself in, when he realized that he's going to be caught by the police, that he used on his victims.Far more effective now then it was at the time of its release back in 1960 Peeping Tom had the misfortune of being ahead of its time not only in its depiction of psychological and mental illnesses but how they affect persons, like Mark Lewis, who suffer from them. The film also showed how these illnesses if not treated can drive a person to the brink, and over it, of both murder and madness! "},{"Title":"Britain's 'Psycho' - A Fairly Agreeable Statement.","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Peeping Tom centers on Mark Lucas (Carl Boehm), a fashion/film photographer who is quiet and rather self-reserved. But despite his calm, quiet appearance, Mark finds joy in murdering women, while filming the horrible deed. When he becomes involved with a woman for the first time, she begins to suspect that something isn't all quite right... and despite her attempts to help him, Mark continues murdering innocent body doubles on his latest film project with the spear-ended leg of his tripod camera.With its retro-style and overall bizarre story, Peeping Tom is an oddball little British thriller that seems to have slipped through the cracks of cinema and hasn't been seen by many. Notoriously controversial and apparently banned, the themes in this film, primarily being voyeurism and murder, are rather heavy, and were especially so for the time it was made. The movie begins with quite a punch-in-the- gut, with a disturbing murder of a prostitute from the killer's camera lens point-of-view. The opening sets the mood for the rest of the film, and I thought the film sustained tension very well, managing to be creative at the same time.There's something about a man obsessed with murdering beautifully-clad women that is extremely sinister, much less filming the crimes, which takes it to an even more disturbing level. The mixed themes of voyeurism, obsession, and murderous impulses is thrown together nicely in the script, and Boehm plays the part extremely well, being reserved and quiet, but appropriately creepy and evoking that feeling that something isn't quite right with him. His character, and the fact that Peeping Tom was released in 1960 as well, is probably what has lead to so many comparisons between this and Hitchock's Psycho. While they do have their similarities, I see Psycho and Peeping Tom as two quite different movies.The main difference is that Peeping Tom focuses mostly from the psychopath's point of view, and more insight is given into his life and disturbing childhood throughout the film's duration, rather than the villain's psyche being wrapped up by a monologue as in Psycho. In that respect, I find Peeping Tom to be a stronger film because the audience can sympathize with the character much more. Both films have their strong and weak points, but it is safe to say that if there ever was a British Psycho, it was most definitely this movie, although I see them as quite different films. My only real complaint with this movie would be that it seems to drag its heels a few times, but all things considered, it is a satisfying horror filmOverall, Peeping Tom is a far above-average psycho-thriller that has managed to sustain its disturbing nature for over forty years. There are quite a few chilling scenes, and Carl Boehm's portrayal of the psychotic photographer is spot-on. If you are a fan of Hitchock's Psycho, it's safe to say you'll likely enjoy this movie, if not more than Psycho. As for myself, I cannot decide between the two, but I can say that both are very excellent and important horror pieces. 8/10, pushing a 9. "}{"Title":"A true masterpiece of horror and suspense!","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Without a doubt, 1960 was a year of numerous and important changes in the history of cinema, specially in the horror genre, as with the beginning of the end of the Production Code, new and different ideas began to be explored within the genre's conventions. One of those was the introduction of complex psychological themes and sexual overtones, inaugurating what is now known as psychological horror with movies like 1959's Horrors of the Black Museum and Hitchcock's 1960 masterpiece, Psycho, which gave a human face to the monsters of horror movies (as previously most were of supernatural origin). Another of those significant movies that helped to change the genre in the 60s is without a doubt Michael Powell's Peeping Tom, a morbid tale of horror and suspense about voyeurism that follows that very same path of psychological horror and, like Psycho (released three months after Peeping Tom), elevates it to an art-form.Peeping Tom is the story of Mark Lewis (Karlheinz Böhm), a young focus puller in a British film studio who aspires to become a filmmaker himself. A shy and lonely man, Lewis is not very social, and prefers to spend his time with his camera, working as a photographer of pornographic pictures of women. However, this young man has another secret, and that is that he is actually a serial killer who films and murders young women, the same that the police has been looking out for weeks. Things get complicated when he meets Helen Stephens (Anna Massey), a young woman who lives downstairs with her mother (Maxine Audley) in a room they rent to Mark. Soon, her friendship begins to mean a lot to Mark, as she offers him an honest understanding he had never had before. However, the shadow of Mark's traumas and obsessions is always present, and he'll have a hard time facing his demons.Written by former cryptographer Leo Marks (albeit Powell had a hand in the script as well), Peeping Tom is a deep and disturbing journey through the darkest sides of the mind as it's entirely focused on Mark as the main character. Unlike Hitchcock's Psycho (a movie often compared to Peeping Tom), the serial killer is not seen through the eyes of those around him, in this film we are living the story entirely from his perspective, discovering the person behind the psychopath personality as well as the reasons behind such a disturbed mind. In a way, it's a deeper humanization of the serial killer character, although interestingly, it doesn't attempt to glorify him or justify him (like posterior movies of the same type did), as the movie centers on his attempt to stop doing what he knows is wrong and his desire to have a normal life.Using a strikingly beautiful color cinematography (by Otto Heller) and a remarkably skillful use of the first person viewpoint, director Michael Powell conceives Peeping Tom as a bizarre chant to the voyeur we all have inside, and the pleasure we get from watching others. It's not for nothing that our central character is a filmmaker himself, as the concept of filming a person becomes one with the concept of killing one, as like some have done before (Buñuel for example), the camera is taken as an aggressive, almost physically violent entity that invades and steals the life essence of the person filmed. However, it's not only Powell's use of cinematography what shines in Peeping Tom, his overall use of suspense in the creation of his scenes plays a major role in this highly atmospheric movie where one can almost feel the tension that fills Mark's mind at every step.And this takes us to the cast, which under Powell's direction deliver for the most part excellent performances. Karlheinz Böhm is truly the highlight of the film, as his acting as Mark is instrumental for the success of the movie. Making a very real and believable character, Böhm transmits perfectly how insecure and vulnerable his character is deep inside, giving definitely one of the best performances in a horror movie ever done. As Helen, the young girl who befriends Mark, Anna Massey is simply perfect, as she perfectly portrays the naiveté of the character, as well as the innocence that leaves a profound effect on Mark's psyche. As Helen's mother, Maxine Audley is effective and has a couple of excellent scenes, although it must be said that the film ultimately belongs to Böhm and Massey, as its their relationship what becomes the central focus of the story.As one can imagine, this movie is not the typical horror movie, it's complex and dark, but also disturbingly very human; definitely not what people expected from director Michael Powell, whom along Emeric Pressburger made some of the most cherished British film of the 50s. This darkness of the subject that Peeping Tom handled was too much for the audiences used to Powell's previous work, and therefore the movie failed commercially and sent Powell's career to oblivion. However, it must be said that none of the problems Peeping Tom had during its release are due to poor film-making, quite the contrary, as this movie ranks easily amongst the most influential horror films ever done, and its commercial failure can only be blamed to the fact that it was ahead of its time. Despite the harsh bashing it received, Powell considered this movie his masterpiece, and I can only agree with him.One of the most interesting (and disturbing) movies about serial killers, Peeping Tom is easily one of the best too. The comparisons with Psycho are fair, albeit this is certainly a different kind of beast, as it's like a deeper, harsher version of the same subject but with less psychology and a lot more of heart. And it's probably this enormous humanity what makes the film so ultimately disturbing. A really influential classic of horror that should be better known in the future as the masterpiece that it is. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Disturbing look at ourselves!","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the first film by Powell I've ever seen and I tell you it won't be the last. Peeping Tom is in my perception the best piece of 1960, a year that produced the ever so famous Psycho and the beautiful Black Sunday. The reason I find Peeping Tom so astounding is that it is the only horror film that disturbed me. There is something in the character of Mark Lewis that really interested me. Maybe it was the fact that he is fascinated at observing people and we are forced to watch him, making us voyeurs. You can't keep your eyes away from the screen because you become fixated and involved. We can't help it, we are just so bewildered and fascinated and therefore we find ourselves identifying with Mark. He can't help it either! And for some reason this revolted and sickened critics in 1960, who made this masterpiece out to be a piece of trash. They were frightened at the notion of sympathizing with Mark, who murders because it has become a fascination that takes him over. He desires to see the look of fear in his victim's eyes. He has no emotional connection to these women. For example, he cannot stand to capture Anna Massey's character on film because he is afraid that he will have to murder her to satisfy his lust. He is fascinated by fear and so is forced to pick up his camera and capture these women's faces at the moment of death. We observe what he observes and so we feel somewhat connected with Mark and that disturbs us. Powell's masterpiece, perhaps his best film of the 1960s, is really about observing. He is trying to tell us that we become voyeurs when we watch a film. We can't keep our eyes away because it fascinates us, just as capturing the fear at the moment of death fascinates Mark. And so it scares us because we can identify with the killer. Peeping Tom is also an extraordinary film because it uses the power of suggestion. We don't see the women been murdered. It is their expressions that really do the trick. Seeing how terrified they are makes us imagine their deaths as truly horrifying. We create the murders in our mind and that makes us feel more connected to Mark. We just see the metal spike at the end of the tripod and the image of it getting closer and closer to one of Mark's victims sends chills down our spine. If Powell has shown the women been murdered the film would be not as effective. If is was soaked in gore and blood it would make us cringe but that would be all. Powell was able to make a film that can disturb 40 years after it has been made. Now that is an accomplishment!Visually the film is like an Argento film at times. In the studio we witness an array of colors, red and green predominantly. This gives this masterpiece a sublime look. The studio is bathed in red, which contrasts to the cold exterior of the world outside it. With Powell's use of color on the studio scenes, I believe he was trying to convey that this is Mark's place were he can create. The film is truly beautiful to behold. It was shot in Eastmancolour so perhaps that is why it is so visually pleasing. It also has an very effective score that is played all on piano. It is not a driving score, but more melancholy, mesmerizing and at times eerie. And that is what Peeping Tom really is Eerie! "},{"Title":"Portrait of a disordered man","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Karlheinz Böhm plays Mark Lewis who's obsessed with expressions of terror.He uses his movie camera when he murders women-to capture the last expression of terror before dying.Then Mark meets a young woman, Helen Stephens (Anna Massey), who rents a room in his house.They become friends, Helen not knowing the real Mark Lewis.Will Helen be able to cure Mark from his obsession or will she be his next victim? Michael Powell's Peeping Tom (1960) is a horrifying movie.The main character is even somewhat likable.I think it's far more interesting to have a bad guy with some good qualities than have him all bad.Maybe it's Karlheinz Böhm's ability to make Mark a sympathetic character.He's perfect for the role.Anna Massey is also perfect as Ms. Stephens.Her blind mother is played by Maxine Audley, and she does her part brilliantly.This is extremely psychological, mostly Freudian, portrait of this man, Mark Lewis.His scientist-father shot every moment of his growing with a video camera.That's why he has become this man, with his obsession.The movie ends very dramatically.I think it couldn't have had any other kind of ending. "},{"Title":"Not a masterpiece, but very good","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this movie a great deal, but i don't think it's Powell's masterpiece.In fact, it's probably the second weakest Powell film I've seen so far. Sometimes a controversial film will gain a reputation that it doesn't deserve and I think this is one of those cases. It's greatest flaw probably comes from a puritanical lack of violence. I know that's an odd thing to say about a movie with this kind of reputation, but it's true. Peeping Tom is very violent for a movie released the early 60's, but this shouldn't have been made in the early 60's. It was too soon for a movie like this. The subject matter needed a more explicit approach.Imagine Henry portrait of a serial killer, only without any blood, and every time a murder is about to happen, the camera cuts away or fades out. That's what Peeping Tom is like. It's so well made that you don't really notice this right away and I'm sure it was very shocking to people when it was released... I didn't really begin to realize this was the problem until about half way through the movie but even before that i felt a certain detachment and the movie seemed to lack an emotional punch that should have been there.Hitchcock got around this in psycho with ingenious editing that made the audience believe they were seeing more than they were... Fritz lang does it frequently in movies made even before this through manipulative techniques that cause you to use you imagination to fill in the blanks... Powelll doesn't resort to those kinds of tricks. For one thing it's not really his style and also because peeping tom is a much different kind of film. While psycho is fundamentally a horror film, and most of Fritz Langs more daring efforts are noirish crime thrillers, peeping tom is really more of a morbid character study. A clinical examination of an insane mind. A movie about a killer where the audience views the film from his perspective. A movie like that needs to make the audience feel uncomfortable. You need moments in the film where you are sickened by what you see on screen but peeping tom handles the viewer with kid gloves. That's not really anyone's fault..Peeping Tom is simply a product of it's time and it's one of those cases where they could have made a much better movie about 12 years later. It's rare that i see a movie and my main complaint is that it's too old fashioned, but that's what's wrong with Peeping Tom.There are great scenes though... Moments when you get an idea of what a great movie it could have been, like the scene where the killer is showing his girlfriend home movies from his childhood. We see his father frightening him on purpose and sadistically filming it. It's a graphic demonstration of emotional violence that makes you wince. It's all expertly filmed and edited and it gives you a hint what Powell might have done a few years later.In the end I have to recommend Peeping Tom.. It's certainly worth viewing, but make sure and lower your expectations if you've built it up as some kind of masterpiece.. It's not a masterpiece, it's just excellent, but that's OK. "},{"Title":"Fear and the Nervous System.","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Peeping To is directed by Michael Powell and written by Leo Marks. It stars Carl Boehm, Moira Shearer, Anna Massey, Maxine Audley and Brenda Bruce. Music is by Brian Easdale and cinematography by Otto Heller.A famous (infamous) film for a number of reasons, not least that the fall out from its release effectively finished the career of the great Michael Powell. Interestingly now, still some 50 plus years later, there are still people discovering the film for the first time and not being sure what they have just watched; much like many critics back in 1960 as it happens! While horror seekers quite often come away disappointed that they haven't seen a Jack the Ripper bloodshed movie. Apparently they see the words serial killer and expect gore and terror on tap.As fans of the film will attest, Peeping Tom isn't that sort of serial killer film, it's a fascinating piece of work. A cunningly crafted observation of a darkened mind, of voyeurism, loneliness and child abuse. From the opening strains of Easdale's skin itching piano the mood is set, then the brilliantly lurid colour scheme comes into play as troubled Mark Lewis (Boehm) hones in on a victim, a lady of the night about to be filmed in the throes of death. It's the start of Powell and Marks' ploy to make us complicit in Lewis' actions, and then the makers challenge us to sympathise with him as his back story is revealed and also as he struggles with his affections for Helen Stephens (Massey) in the present day.There is also a sly aside to the movie industry running through the picture, something which no doubt irked critics and film distributors back in 1960. There could maybe be an argument that the trauma and psychological thematics at work that underpin the plot are a little dated now? But what is still relevant is the film making &#x96; voyeurism angle as we today are constantly fed reality TV for entertainment purpose. The production is across the board grade A, the performances highly effective, with the unfairly maligned Boehm perfect as Lewis, the actor even providing shadings of Peter Lorre at times. Heller's bold colour photography is disgustingly atmospheric, Easdale's music a stalking menace and the sound department really come up trumps. Perfect.Then of course there is Powell himself, deeply hurt by the savaging he received when Tom was released, it's nice to note that before he passed away in 1990 he would see the film become a highly regarded piece of film making. It and he deserves praise, his direction is conceptually daring, his framing of Lewis methodical, and of course his camera is our eyes and ears, uncomfortably so. A remarkable and genius film. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Do you know what the most frightening thing in the world is? It's fear.  Mark Lewis","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It is hard to believe that the movie was a total fiasco when it was released 46 years ago. It was hated with the passion by both critics and the audiences alike. It was pulled out of the theaters only after one week. Why? It is a masterpiece. It is breathtaking combination of voyeurism, eroticism, and horror. The main character is a serial killer who films his victims as he literally kills them with his camera achieving the level of genuine fear and horror that no other filmmaker would be able to achieve. We watch the women as they die being filmed for a movie and paying with their lives for its grim realism. Maybe, that was the reason for hatred? Peeping Tom is provocative and very unsettling. The serial killer, a young, shy, attractive and sympathetic man is a victim himself. He was raised by a scientist father who filmed him under intensely emotional conditions studying how the fear affects the children. Powell himself played the father and his young son played young Mark Lewis. I think it also added to the initial shock when the movie was released. Peeping Tom is also the movie about making movies. Mark works as a camera assistant for a film director and dreams about becoming a famous director one day. He is ready to pay an ultimate price for finishing his own documentary.Peeping Tom has been called a Very British Psycho and it was released two months before Hitchcock's film. The similarities are plenty but Powell's film is much darker and it does not have a psychiatrist in the end to explain Mark Lewis. Ironically, Peeping Tom's unavailability for many viewers for many years has preserved its power and impact better than the initial universal approval and praise would ever have done. I can understand the controversy of the subject but how could the sheer brilliance of film-making - the choice of music, the work of camera, the acting, the dark humor (the guy who looked like Hitchcock was darkly-hilarious) not have been noticed is beyond me. Was it THAT much ahead of its time?Great move and I wish I'd seen it in the theater.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"a disappointment","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After having heard and read about this movie for years, I finally got the chance to see it on TCM this weekend, during the month-long Michael Powell tribute. I was really looking forward to seeing it, but I have to say that I was a little disappointed. Compared to Black Narcissus and The Red Shoes - both amazing films - Peeping Tom seemed a big step down. I was left with the impression that the critics were probably right, in that it was not a very good movie. Had it been better paced and better written, it might have made a much better impression on critics at the time, but as it is, it just sort of came across as a rather dull and poorly done version of the sort of thing that British television specialized in at the time (The Saint, The Avengers, Thriller, etc.), only more lurid. Carl Boehm was miscast, and the scene with Moira Shearer seemed to go on for far too long, and its only purpose seemed to be to show off her dancing. I would have preferred having her play a larger role. The detective element of the film was weak at best. The notion of Mark Lewis moonlighting as a porn photographer was interesting, and I would have liked to have seen that explored a little more. It just seemed like the film was made up of a whole bunch of loose ends that were never tied up. The brightest spot was the casting of Anna Massey as Lewis' girlfriend. She brought an honesty to the role, and her plain looks brought a certain beauty to the part that a more traditionally glamorous actress might have spoiled.Overall, not a bad movie but not a great one either, and Michael Powell didn't deserve to have his career ruined over it. "},{"Title":"A photographer's joy","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I had a rather odd viewing of this film in that I half-watched it at a the house of friend of mine who happens to be colour-blind. We were talking and the sound was down for much of the time and I didn't see the beginning or the end. But what I saw mesmerised me.Having not really caught much of the plot except for moments when my host was making tea, I am reminded more of Blow-Up, made several years later, than of any other film. The main character of the film seemed to be photography itself, and the psychology of the antihero and his victims faded into insignificance in the fragmented view of the film that I had.Not only did cameras abound in the film, and were at once the means of vision - both in the sense of the making of film itself and also in the sense of being the main agency in allowing the protagonist to fulfil his aims - they are perhaps also cyphers for seeing and for viewpoint and for perspective and outlook, drawing the viewer into a world of questions on these subjects.What fascinated me most about the film though was the colour. This was frustrated by my only having my colour-blind friend to discuss it with, and while he does see quite a lot of colours he doesn't see them all and this undermines his interest in colour generally.This film was made long after 2-colour films were obsolete, yet the film is shot to look like 2-colour Technicolor. IMDb credits it as using Eastmancolor 35mm film, so the colour set-ups in the film are self-consciously reproducing an earlier era of film by controlled use of hair colourings, set design, light gels and costume. The palette of the film is fascinating and beautiful, revisiting the stylised colour gamut which had decades earlier - after it's initial impact - come to leave film audiences unsatisfied by its unrealism. By the time this film was shot audiences were accustomed to rich full-spectrum photography and the colouring of the film subverts that, while highlighting the beauty of the older films at their best with, perhaps, an added glow that memory and nostalgia and better technology can create.Having missed most of the plot of the film, I have no idea if this colour lushness is purely a sensual layer of technical beauty this film is imbued with or whether it has an important interaction with the film's philosophical or psychological elements - but it sure was good to look at. "},{"Title":"Slow paced brilliant movie","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I understand why people might dislike it. It is slow paced and I think that a million copies have been made already of this movie. I didn't expect to enjoy it first.Carl boehm is especially good in the main role, Mark. This could be the basic archetype of that nerdy serial killer role which has been done to death now. So I guess I have to blame this movie for that stereotype. His quiet measured performance is surprising considering the times and this movie might have signalled the new era of cinema along with Psycho. The similarities are unmistakable. Both movies have lead characters who give very understated performances and they unravel only in the final moments. No overtly melodramatic performances here, just pure realism. Even the music is minimalist and most suspenseful scenes don't have any music at all.I loved the characters here especially the mother character. The way she sensed the slightest bit of danger and problems. For example, there is a scene where she flinches when Mark doesn't close the door. The scene with her and Mark in the house is especially impressive. The buildup of tension is amazing in that scene and even in the scene with Vivian's death. The ending is also stylishly done, with no over the top theatrics and pretty much the only ending that could be possible in that situation. Another aspect that I liked was the use of comedy (but don't worry it is not prominent). There are a few lines that are quite funny especially the scene in the beginning with the old man. The comedic touches are underrated in this movie. Even otherwise, the dialogue is of high quality especially Mark's lines when he speaks about his past and about his feelings with Helen. And especially when he talks about his motivations.It seems the censorship in this case actually works in its favour. Because it makes it much more creepy when you can't see the bodies or the rough way in which the killing is done. It is only implied and that makes it creepier. But the movie is not just about its horrific elements but also its sad elements. It is essentially a doomed love story, an impossible love story which can never end well. Maybe it is the sympathetic portrayal that caused the negative reaction to the movie. I loved it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Driven to fears","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Peeping Tom is about a young man who was driven to insanity (and ultimately, suicide) by his sadistic father through psychological experiments. If you think such experiments are fictional, think again. A few days ago I read in a brand-new psychology textbook about a boy who had been conditioned to fear furry objects by shocking him acoustically (through a siren or loud bell) every time he touched a furry object such as a teddy bear. The experimenters were delighted when he showed fear of any furry object even in the absence of the sound. He had been successfully conditioned. The experimenters were indignant when the boy's custodian (the boy was apparently an orphan) removed him from the experiment (presumably after realising what the experiment consisted of), which barred them from deprogramming the boy.Peeping Tom is a bold and memorable movie, an intelligent shocker that was way ahead of its time. Unfortunately I felt that the opening scene gave away too much, which killed much of the suspense. Instead of a whodunnit, the movie offers more of a psychological analysis. What makes the movie truly creepy is how we get to know and like the psychopath. In the end we see him with a fascination that equals the way he views his victims.The actor of the lead psychopath Mark Lewis, Carl Boehm, is actually the Austrian Karlheinz Böhm. It's no mean feat of his to deliver his lines without a noticeable accent. This role was a radical break in Böhm's career, which had brought him to great fame and popularity in German-speaking countries as the handsome young emperor Franz alongside Romy Schneider in a series of movies about Bavaro-Austrian empress Sisi. Incidentally, Karlheinz Böhm is probably one of the nicest people around. After his movie career he devoted his life to fighting poverty and starvation in Africa, for which he was awarded honorary citizenship in Ethiopia.I've read that Peeping Tom crushed Michael Powell's career. Incredible. I hope all those critics are now in a place where they have to see Fiddler On The Roof all day. "}{"Title":"Brilliant depth below a lurid surface","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This Pre-Psycho British thriller (that was banned shortly after it's release and now seems quaint) operates on two different levels, and it deserves it's reputation.By today's standards it will be considered very tame, but it was groundbreaking in it's day. Like many Hitchcock films, we see the inner working and reasoning of a serial killer in such a way as to understand his motivations, and Carl Boehm gives an excellent and subtle personal portrayal of a soul tormented by his own desires.On the surface it is a creepy psychological drama - rather kitsch-y by now with the pin up girls. But when you have Moira Shearer giving possibly her best performance, lively and humorous, as one of the murder victims, you have something special, and something deeper.This film has a lot to say about the voyeurism and destruction that persists within the industry. About how the industry chews up young women to suit the various perversions of Directors and producers... the purveyors to the public; and how the sickness feeds on itself. Powell's brilliance was to include himself as the demon father in the home movie sequences of the child being psychologically abused that caused.It was ahead of it's time in anticipating how the pornography industry would infiltrate and become accepted within the mainstream media. (Think of the glossy gore movies being produced today by major studios.) It was also ahead of it's time in how documentary (think news reporting) is used to excuse uninvolvement. I can only film the action, I'm not responsible for getting involved and stopping the horror I'm filming.This was also an extremely strong indictment of the idea of casting non-actors to achieve reality. The rage of the new wave cinema of the time was to cast non-actors, and then put them in uncomfortable situations to try to evoke a real reaction from them. (Invariably what was - and still is - produced was fairly leaden performances of people who were uncomfortable being on film.) Powell's film uncannily makes the subtle point that a good actor can do a better job with half the effort. Of course all this enraged critics at the time. No one wants to be reminded they've been sold a bag of magic beans. More shocking then was that it is also an indictment of how psychology - in studying human emotions as a subject - also alienates people from each other as objects of study instead of feeling for them and relating to them. Brilliant, and still deeply relevant. "},{"Title":"very good movie","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" i saw peeping tom on rob zombies underground cinema on turner classics,i have to admit it is a good movie,scary like Alfred Hitchcock's;psycho.but for some reason i did'nt think it was a movie in color.anyway its a highly recommended film.if rob zombie says its good i have to agree with him.he knows good horror/monster films.i don't really know anyone in the cast except Moira shearer, who did some movie called the red shoes,heard of it but did'nt see it. the story concerns a shy but demented photographer who likes to film his victims before killing them with his spiked tripod.remember this is 1960 so don't expect buckets of blood and gore.i cant believe i never seen this movie before,but then again there's a lot of vintage films i never seen yet.i recommend this movie and i also recommend rob zombies underground cinema on turner classics.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"a must-see, esp for filmgoers and filmmakers","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Fade up. Between the cross-hairs of a 16mm camera, we see a lone prostitute petitioning the cameraman. Track into her apartment where she proceeds to undress and sit down on her bed. Suddenly, she screams as the camera closes in on her face, a mask of pure terror. What follows this lurid intro is the story of a reclusive focus-puller, Mark Lewis (Carl Boehm), who moonlights as a photographer of pornographic pictures and, occasionally, murders a stray model or two. Up until this point, he has remained almost entirely aloof from society, spending long hours in his apartment developing, editing, and screening his own proto-snuff films. But his next-door neighbor, Helen (Anna Massey) can't resist the urge to find out what he's working on...and what drives him to such obsessive lengths. If only she knew the psychological scars she was picking at... There are very few successful films that actually foreground the experience of making films as well as watching them. Michael Powell's 'Peeping Tom' fits this mold; when it was first released in 1960 (aptly the same year as 'Psycho'), the film was almost universally banned for its violent content, and it's likely that few of the spectators even grasped--much less enjoyed--its own brooding introspection into the medium. Today, many of the elements seem rather dated and baroque the stereotypical, two-dimensional film crew Mark encounters on a daily basis, the melodramatic heightening of emotion during key scenes, the plinky piano music that has since become cliche (Halloween). But Powell seems to be suggesting that such worn-out conventions actually mask the raw, primal experience of the cinephile's terror our fear of witnessing our own fear reflected back at us in the characters with whom we have identified. It is such an abrupt rupture that forces us to confront the mechanics of filmmaking--the way in which film can,  through its every elaborate set-up, situate us as perverse, complicit witnesses of violence and murder. "},{"Title":"Whatever I photograph, I always lose.","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film won no awards for director Michael Powell (Black Narcissus, One of Our Aircraft Is Missing). Despite his Oscar nomination for writing, and his many other awards and nominations, this film effectively ended his career. Coming out just before Psycho, it had a completely different reaction and was pulled from theaters. It hit too close to home for many people.But Powell has a champion in Martin Scorsese, who considered this film and Fellini's 8 1/2 all you needed to know about directing. Scorsese watched all of Powell's films and sought them out in special screenings.What was so upsetting about this film? Maybe because it made us too much a part of the action. We weren't just watching a film, we actually felt a part of it. It was as if we were behind the camera.Mark (Karlheinz Böhm) is a strange man with a very strange past, as his neighbor Helen (Anna Massey) finds out on her birthday. It was almost as if his father was B.F. Skinner.Needless to say her blind mother (Maxine Audley) has finely tuned instincts about him and is sure there is something wrong.The psychiatrist the police brought in suggested that scoptophilia (voyeurism) could be cured in a couple of years, three times a week. You don't get that kind of therapy any more unless you are rich.But, his type of scoptophilia, which was accompanied by murder at times, would not lend itself to long therapy without a lot more bodies. I think he seriously began to think of taking his life.He planned the incredible ending as only a madman would. "},{"Title":"Haunting, intriguing look at voyeurism","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  scorsese has claimed that Powell's Peeping Tom has had a huge effect on his own career as a filmmaker.  Ironic since it was the film that destroyed Powell's own career.  And many of Scorsese's trademarks are seen in this excellent film, a film that deals with guilt, redemption, the feminine ideal, and disturbing issue of voyeurism.  it is a film that causes the viewer to look inward at their own voyeuristic tendencies, and to question why they are watching such a film.  it truly is an amazing, horrifying film, but a film that is completely believable both psychologically and intellectually.  it's amazing that this film was made in 1960, it makes Psycho look rather polite... "},{"Title":"taut and original, its subjective perspective works so many years later; definition of a lost classic","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Can you imagine the devastation that must have been at Michael Powell for making this film at the time? By today's standards (albeit with a few edits that may never be corrected) it could get away with not even a soft R, but back when it was released Peeping Tom caused such an uproar with the uptight British censors that it not only brought the film to a crashing halt in distribution, but tarnished the reputation of one of Britain's most revered filmmakers beyond repair, and he was only 54; it would only be once Scorsese and others championed his classics that he would finally feel at peace before his death. The greatest gift, however, is that Peeping Tom wasn't tossed into the ocean like half of Magnificent Ambersons or put in the incinerator like most of Strohem's Greed, and that today's audience's can judge the film on its own terms. And on the terms it's a a creepy, atmospheric masterpiece, a work of skill technically that should not be too lightly looked on as being as strong as that of the Red Shoes, and probably was ahead of its time in pressing forward the subjective angle of a mad killer as being more than just that.What's superb about just watching Peeping Tom is seeing how Powell, as he did with Red Shoes and Tales of Hoffmann, makes a unique color palette. It may have just been the print on the Criterion DVD being faded, yet there's something to the look for the most part that has the feel of a pulp-fiction paperback book coming to life, in all its bold-faced subject matter and a dangerous character at the center. It's the story of Mark Lewis (Bohm, with a perfectly terrified and terrifying look of a man who can't stand his obsession but is driven by it), amateur photographer and focus puller at a motion picture studio. On the side he's been getting a little too crafty- he follows a prostitute and we see that he comes closer with his little 16mm camera, up in her face, and as she screams it cuts to the projection of her screaming and fading out. Did he kill her? This might be explained well enough when we finally see it, in all the finger-biting tension leading up to it as a stand-in on the movie set becomes his target how to get in the mood for this 'screen test' she asks? The proper motivation, right on his camera stand it seems.This might make for a slightly thin story, but in the pulp-fiction tradition there's also a romantic interest in the downstairs neighbor, a girl who just turned 21 and is interested in Mark's movies. She's intrigued, and disturbed, and rightfully so by footage of his father putting a lizard on his bed as a kid. But they start seeing each other- no photography though- and her mother, blind as can be, won't stand for it (this brings an immensely satisfying scene with touches of dark humor when she is in Mark's screening room unannounced and he nearly goes for the kill). There's a typical murder investigation, evidence mounting, so on and so forth, who will he kill next. This would only be slightly of interest if it weren't going somewhere or put into some heavy direction. Powell, taking off on Leo Marks's clever screenplay, makes tension into something that is relatable to Hitchcock but not at the same time; even Hitchcock never got this much into a subjective perception through the character. Right from the start we have to go along with this guy, as crazy as he is, but with little moments of sympathy that are striking, leading up to the wild, melodramatic climax where it verges into pure theater.There's also a subtext to the material that could be considered, for its time, a precursor to Blowup, that's posed daringly to the viewer. What is it about the movie image, or just capturing it, that moves from reality into a blend of it? Do we really see what we want to or is desire and Freudian sensibilities in the mix? Going back to Hithccock too is the whole deal with observing, seeing to the point where it's like nothing at all to the person doing the looking, where curiosity pushes into obsession. There's a great scene where Mark and his date are about to go out but she convinces him to leave his most precious camera behind. He does, and as soon as they walk out he sees a couple making out in the shadows by a tree. He's frozen stiff- can he take seeing things without the medium? Can any of us? Compelling, bitingly funny, and with an edge that sticks through Powell's fine vision. "},{"Title":"Not quite as chilling as 'Psycho' but effective in a different way...","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's hard to see why the Brits were so shocked over this that it ruined the career of its filmmakers in the 1960s at a time when cheaper, more violent exploitation films were overflowing the market.Nor is the comparison to PSYCHO a valid one. Hitchcock filled his story with intentional humor so that it became not just a horror film but a black comedy as well with psychological overtones. PEEPING TOM plays it straight all the way through, effectively showing how a tormented childhood turned an innocent boy into a killer who wants to see the fear on his victim's faces.I watched it with interest but with a certain detachment, never becoming completely involved in the story. For one thing, some of the incidents don't ring true at all. The girl who tries to befriend the anti-hero (Anna Massey) seems clueless to the fact that his stuttering creepiness might be masking a very troubled individual. Her casual attitude toward him becomes unconvincing after he continues to exhibit his odd behavior in various social situations. With credibility lost, the picture is merely an exercise in watching someone self-destruct because of his tormented past.The acting leaves something to be desired. Carl Boehm with his slight German accent tends to overact when more subtle restraint would have made his role more credible. A more attractive female co-star would have helped (someone like Hitch used in PSYCHO--Janet Leigh), but Anna Massey is a drab, chinless looking little creature with her sad eyes and pursed lips. And the woman who might have made a more attractive co-star, Moira Shearer, is given short shrift with an underwritten role and a brief appearance as a wannabe dancer/actress, although she gets star billing.Still, as a study of a troubled man, PEEPING TOM does have its compensations--excellent color photography and interesting use of a jazz music background. But none of adds up to a thriller in the same class as PSYCHO. It never fulfills its high potential. "},{"Title":"Way ahead of its time","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie would have been greeted with praise if it had been made fifteen years later. 1960 was too early and, as a result, its director (Michael Powell) was pretty much blacklisted from ever making movies again.Powell, a Brit who influenced (amongst others) Martin Scorsese, was also responsible for the 1943 film The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp, an unarguable masterpiece.Peeping Tom is about a man who videotapes his victims as he kills them. He has a strange fetish for death and the implications of the film are mainly the reason it was supposedly banned in so many places.The acting isn't great, and some of the co-stars are a bit amateurish. But its direction is superb, and it really captures a voyeuristic approach - it's uncomfortable on a subconscious level, sort of like Rear Window. If you can appreciate this for what it is, I definitely recommend it. Non-film buffs may have a harder time warming up to it, but hopefully not. "},{"Title":"Unsuccessful as horror but successful as a tribute to Powell's career","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  PEEPING TOM is a thin excuse of a horror movie. If you're watching it as a horror film, PEEPING TOM will look very self-indulgent and needlessly melodramatic. Personally speaking, I didn't buy the story for one second. It looked more like a cleverly constructed homage of the director's career than a real horror film. The film is mostly a pity fest tortured, misunderstood artist who's totally possessed by his need to express himself through, in this case, a most deadly artform of capturing death on film by killing the women (and only women) he meets. As usual in these kind of tortured artist stories, there's a woman who falls for Mark and the thing sorta becomes a tragic love story (thank god Alfred Hitchcock didn't write a love interest for Norman Bates in PSYCHO). The idea of Helen (wonderfully played by underrated Anna Masey) falling for Mark is ridiculous and totally forced. The clunky premise isn't helped much by the unconvincing psychology behind the killer's motivations his father tortured him when he was a kid and yet Mark, as an adult, only kills women. Okay. Things only got less subtle, with Helen's mother being a blind woman who's all seeing and wise which SCREAMED to me that the film was more of a not-so-subtle symbolic exercise from Michael Powell about himself and his career as a filmmaker than anything else. The fact that Michael Powell himself played the domineering father in the black and white home movies and that the kid who plays young Mark was Michael Powell's real son and the fact the home movies were shot where Powell grew up as a kid only reinforced the whole self-indulgent aspect of the movie me, me, me! This obvious self-indulgence in the story and direction killed ALL attempts at horror.But if you watch PEEPING TOM as a tribute to Michael Powell's career, made by Michael Powell himself, well, the movie is suddenly fitting and brilliant. Fitting as a tribute because PEEPING TOM  suddenly became Powell's last major movie after the uproar it created when it was released. PEEPING TOM, or the controversy surrounding the movie, basically killed Powell's career as a serious filmmaker. The elaborate behind-the-scenes moments or the scenes with Moira Shearer (who worked with Powell in THE RED SHOES) dancing around the studios say more about the famed filmmaker than the film's tortured character. Watch PEEPING TOM as some sort of elaborate post-modern tribute to the director. Don't watch it as a horror movie. It's just too melodramatic and self-indulgent to create anything close to disturbing or creepy.  "},{"Title":"Dated ambition","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's very hard to assess 'Peeping Tom' today, over 40 years after it's release.  This is because it is fundamentally a very modern film but one made without modern skills.  A serial killer movie made when these were (mercifully) less fashionable than now, it deals with its subject with less gore, and more sensitivity, than most of its modern counterparts.  The use of hand-held camera shots (albeit with explicit narrative justification) is similarly modern, while the central character's voyeurism brings to mind Soderbergh's debut, 'sex, lies and videotape'.  But the sets are poor, the music ugly, the killer's motivation unconvincing (though in this respect, few modern counterparts do better); while the acting is completely wooden, especially from Anna Massey as the young woman attracted (apropos of nothing) to the weird guy living upstairs.  The portrait of the wider social fabric also seems clumsy and quite unrecognisable to a contemporary eye, although from this juncture, it's hard to tell to whether to conclude that the world has changed, or merely our skill in portraying it.'Peeping Tom' is an ambitious film - a detective story, a love story, a story of trauma and its affect upon character, a horror story and even for a while, a satire of the movie business itself.  Yet the absence of realism in the performances is striking - though probably no worse than most cinema of its time (even in  Welles' great 'Touch of Evil', shot a year before, only the director appears to really act).  What's amazing is how quickly movies were to change hereafter.   It's hard to believe that only a decade should separate this work from the still fresh-cinema of the early 1970s. "}{"Title":"Director Michael Powell's British film 'Peeping Tom' is a cult classic which received a lot of negative press upon its release.","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In any person's life, the period from childhood to youth is one of the most difficult phases. It is a period in which innocence is gradually replaced with maturity. However, if a person is the victim of some bad happening in this phase, it would continue to haunt for the rest of the life. This psychological observation is the basis of British director Michael Powell's masterpiece 'Peeping Tom'. It was written by Leo Marks who is credited for having created one of the most original screenplays ever written. Peeping Tom is an important film for students of cinema as well as psychology as it examines in detail the relationship fear has in cinema. This relationship is so mutually common that both of them are used abundantly by the film's leading man Mark Lewis. For many viewers, home theater is a modern invention which brings viewers closer to films but for a peeping tom like Mark Lewis it had a different personal connotation as he had his own version of home theater at home which enabled him to seek pleasure by watching fear. It is cinema especially its technical side which helps Mark Lewis to create fear in the minds of his victims. Peeping Tom was made in 1960s, a time of revolutionary change all over the world. However, its growing popularity is essentially a strong proof of its 'Cult' film status. "},{"Title":"A challenging film several decades ahead of its time","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" According to the friend who played it for me, Peeping Tom ruined the career of its director, Michael Powell. That's a shame, because to my modern tastes and perceptions, this is an interesting, layered film that works on several layers at once, and deserves at least as much fame as its obvious inspiration, Psycho.Carl Boehm's performance as a repressed, shy and emotionally damaged individual is amazing - he seems to simultaneously channel Tab Hunter, Mr. Rogers, and Peter Lorre. And the movie abounds with odd touches and changes of pace (for instance, the doomed stand-in's warm up dance fills the scene with gamine energy that makes what happens next all the more tragic.) Minor characters deliver amazing lines, and the actors playing them invariably give grabbing and memorable performances.The art direction and visual setups and reveals keep the eye happy, and there isn't a wasted moment in the film...except for the darkly humorous asides and obvious in jokes for fans of Hitchcock and British cinema. Yes, it's a horror film, but Peeping Tom is a lot more than that. I'm glad I got to see it, and if you like this sort of thing, you'll be glad you saw it, too. "},{"Title":"Psycho Killer, Qu'est-ce que c'est?","Date":"21 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In 1960, Alfred Hitchcock shocked audiences worldwide with Psycho, his meticulously crafted study of a severely fractured psyche; it was a film acclaimed both for its terrifying murder scenes and its daring psycho-sexual revelation. As a result, the director was hailed as a genius of the macabre and went on to become one of the true icons of cinema.That same year, celebrated British director Michael Powell made Peeping Tom, a provocative look at an individual every bit as disturbed as Hitchcock's Norman Bates; in contrast to Psycho, the film was vilified by critics who were disgusted by what they saw and Powell's once illustrious career was left in tatters.Both films already demanded a lot from the audience simply by expecting a degree of sympathy towards characters who were as much victim as they were monster, but perhaps Peeping Tom asked a little too much of the average movie-goer of the day it would be a few more years before Britain would get into full on swinging sixties mode, and the idea of immorality as commonplace, with sex and sleaze to be found on every corner, even under a news-agent's counter in the presence of innocent schoolchildren, was a probably a bitter pill to swallow; the film also forced home the uncomfortable truth that, by watching, the viewer was every bit as guilty of voyeuristic tendencies as its crazed killer (it was bad enough to have to try and understand the antagonist, let alone identify with him).In these far more enlightened and accepting times, Peeping Tom has been recognised as the groundbreaking, visionary piece of cinema that it was and still is&#x97;a little too late for Michael Powell perhaps, but not too late for us. Enjoy!! "},{"Title":"A Momentous Film","Date":"1 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Whether you hate the tedium of Powell's movie (if anybody thinks it's that), whether you perceive it as a snails pace of an experience or if you just think it's adequate, it still doesn't amount to the true legacy this movie has had (whether or not you're an aficionado of the genre, remember that this is a genre that has been known for some of the best diegetic sounds ever to be transpired in films generally and that it has given us iconic characters) that this movie, Peeping Tom (1960) has really achieved. A movie once repudiated as a filthy, trash and smutty experience trailed through images that distort your imagination, the movie is now looked at as something more. But how is it that today, even though it has sufficient cult status, is this movie overlooked by some of the fans of cinema? Heck, even some Horror Fans (as both fans of these things) have ignorantly, like myself, just been presented with this film.However, I finally got to see it this week to really gather up my thoughts on it. The beginning shot reminded me of the Warren Beatty movie Dick Tracy (1990) where everything is colourful, sensational and everything is filled with fluorescent lighting representing a very riveting and visually stunning opening to present us with the expectancy of our character, Mark Lewis played by Carl Boem, who just unexpectedly killed a prostitute on a film set; however, this killer is very unique in it that his weapon of choice happens to be the leg of camera. The movie uses fear as a real means of establishing the condition internally and externally; it's a thrilling, yet dull and simple idea, yet what Powell does with it is manifest it in ways that actually causes fear to Mark Lewis; he's a meek, easily shy and very rigid character, using his camera as a means of getting into his mind and flamboyance as a human; it's his comfort zone that really gives him his place with it.Helen (Played by Anna Massey) is really the onlooker and the individual capable of breaking his place outside normality; she does this in subtle ways; for example, she knows of his obsession being really overbearing to him, and she always tries to keep him on track; dating him and also trying to understand his traits. She and the Audience are witnessing incomprehensible images of him as a child, in his secret vault where he develops his films, where we see incidentally Powell's kid being used as a subject towards threat, his antics recorded for means of examining the human animal and timid ways of making him think; appropriately and fascinatingly, Powell is in the film, as if to create a forth wall element and also to show that we really are voyeurs looking through a microscope at the stripped images.Mark is an aspiring film maker, who is making a documentary that is evidently about himself and his obsessive compulsion with the death of women, as they slowly meet their demise within split seconds. But then we're presented with the notion that this guy is an innocuous character, who in his heart can create an escapist paradise Helen, who almost seems oblivious to him as a human being; even his Mum (which I found off) knows that he's something more even with her blindness; it's a metaphor for do you think we're blind? But it's still weird to put in the film. Mark is a perfectionist with the medium and craftsmanship and he and his friend always discuss things to do with cinema veirtie and general pop cult discussions, as they their selves learn the trade. Mark is a soft pornographer as well, and this gives us the genesis to his love with the camera and his deadly fixation with... you know.Powell's experience is really interesting and it is also a statement about the man himself and to the art of film making Personally I think it says that committing yourself to film is part of a whole growing impulse, an obsession and perhaps even a revelation about you as a human being (Mark does have an inkling to his own behaviour), but it also gives you the feeling that with everything at hand, you're truly the stager of something that spellbinds people; not only to the extent of spellbinding audiences but to the point where he excessively nauseates them, and only he can watch them at his own well. In the end of the movie, he knows that his movies incarnate him, and there will be a further prolonged existence of him that may endure... To Mark, the world he creates is fantasy and the movie is basically reality; however, he does say wholeheartedly that he killed them but he trembles when trying to accept it. Likewise with Powell's vision of the dangerous genre that failed and infiltrated into the mind of young film makers a the time, he lives on incarnate through this medium of film that he so wonderfully worked in. Therefore I can't recommend this movie enough.I was thinking about a proposed 7, but after carefully thinking, I do believe that a 10 is fairly placed for this film; everyone should watch it even if not a big film fan; it's the movie thats ridiculous controversy has gave it a pedestal to sit on for 5 Decades. "},{"Title":"More Than Meets The Eye . . .","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" To watch Alfred Hitchcock discuss montage, which is to say cutting and editing of filmed pieces, is to be let in on the secrets of one of cinema's great masters.Above all else, I think, Michael Powell's Peeping Tom is a film about film making -- voyeurism, detachment, observation, lighting, camera placement, focal length, color, set design, acting, pretending, cutting, slicing and dicing -- to produce strong emotions in audiences through projecting a montage of sequential shadows on a giant screen.HERE IS THE SPOILER You see absolutely NOTHING in any given frame that a child could not safely see without adverse effect. Yet, so controversial was it, this film wrecked Powell's career.In fact, in one scene, a young girl familiarly enters a corner store to buy some candy -- happily and innocently oblivious to the soft-core girlie and lingerie magazines prominently displayed among the newspapers, soft drinks and cigarettes.WE know, though the girl doesn't and couldn't care less, that these scantily clad women are photographed in a shabby room upstairs by a shy psychopath who works at a movie studio as a focus puller by day, and moonlights at night as a mentally tortured stalker and murderer of women, documenting their last moments of fear and death with his Bell & Howell and deadly tripod.That corner drug store scene juxtaposes a dirty old man negotiating with the proprietor for under-the-counter porn; the disturbed psychopathic killer waiting in the store to go upstairs and murder a half-naked soft-core model; and their interruption by an innocent young girl buying candy. The scene as a whole is unbelievably perverse and tense.But LOOK at it. As actually staged and shot by Michael Powell, the actress playing the girl is exposed to NOTHING that we think she is while she's in the store. The actress sees no dirty pictures anywhere because there are just innocent pin-ups of the day on the set. They're dirty in our mind's eye and our overall impression of the scene because of Powell's brilliant montage and cutting. So it's incredibly disturbing and wrong, when in the actual shooting it was quite innocent and harmless.Same with the infamous black-and-white shots of the killer as a boy being purposefully terrified and filmed by his sadistic scientist / psychologist father for research. The boy was Michael Powell's own son.Shot by shot, frame by frame, there is NOTHING in the least disturbing about these sequences. The boy's in bed asleep (fairly obviously an amateur actor pretending). A light shines on him. He wakes up when his offscreen father drops a salamander on his bed. There's a CU shot of the salamander on the blanket, crawling toward the camera (us) that would have been impossible for the father to get in the context of the scene. It's complete artifice. Then shots of the boy crying and wiping his eyes (again, unconvincingly, per an amateur actor performing to Daddy's instructions).But the way these quick snippets are cut together doesn't give us time to consciously realize this is an amateur actor who isn't really crying (no tears) or that the CU salamander shot would have been impossible. The montage makes the sequence appear absolutely horrifying and cruel and almost unwatchable.More than meets the eye.Powell's technique of showing us nothing in Peeping Tom, but evoking revulsion and horror and pity and fear by making us think we're seeing everything, is to me superior even to Hitchcock's Psycho. Not that Powell was a better director. But he sustains the art of cinema montage, in Peeping Tom, from opening sequence to the last stunning suicide of the lead character, better and more consistently than Hitchcock (with his notorious penchant for humorous breaks and sequences to relieve audience tension) ever did.Peeping Tom never lets up. Does it achieve the spectacular electrifying tensions of Hitchcockian montage sequences in North by Northwest or Psycho or Notorious? No.Powell's accomplishment in Peeping Tom is far subtler and ultimately more disturbing because it's sustained from first voyeuristic montage sequence (we watch the killer stalk and kill a hooker through his camera's viewfinder) to the last grueling and brilliantly unnerving climax.That climax is like a symphony a mad orgy of self-destruction accompanied by the cries of terrified children on multi-track tapes, the killer / lead character rushing across his darkened studio to ram his throat onto his razor-sharp extended tripod-blade, triggering an array of pre-planned rapid-fire flashes to photograph his own jaw-dropping demise and staring finally at his own frightened face in the circular mirror around the camera's lens -- I'm frightened! I'm GLAD I'm frightened! -- Then calm, as he collapses to the floor, dying, hearing Daddy's voice Don't be a silly boy. Bravura! The actors, thanks to Michael Powell's direction, are uniformly brilliant and underplay everything with total believability and sympathy. Everything (on purpose) looks cheap and oversaturated and tawdry, like a Piccadilly carnival or Madame Tussaud's Chamber of Horrors.Peeping Tom still has the power to disturb, thanks to Powell's mastery of montage.Because, frame for frame, in reality, it's visually as innocent as Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm. People look scared in close-ups, a bewildered salamander inspects the lens, the sound track of unseen crying children (because of the montage and context) is unsettling, and the minimalist script and superb acting make the whole enterprise feel almost like a subversively-filmed documentary (like the one the killer is shooting).But in the end, all the twisted perversity takes place in our minds. More shockingly, really, than even Hitchcock, (this film effectively ended Powell's career, so successfully did he achieve what he set out to do), Michael Powell makes us the ultimate voyeurs, ultimate psychopaths, and manipulates our emotions through the transporting power of cinema's supreme technique, of all the arts montage. "},{"Title":"It takes a pretty special film to destroy the career of one of Britain's greatest directors practically overnight.","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Peeping Tom was written by the World War II cryptographer and polymath Leo Marks. A young amateur film-maker (Carl Boehm) has a compulsion to murder women, and photograph the fear on their faces as they realise their fate.Reviled by many critics on its release as depraved and perverted, this infamous film effectively halted director Michael Powell's British career. It is now regarded as a masterpiece, addressing directly the voyeurism of cinema audiences and implicitly posing questions of why and for how long they will keep their gaze fixed to the screen. All that aside, it's a psychologically intricate horror film, if a nasty one. "},{"Title":"Great psychological thriller","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Instincts are wonderful things, isn't it&#x85;its pity it can't be photographed!A brilliant psychological thriller made by British filmmaker Michael Powell where a camera obsessed voyeur- psychopath killer capturing the last moments of his victims on hand-held camera. It certainly stands next to any of classic psychological thriller whether it's Polanski or Master Hitchcock's best films, including 'Psycho' which was released in the same year. The great thing about the film is Powell's treatment; its almost told and shot from the point of view of voyeur named Mark who's suffering from neurological disorder. Keeping Mike always focused as peeping Tom from various spaces, he's compulsive voyeur who's watching and filming everything about his subjects even after things were over. You can say that camera is his alter-ego and also an Achilles heel why cops sniff him. The dark past experience of his life was also told through the screening moments on projector where we witness his sadistic biologist father throwing lights or dropping lizards on his child's bed to experiment reactions of the nervous system to the fear in young child. The film also bears some interesting characters like the blind women whose sixth sense is more powerful than normal ones. There're some lighter moments too where an old man hesitates to ask for erotic magazines; perhaps another social voyeur who's seeking pleasure! It was shot almost in classic vibrant colors by Otto Heller keeping the thrilling atmosphere and tone throughout. The other film I would like to compare is Antonioni's déjà vu classic 'Blow Up'. Director Sam Mandes paid homage to Powell's this masterpiece in his 'Road to Perdition' where Jude Law's psychopathic character is derived from Mike.Need I write 'Must Watch'! "},{"Title":"What A True Horror Classic Looks LIke...","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When describing genre films, sometimes the word classic gets bandied about way too much, losing its meaning when trying to express how great a horror film is. It's a little depressing to think that for the current generation, it's movies like SCREAM or URBAN LEGENDS or even FINAL DESTINATION that qualify as classics.If you want to really get a gander at what real classic old-school horror looks like, take a break from the Eighties or even the Seventies stuff, open up your mind and go back even farther. That's where you'll find PEEPING TOM waiting for you.PEEPING TOM is the only horror entry ever produced by the once-acclaimed British producer Michael Powell. Powell, together with his producing partner Emeric Pressburger, was responsible for some of the most remarkable and highly regarded artistic dramas ever made, the most famous of these being THE RED SHOES, which starred the beyond-gorgeous Moira Shearer, and inspired God-only-knows-how-many little girls to become prima ballerinas when they grew up. Let's just say that when Powell did something, he never went about it half-assed. It was all the way, or no way, and when he read the script by Leo Marks for what eventually became his most personal movie yet...and his undoing, he attacked it with the same dedication and energy that he had when making THE RED SHOES. Here was the problem PSYCHO, the movie by his contemporary Alfred Hitchcock, came out only months after TOM, and met with critical acclaim, while Powell's once sterling career lay in ruins. The public, being familiar with Hitch and the kind of films he made, were thoroughly shocked but not surprised that he produced a work as extreme for the time as PSYCHO was. On the other hand, having Powell come out with PEEPING TOM at that period, would be kind of like having Walt Disney produce THE EXORCIST, but at the beginning of the Sixties, not the Seventies.One glance at the plot line can explain why, and also prove that Powell was way ahead of his time with this shocker. Carl Boehm plays Mark Lewis, a good-looking, quiet, shy young man who lives alone in his flat with his equipment and his darkroom. He's a photographer by trade, but just taking still pictures or even movies is not his real passion in life. His real life's passion...is death. He loves to photograph beautiful women, but with a difference...attached to the tripod of his camera is a sharpened stake that he uses to capture the death throes of the women he photographs - and murders simultaneously.It's hard not to be horrified by his actions, but strangely enough, it's hard not to root for him, too. It seems that his father (played by director Powell) was obsessed with the nature of fear and its effect on the human psyche, and guess who his favorite guinea pig was in his experiments? You guessed it right MARK. So no wonder Mark is so screwed up!But not too screwed up to get involved with an independent-minded neighbor named Helen Stephens (Anna Massey), who is taken with Mark, even after she learns the horrifying secret of his upbringing, and becomes closer to him as the more practical side of her common sense tells her to run like hell from this guy, if she won't listen to the ominous warnings of her demanding invalid mom, (Maxine Audley.)Less an out-and-out gory horror thriller than a disturbing psychological exercise, PEEPING TOM not only studies fear, but also voyeurism and duplicity. By witnessing his acts of torture and murder both from outside and through the eye of the camera, the audience becomes just as guilty as Mark does of watching these women die...and getting off on the rush of it. The Freudian undertones of associating sex and death as similar must've been something that people at that time (ESPECIALLY in uptight England) weren't ready for, and most certainly not from the man who made THE RED SHOES!PEEPING TOM was outright banned in many places, and cut to nonsensical ribbons in others, where it was shown in criminally censored versions. Powell was never again able to raise the kind of money or interest in anything else he wanted to produce. Financial backers considered his name and influence as box office poison, forever tainted by his one notorious horror opus.It was only decades later, when the movie was restored to its original state and shown at film festivals, that its status as an early masterpiece was realized and Powell was hailed as a visionary filmmaker.Subtle and sinister and definitely tragic, this is what the definition of a TRUE horror classic is, and you owe it to yourself as a buff of the genre to see it at least once. You might regret the nightmares you may have from seeing it, but not having seen the film itself. "},{"Title":"Similar to Psycho and Almost as Good!","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A lot of people have commented on how this film is basically a British version of Psycho, which is true. They have also said that it's a wonderful horror film around, this is also true. It really is a brilliant movie that seems to be sadly forgotten by most people. The only way I ever heard about it was on the IMDb horror boards. It seems a shame that not many other people know about it.I thought the acting was magnificent, especially from the main character. What a creepy man. The story is simple but portrayed and executed almost perfectly. It's not as good as Psycho but it is definitely close behind it.This is a movie for horror fans. Every horror fan should see it and enjoy it. I know I did! "},{"Title":"Ahead of Its Time","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This psychothriller was way ahead of its time in its study of psychological horror and degeneration. It was virtually banned at its time of release, and it destroyed the reputation of its director. The British people were never great fans of the horror film, and this film's focus on creepy psychosexual themes was too hot for them to handle.The film itself is excellent. It has a shock twist at the end that you will never figure out. Most of the performances in the film are great, too. Anna Massey is compellingly innocent as the girl downstairs who gets caught in the killer's web. The only disappointment regarding this film is that Moira Shearer, who also worked with the film's director on The Red Shoes, only has a brief appearance as a dancer, despite being presented as a star of the film. (Her dancing is excellent, though.) "}{"Title":"One of the most influential films in the history of British horror movies","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One of the most influential films in the history of British horror movies that set a standard for others to follow. Micheal Powell, as with his other films like Black Narcissus, concentrates on the mis-en-scene and the lighting of the sets and locations to create a deep atmospheric world. Karlheinz Böhm acts out his role beautifully and glides through the narrative with such gracefulness it allows the other characters to fully establish themselves within the plot. A truly nail biting atmosphere that keeps the audience gripped right until the end and a magnificent piece of artwork from the director.   "},{"Title":"A film way ahead of it's time.","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed everything about this movie. About 20 years ahead of it's time. If you go into it, remember it was made it 1960, so the terror is implied, not splattered on the camera lens. Well written, acted, and directed. "},{"Title":"Disturbing, interesting, wonderfully filmed","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  PEEPING TOM is a precursor of many later psychological studies of serial killers, and one of the most insightful in its probing of the forces that lead a young man to murderous behavior.  Beautifully filmed in the rich colors with which director Michael Powell (THE RED SHOES, TALES OF HOFFMAN) is often associated, it's as classy and well-acted a piece of terror as one is likely to find.  The DVD also provides an insightful documentary A Very British PSYCHO that effectively interviews most of the major participants in the film, as well as the critics who blasted the controversial film when it first appeared.  Definitely worth a look, if you enjoy this kind of film. "},{"Title":"Watch Out for Peeping Tom!!","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you have never seen Peeping Tom you´re in for a very pleasant surprise. This is a cult film that fully lives up to its reputation. It is an exciting, well-acted, expertly filmed masterpiece. Admirers of Hitchcock, especially of his Psycho (released later the same year, 1960) will find many points of comparison. At the risk of seeming overly enthusiastic, I will say that the Criterion DVD issue of Peeping Tom is one of the finest, most satisfying video issues I have ever come across. Every aspect of this release is absolutely top-drawer. The film transfer is beautifully clear and looks almost new. In terms of audio the disc is also quite impressive with none of the tinny quality that some older films have. As for extras, this release is a total knockout the audio commentary by critic Laura Mulvey is detailed and easy to follow; the 50-minute documentary A Very British Psycho is so fascinating it can´t really be summed up here; and the original British trailer is a really worthwhile bonus. Peeping Tom should be required viewing for all interested in the possibilities of this art form.   "},{"Title":"Horror without the blood and guts","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you're tired of the modern horror film that depends almost entirely upon the shock value of body dismemberment, demonic spirits, gallons of blood etc. etc.  -- give yourself the treat of watching this film.  The acting and character development heighten the effect.  There are even elements of compassion and mercy cleverly intertwined with the main theme -- how refreshing. The most unnerving and frightening stories hit us too close to home (ie - this could really happen!!).  There's no way to laugh this one off. "},{"Title":"Karl Boehm is a tortured photographer-murderer touched by Anna Massey","Date":"27 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Peeping Tom (1960) is a deep and sophisticated treatment of a man whose personality has been so twisted by his father that he has become a peeping tom who murders women and films the murders. Michael Powell directed from a story and screenplay by Leo Marks. Marks also wrote the story behind Cloudburst (1951), which is about an ordinary man driven to murder out of revenge. And he co-wrote another psychological screenplay, Twisted Nerve.Peeping Tom features a top-notch performance from Karl Boehm as the troubled protagonist. He is driven and he knows it. He's not psychotic but twisted, having been made that way by his father who was a biologist interested in fear. His sadistic father is shown in old film and was played by Powell.Boehm's murders torture him. Anna Massey and her mother, Maxine Audley, live in the house owned by Boehm, the same house where he grew up. Massey is attracted to Boehm and unknowingly is trying to draw him back to normality. Her blind mother is more suspicious. Rather than turn this into an ordinary thriller, although it does have some suspense, Peeping Tom provides much exposition of Boehm, showing us what he sees through his camera, showing us the details of his murders, and having us watch his films after he has made them and as he watches them. He's the focus of the film, as the title suggests, and not any good guys or detectives, apart from Massey who likes him. Boehm's relationship with Massey is explored in quite a lot of realistic detail too, as part of the explication of Boehm's character.Film noir marks a broad movement of movies into more sophisticated and deeper themes and areas of exploration than what came before, as well as a change in focus and emphasis on more subterranean characters and realistic psychologies. We certainly can find prior movies that herald such depth and focus, but in some sense, film noir marks the maturation of movie stories and ways of telling them. It also marks the audience acceptance of this material.Peeping Tom belongs in the noir category and is usually placed there. Daring for its time, it brought grief to Powell. The film explicitly shows extreme evil in family life and what it leads to. Psychosis is not the only source of evil; Boehm is not at all psychotic. The film shows the extreme difficulty of someone who is afflicted by conditioning of emotions from overcoming it. Hope and love do not conquer all. There are forms of corruption that accrue through family life and they are resistant to change.All of this is shown without the presence of a character like a doctor who presents it to us or by other such non-cinematic means. There is no prologue here from a psychiatrist, corresponding to those introductions by prison wardens and district attorneys that begin some crime-noirs. Nothing like that is done here to soften what we see. We see much of it through the eyes of Boehm's character himself. He is the undoubted protagonist. It brings to mind Carradine playing Bluebeard. It brings to mind both treatments of M. "},{"Title":"Is many things, including brilliant","Date":"20 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Fear. It can be a great motivator, a powerful experience, and an unforgettable feeling. It can also be a field of some very interesting research. At least, that's what Mark Lewis thinks in Peeping Tom. Mark is a shy and reclusive man on the outside, but inside he is deeply disturbed as he goes around with his camera, murdering women with it, filming their gruesome deaths the whole time. Peeping Tom is a disturbingly brilliant film that is far ahead of its time as it combines voyeurism, eroticism, and horror to paint the portrait of a hauntingly fascinating protagonist in the context of a dense and complex character study.Peeping Tom is a film that is highly successful in being multiple things. In part it is a fascinating experimental film that does unique things with its characters, setting, and musical score to be a film unlike something we've seen before. I mention the haunting score because it is only comprised of different piano songs, each adding a bizarre uniqueness to the mood of the film. Peeping Tom also succeeds in being a thrilling suspense film. The intensity of the film and the tension that is built up in different scenes is stupendous and it is the kind of atmosphere that draws you in so deep within the film.Lastly, Peeping Tom is part character study, an element that stands out most between the other two concepts of the film. The main focus of this film is our main character, Mark, and his disturbing condition. It's a challenging film in that his true motivations and true feelings are never fully explained, and we can only piece them together as the film progresses. But his character is truly fascinating and more complex than something we would normally see from the 60's.However, Peeping Tom still has those elements of influence from the 60's culture in the way the characters speak, interact, and what is actually shown on camera. If you're expecting a gruesome film you will be disappointed as Peeping Tom does things very different than what we would expect. If it were made today it would obviously be a vastly different film, but for what it accomplishes as a movie made in 1960, it is incredibly good. "},{"Title":"Really not that interesting","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was geared up to watch this film after reading about it in Cult Movies which has inspired me to watch many films. However, I have to say that this film just wasn't that interesting. I found myself becoming very tired of it quickly.The film has not aged well in my opinion. Perhaps when this was first released it might have interested people but it seems so dated. The dialogue especially. I don't remember people ever talking or acting this way. If a film doesn't seem believable it just doesn't work for me and this is the problem I have with Peeping Tom. Women today would fight this guy back. They wouldn't just lay back on the couch or bed and let this guy kill them. Especially the women here in Los Angeles. I realize that isn't what the film is about-it's about perception but if the film doesn't seem realistic it doesn't work for me.Some people will want to see this because it is a cult film but if you are looking for something engaging or interesting, I think you will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Are you ready for your close up?","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Highly revered British director Michael Powell presented before its time PEEPING TOM, a very disturbed filmmaker seems to live for only one thing. A brilliant combination of voyeurism, high anxiety and eroticism. Mark Lewis(Carl Boehm)is obsessed with filming young women and actually capturing their last seconds of life with close ups of their fear. He actually kills them with his camera. This disturbing subject matter makes for a very complex psychological thriller. Lewis actually planned out to the second his own demise...all to be captured on film of course. Still a very interesting movie.Other players in this dark and atmospheric thriller are Moira Shearer, Anna Massey, Michael Goodlife, Esmond Knight and Shirley Anne Field. A very worthwhile watch. "},{"Title":"Engrossing and disturbing","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I would like to have seen this film on the big screen. The effect must have been very powerful. I read several of the IMDb reviews, and learned quite a bit about the history of the making of the movie. I think it's tragic and grossly unfair when film makers are crucified and their careers ruined (or almost) has happened to the likes of Powell, or to Lean. Just because the audience doesn't have the brains or insight or ability to tolerate the story DOES NOT mean it's a poor film.I first saw the film in the 90's on t.v. and I caught it again last year. The first time I watched was because I'd never heard of it and because Moira Shearer was in it. I recognized Karl Boehm from other films (4 Horsemen of the Apocalypse). The film is genuinely creepy and full of food for thought. I think that in 1960 the public was generally still avoiding thinking about social responsibility for perversion, crime, etc. Aberrant behavior was just something that happens. What stands out the most is that the director does tell us what motivates this killer. Perhaps that is what audiences and critics didn't like--he wasn't just a nut. Someone MADE him into one. A so-called sane and respected man CREATED, deliberately, a serial killer.As appalling as his crimes were, what I felt for the Mark Lewis character was terrible pity. "}{"Title":"Timeless Masterpiece!","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Watching this movie over 40 years after it was made, I still found it a very disturbing movie. It is definitely not dated (as some people have claimed). For this, it is much too well crafted and too multilayered.It is almost perfect in every respect. It is very well shot in brilliant colours. Boehm as the mad serial killer is very convincing. Certainly, the movie's lack of gore and the handling of sexuality might make it appear dated. But there is still much more to it. First, there is the scene when Lewis shows his child memories to Vivian, as recorded by his father for his studies. This scene builds a very intense atmosphere of terror and madness, and its subject, parental violence against children and its effects on them, is as actual as ever. Second, the final scene when Lewis explains in detail his perverse technique of filming his victims by reflecting their own image to them is again one of the most memorable scenes I have seen, especially when we watch Vivian's distorted image in the mirror. By the way, the idea of making the victims watch their own death has been copied in the more recent Strange Days. Third, the movie shows a differentiated picture of the serial killer. In this respect, it is much more advanced than some recent (gory) serial killer movies. Once, Lewis is freed from his camera (on his first date with Vivian), he becomes a charming and normal boy. Fourth, the murders are depicted in such a way that gore simply isn't necessary. In this respect, the work of Powell is most reminiscent of Hitchcock. For example, when Lewis kills his second victim, the preparations for the murder are presented in so much detail that the audience starts longing for the act of killing. In this way, Powell not only transfers some of Lewis's guilt to the spectator (probably one of the reasons for the critics' reactions) but the killing itself just becomes the moment of relief and no gore is needed to create emotions. At another occasion, Powell varies the technique when Lewis meets Vivians's mother. This time no killing occurs (and not for the reason of some lucky intervention). Just one more evidence of how well crafted that movie is. Last but not least, the movie is not only concerned with the serial killer motif but also with voyeurism in general and in connection with cinema itself. After all, Lewis not only strives to capture the expression of fear on film, but his project is a complete documentary about the killing he wants to be a director. In a cynic way, this approach to cinema is  confirmed by the experience on the set of the movie on which Lewis works as the focus puller the main actress cannot produce an accurate fainting unless she discovers the body. Moreover, Powell's direction invites the spectator on various occasions to become the voyeur himself. The only thing which annoyed me in Peeping Tom where the pathetic role of Vivian's mother and the equally pathetic suicide of Lewis at the end.Peeping Tom is a highly recommended movie which by its intricate script and great production values contains enough material to enjoy on repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"Modern (and Formerly Lost) Classic","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A young man (Karlheinz Bohm) murders women, using a movie camera to film their dying expressions of terror.Today's audiences might not find this film very scary. Some might find it downright boring. And yes, it does tend to be a slow-burning film and yes, for some reason no one bleeds when impaled in the neck. But it is the concept, not the film itself that is what is scary.Michael Powell made a beautifully-shot film about a camera following a camera, and he was more or less drummed out of the world of film for his troubles. The film was hated by censors and critics, reviews said it should be flushed down the toilet and it went underground to the black market. Of all people, it seems that it was Martin Scorsese who brought the film back to life by screening it in New York many years later.Now considered a classic and the British Psycho (which is odd considering Hitchcock himself was British), it truly is a must-see. This is a psychological thriller told from the point of view of the killer, which puts us in the awkward position of both witnessing the murders (which is horrific) and also being able to sympathize to some degree with the killer himself. We see his childhood and how he became the man he is.I am a bit confused on the peeping tom aspect of the film, as it is a relatively minor part of his character. His illness is not voyeurism so much as it is a desire to film his murders... not sure what that is, but probably not voyeurism. "},{"Title":"Well It's Better Than Blow-Up","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" For those expecting a horror movie, or at least a disturbing movie overall, don't even lock your eyes on the box when you're scanning through the store or on Netflix or wherever you feed your cinematic cravings. Peeping Tom is an art film about the human condition. It has drama and suspense, but it's about depth vs. superficiality, and a disturbed, fearful character trying to film everything and slowly learns in symbolic and sometimes ironic ways that there are enormous things in life that cannot be filmed. His journey is driven by obsessive voyeurism which drives him to violence.Carl Boëhm creates a very intriguing presence, an overly refined, sympathetic but immensely disturbed person. Anna Massey is quite interesting as something of a hasty, temperamental foil to Boëhm. This is my first Michael Powell film, and I like his culturally and stylistically conscious direction.Peeping Tom seems to veer off into some standard plot mechanics that tie the ending in a nice little bow for us, meaning that everything's perfectly clear because it's perfectly ended. It leaves us nothing ambiguous to ponder. It's not as dark as it could've been, but perhaps that's apart of its charm. "},{"Title":"A magnificent thriller that no longer should be ignored!","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Peeping Tom, three time Acedemy Award nominee Michael Powell's career pretty much died. It was slated by the critics mainly because of its controversial story and way of storytelling. In many ways Peeping Tom was a movie that was ahead of its time and certainly an unique and one of kind for its time. That, at the same time, was the reason for the downfall of director Michael Powell. Now more than 40 years later, we look at this movie differently. It's hard to imaging these days that this movie once was regarded controversial. It certainly is a dark and creepy movie with a macabre undertone but those are things which are regarded as positive things present day. When one looks at this movie now, he or she has to come to the conclusion that Peeping Tom is a magnificent constructed movie, with a great story and a great fleshed out main character/psychopath/serial killer, who has been given an humane face and personality in the movie. He might not be as 'chilling' as Norman Bates but he is memorable and realistic nevertheless. Peeping Tom certainly is one of the best thrillers ever made.The concept of the movie is just great and even better executed. The movie has a perfect atmosphere and the tension is in some of the scene's build up extremely well. There are some unforgettable early 'thriller elements'. One of the few things which indicates how Peeping Tom was a movie ahead of its time. The movie feels realistic and it takes its time to tell the story and to build up the right mood. The ending of the movie is especially memorable and works very powerful.Another reason why this movie works extremely well as a thriller is because of the main character, who is portrayed very humane and one can easily understand his character and what drives him to his actions. It's a character we understand and perhaps even feel and sympathize for.Sure the movie does have its weaker points, such as the acting that is just below average at times to be perfectly honest. Also some of the plot elements of the movie are not developed well enough, such as the sequences with the investigations and the detectives. They could had done some more with this and it feels a bit unsatisfying and like a missed opportunity. Tiny things like this prevent me from rating this movie a perfect 10 out of 10.All in all this is a brilliant thriller that was in many ways ahead of its time and is quite honestly one of the best constructed thrillers I have ever seen. The movie shows a similar style to that of some early Alfred Hitchcock movies and Brian De Palma thrillers. So far this is the first and only Michael Powell movie I have seen but judging but this movie and its style, I already know that I will become a big fan of him and his other movies. For fans of the thriller genre this is an important movie and an absolute must see! Also when you're a fan of Hitchcock's and De Palma's work this is a movie for you to see.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not really a masterpiece","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yes, Pepping Tom has a fascinating plot and yes, some of the images are haunting. Anna Massey is very, very good in her part as a kind and intelligent young woman who likes the extremely-flawed hero. And certainly the movie is nowhere near as bad as the British critics made it out to be. But...Carl Boehm looks, but doesn't act, the part. As little as he speaks, his strong German accent is still apparent, and mystifying in a character who has supposedly been born of British parents and spent the whole of his life in London. This wouldn't matter so much if Boehm were a better actor, if he inhabited the role and made Mark Lewis a real person. (Veteran Miles Malleson puts more oomph into his bit part as a dirty old man, and he's only on the screen for about three minutes). The inclusion of Moira Shearer was, surely, just a favor between old friends--she is too old, too glamorous, too star-like for her very small part. What was the significance of the disfigured woman earlier in the movie? It's a fascinating minute or so, but the idea of how Mark sees imperfection is not picked up again. (If he's that fascinated, surely the heroine's mother, with her ruined eyes, would be more interesting to him?). Better casting and, I think, more money overall would have achieved a better movie--a real masterpiece, where this movie is just the germ of one. "},{"Title":"No way 'a masterpiece' despite the pretencions of a once great director","Date":"11 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I did not at all enjoy my first viewing of this film, which I watched purely because of the name of its director - Michael Powell, a real genius of cinema and certainly one of the greatest directors ever. I recorded a copy again recently (when it was broadcast at something like 3.00a.m. and introduced ominously in the voice-over as 'a 1960s horror movie'), and regret to say that my impressions of it have not improved at all despite the intervening years and my continued reverence for the products of Powell's career as a whole.It is clear that Powell thought he was trying to mix making a 'serious' film, investigating the nature of fear, sexual psychology and the role of cinema/film-making in awakening and developing these qualities in film audiences, with a 'popular' 'hunt the madman'-type detective story. In my view, though, he fails in BOTH endeavours. Both of the lead characters, played by Carl Boehm and Anna Massey, are wholly unconvincing and come across as caricatures and totally 'artificial'. The plot is entirely predictable and would have left a mass audience yawning within half an hour, whilst, overall, I regret to have to say that I CAN see fully why such words as 'sordid', 'tacky' and 'seedy' were used by critics when the film was first screened. From the very opening scene, (virtually a replay of numerous portrayals of a 'woman of the streets' meeting her murderer - as in countless 'Jack the Ripper' films), through the scenes of Boehm taking the 'glamour shots' of half-clad girls, (covered in garish lip-stick), in the upstairs room of the seedy tobacconist's shop through to the interminable murder scene with Moira Shearer, (obviously just appearing 'for old time's sake' with the director of 'The Red Shoes'), the direction is flat and does indeed have a voyeuristic, stilted quality which is alienating and discomforting. Of course it may well be argued that this is precisely what Powell is intending and that the audience SHOULD feel squeamish and 'guilty' at being what the title of the film is telling us we really are. The problem is that the feeling one is left with is NOT, contrary to what Powell may have claimed or thought, that this is being done in an investigatory or explanatory manner which shows any respect for the audience at all, but rather that, (just as in the revealing scene where Powell plays a sadistic father making his son afraid in various ways and filming the reactions), Powell is not aiming to understand his audience but to shock them in a way which shows contempt and loathing for them, (and totally unlike Hitchcock, of course, who invariably, (if not always), remained acutely conscious of how his audience would view and respond to any scene he directed). Powell (and Pressburger), had always had more than a touch of 'looking down' on their audiences but by this stage of his career, I think Powell had lost any empathy with his audiences at all, (especially the broad mass of cinema goers), and was beginning to regard them as 'box office fodder'. Audiences, and critics, felt this very quickly and reciprocated the feelings, (by staying away from the movie in droves), virtually killing Powell's career stone-dead, (as with other highly talented directors who 'turned their backs' on the mere film-goer, such as Von Stroheim and Welles).Wind forward twenty years and the young Hollywwod 'Brat Pack' are aiming to rediscover mass popular film entertainment, (in the shape of Star Wars, Close Encounters, Jaws etc.), and 'discover' half of the team behind A Matter of Life and Death, The Red Shoes, (above all), The Thief of Baghdad etc. etc. In the atmosphere of growing adulation, someone 'discovers' Peeping Tom and it, too, is proclaimed 'a masterpiece' as well. I beg to differ. To me it remains a cheap, garish 'shocker' which may have pretensions but whose failure was entirely predictable and justified and which does very little indeed for the overall estimation of one of the foremost talents which British cinema has ever produced. "},{"Title":"Marvelous job by Powell (sans Pressburger)","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The direction and cinematography are the stars in Peeping Tom. The film effectively ruined Powell's career - no one was expecting a serial killer film from the man who brought you Stairway to Heaven - but, looking back on it, it only seems like one of his greatest achievements. And the story is mostly good. My only problem with the film is the Freudian backstory. It's terribly embarrassing. Compare it to Hitchcock's Psycho, and you will notice right away that the screenwriter had little idea what he was talking about. Psycho is the far superior film, I think, but Peeping Tom is well worth loving. 9/10. "},{"Title":"A well-made movie that's aged badly","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw the re-released version of this film in Los Angeles.  And while it is definitely top-notch film-making, this movie comes across as comical now rather than horrifying.  I can imagine British audiences in 1960 being very disturbed by this, this is one of the very first films that started the whole slasher genre.  It's a worthwhile film more for its historical value than anything else. "},{"Title":"Unremarkable and nasty","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm a fan of the Archers (their films A Matter of Life and Death and Colonel Blimp are masterpieces) but I cannot understand what Michael Powell was thinking of when he decided to make Peeping Tom. I've tried looking for the hidden depths, but there simply doesn't seem to be any point to this film. It is episodic, predictable and the method of killing is risible. Carl Boehm is quite capable of turning in a good performance, but in this he is wasted as the disturbed photographer who is driven to murder his models, and the whole thing comes across as just plain nasty. This is one Powell film that will not be proudly displayed on my shelves. "},{"Title":"A much more subtle Manhunter (before Manhunter was even a thing)","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film is not a thriller but more of an experience in which you put the pot of water on the stove but remove it before it begins to boil furiously; a slow-burner, if you will. What really matters is the aura that cloaks the male protagonist Mark. There is something fragile about him, something *vulnerable* that Vivian--the daughter of the couple renting the bottom floor of Mark's house--immediately notices and attempts to reach out to him. The viewer already knows that Mark is dangerous, but despite the psychopathy he has demonstrated in the precision of his killings, despite the perverseness of him filming it while it happens, and despite him developing said film so he can relive the moments over and over in the comfort of his makeshift studio, you pray that not only will Vivian be able to slip from his fingers unharmed as she unwittingly treads closer and closer to finding out his secret, but that her desire to know him better and to smooth out the kinks in his demeanor (the visible ones, anyway) makes for a surprisingly endearing couple.As the title of this review should tell you, it reminds me a lot of Francis Dolarhyde's relationship with Reba in Manhunter (much more pronounced and tragic in the Red Dragon version), in which the killer finds temporary solace in an unlikely 'Morality Pet', which, despite her attempts to help their secret killers, are in the end unable to do so, and to me they serve as reminders to the viewer that compassion and empathy are indeed imperative in the handling and treatment of the mentally ill or disturbed, but they alone cannot solve the psychosis (as Vivian's intuitive mother hinted to Mark near the end of the film).I would recommend watching this for those who are curious about the psychological horror genre but are intimidated by David Lynch and Stanley Kubrick's works. "}{"Title":"The best example of British slasher movies","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Peeping Tom was hated and misunderstood when it first came out, and in later years it has become somewhat of a cult classic and became much loved and much hyped, but is it worth all hype, sort answer YES.When I came across this movie a few years ago, I absolutely loved it, the in-depth look exploration into voyeurism and scoptophilia the morbid urge to gaze focusing on Mark (Carl Boehm) a shy and socially inept focus-puller at a film studio who lives his life through the lens of his hand held movie camera. The performance from the main lead is spot on, Carl Boehm gives a rather chilling and unsettling performance as the would be serial killer, which even sends chills down my spine and this is also the first ever proper slasher movie to feature the killer in POV shot.Released shortly before Hitchcock's Psycho the two movies bear many similarities not only in that both where directed by cinematic geniuses but that both where thought of as shocking and depraved in this very morbid masterpiece, Peeping Tom is lurid and lush in its use of colour which is both beautiful and brutal, something all the more evident in the DVD quality of this movie. Peeping Tom is not only a great piece of cinema but a highly original and influential piece of horror whose exploration into the psychology of a killer and our obsession with watching other peoples fear are as relevant today as they ever where.All in all Peeping Tom is a must see, if not just for it's quality filmaking but it's rather morbid outlook. "},{"Title":"A slasher flick unlike any other","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is truly a unique slasher film.Plot A man murders his victims while filming them, so that he can watch their expressions as they are murdered. As we see later on, as a young boy, he was the subject of a lot of his Father's experiments, which ultimately lead to his insanity.I really liked this film because of its idea. I have yet to have seen a murder film in which the killer films his victims, so therefore, this must've been an idea that was not used that much during the time this film came out.However, although seemingly original, it was an idea that audiences and critics apparently did not like during the time of its release, since this film ultimately destroyed director Michael Powell's career. It really is a shame, because this film really is a masterpiece; I guess its controversial subject matter was too much for people to handle back in 1960.But, enough history, more critiquing. Like I said, I liked this movie, but it wasn't just the story itself that sold me on it; it was the actors, as well. Anna Massey is great as Helen, the lead female role, and Moira Shearer used some of her interesting dancing skills in a good way for a specific scene in her role as Vivian. But, all in all, it's Karlheinz Bohm that really sells it here. He is insane, but he's kind of like the tragic figure in a story. It is a really great performance.All in all, a great 60's horror film. I can kind of see why people would have been so disgusted back then, but I can't judge based on what people thought back then; I can only judge based on my own thoughts. And, in my own thoughts, I thought to myself, No wonder the scene where he almost kills the blind woman is on Bravo's 100 Scariest Movie Moments. It really is a well-shot scene. Overall, it is a frightening, systematic view at the behaviour of a murderer, and a timeless masterpiece of horror movies. A 9/10 for me. "},{"Title":"Extreme exploration","Date":"24 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The British Film Institute, in ranking the greatest UK films, made a misstep in underrating two dramas calling for sympathy for the devil- Peeping Tom (ranked #78) and A Clockwork Orange (#81). Maybe it's because showing greater appreciation for such films can be seen as an admission of something dark inside us. But these movies don't endorse the violence within; they merely make us see new perspectives and realize there's good and evil within every person.Coming out in 1960, just a bit before Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho, Michael Powell's Peeping Tom is also about a mad serial killer. This one is named Mark, who films his women victims before stabbing them with a pointed piece of his camera. This movie has a style reminiscent of Hitchcock's photography, but I actually prefer it to Psycho. Without the stunt of killing off the main character half way through the movie, Peeping Tom gives the viewer more chance to know the killer- and feel more empathy for him. In that way, Peeping Tom is the more extreme movie. Mark was made a monster by years of childhood abuse. Take that away and he could be you or me. I particularly felt connected to him because he was a camera enthusiast, and I've taken a couple photo courses and have a camera myself. This movie also gives the killer a girlfriend, a good woman who doesn't know Mark's horrible secret.If what I've heard is true, this movie was bashed upon its release as hateful. The victims are all women (unless you count Mark as one of his own victims, since he kills himself). But I wouldn't say this movie hates women; I felt sorry for them when they died, and this movie also has two strong heroines, Mark's girlfriend and her blind mother. From Mark's filming to the old Briton nervously buying pornography, Peeping Tom is a naked look at our true society, a pessimistic vision of voyeurism and violence. "},{"Title":"Peeping Tom Fascinating, Compelling, Ingenious, and Masterful","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Rejected, renounced, repudiated, and ridiculed by critics upon its original 1960 release, Michael Powell's Peeping Tom demolished the filmmaker's career, so vociferous was the uproar against it. Championed for decades by the likes of Scorsese and Coppola, the film has slowly returned to mainstream attention, now being widely revisited and reevaluated.Professional focus puller and aspiring camera operator, Mark Lewis lives a solitary existence in the upper floor of the boarding house he has inherited from his father. Additionally working part time as a photographer of lewd materials, Mark pursues, films, and murders women he encounters in order to capture the face of true fear.The aforementioned blacklisting of Peeping Tom, perhaps difficult to understand for a modern audience, is a topic of much interest. Neither graphically violent nor sexually explicit, the reason for the film's utter dismissal is quite fascinating to consider&#x97;no, before you think of suggesting, it's not because it's terrible. One school of thought, and the one with which I happen to agree, is that the film's primary thematic fixation with voyeurism, and the concomitant allusions to the inherent perversity of cinema itself, was simply offensive to those critics who felt such an evaluation of their lives' pursuit was opprobrious. As well as the tongue-in-cheek humour of the jokes Powell makes concerning filmmaking, he raises serious questions regarding film and its vicariousness. It can't be healthy, watching all these films regards Mark's blind tenant, the mother of the woman with whom he begins to fall in love. Indeed, the film wonders what right we have to peer into the lives of others uninvited. Are we, being thrilled by the criminal investigation of the mysterious murders, as bad as Mark himself? No? What then of the compassionate sympathy we feel for him upon learning of the near-torture to which his father subjected him in pursuit of an understanding in the nature of fear? What the film does is create a character who, despite the atrocity of his actions, we are drawn to. His shyness, reservation, and almost comical self-awareness all combine to craft a character one can't help but feel affection toward. This, I think, was the definitive nail in the coffin of the film's future, its sympathising with so conflicted, complicated, and evil a character a fearful thing in itself. The key moment in this is when Mark realises he has faded too early on a shot of one of his victim's, forcing him to kill again. The horror, pain, and fear upon the character's face tells you all you need to know about him in one simple moment. A further moment in which a psychologist tells him the cure for his voyeuristic condition&#x97;three hours of analysis a week for a number of years&#x97;serves just as well to communicate the entirety of this character in just one expression. Praise for the creation of such a rich character lies entirely with Karlheinz Böhm, every line delivered with a pitch perfect pitifulness, agonising facial expressions, and an air of Peter Lorre style villainy so authentic as to have me scouring the internet in effort to find a familial tie between the two. I should add that the film's narrative is, in itself, darn entertaining for those who have been put off by discussions of thematic explorations of voyeurism in cinema (though shame on you if you have).Made ever more appealing by its effective banishment, Peeping Tom is the kind of film which almost instantly provokes thought that refuses to leave the mind for weeks, perhaps even months, afterward. Fascinating, compelling, ingenious, and masterful, its central character is amongst cinema's greatest in the feeling he engenders within the audience. A film about film on more levels than one, it raises several interesting questions which it leaves to us to answer. Masterpiece doesn't even begin to describe it. "},{"Title":"Was this worth ruining a great director's career?","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" We think of film critics as independent, but as a 'man', they ridiculed and scorned Powell, even at the press review. In Million dollar Movie, Powell quotes each review, which must have marked him forever. Yet we knew that his art was great, but because he was known for The Red Shoes and other refined movies, the critics unanimously reviled him. Could it be that the way he treats movie execs and directors in the movie itself could have been a partial reason? Those critics knew how true those egomaniacal tirades were.I am a great believe in reality and there were too many situations in which I was expected to suspend reality. Most of those women knew they were in danger, but acted as though they were mesmerized by this shy focus puller. He wasn't even a cameraman, except in his ambitions.Moira Shearer did a great job, but you can see the overly dramatic effect of those times in the way she set up , and over-acted. However, to be fair, that could have been just because she WAS a stand-in and would have over-acted in her role. Since this is a doll inside of a doll kind of movie, it was hard to tell when the movie was portraying an actual situation or when the movie was showing people in a movie.The acting by the young man was superior and I am surprised we never heard from HIM again. Could it be that the insult to his future career was even worse than it was for Powell? And what about the women in Powell's life Frankie and Pamela Brown? I have read Powell's memoir and nothing is said about the effect those women had on his production of this movie. YOu can tell by the documentary that making movies was Powell's life, yet the women seem to be placed in traditional roles of wife/mother and mistress.Columba, Powell's son, is used as the psycho as a child. One wonders what happened to both Kevin and Columba, Powell's sons. When the nude scene was filmed, Powell had both the boys present at the shooting so they could see what a naked woman looked like (reminds me of a scene from 'Curb Your Enthusiasm, when the cancer-ridden boy has his Make a Wish' turned down. So Larry David takes him to the Playboy mansion to see a naked woman. Powell preceded him in this act. "},{"Title":"A shocking probe into voyeurism and film-making","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In 1960 two great directors, Michael Powell and Alfred Hitchcock, both released their most shocking and controversial films. Psycho further solidified Hitchcock as a master director in the US; Peeping Tom ostracized Powell from the UK film industry and pretty much exiled him from his home country.The most visually shocking moment of Peeping Tom comes in the opening scene, a superbly crafted segment in which our antihero, Mark, approaches a prostitute, goes up to her room, and proceeds to kill her. As the audience, we see this whole scenario take place through the lens of Mark's camera, and we soon learn that he thrills himself by filming the victims that he murders. Mark could well be portrayed as a monster, but instead Powell chooses to make us feel close to him - not only to understand his actions but to sympathize with them. The films theme of voyeurism is seeped into every scene. Not only does it drive Mark to commit his insane actions, but it involves us, the audience, as well. It gives us the sense that we are watching something that we shouldn't, a feeling that caused the British critics to loathe the movie, one critic calling it the sickest and filthiest film I can remember seeing. The movie wouldn't have been nearly as effective without German actor Carl Boehm's portrayal of Mark. He plays this scarred and broken character to a subtle perfection - his awkward stances and nervous twitches really make the character feel alive; after the movie's premier in London, critics were scared to even shake the actor's hand afterward.Luckily, time has allowed Peeping Tom to mature into the classic it is known as today. Many film critics who panned the film on first release have now changed their opinion of it, most calling it one of the most important British films ever made. That isn't to say it is a perfect movie; the middle of the movie slumps a bit and the doomed relationship between Mark and his tenant, Vivian, could have been crafted with more tension. Still, Powell offers us one of the most disturbing looks into the limits of film and his product is sure to give you a deep psychological chill. "},{"Title":"The story is original, without the cliché that haunts the average horror.","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" What might look like a horror flick, at first glance, turns out to be a quite good movie. The story is original, without the cliché that haunts the average horror. I would even say it's a clean horror with no explicit scenes of blood or gore, but its psychological tension is not to be underestimated.Mark Lewis had been tormented his whole childhood by a father who's life study surrounded the sentiment of fear. After being used in various experiments, as a child, Mark grows an obsession with women's reaction to fear. But he doesn't stop there, it seems he enjoys not only frightening them, but also killing them and recording every detail of the murder on his trusted camera.Great plot for a horror, wouldn't you agree? Well it's just half of the story (wink). Better not spoil it for you in case you haven't seen it yet. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael Powell, who directed (with Emeric Pressburger) such sumptuously lush films like Black Narcissus, destroyed his career effectively with this mediocre Daddy-made-me-do-it-thriller about young man (embarassingly overacting Karlheinz Böhm as Carl Boehm) who kills women and then films his crimes. If made today, Peeping Tom would probably be plot less exploitation filth, made by people with all tactics of toilet seat, blaming mentally ill for their fantasies of filth and gore. However, this is England in 1960, so it is actually a real movie, and Powell and writer Leo Marks at least try to add dimensions to their characters. Still, it is a bit of shoddy piece of film-making, especially compared to such works than aforementioned Black Narcissus. "},{"Title":"Humanizing effect of Helen","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film for the first time on TCM early this morning, and I have to admit I was mesmerized from start to finish, but the climax of the film, Mark's own well thought-out and staged sacrificial suicide, in the presence of the one person who might have been his redemption (Helen) was a cinematic and thematic masterpiece.For who in that house of his was the one soul who could bring out the human element in the megalomaniacal documentary/task driven Mark, the obsessed and deranged madman, albeit pretty boy? And it was that prettiness alone, and perhaps the hurt, childlike shyness, common to most introverted mentally ill sociopaths that drew Helen to long to know him better and yes, to love him.But it was the blind Mrs. Stephens who could see past his veil of deception and glimpse into the soul of the madman who lurked within the house, its very owner! -- Where the Stephens' lived.But Mark thrived on seeing the expression of fear in the Other's eyes, face, and contortion of the body as he prepared to strike the final blow. But he would not allow himself to see that fear in the face or body of Helen because he truly loved her, she had reached in and had done what no other living being had been able to do in all the years of his existence, Helen had humanized the un-human and un-hinged psychopath.Not even the Psychiatrist on the stage lift could see this, he was more concerned with the work of Mark's father than with Mark himself, and furthermore his incessant sneezing and simple wonder with what was around him provided the Psychiatrist with a disconnect that allowed Mark to conveniently, albeit painfully to dismiss him.Only Helen could reach in an find the lost soul of Mark Lewis, and she did in such a profound way as to almost waken him from his dark psychotic obsession, but the man, the beast within Mark could not be quelled and not even the noble and humanizing Helen would be enough to save him, for in the end, Mark has to face his own fear, the very thing that brought him to that point from his childhood, with its lights, and cameras, to document the fear, but only now his fear ends in death.And all of Helen's humanizing efforts have gone to naught, or have they? For a brief moment she, of all the people who interacted with Mark Lewis the human being, had touched him in a way that no other had previously done before, and that, in and of itself may have been the one redemptive act which saved Mark Lewis' soul in the literary sense. "},{"Title":"Gore Mongral's Movie Review Peeping Tom","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Peeping Tom (1960) a British suspense thriller that a lot of people call The British Psycho. The story revolves around Mark a young man who seems to have a major fascination with his camera and filming women but not just in anyway, you see Mark likes to film them as they watch in horror...their own deaths.Mark does this by having one of his tripod legs attached with what looks like a sharp spear-like end driving it into the woman's necks while getting that moneyshot for the camera. In comes a young girl who is taken to him (for whatever reason who knows) and soon tries to make him her main man. As the story progresses the girls mother realizes that Mark is a bit off and advises him to seek help. As expected Mark does not and continues to use his job working on the set of a film to his advantage killing one of the lead actresses body doubles.All this leads to a twisted revelation about Marks past and a rather tragic ending. Peeping Tom is one of those films that if handled by a juvenile director could have been a typical thriller lost in the shuffle however with the interesting back story of Marks character and his reasonings for doing what he was doing and the solid acting throughout I cannot help but recommend this to old school thriller buffs as well as fans of early exploitation as this film deserves that banner under its belt also for some of the more graphic for their time sequences that occur. In conclusion Peeping Tom is a classic within the thriller/horror genre and I give it a solid 9/10 classic.Peeping Tom is out on DVD in the states through Criterion and Strait-Jacket from Columbia TriStar. Check it out pygmies as though this does not pack the excessive gore punch that so many of the films have over the last several decades it still earns points just on coolness factor alone not to mention very well crafted storytelling. "}{"Title":"M","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am not familiar with Michael Powell's body of work, but, having seen, ten years ago, THE RED SHOES, I can say that the movie I viewed last night, PEEPING TOM, is closer to that than to PSYCHO. The things which make THE RED SHOES interesting are the same things which make PEEPING TOM interesting Really bright, glossy magazine colors abound in both (and both movies were beginning to fade when I saw them, which is a bit distracting); the world, even in the outdoor shots, seems unusually contained, giving a sense of claustrophobia; and the acting is almost declamatory. Powell, then, is not a realist. I can't say I found much pleasure in either THE RED SHOES or PEEPING TOM, but I'd be lying if I didn't say there is a distinct vision both movies share. This leads me to my point. What bothers many people about PEEPING TOM is not that Powell was not up to his material but that he did not conform to the conventions other directors had established with similar subjects.  In all horror movies there is a moment when the audience wants to scream at the in innocent person walking into a trap. Powell has several such innocents in PEEPING TOM, but they have a fearlessness we reject. It's not that we simply can't believe they're so stupid as to walk into the killer's lair. What audiences can't stand is that at least one of the lone innocents doesn't seem to care if the killer's about to try to kill her. To this I say Michael Powell's movies are like dramas acted by fashion models and they're made for an audience attuned to the runway. Powell wants us to say, 'Interesting movie. Did you see the cut of his blazer?' Claustrophobic though his movies are (at least the two I've seen) there are several doffings of the fashionable cap to other directors. PEEPING TOM bears a definite similarity to Fritz Lang's M. The protagonists are, in fact so similar I can't think Powell didn't ask Carl Boehm to watch M once or twice. The Anna Masey dance is, perhaps, a tribute to the Freed Unit. Why should a movie about a serial killer only make tribute to movies about other serial killers. If Vincente Minnelli had wanted to make a slasher film, this would have been it. Hitchcock, I feel, used the motif of the corpse-laden trunk in FRENZY, which was Hitch's return to London. And the humorous scene where the portly elderly gentleman comes into the shop to buy pornographic pictures seems to me to be a tribute to Hithcock's cameos in his own movies. Watch NORTH BY NORTHWEST, which may feature Hitchcock's lengthiest cameo. He's dressed the same way the man in this scene is.  The truly horrifying scenes are not the ones where the killer films the murders he commits, but the ones of the killer's childhood. I noticed they're the only scenes which seem realistic. This is further proof that Powell didn't falter here. He hid the real terror in plain sight. "},{"Title":"DVD of maligned film a revelation","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I viewed this unjustly villainized film for the first time this week.Available on DVD it comes packaged with a revealingdocumentary on Leo Marks who wrote Peeping Tom.Today, I marvel at the stuffy attitude of British film critics which caused the film to be withdrawn from distribution and destroyed the career and reputation of Michael Powell, one of Britain's great film makers.Surprisingly enough the film is nowhere neart as grisly as some of its original detractors had us believe and amazingly it appeared in the same year as Hitchcock's Psycho!  One never sees the actual killings, only the victim's faces as the killer's weapon approaches. There is no gore. This is a film that challenges the intellect  and does not pander to our unconscious  bloodlust. which makes it even more surprising that journalists would have vilified itThe print has been wonderfully re- mastered, and the accompanying doc A Very British Psycho not only biographizes Leo Marks, bookseller turned British  code expert during the Second World War, it  helps us understand just what happened at the time of Peeping Tom's release.Seeing the DVD is a must for all students of  film "},{"Title":"The best meta-film ever","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Peeping Tom is not just what it obviously appears to be, a brilliantly disturbing and original look into madness and fear.  The film is undoubtedly one of the most disturbing of the new-wave horrors which it and Psycho (1960) helped to institute it is also one of the best films about films ever produced.The camera has often been described as a phallic intruder into the privacy of personal space and in Peeping Tom this theory is taken to its logical conclusion.  The camera kills, something that seems strangely mythological and the layers of sub-text don't end even there.Peeping Tom was a wake up call to the baby-boom generation that the perfection of post-war society was about to crumble and that what was about to take its place was a society much more dangerous.  Powell may well have committed career suicide with Peeping Tom but in the long run the film has gained huge artistic merit.    "},{"Title":"A movie that was years ahead of its time.","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A young man murders women, using a movie camera to film their dying expressions of terror. Peeping Tom was years ahead of its time and that is one of the main reasons it was so harshly received when it was first released because people did not fully understand it, it was immensely controversial due to its controversial topic, and effectively destroyed Powell's career as a director. Michael Powell once said I make a film that nobody wants to see and then, thirty years later, everybody has either seen it or wants to see it. Roger Ebert stated that The movies make us into voyeurs. We sit in the dark, watching other people's lives. It is the bargain the cinema strikes with us, although most films are too well-behaved to mention it. Once you go beyond the controversial subject, what is under the surface is a movie that has many psychological complexities, it would be accurate to say the on the surface the movie is about the relationship between a son and a father and also the victims. That in my opinion is what makes Peeping Tom so great, it is a highly original horror movie that was years ahead of its time, it is also an extremely intelligent movie that has a lot say about social commentary. You could psychoanalyze it all day long but you still wouldn't have any answers, it is truly a horror movie with a brain. "},{"Title":"A film ahead of its time","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Peeping Tom is a renounced classic of horror cinema, but very controversial on its release, pretty much ending Michael Powell's career as a director. It was a film a head of its time.Mark Lewis (Carl Boehm) is a focus puller at a film studio and aspiring director who takes his 8mm camera everywhere he goes. He is a quiet, shy man who lives alone, has few friends and was a victim of his father's psychological experiments. But Mark is a serial killer and wants to make documentary about his activities.Peeping Tom is a certainly a bold film for time and it easy to see why it was controversial when it was first released. Powell keeps a very creepy atmosphere throughout the film, amplified by Boehm's performance, giving his character a quiet, softly spoken demeanour and it was an uneasy experience to be around it.Peeping Tom has a very voyeuristic look, a deliberately choice, particularly when see the murders through the camera. This is a film about obsession and it is even more poignant now due to the information age we live where we have 24 hour media, Youtube, social media and mini-cameras and phone cameras. This is a film that has many themes during the running time, focusing on obsession of death and pain, fear, the growing use of technology, the efforts of someone having in private life and how a serial killer would function, as well as some satire about the British film industry.It is always difficult to make a film focusing on a unlikeable character, but Powell and Boehm make it work due to the complexities of Mark's character. Mark was a man who was a victim of his father who tortured him as a child in the name of intelligential pursuit and this is a film that tries to be more grounded with its look at a serial killer he is not a man who seems to take pleasure from his actions and does it out of compulsion. He cannot even be away from his camera. This is also a film that shows a serial killer need to keep trophies. Yet at the same time Powell never justifies what Mark does.Peeping Tom is of course an important film due to its subject matter and its style, particularly the POV approach and it a compelling psychological-thriller/horror-thriller. It is classic it deserves to be and it shame that Powell did not get to it. "},{"Title":"Camera-blindness","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The film that effectively ended Michael Powell's career as a filmmaker, a dark, subversive, infamous thriller about a young camera man filming his murder spree. Curious how reviled it was at the time, considering that Psycho came out only three months later and only further cemented Hitchcock as the purveyor of darkest fears - but Hitch learned from Powell's failure and released the film without press screenings for the self-appointed moral guardians that condemned Powell's film.The outer story about the emotionally scarred young man replicating his childhood trauma is not terribly interesting; it's lurid, feverish, and eventually collapses upon itself in a heap of symbolic hysteria - and all this is equally well a part of the movie's indelible idiosynchracy. I can't gauge how much Powell invested of himself in this part, or whether or not he merely used as adequate material to graft upon it what essentially matters about the film. He did have a reputation as cruel man on set, so perhaps he envisioned himself as this man. As part of the Archers he was after all responsible for the camera, the lights, the choreography, all of this guarantees a film that is tightly constructed, elegant with colors and motions.What actually matters here though, why it has endured the way it has among cinephiles, is the essay on cinema. Hitchcock himself repeatedly danced around this, the obsession with seeing and being seen - more pertinently in Rear Window and Vertigo - and DePalma borrowed from both.The idea is that the man grew up in a movie, his father constantly filming him (he was looking to study fear and this is what the son growing up is replicating, the search for the perfect closeup of fear). Of course by pointing a camera, by staging actions, he was essentially altering, shaping, contorting the nascent life - its own comment on the ineffability of film to capture a pure, true reality.For his dayjob, he's doing grunt work as a focus puller on a dumb studio film. His job is to measure distances, to pull image into focus and clarity. The knowledge from this he pours into his own personal project, where he's looking to recapture that clarity of vision that was robbed from him at childhood. So by casting himself in his father's shoes he forcibly directs his own film about emotional pains. It is all connected by people seeing, yet failing to.- the policemen who fail to see the suspect in their own midst, even when he's hiding right above them or they point flashlights at him.- the psychoanalyst who instead of seeing the man's plea for help, is only looking to get his father's manuscripts.- the girl who the man bares his soul to in their first encounter, is slightly perturbed, but goes on to court him because 'he has a quality'. She even petitions his help on a book she is writing about a 'magic camera' that allows grownups to see their inner child. Precisely the thing he showed her in their first meeting.Of course the only one who can see through to the wrecked soul is the blind mother. It's not merely symbolic conjecture that only she can see; by not seeing, by not being dazzled by the cinematic artifice everyone else is embroiled in, she can have a direct experience of the human person.Another disquieting comment on the effects of a replicated reality; the man is building all of this into a movie, filming bits here and there, but when the girl takes away this crutch, the camera he's always carrying around, he feels liberated. Now he can live in actual life, instead of the self-perpetuating fantasy.Of course we're shown early in the film how people, perfectly decent family men, will covertly seek out the lurid content he shoots, who'd pay to live that fantasy. But would they similarly seek out the more gruesome stuff that he keeps for himself? Of course they would, it's the film we have paid to see.So for all intents and purposes, and this is what is most subversive about the film, more keenly that it was made by a man who lived an entire life in movies and so knows from the inside, it's a film that fervently denounces the powers of cinema; the lens cannot offer us a true reflection, a constructive view of life, Powell posits, but like the final image offered the victims moments before their death, only a distortion of the pained soul. More erudite films have been made since - and well before - about the blurred boundaries reality and fiction. But this remains one of the most feverish, hopeless, pathetic visions of delusion. "},{"Title":"Where is the line which voyeurism crosses over","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Really excellent film with lots of pace. Really seems to address the issues of where the line between acceptable recording of life and voyeurism falls. The scene with the prostitute is particularly strong with overtones of Jack the ripper. Other scenes where the camera is used are also very strong. Found the visit to his room surprisingly tense and felt the relationship between them was brilliant. Watched Rear Window again shortly after watching this and felt that surprisingly (or not) Hitchcock was also addressing the same question but in a much safer, sanitised way. He even has his main character, another photographer, raise some of the questions as he uses his binoculars. It is easy to see why Powell fell from grace though difficult to understand why he wasn't more careful. "},{"Title":"A story out of anguish","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I missed this the first time round .... probably too young at the time for its rating. I sought it out with interest after reading its screenwriter, Leo Marks' autobiography ('Between Silk and Cyanide', written in 1998) on his (brilliant) WW2 years as head cryptographer (at the tender ages of 20 to 25!) of the coding department at Britain's SOE (special operations executive), the group which sent the agents into German-occupied Europe (to, as Churchill put it, 'set Europe ablaze'). Marks' father ran the famous 2nd hand bookshop at 84 Charing Cross Road, the subject of Helen Hanff's book.Marks' book is a real gut wrencher, as he gives the final briefing to people, knowing they are going to certain death. Its an eye-opener in its rendition of the inside story of SOE. He talks of his friendships with some of the great heroes of our time (Violet Szabo, of 'Carve Her Name with Pride' - Marks wrote the famous code-key poem featured in the movie; Yeo-Thomas, 'the White Rabbit'; 'Odette'; 'Madeleine'; Nancy Wake), a large number of whom died in Europe, either killed in action, tortured to death or murdered in concentration camps, some the subject of Nazi 'medical experiments'. It has an underlying wry humour (no doubt what kept Leo sane) together with moments in which he pours out the agony or his soul. And his exhaustion as the war closes is palpable.I think all this explains how he dredged up a character like Mark Lewis in 'Peeping Tom' ...... Lewis is all that is evil, and some of what is good, in us all ....... including Marks himself (note Leo Marks .... Mark Lewis).The film is pretty tame by 2004 standards but would have been very shocking in 1960 - as critics' reviews at the time clearly showed ...... eg, one said of it, ' ... the sickest and filthiest film I ever remember seeing'. Another..... 'From its slumbering, mildly salacious beginning to its appallingly masochistic and depraved climax, it is wholly evil'. Heavy stuff! Yes and it all but destroyed Michael Powell's career as a director. "},{"Title":"Good start, bad finish","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film starts off really well. Bohm, as the psychopathic killer is brilliantly suited to the role with his mad staring eyes, mysterious demeanour and German accent.  Unfortunately his performance becomes less menacing as the film goes on and by the end you almost feel sorry for him as the net of police closes in. During the meal with the girl he even appears totally normal. Supporting characters are foppish - especially the herbert who lives downstairs. The plain Anna Massey's acting is wooden and very 1950's 'BBC announcer'. These days the same woman would probably go straight to the police if there was a single man with a large photographic studio attached to his flat accusing him of being a pervert.I love the bright colours (I believe this was deliberate) and the London scenes, but hated the soundtrack.  "},{"Title":"Worth a look","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you watch this as a horror movie (and the version I saw was labelled 'Terror Vision The Crypt Collection'!) you are probably going to be sorely disappointed. This is not The Texas Chainsaw Massacre here. However if you treat it as a psychological study of a severely damaged human being you'll get a lot more out of it. Well written and directed for its time, it's a pity that this movie hasn't found a wider audience. Well worth a look (pun intended). "}{"Title":"Maybe the best British movie ever!","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In retrospect it´s hard to understand why Powell´s seminal film on film and voyeurism met with so much hostility and hatred at the time of its release. Thus becoming the perfect showcase for the exception to the rule that directing a masterpiece helps your career. While Hitchcock showed us the pleasures of watching in Rear Window (1954), Powell deals with the terrors of watching. Therefore the latter is a more unpleasant experience but a more rewarding one intellectually. If you don´t like to be intrigued intellectually in cinemas, Peeping Tom comes across as a competent horror film/thriller also, which adds to its excellence. Luckily we don´t know how many fantastic films Powell would have made afterwards, if his critics would have been more perceptive - one could get just mad at them! "},{"Title":"Intriguing, but flawed, film","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film has several large flaws the mis-casting of Boehm as a British landowner; Boehm's melodramatic acting; the goofiness of several of the supposedly chilling scenes; and the overlength of several dialogue scenes.For all these serious flaws, though, the film manages to stand up to the test of time.  The screenwriting is incredible (how Leo Marks came up with a character like Mark Lewis before _Psycho_ or _Frenzy_ or even _sex, lies, and videotape_ is beyond me), and several of the scenes are downright chilling.  The integral post-modernism of the film's concept is advanced as well levels of surveillance and self-reflection are explored in depth, without blatancy or irony.  Overall, even for some laugh-out-loud-campy moments, I think the film succeeds, even to the modern psycho-thriller devotee. "},{"Title":"Great directing","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Great film. Excellently directed and a very good performance by Carl Boehm. A must see. Coppola must have watched this film a lot before he made The Conversation. (It's Michael Powell in the role of Marks father ) "},{"Title":"Scared the Living Crap Out a me!","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well this was one of those films I read about in multiple film reference books and even saw a rather good review for it on Amazon.com..My friend let me borrow a copy of his on video tape. He also warned me that the sound track was muffled and very hard to understand.He's right. I had to sit very close to my TV. Don't know if the upcoming DVD release is better quality but the video is Junk. I should be able to hear what characters are saying to move the plot along because unfortunately the plot moves along at a snail pace without any dialogue to take in.Aside from the quality of the film on VHS this film is sleep inducing art house trash. Some people may call this movie a psychological thriller. I would like to assert that calling this movie a psychological thriller would be like calling Debbie Does Dallas a sex film or Star Wars a science fiction film. Without any special effects or gratuitous violence, they create an environment of fear like I've rarely seen in movies. It seems a little bit as if Carl Boehm as this beautiful young man trapped in a horrific state sort of precedes Mia Farrow's role in Rosemary's Baby (although this one induces much more fear).So just watch Peeping Tom and you'll see what a horror movie can really be. And it just might save your life. "},{"Title":"Great style and spicy story have to stand up against some thin absurdity","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Peeping Tom (1960)The reputation this odd Michael Powell film has for ingenuity and a slightly edgy, not quite avant-garde flair is borne out right from the start. But as a convincing or scary psycho- thriller it will strike anyone familiar with Hitchcock before Powell, Polanski at the same time, and Kubrick, Shyamalan, or even Lynch more recently, that this is dull potatoes. It's not a bad film, not by any means, and I'll go so far as to say the best of this movie is as good as any-- any--movie of this type. The flashback scenes are so cold and cruel they are disturbing, but in a superbly suggestive and restrained way. If only the vehicle for them (the rest of the film) made the whole journey equally amazing.The jazzy jazz (film score jazz), the bright colors (everyone seems to have red hair), and the layered filming (lots of cameramen--behind and in front of the camera) all make for a perky film. It has a sensational twist the rules the movie, and this requires a real suspension of disbelief because psychology is never so simple, thankfully. The women (the victims are all women) are weirdly powerless to fight back, especially given the attacker's bizarre approach. And the final revelation of the mirror only makes it more absurd--as if this would ever be possible. And all those tape recorders ready to play their mournful wails all at once? Come on, Mr. Powell. Is this a farce?Maybe it is! That's worth some thought. But taken more normally, it's all surface effect, and some good secondary acting (all those British bit parts).In fact, I like the lead actress a lot, Anna Massey, because she is very real indeed, and not quite the dull starlet of many films of this period (she reappears in a much later Hitchcock film with a more believable and more frightening murderer, Frenzy). The lead man, the bad guy, is Karlheinz Bohm, a bizarre choice, more a pretty type than a great actor, but he serves as a good post-Nazi German we can love to hate for external reasons. I'm not sure where his Germanic speaking style comes from, since his dad appears to be very British. The direction? Crisp, modern, affected, artsy, fun. There's no flaw with the overall look, really--the flaw is with the story, the writing, and the way the director leads us through the events. Powell is a legend among British filmmakers, and his partnership with Pressburger is special, for sure. And many of their films are thoughtful and touching, though sometimes a bit artful for an American taste more inclined to the lush excess of Sirk or Kubrick or the general high standards of late studio stuff from Wilder or, yes, Hitchcock. Peeping Tom is Powell on his own, and maybe it's no coincidence that he once worked under Hitchcock. Maybe this is his inner psychokiller coming out--the main character is a cinematographer, after all. But then, it can't be. It's too shallow and silly a depiction.This film has its fans for good reason--it is a kind of pre-Blue Velvet trip, depending on its violent weirdness more than real savvy or originality. Me, personally--I need more depth or breadth, somehow. Or even just more of the best of what is here. "},{"Title":"Oh dear!","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I dunno if I'm missing something but I thought that this was dire. Everything sucked from the distractingly loud and random piano soundtrack (that sounded like someone had had an epileptic attack in front of a keyboard) to the over the top hammy acting. I 'll admit that everything was also absolutely hilarious in an unintentional way but I was dissapointed because I'd always heard that this was a masterpiece.But I do respect that it was one of the first serial killer movies and that deserves respect because it doesn't deserve respect for any other reason! I couldn't watch all of it not because it wasn't enjoyable (It was just so damn funny without meaning to be!) but because I was worried I could be doing something more interesting and worthwhile-like nothing!!.The plot essentially was a developing relationship between a wierd photographer who does a bit of snuff tape making in his spare time and a very overfriendly girl and it was just odd and bad at the same time.Part of the problem lay in the fact that Mark was just so obviously a raging fruit loop that you questioned why anyone had anything to do with him. It was laughably implausible that he meets the girl after she invites him to her party seconds after catching him peeping at her through the window!!! I mean I personally would think that peeping toms aren't the ideal party guests and I certainly wouldn't then go and sit in his room with him completly alone but that's just me and I haven't taken a course in the logic of this movie.Would recomend it because the acting is so hammy that it's worth a laugh but for the love of God don't watch all of it!!!  "},{"Title":"great for its time but has dated","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I consider the film to be merely good.  Many of the mechanics have dated , with some clumsy use of dialogue, dated characterisation and hokey scenes.  In particular the main killer lacks believability in this modern urban setting and is a bit one dimensional.  Its hard to believe that this is an individual who feels the unbearable urge to kill upon seeing fear in someones face(as depicted in the last scene) or who merely kills just to capture the look of fear on someones face (surely a good thespian will suffice?).  In any case suspend your belief and you find a good film thats well acted, especially by the Boehm, and well directed.  This is the first film by Powell I have seen , and I hope to see many more.  While not as creatively or technically adept behind the camera as Hitch for e.g., the film is directed well and works, in that it creates a morbid, grimy air of uneasiness - uncommon for a piece of this period.  Your average cinema-goer of today should have no problems with it though.I do need to see the film again though, as every film 'needs' repeated viewing 'to connect'.  It is certainly more adult orientated than any other film released at the time, but for better examples of the genre see 'Psycho' (of course), or the astonishing 'Night of the Hunter' by Charles Laughton.  Peeping Tom is deserved viewing nonetheless. 3/5 "},{"Title":"It might be the finest serial killer ever.","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nowadays,the serial killer genre has become part of the movie landscape.With notable exceptions ,like silence of the lambs,it has not improved that much.Peeping Tomcontains the seeds of almost everything that will be developed after in that kind of thriller.First shockthe main actor is a good-looking guy,he was Francis Joseph in the Sissi  saga (in AmericaForever,my love) ,a mushy historical soap opera.So the public (especially the European one where Sissi is an all-time blockbuster)) could hardly stand their handsome emperor turned into some kind of psychotic monster;hence the relative commercial failure of the movie which became a sleeper,retaining a large cult among cinema enthusiasts. THis character is a cousin of that of Peter Lorre in Fritz Lang 's masterpiece M.Both are mentally hill,both are enduring appalling sufferings,both can't help but killing.The neighbor's birthday is a very significant sceneour hero would like to join the party,and the smile on Boehm's face when he's given a slice of cake is not contrived. Peeping Tom's murders are horrible,and filmed with a virtuosity to rival the best of Hitchcock,but who's responsible?The flashbacks,concerning the hero's relations with his father are almost unbearablehow can a dad treat his son like that?how can a young man leave a normal life after such a sadistic education?But ,we hear,why did the father behave like that?Maybe,in his childhood ,himself was... We've got to stop wondering why,and praise Powell's mastery of the cinematographic art. "},{"Title":"Jeepers! Creepers! Where'd You Get Those Peepers?","Date":"20 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lights! Camera! Action!... Roll 'Em!As the story goes - One of Britain's most proficient and well-respected film-makers of the 1950s, Michael Powell, was all but ruined as a director after the critics, like a pack of hungry wolves, literally lambasted him following the release of 1960's Peeping Tom.And after I patiently sat through this decidedly weak, predictable and uninspired character study of a screwy and forgettable serial killer, I could certainly see why the critics (54 years ago) cried foul! against Powell.From where I was sitting, Peeping Tom certainly didn't live up, at all, to its ominous-sounding title, nor (when it came to its reputation) did it fulfil my expectations as being an above-average slasher flick.If you ask me, Peeping Tom amounted to being a whole lot of nothing. The silly romantic angle in the story stank, big-time. And the scenes that were clearly intended to generate terror were, in the long run, the most laughable of all.One of Peeping Tom's biggest let-downs was actor Carl Boehm's disappointing portrayal of Mark Lewis, the film's psychotic title character.Boehm presented Lewis as such a nervous, effeminate, one-dimensional wall-flower that, before long, it became impossible for me to really believe that such a nothing-person as this could ever be capable of such brutally cruel and murderous crimes.With all of the sick & twisted serial killer movies that have since followed in Peeping Tom's footsteps over these past 54 years, it's hard for me to imagine that anyone could honestly get a genuine thrill of satisfaction out of watching this listless, out-of-date, thumb-twiddling dud. "},{"Title":"Snuff Movie","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those movies that have attained cult status and taken on Sacred Cow status so that anything less than a rave is unacceptable. What can I tell you. I've just caught up with it - 2008 - and find it very ho hum indeed. The premise isn't that bad but the lead character does not seem psychologically sound - one minute he is cold bloodedly killing a prostitute the next embarking on a chaste love affair - and raises questions about almost everything he does; would he, for example, kill a stand-in in the actual sound stage where he himself is part of the crew and stuff her body in a 'prop' trunk that would sooner or later be moved - if only when they struck the set. Further, would he, knowing that he was being watched by a plain-clothes policeman, kill the model he worked with regularly and leave her body to be discovered by his 'employer' the proprietor of the tobacconists' shop with a sideline in soft porn. Well made, sure; well acted, sure, but a masterpiece? Gimme a break. "}{"Title":"So-So","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a great movie. Be warned there is a lot of hype here. This film is very tame and should have never been controversial. Well, OK its themes aren't tame but the movie is. Carl Boehm is very good. The story however is very obvious and makes the film seem like more of an exercise in film than storytelling. Also while ground breaking for its time perhaps its ideas are very cliche now. It is very reminiscent of much of Hitchcock's work and it's almost hard to believe he did not direct this film actually. It's a solid film though, well crafted, well acted and it touches on some interesting ideas but not that deeply. Far from great but solid. "},{"Title":"I'm sure I'm being a nuisance.....","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ....says Anna Massey halfway through the film, and she's not wrong - with that ever so posh hot-potato-in-mouth affected English accent, you just wish you could slap her aerodynamic face and send her off to audition for other, better films. Thank god people don't speak like that anymore. It's not the poor girl's fault, though - anyone who puts this rubbish in the same brackets with Psycho must be as blind as her whiskey gulping mother downstairs. With his bawdy lips and perfectly parted hair, Boehm looks more like someone loitering in public toilets than a serial killer with a soul whom we're supposed to feel for (this apparently being the spin regarding the serial killer issue, cause, you see, Boehm's character suffered childhood abuse by his scientist father who was obviously a nutter). So it's not Boehm's fault either. At one point, when his character seems fascinated by one of the girls' disfigured face, you almost think, in disbelief, that the film is about to go down the path of The Spiral Staircase - another lukewarm horror/thriller which at least has some redeeming qualities. Well, mercifully it doesn't go that way, but that's hardly a plus - this is as horrific as a meowing cat and as thrilling as a wind in the toilet bowl. The piano solo score sounds like it was composed by the least talented student in Ravel's class, the one taken on board out of sheer pity. I haven't seen any of Michael Powell's preceding, apparently acclaimed films - nor have I any desire to do so after viewing this spineless lemonade. No small wonder everyone hated it - not because it's a misunderstood masterpiece ahead of its time, but because it's utterly and terminally bad, equally as bad today as it was in 1960. True, the first two or three minutes of the film seem vaguely promising - but then every film is good at the beginning, it's how it carries on that counts. Hitchcock must have laughed out aloud - if indeed he ever wasted time viewing this - and in his hands this film might actually have worked, subject to him agreeing to direct such an awful, awful script. View if you're particularly compelled to - there's a cute little portable reel to reel tape recorder to be seen next to Moira Shearer, earning the two stars given - otherwise steer well clear. "},{"Title":"pooping time","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is credited with covering similar ground, and being of comparable merit as Psycho, before Hitchcocks movie. But the pacing sucks and the script covers the same points over and over. The make-up is shoddy. The performances are low-rent. The cinematography is obscenely garish. There is a limit to who can be an anti-hero. Identifying with Mark is nearly impossible - groups and sub-cultures the world over have devised codes of common identity, but also methods of exclusion; all of whom would line up to exclude Mark. Mark seems to have slightly slimy skin, glassy eyes, creepy plasticine lips. Whatever conceits are credited to this movie, the lead is just comprehensively icky; to look at, to examine, but mostly to be asked to identify with, and the performance that Powell got out of him is unsubtle. But Mark has been given nothing to do for the whole movie.Powell's big problem is that he's made the type of movie most likely to be championed by skittish weirdos who actually are sadistic voyeurs, harboring their own twisted secrets; that or the type who credit average efforts with superlative qualities. Anna Massey as chirpy Suzie Wholesome, a variety found only in British films, is off-the-charts irritating. Conceived as the films Manichean anti-Mark, she traipses through this like a sexless, earnest Alice in wonderland; as in Oh Mark, I'm ever so keen to view your snuff films. She's a complete nuisance and performs at about the level of a high school play. The effect is grotesque. "},{"Title":"Once reviled now a bit overrated","Date":"7 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I first came across this film 30 years ago after reading the entry for it in Danny Peary's book on Cult Films and, as I was a great fan of a couple of the Powell and Pressburger I was curious to see it- Peary was very enthusiastic and the cult has grown since then and it is now very highly rated.I think the ending is terrific- disturbing, creepy and poignant rather than scary and definitely worth waiting for.But the rest of the film is a bit sluggish and some of the acting is a bit ropey with Carl Boehm being neither sinister nor sympathetic enough though Maxine Audley and Anna Massey are superb and Shirley Ann Field looks nice as always. There are interesting subtexts about sexuality, voyeursim, cinema itself and (possibly) post war British attitudes to Germans in this film and 55 years on the surface subject is still quite shocking but this is not, I think, a great film. It has an eerie score, some good bits but it is nothing more than 'worth catching' as opposed to the masterpiece it is now considered to be. "},{"Title":"Voyuerism","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Camera operator Mark Lewis (Karlheinz Böhm), a victim of a troubled childhood, peers on the world through the eyes of his hand-held camera. Absorbed by death and fear he enters into a deadly game to produce a 'documentary' (as he calls it), where he intends to capture the face of death. His first victim is a prostitute, who he follows into her apartment, only to murder through the watchful eye of the camera. Mark's obsession becomes confronted by his neighbour Helen (Anna Massey), his sweet-natured neighbour, who opens up her heart to the much troubled man.This breakthrough British thriller film is most renowned for being the end to director Michael Powell, as the controversial subject matter was harshly received by critics. Through the years it did garner a cult status and can definitely by considered a movie way ahead of its time, albeit that time has passed, leaving a somewhat outdated shell of a movie, lacking in acting and directorial pizazz. Story lines also seem dated as the killer's traumatic motivation seem somewhat questionable Unlike Italian giallo cinema with layers of style holding the test of time (despite wooden acting and tired scripts) Peeping Tom comes off as historically significant, but severely lacking from the perspective of a modern-day viewer. Boehm's portrayal stills carries some weight, but Massey and the trio of murdered women come off forced and false, as screams of terror as staged to irksome exaggeration (albeit in accordance with acting in the era).There are some interesting plot elements within, as movies are portrayed as harbingers of death and fear. Fear punctuated by watching yourself die, while death itself is brought about by the camera. Nonetheless the concept itself is just used as a tool for the thriller, not as a intellectual commentary, hence offering a suggestion for expansion on the theme (possibly a remake), but otherwise not relevant for modern cinema. "},{"Title":"Man With A Movie Camera","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" That first four minutes, with its surrealistic visuals, eerie music, and minimal dialogue, is terrific. Once the viewer sees the killer's face, the film loses its mystery, my main motive for watching Peeping Tom.Still, the film has its merits, mostly in the form of clever cinematography, spooky sound effects and music. In the cavernous hall where Viv (lovely Moira Shearer) does her jazz dance, a bright light flashes suddenly in her face, followed by a delay, then another bright light, then repeated, suggesting some hidden menace. Echoes in the same sequence and elsewhere add to the suspense. The pounding piano score likewise contributes a sense of fear. So while the film may be devoid of mystery, through its non-script elements it does contain some suspense.Yet, despite that, Peeping Tom, for me, is far from being the masterpiece so described by its fans. The main problem is the script. The central character, Mark Lewis (Karl Bohm), is so bland and outwardly neutral he's boring. The child psychology back-story muddles the plot. Too much dialogue dilutes suspense. Some scenes are unnecessary or too prolonged. And the deep themes, related to voyeurism, fear, and movie-making, though significant, are confusing and convoluted.In addition, the garish colors set an inappropriate tone for a psychological thriller. B&W would have been more effective. Casting of Karl Bohm may have been a mistake, as his subtly fey manner contradicts the character of Mark. Actress Anna Massey, who plays Helen, annoyingly chirps and tweets her way through the plot as Mark's shockingly naïve girlfriend.There is no humor at all in this film, which takes itself very, very seriously. Its multidimensional cerebral subtext thus conveys the impression that it was meant for an intellectual audience. Though the suspense helps offset some of the film's weaknesses, I find Peeping Tom just a tad pretentious. "},{"Title":"Not a nail-biter","Date":"27 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Did anybody else notice that Lewis has a distinctly German twang in his accent? Unless that is supposed to add to the mystery it makes the character even more implausible, since according to the script he grew up in the house where he is the landlord (the old creepy landlord shtick). The acting throughout is stilted and mannered, not foreboding or menacing as the director probably thought he was achieving, so the viewer eventually wants to say Pleeze, get on with it, alright?The plot is creative enough but the twists and turns make you dizzy. Because of the weak script and story line the police have to be inept beyond imagining, which they obligingly are, relieving the viewer of any concern that they might catch up with the killer before he carries out his final act, so we are just along for the ride. The skin was probably a come-on in the '60s but in the second decade of the 21st century it is simply quaint, fair enough. But overall it means this second-rate thriller does not really measure up, and no. 78 on the list of greatest British films is more than generous.The old Bell & Howell 16mm camera is really cool. It would have been great if it had been anywhere near that easy to feed the film through a projector, though. Nobody ever had the equipment to process even B&W movie film at home the way Lewis does, either, but the plot requires it, since he would hardly have been able to take it to the drugstore, considering the subject matter. Not to beat a dead horse too much, even if he had been able to process reversal/transparency film at home it would have had to be in total darkness, not under the spooky safelights. Pretty contrived, huh? It's all about willing suspension of disbelief, don't you know. "},{"Title":"A troubling and unique film","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Peeping Tom is the film that famously destroyed celebrated film-maker Michael Powell's career. Released in the same year as that other groundbreaking film about a serial killer, Psycho, the critical and commercial fates of these two movies could not really be further apart. Psycho went on to achieve huge commercial success and was soon regarded &#x96; rightfully &#x96; as a classic of the medium. Peeping Tom on the other hand was reviled by the critics and died a death, only being revived in the 70's. The reasons for this are not especially hard to understand with the benefit of hindsight. Where Psycho worked quite brilliantly as a horror-thriller par excellence, Peeping Tom is a complex work that asks us to empathize with its central killer. There's no mystery and much of the focus is on the psychology of a troubled man, and it's also an examination on the nature of thriller cinema, i.e. the pleasure in looking at depictions of fear. The critics of the day were appalled that Powell would depict a serial killer in a sympathetic light and were disgusted in the sleazy undercurrents and probably in the complex questions the film asked its audience. Peeping Tom was clearly a film too far ahead of it's time for its own good.As with Powell films in general there is a great use of colour. So despite its very dark subject matter, this is a beautiful looking film. You do have to wonder if it had been shot in black and white would it have generated quite as much revulsion? At the time thrillers were almost always in B&W, perhaps this too threw audiences at the time as well as the idea of killer as victim. But also, unlike Psycho, there is no sense of typical closure in Peeping Tom. The serial killer is clearly a psychologically disturbed man who was tortured by his father as a boy so his demise at the end has a certain tragic element to it as opposed to the more traditional death of the evil monster that was the norm. Essentially Peeping Tom is far from an ordinary film on a number of levels. It stands apart from the films of it's time, under-appreciated and reviled. Of course it has since achieved a great deal of respect but even today it seems like quite an odd film in the way it is about a serial killer, yet doesn't really focus on thriller set-pieces. It's a true one off. "},{"Title":"Spoilt not by being weird but by some terrible acting.","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When Peeping Tom was released in 1960 the critics panned this film so much that it destroyed the career of Director Michael Powell. Years later it has attracted a cult following and has been re-evaluated and is considered a masterpiece. I'm not sure why? I can see how people back in 1960 were shocked about the content of this film ( it's tame compared to today's standards). Nothing as psychologically chilling had ever been released at the times but that does not make this good film. I struggled through this. The story is different , without being remarkable and the acting it nothing short of appalling. It's because of this that i cant rate this highly at all. Lead actor, Carl Boehm is weird enough to suit the role ( god knows why he's German) but the rest of the cast are so wooden they could have been a part of the scenery. Anna Massey ( Helen) is terrible and she speaks her lines as if she's reading from a board. I suppose i sit in between the critics of 1960 and the people who call this a classic. Peeping Tom is not the film that the professional film critics rave about "},{"Title":"Am I alone?","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Am I alone in generally disliking Powell and Pressburger's movies? (and yes I know Peeping Tom did not include Pressburger's input) I just find them peculiarly uninvolving and a little clinical. They have their moments certainly, but I always feel cheated by the end. I watched Peeping Tom expecting something really good, given the lauding of it by the likes of Scorsese et al. However I found it sterile and boring for the most part. It was interesting to see the techniques Powell used to tell the story- it was ahead of it's time in that respect. The subject matter broke new ground and to make the audience sympathise with the serial killer was unusual for the time. I could not really recommend this movie to anyone for an entertaining film experience - I think it's probably more for film studies students interested in the progression of techniques and stylistic anoraks. "}{"Title":"Influential But Over-Rated","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Peeping Tom Michael Powell's British shocker about a creepy photographer/serial killer and his depraved approach to art, this the result of an abusive childhood, is disappointingly mild in approach and style. Despite the ravings of Coppola and Scorsese, it's a seriously underwhelming classic with only a few scenes of suspense, long stretches of dialogue, and most of the victim's performances so stilted and unlikeable, you don't necessarily disapprove of Carl Boehm knocking off the various tarts and actresses. Another question why are all these women, both moral and immoral, so drawn to Boehm's barely transparent neuroses? Knowing the U.K.'s penchant for creating nasty thrillers with moments of atrocity and controversy, it's hard to fathom the movie being banned and shunned by the masses back in 1960. Boehm as the killer is easily the best part, and the man literally moves, lisps, trembles and (of course) murders like some specie of worm. An unforgettable performance in a not so unforgettable thriller, despite all the hype. Still, it can't be denied that Michael Mann's sleek Manhunter and practically EVERY billionth movie about serial killers to follow--most of them unwelcome and diluted trash--owe a monumental debt to Powell's exploration of the mind of a killer. It definitely surpasses anything Hitchcock was doing at the time. "},{"Title":"Don't you know it's rude to stare!","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A young man whose scientist father used him, as a test subject in discovering how fear effects the human mind when he was a child, but from that he has become something more horrifying. He might have inspirations of being a budding filmmaker, but now his working as a focus puller for a film studio. Seems normal you say but from this distressing childhood that has scarred him, he has grown up to become an obsessed murderer who lusts after stunning woman. During his murderous acts he likes to film the fear on their faces while they die and after that he goes straight home and adds it to his growing movie collection.The place where I usually pick up my videos from I came across 'Peeping Tom', every time I went into the shop there it was, but I really didn't have any desire to see it and I didn't think that it would be going anywhere in a hurry. But all that changed after coming across more and more promising reviews, so I decided to pick it up for its dirt-cheap price to see what the fuss is all about. And actually I was more than surprised with the results, though I don't hold it up that high like others do, but still it's worthy of any horror collection.Obviously I wouldn't put it passed it being highly controversial in its heyday. You could call it a trend setter actually because I don't think the audience back then would've seen anything quite like this or know what to expect. It's incredibly nasty and sordid in its depiction of the context and shocks. Although, dated now but you can see the many influences for future projects. Director Michael Powell's accomplished but yet imposing direction stages such subtle cruelty of a psychological kind that rifts along with an intense performance by Carl Boehm. Simply it's a sublime performance by Boehm with his shyness, softly spoken voice, but it was his cold stare that had such a piercing effect. He is perfect in showing that of a fearful mind and how it all translates into obsession that he has trouble fighting these temptations. The well diverse plot is laced out with a creepy undertone that knows how to put you off balance, but also provides us with a terrifying look at fear and when temptations take hold that it's no easy task to overcome. Also presented with such discomfort are the attacks on unknowingly victims. The violence is hardly graphic, but more suggestive, which really did sneak up on you. The heart pounding score, which puts in a powerful showing, also contributed this. The cinematography was more than adequate with some inventive sparks on show. It held pretty intrusive detail as if he sees his own life behind the camera and that being in some POV shots. The tight editing also helps shaped the film too. The screenplay comes up with a seedy premise and good character development along the way. The rest of the performances were so-so although Maxine Audley short role as the blind Mrs. Stephens added a bit of bite and offbeat humour. One of my downers would be that at times it kind of felt empty and shallow. Also it was predictable when you knew something bad is going to happen, its just your waiting for it to occur, but at least the score sustained the tension until it happened. So basically this novelty thriller is a look inside the head of a disturbed fella, which will get the skin crawling.A revealing and innovative British thriller where the terror eventuates from the lead performance, strong score, precise direction and the power of suggestion. "},{"Title":"Love it or hate it, I personally can't deny how ahead of its time Peeping Tom is","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Peeping Tom is a perfect example of a movie that was both revered and reviled on release. But it has garnered a more successful reputation as time has gone by, which I am happy about that because it is a very interesting film. It was very ahead of its time, introducing new ideas and some scenes that are quite shocking, which seemingly was what angered those who reviled it at the time.Peeping Tom is bold, intelligent and above all memorable. It does have some slow, talky stretches and while shocking and suspenseful the opening sequence did give too much away too soon. But.. for a movie that apparently destroyed Powell's career, it is a brilliantly made movie with innovative camera work especially and an appropriately jazzy and haunting score.Peeping Tom also has fine direction from Powell, a bold intriguing story that benefits particularly from a genuinely unnerving atmosphere and intelligent dialogue. The acting is believable and sympathetic, some underplay but I feel that was the intention. Karlheinz Bohm especially is very effective in the titular role.Overall, ahead of its time and very good. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Peeping Tom is So So","Date":"27 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Was rather disappointed in this film which deals mainly with a very sick man named Mark Lewis, (Karlheinz Bohm) who was treated horribly by his father who took pictures and film of his son on a constant basis through out his entire life. The abuse by his father caused him to become a mental case in his dealing with women who he killed for the thrill of seeing fear on their faces before they are killed. This situation goes on and on, with film being taken and one girl after another is killed until he meets a young girl, Vivian, (Maria Shearer)who lives in his house where he is the landlord and rented out rooms in order to maintain his home. Mark loved to watch and film young couples making love and he also took pictures of girls naked as a part time hobby. Mark also worked in a film studio and came in contact with many more beautiful girls. The ending you will never be able to figure out. "},{"Title":"The morbid urge to gaze.","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ~Spoiler~Peeping Tom is a movie ahead of its time. Made in 1960, it's often unjustly compared to Psycho. The two could almost be companion pieces. But let me be honest and say Psycho is without a doubt the better film (see, I even just compared them). Michael Powell's film follows Mark Lewis, a scoptophile who never leaves home without his trusty camera by his side. But just looking is not enough. He begins a killing spree where he records his victims' final moments. The voyeuristic nature of the film is fantastic. We're watching a movie in which the killer is watching his victims as they, in turn, are watching themselves die. Mark is such a tormented and dark character, yet, I almost wanted him to find a cure and continue his relationship with Helen. He's a bit like Frankenstein's Monster. He's not evil by nature, his childhood environment is responsible for many of his actions. Nonetheless, his actions are still unforgivable and the ending of the film is very fitting. I don't want to spoil it, but fans of classy, psychological horror should definitely take a peep at this film. "},{"Title":"Why it was banned","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Sure, it lacks the blood and gore requisite for a teen-scream slasher. But it instead deals with issues of voyeurism and sexuality that were completely taboo coming out of the fifties. Plain and simply, the film was banned because the subject matter was at the time considered unspeakable and pornographic. It was a clear-cut case of unwarranted censorship, but that's just the way things go.That aside, it's a decent flick. As a piece of cinematic history it's a must-see for any horror or classic buff, but odds are you won't be clinging to the edge of your seat. No, it doesn't compare to Psycho, but who ever said a film has to rival Hitchcock in order to be good? In fact, many of the best never even come close. "},{"Title":"Fear is the key","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After a lifetime of lavish but eccentric movies, Michael Powell seemingly ventures into slasher territory with this 1960 movie. However once you finish seeing it, chances are you will dump it as one more of dad's generation's Things were so much better in my time ... legacy & tell him how much serial killing techniques has moved on since then. But again, you might be one of those who are interested in the slasher's psyche/ a film maker's 'existential dilemmas' / a director's journey into darkness & light. If you are one of those film historian types, you will lap up every one of the 80-odd minutes Powell finally succeeded in pitting on screen.Carl Boehm, as normal as they come except for dark shadows in his eyes & a propensity to drive a stake thru the heart of beautiful women, is a focus puller. At night he emerges out of the anonymity of his studio life & films his own movie. As he explains to a sweet little girl next door, the type who don't know what's good for them but still manage to live in the end, he wants to know about fear. (This part reminds me of the 'Asterix & the Normans' comic book) All this is a result of some guinea pigging by Carl's father (the Director in a cameo - is there a message here?) when Carl was but a wee boy. Now why does Carl have to prey upon women for his 'experiments'? Is it because they scare easier, they are more used to looking at themselves, & usually do not fight back? A segment where Moira Shearer as a soon-to-be-butchered extra pirouetting in front of Carl will remind Powell fans of the same Shearer doing the same routine in front of a obsessed ballet director Anton Walbrook in 'The Red Shoes' two decades earlier. So what's the difference in the 2 sequences - Shearer ends up with blood all over her thanks to these demanding men in front of her!Anyway, behind the blood & scares - which anyway are not too convincing for today's post-Se7en generation - Powell gives a very honest, & hence disturbing, view of the process of film making. Is it a voyeuristic examination of naked emotions behind the comfort of a camera? Is it a 'projection' more psychological (the auteur's inner self onto the protagonists on screen) than mechanical (the projector machine)? Watch Powell watch Boehm watch innocent women die & find out. "},{"Title":"Just to kill you isn't enough for him. Classic British horror.","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Peeping Tom starts in the backstreet's of London where a man named Mark Lewis (Karlheinz Bohm as Carl Boehm) approaches a prostitute named Dora (Brenda Bruce) who charges two quid for her services (damn those were the days, that's as cheap as chips! In todays England that's my bus fare to & from work everyday!), secretly filming everything that happens Dora shows Mark up to her flat where as she begins to strip Mark kills her... Mark is a shy repressed young man who works as a cameraman on films & in his spare time makes a little bit of extra cash on the side taking still photographs of scantily clad models. Mark lives in a big house in which he rents some of the rooms out, one particular tenant downstairs named Helen Stephens (Anna Massey) takes a shine to Mark & becomes emotionally involved with him trying to understand & help him. However since Mark is a serial killer who constantly looks at his 'snuff' films in his darkened room the relationship is bound to end in tears especially when an actress named Vivian (Moira Shearer) who was working on the same film as Mark is found brutally murdered & Scotland Yard's finest begin to suspect Mark...This British film was produced & directed by Michael Powell & was so slated by critics at the time of release (apparently a critic named Derek Hill from The Tribune said The only really satisfactory way to dispose of the film would be to shovel it up & flush it down the nearest sewer, ouch! A bit on the harsh side Derek...) it more or less ended his career, at least in England. I am simply unaware of what a 1960's audience would have made of Peeping Tom only being in my 20's myself but I would have imagined that this was pretty revolutionary stuff the likes of which had never been seen before with themes like prostitution, porn shoots, brutal murder, the filming of it & being replayed for personal gratification, child abuse & all perpetrated by seemingly normal people. The script by Leo Marks is pretty chilling stuff at times & works extremely well, even today almost half a century after it was made. The character's are well developed & keep Peeping Tom watchable considering that it could quite easily be described as a slow film, it is a slow film but one that you will enjoy & find interesting. The film works very well if your prepared to put the effort in & be patient it should reward you. With a budget of about £135,000 which seems quite a lot considering when it was made, Peeping Tom is simple but well made & has a certain grit, bleakness & reality about it so don't expect any CGI, flashy camera angles or ultra quick editing. The violence is restrained & there is no blood whatsoever until the final 5 minutes but the violence in Peeping Tom has impact unlike many films. The acting is top-notch which is one of the films great strengths & makes it so captivating. Peeping Tom is an important film for various reasons & while these films are hyped up beyond belief & are usually disappointing which Peeping Tom is no exception from if I'm honest. Having said that it's still a great film & I recommend it, although strangely I'm not quite sure to whom. Definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Decent film, bad casting","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" To be sure, 'Peeping Tom' has some very good ideas in it--so good, in fact, that I'm amazed that Hollywood, in it's zeal to put every form of serial killer and their acts on the screen two or three times over, hasn't done an update of the film. Powell was clearly influenced by Hitchcock's themes (someone actually discusses scopophilia--here pronounced 'scoptophilia'--in 'Peeping Tom' instead of simply depicting it) and style. Unfortunately, the overall production is just not up to the task. The plot is a little too heavy-handed and literal at times, the characters somewhat cartoonish, and the pacing leaden.Really, the biggest flaw with the film is the casting of Carl Boehm in the roll of Mark. Looking somewhat like the offspring of Joseph Cotton and Peter Lorre in one of 'Late Night with Conan O'Brien's 'If They Mated' routines, Boehm plays crazy all right. That the problem, though That's *all* he does. At no point did I believe that Mark is capable of holding down not one but two jobs. Perhaps the British standards of creeping out your fellow employees is different from ours here in the States, but the first time Mark locked eyes on me while mumbling in that high, lispy, vaguely accented voice of his, I'd be on the phone with Human Resources like that.What makes Norman Bates such a compelling character is that he does have the ability to function in society from time to time. He can be charming, friendly, and even funny when he wants to be. Mark, however, is incapable of any of these qualities. His timidity is so pronounced that it's hard to believe he could ever screw up the courage to actually kill someone because that would require human interaction. And the idea that anyone--even someone as apparently oblivious as or with the appallingly low standards of Helen--could actually fall in love with someone Mark is hard to accept. Marion definitely sympathizes with Norman, but it is a pitying sort of sympathy. She senses there's something not quite right about Norman, and because of that at no point can she ever feel a romantic attraction toward him. Norman is irreversibly deranged and without hope. 'Peeping Tom,' on the other hand, seems to suggest that Mark *can* lead a normal life and perhaps even have a girlfriend if he just stops his habit of killing women. "},{"Title":"He's got a fetish for fear...","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Popular British filmmaker Michael Powell hit the proverbial wall with this serial murderer yarn, which turned his own country against him, crippling his career. It's a dreary fetish film, handsomely-made but ridiculous in conception and execution. Carl Boehm is horribly fey and (intentionally) creepy as a movie-camera technician/cheesecake photographer who, taking a cue from his twisted father, is fascinated with recording human fear on film; he entraps women and murders them, his movie-camera always at the ready. There's a nosy young woman who lives downstairs who has taken a liking to him, but will she cure him or be his next victim? The picture does looks great, as only a Michael Powell movie will, but the leading psychopath has no interesting dimensions--he's just a sniveling weakling; we get background information on him, but no insights. Nice to see Moira Shearer again (she, the ballerina from Powell's 1948 classic The Red Shoes), and the film's only pleasurable moment is when she does a jazzy dance. Fetish films are always going to be uncomfortable or disturbing, but this picture is pervasively demented, not chilling; worse, the colorful production throws off the tone, making the narrative seem lively when it should be more somber. Powell overdirects the actors, and has Boehm doing a Peter Lorre, but forgets to make the characters human or real; his strongest suit is surreality, but that doesn't work for Powell here because the scenario doesn't call for it, so the characters just seem foolishly hyped-up (except for the girl's blind mother, who has some taut moments). Now a cult film, Peeping Tom went unseen for years but has since drawn comparisons to Hitchcock. *1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"Little Mister Obsessive","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, I have found out about Peeping Tom in 2011's Scream 4, and I'm not ashamed in confessing that. As the movie began, I got to think there would be one of those suspenseful whodunit thrillers-- I'm so naive--, but fortunately, it wasn't the case. From the get go we know who is the killer... we just don't know why or how he does that. There aren't lots of remarkable moments; actually, the only scene that really caught my attention was the one in which the old woman almost ASKED to be murdered, saying a lot of irritating things to Lewis. That scene felt good because the actress was professional, otherwise there wouldn't be such nice atmosphere anyways. In my opinion, Peeping Tom has a good premise that could have walked in a much better way; the script is just too raw to develop something interesting. Anyways, I'm giving it six starts due to the originality of it, but I can't even say that it's a movie that I enjoyed watching. "},{"Title":"The Most Frightening Thing On Earth Is Fright.","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one perplexing film, almost as odd as Anna Massey's, the heroine's, face. Her features -- eyes, nose, lips, chin, neck -- seem to have been plucked at random from some genetic hat and flung together by the creator and, happily, came out right, almost by accident. Half the time I couldn't tell whether a scene was aimless or held some deeper, clinical significance that was lost on a dullard like me.The bare bones of the story are plain enough. Handsome, introverted, young Karlheinz Böhm works as some kind of focus puller in the British movie industry. He occupies the top floor of a rooming house and the largest room is dark and filled with mysterious cinematographic junk, like one of those chambers in a horror movie.Due do his child abuse, he loves to see women being frightened and then he kills them with a sharp spike on the end of one of the feet of his tripod, filming their faces all the time. He doesn't do it very often but when he does, she switches his persona from his usual reticent, shambling self, to a cockeyed maniac.Is there hope for him? I mean, we really DO want him to get caught or at least stop committing these little sins because he's pathetic. He sounds like Peter Lorre. For a few moment, in the middle of the film, yes, there seems to be a way out of his obsession. Anna Massey, a winsome young lady of twenty one, talks him into a date and more or less forces him to leave his movie camera and tripod behind. He's surprised to find he's enjoyed himself and promises himself never to kill her -- unless he sees her frightened.As the lunatic, Böhm is bland. Anna Massey is far more interesting. When she speaks, it seems that only her lips are moving while the rest of her face remains at rest. (That really IS worth making a movie about.) Moira Shearer has a small role as one of the first victims. She's given some clunky choreography except that she gets to bust one or two ballet moves that I think are called kick fans. She's quite a dancer. She's the only woman I've ever seen who can be en pointe sitting down.Nobody else is of much importance except Massey's blind mother, Maxine Audley, who makes up for the challenge to her sight by being practically clairvoyant. The police are no more than drones.It's not hard to understand why Böhm is more comfortable with cameras than with people. Conversing with other people is an extremely complicated business. It's only because we do it so often that it seems routine. But it's not. We have to manage our body language, our facial expressions, our utterances, our inflections, and the distance we keep between ourselves and the other. We don't notice these commonplace decisions except in people who make the wrong ones, as schizophrenics do.But those careful and precise judgments don't need to be made when a camera or a computer or radio can act as a transducer, shielding us from the judgment of others. We're safe behind that baffle. You doubt? Ever have stage fright? Well extreme introverts like Böhm have people fright.But, in the end, I don't know what to make of this movie. It's a mistake to read too much into a thing. It's like looking at a random assortment of stars in the sky and connecting them in such a way that you wind up with the outline of a bull or, for the Chinese, a rat. The prominent director may have led some viewers to make that error, but I'll have it some points for its meanderings being the result of deliberation; for the rest, felix culpa. "},{"Title":"'Peeping Tom' has undeservedly become a critics' darling","Date":"30 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Peeping Tom follows Mark Lewis, an introverted voyeur living in his late father's large London property. To help make ends meet, Mark lets part of the house out; one of his tenants being Helen Stephens, a sweet young woman who befriends him out of pity. Throughout the film Mark struggles to conceal his voyeuristic habit from her.Mark Lewis is not just a peeping tom, however, he's a murderer who records his crimes for warped posterity. Despite this, the backlash that Peeping Tom faced in 1960 seems rather amazing today. Clearly, the film is going to date, it's 52 years old, but so is Psycho, which covers similar ground but in a more graphic manner.In a screening of the Hitchcock classic at my local independent cinema, I was surprised by the genuine anxiety I felt during the half-hour or so before the shower scene. This is the film's defining moment; it is a classic example of a director battering his audience with what they believe is explicit violence when in fact he has shown very little. Michael Powell makes no such illusions in this film - he shows very little, period. For example, in this scene, Mark approaches one of his victims with a blade attached to his camera, and just before the blade makes contact, the woman falls out of frame, shrilly screaming Mark!.Most modern audiences will agree that this just doesn't cut it anymore. This scene depicts the creation of a snuff film, but it doesn't feel like it, does it? Mark shares common ground with people like Leonard Lake and Charles Ng, the sordid serial killer partnership whose recordings make for deeply, deeply disturbing viewing. Peeping Tom should feel like a descent into one man's world of degeneracy, a twisted existence that's punctuated by lapses into frenzied sexual violence and eroticised death. This can be done without tasteless exploitation, the most germane example I can think of is Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer (1986). Powell should be commended for approaching these darkest of themes, but today, his work just doesn't hold up. To think this film was given an '18' certificate as recently as 2001 is nothing short of baffling. The BBFC have since given the film a 15 certificate, but I think a 12 rating is more appropriate.The lack of visceral edge is exacerbated by poor acting from almost the entire cast. Performances both wooden and overacted drag you further out of the film; it becomes an even bigger problem than its dated violence. However, thanks to Carl Boehm's generally competent performance, Mark Lewis is the only interesting and somewhat credible character, but even Boehm is guilty of being badly stilted in places.The only thing that's noteworthy about this film is its historical audacity. This film was addressing themes that didn't become mainstream until the 70s, the New Hollywood era of rapidly changing opinions on sex and violence. If it had been released 15 years later and not championed by Martin Scorsese and various critics, it may well have faded into obscurity.50% "},{"Title":"Why was it banned?","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Peeping tom after its re-release a year ago after it was banned. I was expecting it to be a frightening portrayal but instead there was no blood,no suspense or no thrills.What I did enjoy was the performances.There was a very good story among the killer and the characters that revolve around him.The killer grows a taste for filming his victims as he kills them.Peeping tom was a very good movie,I just don't see why it was banned.Psycho was alot more worse for blood (take the shower scene for example) and it got a lower certifecate.I would say Peeping tom was definitly worth the watch,but don't be expecting too much gore if you're a horror fan. I rate 4/5. "},{"Title":"Not the masterpiece I heard it was but not bad either","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cameraman Mark Lewis (Carl Boehm) works at a film studio and does nude photos of women on the side. He also kills women--he stabs them in the throat with a knife while filming their dying reactions. It seems he does this because his father (Michael Powell) emotionally abused him as a child. Then he meets and starts to fall in love with neighbor Helen Stephens (Anne Massey) but can he control his urges to kill her? This film was considered a disgusting piece of trash back in 1960. It single handedly destroyed director Michael Powell's career. It was withdrawn from circulation almost immediately. It didn't show up in America until two years later with about 15 minutes cut out! It wasn't shown or restored until 1980 when director Martin Scorsese started an interest in director Powell. In 1980 it was considered a masterpiece. It's not THAT good but it's not that bad either.I didn't see it until 1986 on video. I wasn't impressed--I was bored and couldn't figure out what the big deal was. I now realize that the film couldn't possibly live up to the hype about it. Seeing it now (in 2005) with all the furor about it long gone, I like it a lot more. I wasn't bored this time around. It's easy to see why this shocked people in 1960--there's nothing really explicit about it but the horrible experiments a doctor performs on his own son (he filmed them) and basic theme was way too strong--it was years ahead of its time. Today it's not quite as shocking and the blatantly obvious sexual symbolism (shown again and again) seems kind of silly. But, for its time, it was strong stuff. I think so many people today find it boring because they were expecting a strong, explicit horror film which this isn't (with the exception of one none of the killings are shown).The acting helps--Carl Boehm (a German actor) ALMOST covers his accent (it slips through a few times) but delivers a very good, well-done performance--you can really see how his abuse as a child makes him do what he does. Massey is young and pretty good as Helen. She sometimes underplays the role a bit but most of the time she's right on target (especially at the end). Also Maxine Audley throws in a strong performance as her mother. Beautifully directed by Powell too.So it is worth seeing--just don't expect something really shocking--you'll be disappointed. It's good that Powell lived to see this film get the acclaim it deserved (he died in 1990). One thing--this is NOT for children. It will either bore them or shock them. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the hype.","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't think Peeping Tom was all that great.  It was maybe a decent B-movie but it is rather dated.  In its time it may have been a shocker but now I found it hard not to fast forward through some of the maudlin scenes. It is way overrated but may have some interest for film students. "},{"Title":"The Spike, the Eye","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I am writing a book about films about films. After that, I'd like to do one on redheads in film (and how they season our notions of sex roles). This film will feature prominently in both; it is a very important event. Too bad it is not good or effective.The self-reference is plain at the first level it is a film about the film community, a (documentary) film about the making of a documentary. But it goes deeper the reason for the filmmaker's obsession was because he was filmed himself; the reason for the victim's fear is that they saw themselves being filmed. Film as death. Pictures as sex. The camera as both self-revealer, sexual penetrator and weapon. Even the setup in the film-within has doubling the standin is the one targeted. The girlfriend is a writer. The filmmaker is a `focus-puller' which is a matter of determining what layer is clear.So what's wrong? The primary problem is that filmmaker needs to be extraordinarily intelligent. Kubrick can and has done this. Soderbergh maybe. Tarkovsky surely. Powell just isn't up to it. But there are deeper problems that keep this from greatness.The business about Freud. He is used as token for the way the world of the mind works. In fact, Freud was more a compelling storyteller than a scientist. His theories had more to do with `making sense' in narrative than with developing new laws. Using a storyteller as the clockmaker for the story you are telling would have been a newly sweet and deep level of the self-reference, but Powell seems to have taken Freud quite seriously. Might have worked 40 years ago. Surely doesn't now.But there is another problem. The British acting tradition is one of stepping into the character and representing the direct elements needed to move the story along. There's none of this North American conceit of `becoming' the character and giving both the character and the actor's `interpretation' of the character. That means that American actors have the basic capability to play multiple levels (usually irony) and British actors do not. It really hurts here, and my own opinion is that this attempt was what `blacklisted' Powell after this film. He was messing with a self-interested tradition that simply squashed him.The redhead thing really interests me. Obviously, there's something going on here the actress and her standin; the girlfriend and her mother; the scarred model and the photographer himself are all redheads. My own theory is that redheads play roles that are more knowing than blonds and particularly so in just this type of cinematic self-reference. It surely holds here. I can't quite reconcile that with Massey's ridiculous chirp in reading the lines and have to suppose (from Babs in `Frenzy') that it is just an artifact of some quaint British convention. Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Reflective & Reflexive&#x85;Beautiful Show but Disturbing","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Infamous Cult Movie that Destroyed the Career of one of Britain's beloved Directors, Michael Powell. The Film was too much In Your Face and Disturbing for Film Critics of the Era and when Powell turned the Mirror on the Movie Watchers and it Showed Themselves Watching, They were Not Amused. In Fact, They were Angry and unleashed Their Uneasiness, with the whole Thing, right back on the Director and He Never Recovered.It was all a bunch of Self-Important, Feigned Outrage, with a Holier-Than-Thou attitude and Everyone, Fearing of being Seen as some kind of Closet Pervert, jumped on the bandwagon of Discontent and the Movie was severely Edited, Pulled from release, shown in America with many Minutes Cut and was virtually Unseen Intact until the Seventies.Since then the Movie has been Dissected, Deconstructed, and the Delayed Reaction in Retrospect has Reinstated it as a Lost Masterpiece. Much has been said, and said Loudly. Yes, it was Ahead of its Time, Masterfully Filmed with Garish Colors, and is still Disturbing Today with its odd Tone and the Film has a tendency to make Voyeurs out of its Viewers. Movie Audiences generally Know that They are Participants in Looking in on what is Happening On Screen, but this Film makes it an Uncomfortable self Realization of Guilt. It's Deep in its Abnormal Psychology and is Lurid, Creepy, and Unsettling. Mark (Karl Bohem) is a Victim of His Father's Scientific studies, as He was Filmed in Childhood by His note taking Father, Abusing His Child and making Him into an unwilling Lab Rat. A Scientist throws a lizard on the bed of a sleeping boy, and good is going to come of it., says Moria Shearer as Mark's Neighbor and Girlfriend, as She Watches in Horror, those Home Movies. That pretty much is the Message of the Movie. Because what We are Watching is what did come of it. Overall, this is a Must See for Film Historians, Horror Buffs, and Anyone Interested in the Impact of Film on Critics and Audiences that Ultimately says much More About Them then the Film Itself. This is a Reflection of a Reflection like a Film Feedback Loop that endlessly Repeats and Folds in on Itself to Reveal something Buried Beneath the Surface. What's down there can be an Uncomfortable Image that might be worth Making a Movie About. "},{"Title":"A film badly affected by the censorship of the time.","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film suffers because it bashes up against censorship which chokes of the power of the films darker moments. It is not helped out either, by the script which is rather plodding and clunky. It is sad that this film was made in 1960, where the restrictions on what can or can not be shown reduce the impact of important scenes. When the scenes relating to nudity are none existent, and there is a lack of gore, then it does lose a creepiness which would have made for a more disturbing atmosphere. If a film about a peeping Tom can not explicitly show what he is looking at, then you end up with a much tamer film than the plot demands. For the early sixties this film would genuinely push the limits of what was acceptable, but its failure to show more explicit scenes reduces the film, to a rather po-faced and not very scary horror. This film is unlikely therefore to disturb a more modern day audience, used to sex, violence and nudity. If the script was a lot better, then perhaps you would not need the above aspects to help give the film edge. You may find that the edge of the film is also lacking, because of the stultifying middle class nature of the characters. The script is subtle as brick to the head, although there are some witty moments. The old man in the newsagents, surreptitiously wanting dirty photographs is actually pretty funny, but unfortunately there is little of that humour through out the rest of the film. The peeping Tom character himself is cold, but not in a horror chilling way, just in a bland, rather empty, so what sort of way. There is the germ of an interesting story here, and a modern day version might have played up more on the salacious voyeurism of media in comparison to that of the peeping tom. It would also have probably been far darker and actually rather ironically more sympathetic to the plight of the victims. By the end of the film you don't care about the death of the peeping Tom, which with the characters tragic back-story you should be expected to do,at least so to some degree.This film is probably influential despite its flaws. There maybe echoes of the film's projection scenes in Taxi driver. For example Travis Bickle taking his date to a soft porn movie, when they have just met.There is also a slightly weird and similar atmosphere in the 70's film, the cat and the canary. The campiness towards the end of that film appears similar to the prevailing mood of peeping Tom. I also think the film Blow-up in 1966 is influenced by Peeping Tom, however Blow-up goes into territory that Peeping Tom can not do so, and you may find it more interesting film as a result.Although considered a cult classic Peeping Tom is a real disappointment. It just cannot get around the problems caused by heavy handed censorship. It's script is clumsy and the characters rather uninteresting, which does not help the film along in any significant way. I think it is worth watching the once, as it is considered an important cult film. I think you will probably find the film is a failure overall however. "},{"Title":"Poor Man's Psycho","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A disturbed young man not only kills women but also enjoys filming their reactions just before death. Released the same year as Psycho, the character here is as disturbed as Norman Bates but he's not nearly as interesting as the Hitchcock character. The praise heaped on this film is mainly due to Powell, the famed British director making one of his final films. If it weren't for Powell, this would likely have been dismissed as the cheap thriller that it is for the most part. The production values are sparse, although the use of color is notable. Bohm is appropriately creepy. Massey, who plays the love interest, would later appear in Hitchcock's Frenzy. "}{"Title":"Exceptionally disturbing BUT still very watchable and worth seeing for normal people","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In general, I am NOT a fan of suspense films involving sick and twisted people who are serial killers. Life just seems too short to me to spend my time watching these disturbing films. It's because of this that I avoided watching this film for so long. I knew it was about an evil man who loved filming himself killing young woman AND I knew the original version of the film had been banned since it was so controversial and disturbing--so I KNEW it was not for me. Then, for some odd reason, I watched just a bit of the film and found I was hooked. While it was a rather yucky topic, the film itself didn't seem overly sensationalistic or make me feel embarrassed or dirty for having watched it. Instead, it was a thought-provoking and exceptionally well-made film that, while NOT appropriate for the kids, is fine far for adults and even older teens to watch.The biggest stand-out of the film is the writing. The script is exceptionally well-crafted and intelligently written. You gain real insight into the killer plus the movie takes some genuinely surprising twists and turns. I really appreciate a movie that doesn't telegraph all its moves. Additionally, the direction is superb and it's a shame that the negative public outcry from this film helped to kill the director's career. And finally, I really liked the acting. Not having big name stars in the film might have been due to having a lower budget, but it also really helped to make the film seem more real. Apart from Moira Shearer (not a household name in America), the others were all small-time actors. In particular, Karlheinz Böhm (Karl Boehm) was great as the killer. His slight German accent and halting style was super-effective and very believable. Too bad he isn't that well-known--he really could act! Overall, I would recommend this film to most anyone except little kids and people who have no interest in crime films or psychological thrillers. The film is intense but tasteful and well-constructed,...as well as truly unique. In fact, for the type of film it was, I much prefer this film to Hitchcock's super famous film, PSYCHO. It was simply more believable and subtle. "},{"Title":"A new approach to photography","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Made about the same time as Psycho this film is no where near as absorbing. Both films have in common a central character who is a psychopath (the result of a strange parental upbringing).Mark Lewis (Karlheinz Bohm) is a shy, somewhat nondescript photographer, a loner who communicates with his camera and kills with a bayonet type leg fitted to his tripod. He seems to have a dislike for redheads whom he rapes with his erect tripod blade and photographs them as they scream for mercy. What a sick guy is this one! There is no question about who dunnit; there is no mystery or red herrings to confuse. There are no complicated side issues. Simply lure the girl to a secluded spot, a quick thrust and get a never-to-be-seen-before- horror movie of the tragic incident.Despite the savage mutilation there is no gore, no bloody bodies. The tension is built up solely through the expressions on the actors'faces. This is where the film breaks down. I don't think the actors were capable of maintaining the horrific atmosphere.I was not moved by this earliest of snuff movies. The whole presentation had a theatrical feel about it. The redheads annoyed me and showed little sense in attaching themselves to such a creep as Mark Lewis. "},{"Title":"Pee ON Tom!","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"17 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Boy, here's another good example of a film that national critics rave about, gets me enthused about watching it, and then turns out to be a complete bore and a waste of time.According to these famous critics, this movie was daring, wild, original, ahead of its time, on and on and on. You can add phenomenal, too. Sorry, it's nowhere near any of those adjectives, except perhaps original. It was mainly a long-winded bore.For those looking for a thriller, or those low enough to be curious because of the voyeuristic title, you'll be disappointed. All this masterpiece talk is ludicrous. This is junk with a no- name cast that isn't very good, poor photography and questionable material to begin with. You'll thank me for not wasting your time with this one, despite all the positive reviews. "},{"Title":"No Sympathy","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't care that this film came out almost a half a century ago. Psycho, though it came out at the same time, is incomparably more powerful. The performances in Peeping Tom are not just unconvincing--they're baffling. I felt like I was watching a bad version of The Blob during the murder scenes. And the structure of the film itself is just is bad. Given that the killer goes so far as to explicitly state the source of his madness and the motivation for his actions (and the force of the plot), you'd think we could skip some of the repeated and overwhelmingly blunt explanatory scenes. Maybe the time could have been used to motivate the attraction of young Ms. Stephens, or to make the character of old Ms. Stephens more than a bald-faced device. I really want to go on here because watching this film has been such a disgusting waste of a couple of hours that this review is the only catharsis I think I'm gonna get tonight. But really, what would be the point. The nonchalance of the police investigator, the aloofness of the analyst, the vacuousness of the actress, the pomposity of the director--let me just say to all those who rated this film highly with the apology that it's just 'aged badly'--these were clichés long before 1960. And what's more, the film is not lacking in shock value because of our jaded 2005 perspective. I still find the violence of Psycho to be involving, kinetic, and brutal, and the murder itself to have a real poignancy. As you see her defend her life, as you see her failing strength, as you look into her eye and realize that her lifeless face will remain flat against the bathroom floor for the rest of what seems like an eternity of a shot... I mean, you FEEL something. And, while Norman Bates may not be the deepest character in the history of cinema, at least he has an air of truth about him. How does one make a film in which the madman killer is EXPLICITLY AWARE of the exact cause of his alleged insanity, capable of explaining it as though he were giving a book report, and not feel a little ashamed. At the very least, this fact should be revealed at, I dunno, an important moment in the plot? A climax? Some kind of turning point? Not just arbitrarily before the film rambles on mercilessly. And seriously, if you're going to make a film strongly featuring a knife, USE IT WELL. The knife imagery in this film is.... it hurts just to think about. I mean, they film it as if to say, ah yes, the knife, quite important, you know? Got a good look? Yes, rather sharp. Must be careful, especially if you're crazy, isn't it? I hope you're feeling well tense by now. ... Okay, I've yelled enough. I feel better. Good luck. "},{"Title":"Peeping Tom","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" For many people this is one of the most disturbing and controversial thriller films that has ever been made, especially from director Michael Powell (co-director with Emmerich Pressburger of A Matter of Life and Death), and it is. This film is focusing on the theme of voyeurism, and it almost invented it, and also the phrase peeping tom, not for evil purposes I hope. Karlheinz Böhm Karlheinz Böhm (as Carl Boehm) plays photographer Mark Lewis, in this disturbing story about a man who likes to film people while committing murder. The voyeurism is obviously from his enjoyment of watching a victim before, during and after a murder he commits, but there is also the element of the victims watching themselves die with his camera mirror. It should be mentioned that it was Mark's father that made him the way he is, he did horrible filming experiments delving into fear, and sympathetic downstairs neighbour Helen Stephens (Anna Massey) sees the film to prove it. In the end, Mark gets his comeuppance when the police discover his deadly crimes, and he decides that he should film himself dying as well. Also starring Moira Shearer as Vivian, Maxine Audley as Mrs. Stephens, Esmond Knight as Arthur Baden, Bartlett Mullins as Mr. Peters - News Agent Shop Owner, Shirley Anne Field as Pauline Shields, Michael Goodliffe as Don Jarvis, Brenda Bruce as Dora, Martin Miller as Dr. Rosen, Pamela Green as Milly, Jack Watson as Chief Insp. Gregg and Powell himself as Mr. Lewis. Whereas Psycho used the voyeurism theme for a brief moment involving Anthony Perkins looking through a hole at Janet Leigh, this exploits that further, I have almost never been so freaked out by an old film before. This is up with all the great nut-case films, following future releases like Falling Down, Fatal Attraction, Misery and One Hour Photo, I can see why Powell's career went down the tubes after, it was just too freaky. It was number 85 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments. Very good! "},{"Title":"Pooping Tom This movie is what came out.","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Critics are amusing. Most of them are desperate middle-aged men with about as much personality as a dying animal. Because of these traits, it's obvious the kinds of films they will life and the kinds they won't. Anything with originality, anything that breaks the mold, anything with a punk edge is immediately labeled as trash. Anything with pretty moving pictures, anything with a hollow plot, anything with a cliché moral, anything with solid acting is immediately labeled as brilliant. They're also years behind the times. When a truly original movie is first released, they almost always trash it, then, half a lifetime later finally give it the credit it deserves. This cycle never breaks. If critics were politicians, their first priority would be how pretty America looks in the eyes of the world while ignoring the core issues. So when you see two middle-aged men come on TV and proclaim their critics, then further proclaim that Peeping Tom is an exciting, original, daring film, it's historically proved that there is a good chance they used to hate it. But if they were wrong then, what makes you think they are right now? Critics are a spineless paradox within a spineless paradox. I can't even take them seriously anymore. However, it seems that their influence is the reason Peeping Tom is so well-received by today's audiences. Here is why they're wrong. Again.Think about how many times have you've heard this plot A man is obsessed with studying a certain aspect of human psychology, thus he kills unsuspecting women to further his studies. He is psychologically unstable himself, and the story arcs into a person-vs.-self as he faces his own demons. Then, without spoiling anything, insert the most predictable/cliché solution to this problem at the generic climax. Suicide. Who would have guessed? I could list a lot of '40s novels that repeated that tired formula, as well as quite a few '50s movies. There is nothing, not a single thing, about Peeping Tom that is even a mildly original idea. Not only that, but even the execution of the film is a copy/paste rip-off of Hitchcock and some Italian directors such as Dario Argento. It's a generic serial killer movie, with some minor Giallo influence. Maybe this just sounds like pretentious film buff jargon, but what I mean to say is Peeping Tom is a generic serial killer movie with pseudo-originality. I give it some minor credit for not being as cliché as it could have been, but, really, who cares? If you've seen one movie like this, you've seen them all.The other glaring problem Peeping Tom has is the overt lack of any entertainment value whatsoever. The plot plays out predictably, and if you don't know everything that is going to happen after the first 5 minutes, I feel sorry for your lack of intelligence. The plot just chugs along with predictable plot point after predictable plot point, with absolutely nothing interesting happening whatsoever. There is even a hilarious love interest convention added in. It's reminiscent of the absurd romance between King Kong and Ann Darrow. The main difference is, here, the love subplot is just thrown in to move along the predictable plot to get to the predictable ending. Without the love subplot, there would be no reason for the killer to face his demons, and without that there would be no cliché storyline&#151;and how could we live without that? This eventually leads to the unintentional laugh-out-loud scene where the killer says, Don't look afraid! If you don't, I won't kill you! I'm sorry, but that has to be THE single most melodramatic line in cinema history. I don't care how pseudo-creative the idea of a man killing to examine fear is, it's absolutely stupid. I would call Peeping Tom a comedy if it weren't so painfully boring.And, my God, it's boring. The director simply could not think of a more boring way to flesh out this boring plot. Most of the screen time is devoted to a mild-mannered killer staring at his films with an oh-so-dramatic look on his face. The build up for kills almost always lasts close to 15 minutes of pure dead-time where the women do some of the stupidest things imaginable. One of them even dances. It was so embarrassingly stupid I could hardly even look at the screen. In another scene, police stand around and make bad jokes over a dead body until one of them melodramatically says, with pure '30s cheese flair, Let's not forget there's still a maniac on the loose! Really, could the logic in this movie possibly get more stupid? It acts as if every human being has the intelligence level of a cartoon character. And yet we complain Napoleon Dynamite is stupid, but this is fine cinema?Overall, Peeping Tom is a waste of your time. If serial killers entertain you, go watch an episode of CSI. You'll get the same exact plot as you get here, but with infinitely more entertainment value and intelligence. Either way, I really just would like to know how many times the serial killer plot can be repeated, rehashed, remade, repeated, repeated, repeated until people finally get sick of it. In other words Why did the chicken cross the road? To get to the other side.Did you laugh at that? I'm pretty sure you didn't. Why didn't you laugh at that? Because that joke has been repeated so many times it lost all humorous value to us. It's been repeated so many times, a lot of us don't even understand how it's a joke anymore. Peeping Tom is no different. By the year 1960, people had heard the plot so many times they didn't care anymore. By 2009, I don't even know why this movie is still even known, while much more original and intelligent movies are tossed aside as trash.0/10 "},{"Title":"Hitchcock Rip-off","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film was released the same year as Psycho and is very similar to Rear Window. This guy was just ripping off Hitchcock's ideas. There is even a cameo of a Hichcock look alike. What a cheap shot. If this movie is such a masterpiece why was it scrapped for decades? Lots of bad movies are revered as cult classics. This film was forgotten because it is terrible. The lead character is supposed to be English but he has a German accent. The plot is unengaging. Powell repeatedly uses the same shots. Like the nude shots of the pin up girls in the tobacco shop. His other movies like Black Narcissus and the Red Shoes can't be compared to this one. I think he was past his prime, he had to copycat Hitchcock's work, and he was washed up anyway. "},{"Title":"Goof in opening sequence (just like Hallowe'en)","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The biggest goof of the film is the manner in which the first murder is filmed. When Mark Lewis hides the camera under his coat and then switches it on, the camera is at chest height. But when we cut to the point of view of the camera, it is evidently at head height. A similar gaff marks the opening sequence in Hallowe'en when Michael Myers runs amok with the kitchen knife; he is a six year old boy but the camera's height (his p.o.v.) is that of an adult. That is all that I need to say about the film in terms of goofs. And what I am typing now is merely an attempt to fill out the required 10 lines to fix the problem. I know it is necessary (personally I can not figure it out but it isn't my website so I shan't complain) so I will dully oblige by your request. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is the worst ever, perhaps the story is good and i imagine that's what it's lauded for, but the direction is awful, playing on horribly trite metaphors over and over again (as a character kills himself a quick zoom to a film projector as it runs out of film ooooh! how awful!) Furthermore, the acting is absolutely ridiculous, i could not imagine worse acting if i tried.  This movie is similar in badness to the version of Jack the ripper with Klausinski in it.  The english Psycho? FAR FROM IT! "}]