[{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn - The It Girl of the 60s","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"180 out of 255 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've loved Breakfast at Tiffany's since I was nine. Even before I completely understood about Holly's profession, I was captivated by the grace and magic that was Audrey Hepburn.George Peppard plays Paul Varjak, a writer who has to earn his living through a wealthy socialite, Patricia Neal, as her kept man. Audrey, who plays Holly Golightly, is a gold-digging call girl, who is looking for the right rich man to marry. Though you would think these two would be unflattering characters, they are both very charming and put on phony personas (especially in Holly's case) in order to survive.You have to marvel at how a woman like Audrey could look so good in anything she wore. At the beginning of the movie when she first meets Peppard, she's only wearing a simple white shirt that she wears as a nightgown or at the party scene when she first comes out and greets her friend O.J. Berman wearing nothing but a sheet made up to look like a dress! Gorgeous!It's a marvelous piece of acting when Holly first meets Paul in her apartment, and she's talking about how she has to get ready to meet one of her clients in jail, Sally Tomato, and she's talking about her profession, looking at herself in the mirror, getting dressed, asking Paul to find one of her shoes, etc., and then, voila! the famous basic black dress and hat with the wide brim. Very stylish - and in the scene she is given much to work with, the way she has to juggle the dialogue and the action of what she is doing all at once. Very natural and sophisticated at the same time.Audrey is very believable as Holly because her character is someone who is pretending to be sophisticated, hanging around with phony people, but really comes from humble beginnings. Once in a while you will hear in her voice the country-girl drawl, and you will see through the facade of Holly Golightly who she really is. George Peppard is also very handsome and believable as the starving writer who also has to sell himself out in order to earn a living.Many complaints have been made about Mickey Rooney and the stereotypical portrayal of the landlord Mr. Yunioshi. Yes, it is stereotyped, but nonetheless, I still thought it was funny. The party scene is one of the best in the movie - hilarious! Wonderful score by Henry Mancini. Of course it's a classic scene when Holly pulls up in front of Tiffany's in the New York taxi, drinking coffee and eating a danish in front of the window. New York City itself is like a vibrant, interesting character in the movie. I could go on and on.And to top it all off, it's a very romantic love story about two people who find happiness in the crazy, mixed-up world we live in. A classic. Recommended to anyone who loves old Hollywood cinema. "},{"Title":"Fluffy, if a bit empty, but delicious breakfast.","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"139 out of 197 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An army of fans consider this Hepburn's signature role and in many ways it is, even if she overcame miscasting to portray it. Based on a rather biting novella by Truman Capote, he (somewhat surprisingly) wanted Marilyn Monroe to play the role. The casting of Hepburn couldn't be more different, yet she made it her own and in the process created an icon that is every bit as lasting as Marilyn's skirt-over-the-subway-grate or Bette Davis's off-the-shoulder, chain-smoking Margo Channing. She plays an offbeat, effortlessly sophisticated party girl in New York City who subsists on the favors of various rich men. Though her livelihood couldn't be more tasteless, somehow Hepburn's presence adds a sheen of innocence and sweetness to it. When blocked writer Peppard moves in upstairs (kept by married socialite Neal), the two find themselves developing a friendship which eventually begins to turn into love. But since they are both people who use their bodies to earn their keep and are heavily dependent on others, the chances of their relationship lasting are slim at best. To read the above synopsis, one would expect a gritty, vulgar film. However, in director Blake Edwards' hands and with Hepburn floating around in exquisite Givenchy gowns, the movie is a candy box of color, style, humor and romance.Even when she's hungover or just getting home from an all-nighter (as in the famous opening scene), Hepburn strikes a graceful and glamorous figure. In fact, it's when she's trying to act disoriented or disheveled that her performance is at it's weakest. It's as if she was so inherently stylish that she had to try (too) hard to present anything else! She does a very fine job with the role, even if the character's past is nothing short of preposterous. Peppard comes off as blandly attractive, but wooden. His arrogance regarding his role (fiercely protecting the traditional leading man image) not only undercut his own performance, but also slighted that of Neal's who was diminished as a result. However, sentimental filmgoers probably prefer his more heroic approach and Neal would certainly recoup her losses, earning an Oscar a short time later for Hud. The most controversial aspect of the film is Rooney's portrayal of an Asian man who lives above Hepburn and who is awakened at all hours by her lifestyle. Whether or not one is offended by the over-the-top stereotype of the buck teeth and slant eyes, the role is not funny anyway! It's all way too forced and obvious, with his pratfalls in sight long before they occur. (A lamp exists RIGHT over his bed for the express purpose of giving him something to hit his head on continuously. Move it, already!) There are many memorable moments in the film including a sequence of Hepburn and Peppard doing things they've never done before, Hepburn sitting on the fire escape plaintively singing the Oscar-winning song Moon River (which is used throughout the film by master composer Henry Mancini) and wacky party scene (a prelude to Edwards' The Party?) in which all sorts of outre things take place including the cry Timber! when a tipsy guest begins to collapse. There's a surprising frankness, for the time, regarding Peppard and Neal's relationship. It seems to be one of the earliest Hollywood films in which the leading man is implied to be nude under the covers in his bed. The film is not without its flaws. Some of the dialogue is annoyingly indulgent and the storyline is fairly patchy (with a tacked on ending.) Still, with the sparkling presence of Hepburn (in some mind-blowing hats and costumes) and the slick work of Edwards, it is easy entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Audrey's a Delight","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"107 out of 157 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Breakfast at Tiffany's preserves an idyllic time and place in the American psyche, New York City between WWII and The Great Society. A time when being hip and urbane were accessible (and desirable) to the middle-class.The film's the two romantic protagonists are Holly Golightly, played wonderfully by Audrey Hepburn, and Paul Varjak, played by George Peppard in an understated performance that well complements Hepburn's. Holly is an aspiring socialite and party-girl looking for a wealthy sugar daddy. Paul is an aspiring writer and kept-man of a wealthy older woman. Neither is happy, but both go through the motions in a swirl of Manhattan parties and parings.Everything falls nicely into place in this romantic-comedy; directing, musical score, acting, and screenplay. Filmed on location in New York this is a beautiful, captivating movie, that has not only aged well, but is a time machine to a wonderful place that probably really never existed except in our imagination.  "},{"Title":"More than just a romantic-comedy, Breakfast is a real love story","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"45 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The main reason I like Breakfast at Tiffany's so much is because I think it is one of those rare romantic comedies that actually transcends the genre and becomes a genuine love story. I have a theory that most love stories that get made aren't really about love. They're either about romance or lust. I don't think that many people in Hollywood (or society in general today) even know what real deep, meaningful love really is. Breakfast at Tiffany's, on the other hand, is one of the most beautiful real love stories ever told.*SPOILERS* Tiffany's is basically about a woman who is incapable of loving. She considers herself a free spirit a wild thing, an independent, adventurous woman who lives for the moment. She is also a bit of a social outcast because her profession is essentially that of a call girl. Whether or not she actually sleeps with all of these men (or just some of them) who pay her is unclear, but she definitely uses them. She is not a woman of high moral character and despite her constant up attitude and optimistic outlook, she is really quite lonely. It's all a reflection of how she really feels about herself I think. It's almost as if she needs to keep trying new things and distracting herself from the truth, because if she were to actually take a moment to stop and look at herself, she would be confronted with how unimpressive and ordinary she really is. She would also have to face the fact that she is not really that stylish. She is an actor playing a part. Holly Golightly isn't even her real name. As I said, she is incapable of loving others because she doesn't really even love herself. She feels she is unlovable. Her self-perception is really quite low and that's why she concocts these huge, elaborate fantasies about being elegant, classy and witty. When I first saw the film, I was so impressed by the charm and beauty of Audrey Hepburn that I instantly fell in love with her. The more I watch the movie, the more I realize how utterly sad and pathetic (yet still likable) her character really is. As Marty Balsam says in the film She's a phony, but she's a real phony. Paul Varjak, the character played by George Peppard (pre A-TEAM days of course) is in a similar situation. He is also playing a role and has a lousy self-image. He wants to write but has had such a hard time at it that he has resigned himself to taking money from a married, rich woman, who considers him to be her good time on the side, for his living. Paul and Holly start out as simple neighbors, later become friends and eventually fall in love which ends up scaring the pepper out of Holly. She's okay flirting with someone but as soon as she crosses that line over into falling for someone, she becomes afraid and runs away. She sees love as a cage, something that stifles people and sucks the life out of them. She needs help. She needs someone to love her and she needs to be able to love them back. This man is the perfect one for her because he needs her just as much as she needs him. They can help each other. They can lift each other up. By themselves they are nothing but together they are complete. They are two miserable people who can find happiness in one another. I like movies about redemption. Stories about otherwise lowly people who are raised to the heights of happiness through love (without it seeming forced or sentimental) are exceptionally rare but when they do show up they tend to appeal to me (that's the reason why I like the story to Sabrina so much too). I will never EVER forget that last scene in Breakfast at Tiffany's where Holly is finally confronted with the painful truth that despite all her attempts to deny herself, to hide from her own ordinariness, nothing about her has really changed. As Paul says No matter where you go, you just keep running into yourself. She admits that she is lonely and unhappy. She goes back for the cat that she set free moments earlier upon realizing that she was coming dangerously close to owning him. In going back for the cat she is really going back for herself. She sees herself as the cat and, in fact, there is frequent imagery throughout the film that connects them (Holly wearing the cat mask that she steals from the shop, Nine Lives being the name of the book that Paul wrote, etc.). She didn't want to give him a name because she didn't want him to belong to her, she would consider that caging the animal. So she called him simply cat, but over time Cat ended up becoming his actual name. In reclaiming the cat she is sort of reclaiming her own life. For a few moments it looks like Cat may be gone forever, but when she hears the soft meow and pulls him out of a cardboard box, she is elated. She is the happiest woman on earth. Like the cat, she was lost but now is found. She embraces the cat and kisses her love, Paul, as they stand in the rain. The music swells (Gotta love that Moon River song) and the screen fades to black. It is, in my opinion, one of the greatest endings of any movie ever. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"83 out of 134 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What can you say about Truman Capote's masterpiece? It is brilliant!! Hepburn is wonderful as a young woman who is on the verge of insanity, but unknowingly to most around her. She is confused and lost in the world, and she meets Paul, both having sex with the wrong people, both confused about who they are and where they are in the world... they aretwo drifters. Holly is a character that remains classic, and Hepburn played her brilliantly!! I love this movie, it will make you believe in love, and what girl doesn't truly love Tiffany's? Moon River is also a truly beautiful song that expresses the mood throughout the movie. It also has a few surprises, and is witty and charming. "},{"Title":"Good. Very good.","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"42 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A lot has been said about this film, so I won't repeat too much of it. I just thought the following points stood out for me as wonderful-The telephone Holly keeps in a suitcase so she won't hear it. Holly. Ahhhh... Holly. Like some kind of female opposite of James Bond (stick with me here), men all want her, women all want to be her. We need to see *more* eccentric women in leading roles, as opposed to the dull boring stodge of overpaid 'sex symbols' like Julia Roberts or Nicole Kidman who can be pretty or serious but never interesting.-George Peppard in his finest role, and brilliant it is too. It's a real shock to my generation that has been more accustomed to seeing him tragically underused on trash like the A-Team. It made me want to see more of his early films, and wonder what happened in the intervening years (alcohol, apparently -( ). An icon of male sensitivity, and there are few enough of them around too.-That chap who sells them the telephone dialler in Tiffany's. A tiny role that achieves its aims perfectly and makes life seem better, which is what you want really.Many have said Tiffany's is too saccharine and cheerful, but I think it actually hits the perfect balance of cynicism and sentiment. There are moments of intense depression (which people often forget) as well as hopeful optimism, and these two working together are what make the film so uplifting and memorable. "},{"Title":"Great Art or Guilty Pleasure?","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"47 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am never sure which Breakfast at Tiffany's is. I can certainly think of movies which more accurately portray the human condition, but of few that are more fun.Neither Holly nor Paul seem to represent real people. Their attraction, which is the focal point of the movie, is a character unto itself. Paul sees Holly as scared, vulnerable, and in need of rescue and enjoys his role as potential knight in shining armor to her damsel in distress. She is drawn to him because he sees beyond her facade of fabulousness to the scared little girl she is inside and which she tries (not that hard really at all) to hide. Adding to her attraction to him is the fact that he stands up to her when she treats him shoddily. This probably does not happen to her too often, and it intrigues her. These are mostly the tricks a romance novelist uses to keep readers baited and rooting for a fictional, possibly doomed romance to work and do not reflect the real nature of love. There is, however, enough chemistry, genuine affection, and respect between the two characters to keep the story from seeming utterly implausible.Of course, a movie doesn't have to be realistic to realistically portray what is right and what is wrong with the world we live in. Breakfast at Tiffany's doesn't do a whole lot of that either, though. After watching I can never pinpoint one solid message from it. What it does have a lot of, as many others have pointed out, is stylish, witty, good fun. This is almost always the movie I choose on the rare occasions when my husband is working late, my son is asleep, I have energy to spare and good bottle of wine just begging to be uncorked. Believable or not, it is well-told and compelling, and remains one of the better movies a gal can lose herself in. "},{"Title":"A Real Charmer Comfort Viewing At It's Best","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"33 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The celebrated author on whose novel it was based despised the film version, describing it as mawkish. The star wasn't much more enthusiastic; she never considered it among her best work. And the reviews were mixed. But regardless of what Truman Capote, Audrey Hepburn, or the critics thought about it, the public adored it--and the image of Audrey Hepburn wearing a black evening dress, nibbling pastry, and window shopping has passed into our cultural iconography.The film is indeed lightweight stuff. Audrey Hepburn is a New York good-time girl who makes a living by clipping her wealthy escorts for fifty here and fifty there. When she meets handsome George Peppard--a writer who makes ends meet by trading favors with society matron Patricia Neal--can love be far behind? But Audrey's mysterious past and her determination to marry rich, George's status as a kept boy-toy, and their occasionally questionable associates provide plenty of complications to fill out the story.What makes the film work is the remarkable charm of its two stars. Most of the attention goes to Audrey Hepburn and the film shows her to remarkable advantage she is a remarkable actress, personality, and beauty, and she works wonders with the ultralight script. But when it comes to charm, George Peppard is no slouch either the film catches him at the height of his early golden-boy good looks, and he is the perfect foil for Hepburn in both their comic and dramatic scenes. Mickey Rooney's excessive performance as Yunioshi aside, the supporting cast is also very entertaining, with Patricia Neal, Buddy Ebsen, Martin Balsam, and Dorothy Whitney all give enjoyable turns. The film looks great (make sure you get the widescreen version), the score (which includes Moon River) is excellent, and director Blake Edwards keeps everything moving at a pleasant pace. This a great film to cozy up with on a cold night--romantic, entertaining, and as comforting as a cup of hot chocolate. Recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Meagre Meal of One Famous Breakfast...","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The famous film Breakfast at Tiffany's is supposedly based upon a brilliant novel by Truman Capote.Excellent music by Henry Mancini, the striking elegance and charm of Audrey Hepburn, the big name of Blake Edwards as the one of the best Hollywood entertainers promised an unforgettable picture.Alas! It turned out to be the most disappointing film versions of all the times.First, there is no trace of the original message of the novel(I hear that the author was not very happy about film version either), which gives no hint of any sugary-sweet romance at all, and the character of Hollie had been grossly transformed (if not mutilated).Second, the actors and their protagonists are a horrendous mismatchAudrey Hepburn (with all my sincerest admiration and love for her)plays some girl poor Truman Capote had never dreamed about of putting into his novel too naive and pure, too high-class and too sweet to be a real phony as one of the film's characters (O.J.Berman )calls her.Mr Peppard is absolutely wooden, so he looks and sounds the phoniest of all with his love confessions.Mickey Rooney is a bad (really bad!) caricature of a Japanese ( forget about political correctness, it is just bad taste!)man. It is a great pity that a really wonderful piece of writing has had such a disappointing destiny in Hollywood! Though for those who know Hollywood tastes and culture it is no surprise at all. "},{"Title":"Good, too compromised to be great","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Much beloved movie, mainly because it's the iconic Audrey Hepburn role. And as an image she's fabulous, the definition of early-Sixties glamor. The opening sequence, which shows Hepburn eating pastry and staring through the window at Tiffany's as the melancholy strings of Moon River wash over everything, is one of the classic intros in movies and a personal favorite.Considered as a movie it's flawed, though, full of off-key notes and wrong turns. Rooney's Asian caricature is pretty offensive, but a worse problem I think is the dialog throughout, which is very arch and mannered and writerly sounding, as well as the nods to Hollywood convention (the party, the gamboling about NYC , the silly paternal Mafioso -- one can imagine somebody insisting that there better be some fun, dammit, in this movie). Most importantly there's a general restraint throughout the picture the real story here is sad and dark, and it's aching to get through, but instead it's stamped down with a lot of overly-cute Hollywood bits.Yet that dark story is powerful. Both Peppard and Hepburn are badly damaged people, the fact that they get together (albeit awkwardly) is a tribute to the magic of movies, but their relationship, full of quiet suffering and little hurts, seems very real to me. Peppard is effective as a nice guy who's falling for the wrong woman; Hepburn has some pretty awful dialog, but her performance as a woman who's self-deluding as a way to defend herself from despair (as Martin Balsam says, she's a real fake) is very strong. This is what I liked best about the movie.Well, that and Audrey Hepburn herself -- one of those performers for whom movies were invented, she is just amazing to watch. You've heard the cliché the camera loves her? Never was that more true than with Audrey Hepburn.Good, too compromised to be great. "}{"Title":"A lot of fun, Audrey was a true beauty and actress of her time","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"28 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast At Tiffany's is a pretty famous movie, it's recommended in my movie books and is usually on a top film critic's list as a classic. Before Roman Holiday, I had never seen an Audrey Hepburn film, and I have to say that I am becoming more and more of a fan of her's. She was so beautiful and very talented, not to mention she seemed like a very classy and elegant lady. But the film itself was a pretty good one, this was the movie that made romantic comedy clichés, so that's why I let it go so easily. It seemed like this film had what a lot of romantic comedy films steal now a days.Holly is a huge socialite in her grand world, she finds happiness and joy in the jewelery store, Tiffany's. She is also being paid 100 dollars to visit a drug Mafia leader in prison to make his day. But things begin to change when a very handsome man moves in down stairs from her, Paul, but she calls him Fred since he looks like her brother. He's also in a similar situation where his Decorator is paying him for a good time. But together they find themselves helping one another and realizing they may need each other.Breakfast at Tiffany's is an elegant classic that I would rate up with Seven Year Itch starring Marilyn Monroe. It has great humor and sizzling romance that anyone could fall in love with. Audrey Hepburn took on a role which the character could have been neuritic and annoying, but she made Holly into someone every woman would like to be. Her and George were great together, I would highly recommend Breakfast at Tiffany's, it's a great classic.8/10 "},{"Title":"Another poor adaptation though Hepburn shines","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"25 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was amazed at what a terrible adaptation of the book, by Capote, the movie was. While Audrey Hepburn does give a wonderful performance the Breakfast at Tiffany's the movie is not the same story as the book- not at all. The main difference is that the book is not a love story but a story about this marvelous character Holly Golightly. The movie is turned into a love story for cheap Hollywood thrills and probably because Axelrod wasn't creative enough to write a believable character such as Fred who does not fall in love with the leading lady. Heavens to Betsy the audience might think Fred is gay if he doesn't fall for Holly! What a typical bungling of an adaptation of an incredible piece of literature. Oh and my favorite line in the movie is the final scene in the cab where Holly goes, Golly gee damn! Also, Mickey Rooney's character was completely overdone and not in the spirit of Capote's book which is not a comedy but a brilliant exercise in character development of Holly's character. Don't bother with the movie except for Hepburn's on screen charisma. Read the book instead. "},{"Title":"Pernicious garbage","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"41 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, so a girl grows up in Buttscrew, Texas and marries some weirdo at age 14, then runs away to NY on a whim, and works as a high-end call girl until she meets a seemingly normal guy. A two-hour romantic freak show ensues, leaving no doubt that this woman is mentally unfit to participate in society. But after a 15-second inspiring speech by the leading man, at the last moment, she realizes the error of her ways, they kiss, and credits roll.And this BS is not even relegated to the independent-movie fringes of mainstream society. It's a central part of our common culture! No wonder 50% of American marriages end in divorce! "},{"Title":"Excellent romantic comedy-drama","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"55 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In a way Breakfast at Tiffany's is like getting two movies. The first half or so is a light-hearted comedy and the second half is a romantic drama. The entire package is thoroughly engaging. I'm not usually a fan of this genre but I was entertained throughout. What can be said about Ms. Hepburn in this role that hasn't already been said? She is perfect. Except for the odd A-Team rerun, I hadn't seen any of Mr. Peppard's work. In this film, he is the perfect foil for our heroine. The rest of the cast (including Cat) is more than up to par as well, especially Mick Rooney's politically incorrect but hilarious turn as Ms. Golightly's long suffering neighbor. Great film, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Disturbed by Tiffany's","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"78 out of 147 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Is she or isn't she? asks Berman.Is she or isn't she what? replies Varjac.A phony! says Berman cheerfully.Well, the answer in Breakfast at Tiffany's is that Hepburn's Holly Golightly is a real phony, which somehow is supposed to make her pipe dreams and complete denial of reality endearing.A real phony? I found nothing charming about Golightly's ditziness, drinking or other balms for her pain. Here is a woman so unhappy with herself that she hires herself out nightly and chases rich men in a desperate pursuit of happiness. The superficiality of her life has indeed caged her. What is so real (or meaningful) about that?Breakfast at Tiffany's has been billed in some quarters as a romantic comedy. Me - I laughed exactly twice - both in response to supporting characters. I found the movie disturbing, despite (or maybe because of) obvious comedic tricks and a veneer of lightness. Laughter comes when you're relaxed. Golightly and her out-of-control life made me nervous from the get-go.A final thought Is the ultimate romantic fantasy to be involved with someone who loves herself and others so little she even refuses to name her pet cat? Am I to believe that old habits really die so conveniently in the face of romantic love?I really, truly wanted to like this movie even half as much as its fans do. Alas, for me, Breakfast at Tiffany's turned out to be a phony. And a real one at that.  "},{"Title":"Awful Breakfast","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"42 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a classic how?  What a dumb movie.  The two main characters were awful and unlikeable.  She, insane and annoying with big eyebrows (what was with the hair?).  He, a boring loser who I didn't care what happened to.  The best character was the cat, who Audrey Hepburn tried to kill about three times in the film.  I hate  movies where the all men are in love with the lead actress when her character is so unappealing - this is one of those.  It was slow moving with bad dialogue and that annoying dewy camera effect anytime they kiss.  And do you think he spelt his last name enough?  V-a-r-j-a-k.  In the last scene, I was groaning at how pathetic this movie was.  What a waste of time.  Did anyone else see them squishing the cat while they made out in the street?  If I could give it a zero, I would.  Unfortunately, I can't.Janna B "},{"Title":"Hepburn born in the wrong era","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"23 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really wanted to like this film. I've seen so many bad Audrey Hepburn movies that I was aching for this classic to come through. Regrettably, it failed.The picture is very dated. The party scene alone is one long eye-roller, as the script tries to depict the swingin' sixties. Hepburn is, of course, stunningly gorgeous throughout the film, but, as in every other picture I've seen with her in it, the picture relies on her outer qualities to carry an otherwise mediocre (& even bad) film. There are moments of charm, pathos, and fun, but the overall effect is one where we're supposed to just like the movie because it's in love with itself.I can't help but wonder what would've happened if Hepburn had been born early enough to have been in pictures in the 30s and 40s, where women's roles were much stronger and complex. The 1960s and 70s were real wastelands as far as women's roles go. Many of the great stars of an earlier generation turned to the legitimate theatre for engaging roles worthy of their talents. I'd also love to see Hepburn destroy her own myth by appearing as torn-up as possible -- a little grunge monster like Elizabeth Taylor in Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolfe?.The other actors in the film are barely worth mentioning. Mickey Rooney's turn is simply embarrassing. Patricia Neal plays her part well but George Peppard is barely tolerable. The extreme close-ups of Buddy Ebsen seem inserted only to contrast with Hepburn's beauty -- again, detracting from the story.Note to self don't bother seeing this one again unless you need a quick fix of Givenchy gowns. "},{"Title":"Capote would not understand","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am sorely disappointed by the film, Breakfast at Tiffany's.  It's not true to the original story by Truman Capote, and it trivializes one of the most delicate, complex, and mysterious characters in  modern literature, Holly Golightly; turning her into a silly fop.  The casting is horrendous George Peppard is much to daring, masculine, and capable to play the sheepish, too-easily-impressed, mousy writer. Audrey Hepburn is much too classy and sophisticated for this role, which should have been portrayed as a spaced-out deluded yet terribly attractive woman at odds with her situation but ultimately determined to ignore and overcome it, at least in her own mind.  Unfortunately, the intent of the original story is lost in this film; it's unfortunate because Capote gave us a view into an unusual social and personal situation of a kind that is rare in literature, but the movie does not show it.  Perhaps a more sensitive rendering of this material will someday be done. The film does have its shining moments, however. What could be more touching than Hepburn's performance of Moon River as she sits alone in her windowsill.  That scene was worth the price of admission, but Capote would not understand why the rest of the film was done. "},{"Title":"Yawwn","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm famously known for loving old movies but I just couldn't go through this one. I've never read the book, maybe I should. This film is irritating in many aspects. Even not being an apostle of the politically correct, I found the part of Mickey Rooney as Holly's Japanese neighbour just plain stupid and embarrassing. There's absolutely nothing funny in his performance. I felt no sympathy for the characters, the dialogues are shallow and uninteresting.The rest of the story is tiresome and boring and I wouldn't be surprised that Audrey Hepburn didn't feel comfortable in this role (especially if she thought she was a miscast). I gave a 2 star for the costumes and glimpses of beautiful New-York but not enough to keep me awake.A real shame... "},{"Title":"Don't get why this movie is so popular","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After years of hearing what a classic this movie was, I finally took it out of our library and I must say it was one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I think Moon River was the only enjoyable part of it aside from watching Audrey Hepburn play such a frivolous, shallow and fickle woman.I almost turned the movie off halfway through but hoped it would somehow improve. I think Holly and Paul are 2 of the most empty characters I have seen in a movie - maybe if we had been given more background on their lives or something - maybe then I could have believed in their characters.Anyway, I'm sure I'm speaking sacrilege to all those fans of this movie lol, but I was very disappointed. If you're looking for some fluff, classic entertainment - you might like it - but I found no depth to it and very little entertainment. "}{"Title":"Way Overrated","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"17 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an average film masquerading as great. I'm not blaming Blake Edwards or the stars--after all, they were just making a picture. Instead, this movie is the ultimate personality cult picture. In other words, people are SO OVERWHELMED with Audrey Hepburn, they glomp onto a picture and act like it is one of the best pictures ever made. For movie poster collectors, they saw the value of posters from this little movie skyrocket to astronomical heights (it is currently one of the most valuable posters from the 1960s) due to the rise of this cult.The sad thing is that this isn't one of Ms. Hepburn's best pictures. Better films such as A Nun's Story, Love in the Afternoon or Sabrina are superior when compared side by side. My assumption is that those who fuel this cult probably never saw the movie or never saw her other films.By the way, even if I am way off in my attitude towards this film (since so many love it), you've gotta admit that the movie deserves to lost a point or two because of the insane casting of Mickey Rooney as Mr. Yunioshi--a Japanese man!!! Not only was this stupid, but highly offensive and insensitive. "},{"Title":"The cat was the only highlight","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Maybe if I had seen this movie in the 60's I would appreciate it because this was considered high class entertainment back then,but I was born in 86,and saw this movie for the first time in 2006 and gotta say wasn't in the least bit impressed. Everything that was in this movie has been done bigger and better in this time. I was really bored watching this,and the cat was the only interesting thing in the movie.Plot You have a young women who thinks and acts like she's rich and isn't. Basically she's a goldigger who wants to marry a rich man to get her out of her humble beginning. Here comes a male whore who falls in love with her,but she doesn't want him because he's a struggling writer and a whore to boot.Things happen for no reason.Like for example the writer just meets her and asks to use her phone,but once in her house he forgets about the call and they have a long conversation with each other. The scene transitions are poor,and they are clearly on a set. This movie's plot was all over the place,and I can honestly say it really doesn't have one.Characters They both are despicable as human beings so you really can't like them. The acting was okay I'll give it that.Dialouge. Cheesy.Only missing bread in some scenes.Visuals From a 2006 perspective I have seen much, much better.Bottomline Hollywood has been spewing out garbage,but even their garbage is better than then this movie.Only comformist keep saying this and all movie's like it are the best thing since slice bread in this day and age. "},{"Title":"Unbearable!","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"23 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This will not be a popular review, but I couldn't possibly not make a few comments of warning for future potential viewers.I haven't seen too many Audrey Hepburn films but to date this is easily the worst.In My Fair Lady she was a complete delight and so was the film. Charade was equally as charming. How To Steal A Million was highly enjoyable, as was Roman Holiday and Sabrina.But this? In the first few minutes I was already reeling in shock over Mickey Rooney doing one of the most offensive racist performances I've ever witnessed. Then a minute later Audrey Hepburn started to let me down with her portrayal of a sleepy girl with a high opinion of herself and possessing one of the most annoying motor mouths I've seen. I've always thought Audrey's acting was superb, but this was not a convincing performance.Her character was completely self centered and irritating, and while this was probably supposed to be the case it does not make for enjoyable viewing. All of the dialogue was trivial and pointless, and I kept putting myself in the position of George Peppard as he sat there on the bed listening to her ramblings. In his place I would have gotten up and excused myself, and then avoided her for the rest of the time we were neighbours.At 17 minutes and 30 seconds they both take out a cigarette, and that's when I pressed stop on the DVD player and began to watch something else. That's right! I could not even get past the first half hour of this film, and for me that's really saying something.I love old movies to death, and I frequently have to accept the different attitudes of the day as being a sign of how things were. Mickey Rooney's racist role? Yeah, OK. I've had to handle this same type of thing in other early films. Audrey's poor acting? Again, while this hurt I could have put up with it if the rest of the film was good. The script providing her with an annoying character? Like the acting, it hurts, but I can put up with it. The rambling pointless dialogue? Once more I can accept it if the rest of the film is good. The smoking? Yeah, sure. Old films always depict this.But to have all of this take place in the first seventeen and one half minutes of a single film?! Sorry, that's just too much to bare. I don't know how the film ends up and I don't want to, and that says plenty about the level of enjoyment I was receiving from watching the film's beginning. "},{"Title":"The movie is over rated...","Date":"26 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie is over rated, if Holly Golightly is seen as a disgusting drunk. When she throws her cat out of the cab into the pouring rain--that is the lowest point in the movie. What immediately follows that incident in the last seven minutes of the film does not redeem her or Paul or the movie . The movie hints that Holy might be a prostitute, but only hints at that. The role of Micky Rooney as a Japanese Y. I. Yunioshi is downright offensive and stupid...one of the stupidest roles of any in Hollywood.Truman Capote had his problems with alcohol and pills. People drink alcohol in dangerous amounts without understanding its affect on the mind or the body. Hollywood is a place just filled with drunks and pill addicts--most so besotted with themselves and drink and pills--they don't know shi* from shinola--and this movie is a celebration of that ignorance. (It's not like alcohol addiction is a huge secret in Hollywood; Spencer Tracy was renowned for his drunken binges--those in the know in Hollywood were more than aware of them.)While Audrey Hepburn was captivating as an alcoholic waif--her costumes were elegant and she wore them with elegance--the truth of the drunk and pill addict soon enough descends to uncontrolled bowels, bladder, mouth--which this movie barely hinted at. George Peppard had that vacuous and vapid look that Hollywood so loves (Tom Cruise, Matt Daimon, George Clooney)--and not for a moment was he convincing as actually capable of caring for Holy Golightly--the drunk; not for a minute did he come across as the one who could 'save' Holy Golightly from her alcoholism. Just another co-dependent relationship--one person as besotted as the other.It would be interesting to see a remake of this movie...placing emphasis on alcoholic Holy Golightly with more naked skin revealed and with her love interest taking her to AA meetings at the end of the movie--as Joan Watson 'saves' in the current series of Sherlock Holmes--Elementary. (Wow, Lucy Liu as the new Holy Golightly--portrayed as an alcoholic prostitute with lots of naked flesh exposed--with Johnny Lee Miller as Paul Varjak--now that would be worth seeing.) This movie FAILS on so many levels... "},{"Title":"Mindless fluff","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" O.K., Audrey Hepburn had loads of charisma and was as cute as a button. There, that's the sum total of anything worthwhile in this flick. Yes, it's almost fifty years old now, but I kinda think it was as empty and confused then as it is today.When I first saw this film I hadn't even reached puberty yet, so I'm sure the concepts of what Holly and Fred did for a living were mostly over my head. And given my immaturity at the time I seem to remember it as a sweet story with a typical happy, Hollywood ending. After viewing it as an adult, with a little more life experience, I find the story to be off-putting, if not downright disturbing. Both Fred's and Holly's life seem to be a string of non-sequitors, leading nowhere and meaning nothing. And in the end, even though Holly is on her way to the airport to fly off to Brazil to continue her career as Golddigger, her and Fred have an epiphany in the back of a taxi and realize that they might as well get married! Awww, gosh isn't that sweet? Yeah, until tomorrow when they run off to get an annulment. How absurd to portray such a toxic relationship as some sort of icon. And then there's Mickey Rooney's embarrassing, racist caricature and Buddy Ebsen's bid for the most miscast roll since Pat Boone played the angel in The Greatest Story Ever Told. This was NOT good work. Not for the actors, the director, and especially not for the writer. I'm amazed that it still garners such a following. "},{"Title":"A showcase for Audrey","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's is a mostly charming film which serves as a wonderful showcase for the great Audrey Hepburn. In her portrayal of Holly Golightly Hepburn created one of the most iconic characters in film history. This is a memorable film and it's Hepburn who makes it so. She is at the center of everything that goes on in the film and you can't help but be charmed by Holly Golightly. The movie has its flaws, most notably one incredibly unfortunate casting decision, but all these years later it is rightly remembered fondly by most who have had the pleasure of seeing it.Holly Golightly makes her living as an escort, but it's not as unseemly as it might seem. What she really is more than anything else is an extroverted Manhattan socialite around whom all kinds of craziness swirls. That craziness is best typified in a famous party scene in Holly's apartment. There are so many people crammed into Holly's little apartment, there's so much going on that you don't even know where to look. But inevitably the eye is drawn back to Holly herself. The character has such style and charisma, as of course does the actress playing her. Everyone remembers the famous black dress but the beauty and elegance of Audrey Hepburn shine through no matter what Holly Golightly's wearing. Heck, she could wear a sheet and make it seem elegant. In fact she does. And that sums up Holly Golightly rather nicely. Beautiful, charming, engaging...and more than a touch eccentric.It's Audrey's movie through and through and she is never anything less than wonderful in her performance. Playing opposite her in the key male role is George Peppard and he at times comes across as being a little wooden, maybe somewhat dull. But perhaps his character is just suffering in comparison to Holly Golightly who is many things, dull certainly not one of them. Buddy Ebsen has a small role but an important one as it is his character who provides some insight into who Holly really is, or at least who she used to be. We come to learn that Holly has pretty much reinvented herself and there are some wistful moments as we see why she may have felt the need to do so. There will be some roadblocks thrown up in the way of Holly's seemingly blissful existence and as she confronts these obstacles there are times where you know she's doing the wrong thing. But you love her anyway and just hold out hope she'll get it right in the end. That's the irresistible charm of Audrey Hepburn working its magic.It must be said that for all its charm the film does have one serious black mark against it. Mickey Rooney's portrayal of Holly's bucktoothed, slant-eyed stereotyped Japanese neighbor Mr. Yunioshi is absolutely appalling. It's the type of thing you'd expect from a film made in the 1920s. By 1961 you would have hoped people would have known better. Apparently not. Every time this character appears on the screen you can't help but cringe. The character takes you out of the movie watching experience entirely. You don't see him as a character named Mr. Yunioshi, all you see is Mickey Rooney in hideous yellowface makeup. Awful. And for a character meant to serve as comic relief, even had an Asian actor been cast there is no way around the fact that the character is just not funny at all. It's the one major flaw in a film which, while maybe not an all-time classic, is certainly charming and enjoyable throughout. And as a showcase for the talents and elegance of Audrey Hepburn it could not work any better. "},{"Title":"Review and Learn","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm from China and I'm trying to improve my English by watching movies. I plan to watch one movie without scripts 5-7 times every week, and write a review about the movie. If you find any fault in grammar or vocabulary, please, please, please tell me.2013/09/22 'Breakfst at Tiffany's', First Time.I watched the  Breakfast at Tiffany's tonight. It's directed by Blake Edwards, and Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard starred in this movie.I can't understand most part of the movie, they was speaking too fast for me. It's a love story and it's romantic. My first impression of the movie is that  the girl is so chatty, and she needs a man to actually listen to herIt also reminds of some plots in Gossip Girl. It feels awesome to realize the connections between movies and TV show. and who is Freud? and their relationship? I hope I could figure out these questions by watching again.*Ok, It took me half an hour to figure out how to express  someone starred in a movie', and I don't have enough time to write the review today* "},{"Title":"So painstakingly long and contrived ** May contain small spoiler**","Date":"19 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have always heard so much hype regarding this film and after watching it I can honestly say I just don't get it. There are literally no likable characters in this movie other than The Cat. Even he gets thrown out like trash by the self absorbed Holly. The story, and dialogue are just so ridiculous. From the clichéd story of coming from humble beginnings and leaving a much older red neck pedophile, down to two sex trade workers finding love. Why was the scene with her hillbilly husband even attempting to appear sad in the least. Her husband married her when she was fourteen, probably when she had like no food or money or means to survive. Who gives a crap about his sadness or appearance in the movie, and why is she so sad when he leaves. So much weirdness. Holly's character was so long-winded and started off in the movie as contradicting herself. From the first scene with her and George alone in bed, she leaves after appearing to be crying and exclaims No one likes a snoop. Hello you just invited yourself into his apartment and opened a closed door. WTF??!! George offered nothing as well, who wants a man that shakes the crap out of you and yells in your face  You belong to me! There is so much I dislike about this film, but most of all they should have just left the landlords character out of the film even if he was in the book. He served no purpose other than to be a racist stereotype. How embarrassing....Again The Cat was the only likable character. Poor Audrey she just looks odd with huge fake eyelashes and her bony limbs. Meh I'll pass on recommending this to anyone. "},{"Title":"Deservedly a Classic","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Breakfast At Tiffany's is without a doubt on of the greatest movies of all time.  Audrey Hepburn's Holly is classy, elegant, and beautiful, but at the same time naive, innocent, and simply sweet.  George Peppard's Paul is handsome, together, sensible, and lovable.  Together they make a great couple.  Throughout the movie Holly constantly stumbles, but Paul is always there to pick her up.  This movie makes you instantly fall in love with both of them. I highly recommend it!! "},{"Title":"Without Audrey Hepburn, this movie would risk failure.","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't think much can be said to buttress my applause for Hepburn's presence in this classic; but I do fear that if it wasn't for the on-screen banter with Peppard this movie would fall over as meaningless and unevocative.  But I like it, in a simple sort of way.  The romantic-comedy formula started in this era, and it has been refined and improved as time has worn on.  There are better ones out there, but sometimes its nice to see where it all started. "}{"Title":"A beautiful and uplifting film.","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this film last year and thought it was amazing. Audrey Hepburn is stunningly beautiful and it is hard not to fall in love with her when watching her films.This film has a moving score(particularly Moon River) and is the best romantic comedy i've ever seen. I can't say critically why I love it so much, just that I've seen it 6 times now and every time I see it I feel warm and happy inside, the kind of feeling I get after watching 'It's a Wonderful Life'.As well as Audrey there is Georgr Peppard, who is good as the writer who falls in love with her and the performance from Patricia Neal is also good. Although Micky Rooney is funny as the Japanese photographer, the stereotype is a little annoying. But that is the only blight on what is a lovely film and definatley one of my three favourites of all time.Watch this film and fall in love! "},{"Title":"Darling Movie!!","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Audrey Hepburn plays the elusive socialite. She is a New York gadabout who winds up cavorting around with parasitic, well to do reprobates. Her life is a sort of manufactured intellectual recreation, so to speak. For this social circle, engaging in supercilious delusions of grandeur is everybody's favorite hobby. Audrey Hepburn masquerades a pusillanimity that George Peppard is far more familiar with than he cares to admit! Both of them have a life that is full of euphemistic phraseology which provides a double entente meaning to words and phrases such as Friend, Succor for social enlightenment, Financial backer, Ardent supporter thereof, or I am in need of some very intriguing conversation. Audrey Hepburn is so beautiful in this film!! The jewelry is spectacular!! In particular, the diamond necklace, and tiara, are famous artifacts in the Hollywood world of collectibles, they are right up there with the Wizard of Oz ruby slippers!! Singing Moon River out the window of her Manhattan apartment, Audrey Hepburn garnered a charismatic following with the movie audience with this scene. Hepburn's wardrobe, including the hats, and the Jaqueline Kennedy style sunglasses, all became extremely sensationalized with this film. The conversations with the men in Breakfast at Tiffany's sort of ran the run of the mill gambit of the proverbial aging men seeking female companionship. The acceptable scourge with everybody was one in which constructive candor was replaced with one alcoholic beverage after another. Breakfast At Tiffany's is a totally marvelous film which brings out the disconcerting genre of the stilted arrangements which prevailed. While pinpointing this dubious rigmarole for the precarious quest of suitable liaisons, it becomes evident that these circumstances are, without question, comfortably symbiotic. This auspicious realm of monotony evokes a very succinct and humorous romanticism for this film's entirely non-conventional dynamic! Such an eccentric scenario in Breakfast At Tiffany's is formatted whereby pretenses of sophistication were nothing more than pejorative mendacity, and, reality, was in fact, true love! Best parts of this movie It makes you want to go to Rio De Janiero, and, never more than ever before, do you want to get caught in the rain!! The amazing array of acting talent in Breakfast At Tiffany's will astound you. In addition to Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard,(The inadvertent gigolo) other stars included; Patricia Neal, Buddy Ebsen, Martin Balsam and Mickey Rooney. Director of this film, Blake Edwards, (Best known for an onslaught of Pink Panther movies, and television shows such as Peter Gunn and Mr Lucky) does a remarkable job at directing Breakfast At Tiffany's. My total assessment of this film; EXCELLENT!! Or, as many prominent spawns of academia would say with an emphatically undaunted demeanor DARLING MOVIE!!!! "},{"Title":"Bizarre, Just Bizarre","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My wife and I tonight sat through this. Well, we're still trying to figure out the purpose of the whole thing. Besides the fact that it is very dated (all those cigarettes are distracting and no longer realistic, for instance), the plot doesn't carry itself well. It's not clear why the characters do what they do and when they do it. Why is there a party? It's not clear what Peppard is until later. Why does Patricia Neal keep him? Is he that good-looking or something? And hey, was that really Buddy Ebsen's voice? Sure didn't sound like the Buddy Ebsen I know. I love Audrey Hepburn, and the song is wonderful, but she was wasted in this role.Bottom line skip it. "},{"Title":"Has one of the worst performances/characters in a major film","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'd gotten the impression that this movie was some sort of classic so I decided to watch it when it screened on a non-commercial free to air TV station recently. Really, I can't quite work out what the attraction of this movie is. It's an odd and meandering look at the life and loves of Holly Golightly (played by Audrey Hepburn). Her principle love interest is Paul Varjak (played by George Peppard). Early in the movie, and throughout, you have one of the most appalling performances/caricatures by Mickey Rooney, who plays Holly's neighbour Mr. Yunioshi. I'm assuming that this character is meant to be amusing, but it's the kind of caricature you'd find in The Bulletin's racist cartoons from decades ago and when their motto was Australia for the white man. Rooney is hopelessly miscast as a Japanese man and way too stereotypical to be taken in good faith.The circumstances of Paul and Holly's initial meeting seem rather pat and established too quickly. I'd often think to myself That's odd at some revelation about Holly...and there are a few such revelations. Reading a couple of reviews in books after I'd made my notes on this film reveal why I was so obtuse the movie is quite coy on what exactly Holly does for a living. I didn't pick it.The opening credits reveal that a US literary lion wrote the book this film was based on (Truman Capote). I surmised that either Hepburn's performance made the book seem more important than it was or that the book was never that good to start with. Reading those two reviews in books (Time Out and Halliwell, I discovered a third possibility that the book was bowdlerised for its transition to film).I would liken this film unfavourably to the recent film Juno. Both movies stand or fall on how you take to the lead actresses' characters. I found Holly profoundly superficial and showing only glimpses of the charm that seems to have worked on people who like this film. Early on Holly is manipulative and later on has a one track mind.I'd be interested to know if the script had to be contorted to explain Holly's plum English accent...in other words, whether Capote's novel had the same exposition explaining this. Odd dimension to this film in any case.A time capsule film for its scene of an interminable Yuppie party. Has an annoying theme song (Moon river)which I didn't realise was composed specially for this movie (I'd assumed there was a Huckleberry Finn musical which had it first!).I'm just glad that Time Out and Halliwell gave this movie a low score too...I was wondering if the world had gone crazy! 3.333/10 "},{"Title":"A decent movie but falls short of the original book","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember being so much fascinated by Holly Golightly when I first read Capote's novel years ago and was really looking forward to Audrey Hepburn bringing this character to life. I have always been enthralled by this charming slender beauty on screen and, I can say, she loses none of her magic in this film either.However, something is desperately missing in this emasculated interpretation of its witty and insightful literary source. Trapped in the convenances of that time, the film-makers deprive Holly of almost all her original subtlety and complexity, rendering the story flat and mushy. The introduction of a love sublot between the author and Holly adds nothing but a sloppy happy end, which is the worst part of the movie, and ruins the whole intention of the book, its unique flair and muddles Holly's character into a personality, very much different from the one in the book. Holly from the film is perfected to be acceptable enough for all goody girls and their parents, she is cute, lovable and superficial, with not much to reveal behind her dishy face, immaculate figure and charming manner, which is still irresistible. Holly from the book is more controversial, unscrupulous, smart and poignant. Audrey herself is too nice for this original character but she does make the film quite watchable and her partner, George Peppard, his character turned upside down, is also pretty likable ilk of a ladies'man.The film does offer a number of funny scenes too, especially, the party and shoplifting scenes. On the whole, the screen version is pretty smooth and entertaining but if you've read the novel before you can't get rid of the feeling that Capote's masterpiece was ruthlessly stripped of its most precious assest - the true Holly Golightly, whom the author so lovingly created. For this you should look in the original book. "},{"Title":"One of Audrey Hepburn's premier films...","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast At Tiffany's, from Truman Capote's acerbic novella, is so lushly produced and plushly designed it seems to take place in a New York City dream-world. Audrey Hepburn plays party-girl Holly Golightly with flaky flair, yet she never has to force herself to be a groovy extrovert--she encompasses all of Holly's faults and dizzy highs with just one of the deep little laughs that seem to well up from her chest. I didn't mind Mickey Rooney as Mr. Yunioshi (I forgot it was him) and since the movie's edge softens a bit as the film goes on, it needs Yunioshi for some of that low-down comedy inherent in the film's first hour. George Peppard as neighbor Paul is perhaps too smooth and a ready-match for Holly (he only bristles a bit early on), but Peppard as an actor is suitable for Hepburn, he allows her room to sparkle while keeping the film grounded. His frequent bemused looks are charming, and I thought his scenes with Patricia Neal were very good (the filmmakers are a little tough on Neal she's made to seem decadent and lascivious, and when Peppard calls her on it, I'm not sure if we're supposed to feel sympathy for her, though I did). The opening moments with Hepburn standing in front of Tiffany & Co. are as miraculous as any scene from any movie of this era, and the rest of the film effortlessly emulates that early magic. "},{"Title":"Terribly 'Affected' Fluff","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"40 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Audrey Hepburn's dialog and speech is so affected I almost puked listening to her in this film. It isn't just her snobbish accent, it's the stupid lines they give her and the way she delivers them. It's so artificial, so phony. You do you know anyone who talks or sounds like this? Of course not. That's nothing against her personally. She had a great career. However, don't count me as a fan of Holly Golightly. The same goes for the plastic-looking, wooden-acting pretty-boy George Peppard who plays the male lead and only looked competent in his career when he played opposite a non-acting thug like Mr. T. on television's The A Team. In a nutshell, this is just another in a long of films about dysfunctional, shallow people which a certain segment of the population seems to love, a la television soap opera fans.I was sorry to see Mickey Rooney make a fool of himself here, too, trying to impersonate an Asian.But, in the end, all one has to do is sing Moon River and two losers can live happily ever after. If only it was that simple! "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You call yourself a free spirit, a wild thing, and you're terrified somebody's gonna stick you in a cage. Well baby, you're already in that cage. You built it yourself.Breakfast at Tiffany's is one of those classic films that has stood the test of time and turned the lead protagonist into a fashion icon. Audrey Hepburn will forever be remembered for her role here as Holly Golightly, the New York socialite that made everyone fall for Tiffany's. Her performance is so iconic that sometimes we forget everything else about the film the original song, Moon River which continues to be included in many modern day movies, the adapted screenplay from Truman Capote's novel, one of America's most revered writers, and Blake Edwards's comedic direction which still stands today as one of his funniest films. Not even the love story is as effective as Hepburn's presence, and what seemed to be a miscasting for some producers ended up being the major strength of the film. Everything about Breakfast at Tiffany's is now resumed in two words Audrey Hepburn. Her presence even makes us forget about some of the weak elements in the film, such as Mickey Rooney's performance as Mr. Yunioshi (a terrible casting decision). We forgive anything that doesn't work in the film because Hepburn's presence simply takes over the screen and she makes the film such an endearing one. "},{"Title":"Breakfast at Hepburn's.","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's (1961) Dir Blake Edwards / Cast Audrey Hepburn, George Peppard, Buddy Ebsen, Mickey Rooney, Patricia Neal Fascinating view of mindset as Audrey Hepburn pauses every morning to admire the jewelry in the window at Tiffany's. George Peppard plays a struggling writer who moves into her apartment complex. He observes her as a mysterious woman throwing wild parties, visiting an inmate, and caring for a nameless cat. It is interesting how the screenplay examines her hidden fears through his seemingly simple lifestyle. Director Blake Edwards previously made such classics as High Time and Operation Petticoat but here he creates one of his greatest masterpieces and delivers an ending that stresses the treasures of life. The real strength of the film relies on Hepburn's ability to conceal sadness and confusion underneath a smile, and Peppard's willingness to understand so to bring meaning to his failed existence. Mickey Rooney plays a frustrated Chinese landlord where he is barely recognizable. Buddy Ebsen plays an onlooker with key information regarding Hepburn's past. Patricia Neal is featured as a decorator hired by Peppard to enhance his apartment with her personality. Wonderful film about the lives we pretend to live, the past we fear will surface, and a promise of a future as pleasant as the ring in the crackerjack box. Score 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"A young woman living in the city trying to find happiness.","Date":"22 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is such a good movie. Audrey Hepburn does a fantastic job getting into her character and make you feel how crazy she is with her attempts for happiness in life. It was a cute love story, too. The coloring in the movie was good for the most part. It could be very vibrate in some scenes but in a couple of them, it was a little washed out. Sometimes you had some trouble hearing but other times it could be a very loud movie. The lighting was great, too. In more emotional scenes it was a little darker but they did it in such a way where you wouldn't have trouble seeing. They would have darker furniture or dark heavy clothes on to emphasize the emotion in the scene. The only real downfall was how fast the characters spoke. It could get annoying and hard to keep up with them. Aside from that, there were a couple hidden meanings behind the plot but the one I found most prevalent was that if you don't love yourself, you can never be happy. An upbeat, classical movie with an unforgettable romance. "}{"Title":"good","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is that tickle women's heart. Also, it describes girl's mind clearly. The arena is New York and Tiffany. The main character who is Holly goes Tiffany's shop because she can get energy. It shows women's mentality. So women will sympathize with these actions. The main character is beautiful lady but she is ruined. And she is blinded by the lure of money. But man who is Paul makes her notice that love is important, not money. So the world needs money but if you have wonderful love, you are lucky and happy, I think. So this film makes us notice that money can't defeat love, love is invincible. Holly and Paul have a fateful encounter and they are united. It's lovely and envious. "},{"Title":"I have to be Honest","Date":"5 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ..maybe I have hyped up this film too much in my head, but I found it not to be the best out of Hepburn's work. I have recently seen her in George Cukor's My Fair Lady and I found that she was perfection. But this one left me disappointed.The chemistry is not at its greatest, and that is most likely because our lead man, George Peppard, was rumored to be difficult to work with. This being from how he, at the time, was a method actor which Hepburn didn't agree or easy to work with. It was that, and the fact that he just plain didn't fit in very well with the cast/crew. - What a loser! - I can tell just from the way the scenes went. It just felt a little awkward in some of the parts with just them two.I must say that THE STORY is what kept me sucked in. The dialogue and meaning behind the simple things, such as the cat and the book Paul (Peppard) writes titled, Nine Lives.I have read that Truman Capote was not in the happiest of moods after seeing this 1961 adaptation of his book. He said that he had Marilyn Monroe in mind for the role of Holly, but he drama-coach had told that it would not look very good for her image. I guess things WORKED OUT for the best because if they didn't get Audrey, then they would not have gotten Henri Mancini, who would not have written the Academy-Award winning song Moon River, which is based off Miss Hepburn.I found the romanticism a little cheesy on ACCOUNT the guy playing Paul is obviously acting in a different style that Holly, which I had just mentioned before.I give this film a dirty 3 out of 5 stars, BUT with a sexy orange heart because of it's originality, dialogue, set design, what-have-you. I hope to watch it again in the future, leading me to perhaps give it a BETTER RATING.-- Michael Mendez "},{"Title":"The starry-eyed and day-dreamers may enjoy it","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wouldn't berate a modern viewer who sees this film as trifling, boring or aimless. Watching it again after many years, I recently had that sense myself. And I was around when this movie came out&#x97;although I didn't see it for years. I think it's dated because it reflects a time and a sub-culture that were quite small, that very few people became a part of or knew. And, it may seem so strange from the ways of culture today that few would find it of much interest. Ergo, slow and boring. It's billed as a comedy, but it isn't very funny. It's also a romance, but hardly. This is a story about one young woman who lived in a dream world, who fantasized about her life, and who hoped to land a very wealthy husband. It would be perfect even if it were someone she might love. Sure, there may always have been young people (women and men) who have dreamed about the glamorous life and lifestyle that wealth can bring, and who fantasized about finding the right rich person. But few of us were captured by the allure of our daydreams. In this film, Audrey Hepburn is captivated by it. Otherwise, there is hardly any plot at all. This movie came out while I was in training for the Army, so I didn't see it for many years. I can imagine that many in the audience saw it as a fairy-tale, sweet story about a girl looking for the dream life. But my first impression watching it years later on TV, was that it was about someone who had lost all sense of reason, and had fallen under a spell of riches and hedonism. Anyway, the movie is very dated in that way. Not that many aren't drawn to wealth, prestige, glamor or the power of riches today. They may be more sly and conniving, but certainly not in the category of gold-diggers, or perpetual daydreamers. Perhaps few people then saw the movie in that way, and I can understand that. Audrey Hepburn was a genuine dove of the cinema. Who couldn't like her, for her youth, innocent beauty and wonderful skills as an actress? Indeed, if it weren't for her persona in this film, its hit song and musical score, and a little bit of the showiness of the lavish wealth in corners of New York, I think this film might have flopped. The rest of the cast are mostly flat or wooden, or of no consequence to the story. George Peppard is flatter than a pancake in the romance department. I'm not sure it's all his fault &#x96; the script is so slow and dull.This movie got a big play and promotion in its day, and it did well at the box office. Probably because people were expecting a glamorous romance. What surprises me today though, is the high rating this film apparently has received by so many viewers. It's a 7.8 average from nearly 108,000 viewers in early 2015. Maybe there are more dreamers today than I thought, or people just like seeing the glitz and goofiness of the artsy set of the mid-20th century. But the film didn't fool those who count. In a year that had just modest competition for quality films, it won two Oscars and had three more nominations, including Hepburn as best actress. The awards were to Henry Mancini and Johnny Mercer for the song of the year, Moon River, and to Mancini for the movie score.But for Hepburn and Moon River &#x96; and that is a lot, I can't see how film would be worth more than five stars today. Or, are there still that many starry-eyed dreamers who enjoy such slow and aimless films? "},{"Title":"Cat!","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's sees Holly Golightly, a fascinating character played by Audrey Hepburn, earning a living by 'dating' rich men while she bumps into her new neighbour, Fred (played by George Peppard), who also becomes slowly fascinated by her. Despite Holly's plans, scraping up money in her own way, she and Fred eventually come together and she realises that there's more to her life than just receiving some kind of income to survive and to help out her brother in the army.I appreciate the tale of self-discovery, finding out who you are through the means of romance but Breakfast at Tiffany's takes much too long to reach some sort of conclusion and when it does, there's nothing else to really emphasise that it's a (long-term) happy ending. The pacing is much too slow, lingering on scenes that could be cut a lot shorter, and the humour (with Mr Yunioshi) is pretty terrible. Having checked out ratings and reviews for the film beforehand, I was disappointed and felt like I hadn't learnt much from the 1 hr 54 mins spent watching the film.Breakfast at Tiffany's is not exactly a bad film but one that drags on too long with no satisfying ending, resulting in an easy 'miss' for me. "},{"Title":"Oh, the littering...","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What stood out for me in this movie were the amount of littering done by the main characters that throw the cigarettes wherever and whenever they feel, and also very unnecessary and unfunny caricature of the Japanese tenant. I suppose I notice these kind of rather secondary details when there's not much in the movie to be entertained by. Everything else was forgettable. The love story is pretty lame, you can't relate to the main characters; Holly character is phony while Paul Varjak is as pathetic as it gets, but this is I guess the trademark of romantic comedies. Anyways, the movie bears historical significance so I'll let it slide with 6/10 ) "},{"Title":"Well-remembered, but flawed","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've been catching up on Audrey Hepburn movies lately, and of course this is the best remembered of the lot. It's a super-stylish romantic comedy in the days when the genre still elicited laughs, rather than the groans coming out of cineplexes these days.My problem with BREAKFAST IS TIFFANY'S lies in the script, which presents the Hepburn character as one of those annoyingly air-headed bimbos who spends the whole film at the mercy of her own ignorance. There's nothing wrong with Hepburn, who nails the character perfectly, just the slightly irritating childlike persona. She's not really a person to fall in love with, more like somebody who needs sectioning.Still, the rest of the film is well-made, beautifully shot and rather effective, and the sweet, good-natured comedy works well. It's rare for me to see George Peppard in a romantic role, but he acquits himself well with the material. This certainly isn't my favourite Hepburn movie - I can't help but feeling it's slightly overrated - but on the other hand I can see why it's regarded as a classic by most. "},{"Title":"... Is like casting pearls before swine (tv)","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm a sort of Saint Thomas and i believe in what i see. Thus, this movie was interesting for me as it's labeled as  a classic, that Edwards is considered as comedy genius and that Natalie Portman is the new Hepburn. Now, i can react it's true that Natalie and Miss Hepburn really share something together with their shining eyes, their gentle attitude. Maybe Miss Hepburn is a bit more nervous and talk more but Natalie is still young. Next, Edwards is overrated i didn't find the movie really funny. The Japanese character was particularly irritating and the pace was at least very tedious. A lot happens in interior sets and nothing is done to bring breath. The only good moment was their discovery trip in NYC (maybe 15 minutes) and the cat is the only one to make me laugh! As a classic, it's a bit unworthy sure, as a 60s movie, you can see that the world changes and especially the woman condition Miss Hepburn is single, smokes, drinks, organizes parties to find the perfect bachelor. But this path for autonomy is just a lie as the man power crushed it if i have well understood, colonel hannibal just says to her that the only way to live a full life is to become her wife! It's all the more insulting that as usual this man doesn't really have a work (he is writer!). In conclusion, if you want to have fun with a old movie about a original neighbor, prefer the 7 year itch with Marilyn! "},{"Title":"Breakfast at Tiffany's","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's is a classic romance film based in the early nineteen sixties. It portrays a young, charming woman named Holly, who meets her new, handsome neighbor, Paul. This timeless tale of a flighty girl who meets a boy, girl and boy fall in love, boy and girl squabble, and ends with the inevitable girl and boy live happily ever after, is acted out marvelously by Audrey Hepburn (Holly) and George Peppard (Paul). This fairy-tale-like film is chock-full of powerful symbolism. The youthful socialite, Holly, owns a yellow-orange alley cat that is nameless. She refuses to name the cat for the reason being that she believes the playful feline does not belong to her. This unwillingness to name the cat represents her refusal to settle down. To reinforce the idea of her unwillingness to settle down, the audience learns that Holly (formally Lula Mae) once was married and had a family. She could not fully be happy living the average family life, so she dashed off to New York City, leaving her family behind. An obvious symbol in the movie given the title of the film is the jewelry store, Tiffany's. This extravagant building is the place Holly goes to break away from the pressures of her life; it is her safe haven. As Batman had his underground lair, Holly has her New York City jewelry store. Holly has to learn to let Tiffany's go, as she cannot hide there any longer. Another symbol is Holly's reoccurring use of her dark sunglasses to hide her eyes. The sunglasses represent the idea that Holly is afraid to get too close to others. The shades are a physical way in which she can block the outside world&#x97;like a mask. The idea of a mask is seen once again when Paul and Holly steal masks from a local store in the city. Both Holly and Paul live under the thumb of others. They shape their personalities around who they believe others want them to be. Holly falls under the wing of O. J. Berman, her agent, when she arrives in New York. Berman teaches her to ditch her country accent and start dressing in the latest designer clothes. Because Holly begins dating José, a South American millionaire, she reads books about South America and changes her apartment to reflect the culture of José's southern continent. This means that she bends her personality to fit in with who she believes she is supposed to be. In present day America, I feel as if almost all adolescent s or young adults do this before finding a place or identity in the world. Paul has the same temperament as Holly. In the beginning of the film, he is under the influence of his designer and older mistress. He follows her command. Both Holly and Paul gradually learn to be themselves and to let others 'opinions not affect them. Because the pivotal scenes happen in the early hours of the morning, the audience can sense the film will more than likely have a feel-good ending. Having the prominent scenes transpire in the bright-sunshiny morning allows the characters to have the rest of the day to work out the problems that troubled them in the morning. This classic romantic film does not just pull the audience in to the storyline, but hauls, shoves, and drags. The exceptional performances by Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard help construct the feeling that this film is a modern day 1960's fairy-tale in the Big City. Perhaps I am just a sucker for romance films. Before watching Breakfast at Tiffany's, I knew it is common to pretend to be someone else to fit in. Being a socialite, Holly bends her personality to have others accept her as one of their own. As the film progresses, she learns that being herself will help her find true happiness. As Fiona in the film Shrek learns that being an ogre, her true identity, will land her the man she will be happy with, Holly learns the same lesson in Breakfast at Tiffany's. I believe this film will allow the audience to come to the same conclusion; being yourself is the best way to go. "},{"Title":"Starring Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard","Date":"26 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Paramount Pictures assigned Blake Edwards and Martin Jurow to bring to the screen Truman Capote's Breakfast At Tiffany's. Marilyn Monroe was Capote's choice and Blake Edwards favored Kim Novak who turned the film down to Kim's regret (Kim mentioned this on Larry King Live). Good for us and movie history that the sublime Audrey Hepburn played Holly Golightly. While I am an admirer of both Marilyn Monroe-to me MM is the Greatest Femme Star of all time, and Kim Novak truly an under-appreciated Star and recently tabbed by USA Today as the box office queen of the 50's- it is now impossible to think of anyone other than Audrey Hepburn as our 'Huckleberry Friend'.Henry Mancini's memorable Moon River and a breakout performance by elegant handsome George Peppard add to the magic of this film. Peppard an MGM contract player was loaned by MGM to Paramount. Mr. Peppard brings sturdy masculine strength to the role of Paul. Patricia Neal gives fine support to the two Stars; Mickey Rooney is miscast.Kudos to Blake Edwards, Martin Jurow, George Peppard and Paramount Pictures, and most of all Audrey Hepburn, for a great classic movie. "},{"Title":"A Real Phony","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Blake Edwards' greatest visibility has been as a director of comedy. His comedies themselves display great diversity, from the pratfalls and high-jinks of the Pink Panther films to the utter sophistication of a film like Breakfast at Tiffany's, with which he earned a reputation as a director of stylish, urbane comedy. This is impressive when one looks at the rest of his comic body of work, from Inspector Clouseau well into the 1980s and '90s, which predominantly brandishes a profound respect for the silent slapstick tradition wherein the process of structuring physical comedy takes precedence over dialogue, theme, plot and character development; the structure of the comedy becomes all of those things. But Tiffany's is a very complex and almost painfully cosmopolitan film.When it comes to cinematic fashion and romance, few are more fetishistic than this fun-loving Sunday drive of a movie, an imaginative but unworkable fantasy comprised of uneven portions of farce, flirtation, intensity, broad comic facial expressions and Manhattan's most flamboyant East Side districts staged in the most saturated colors. Most notably perhaps, this is a showcase for Audrey Hepburn. And it isn't just the countless costume changes, although style and elegance have always been her defining characteristics (thanks to this film to a major degree). Indeed this is not the easiest role. It needs her to do more than smile at the camera and protract her lines, although Holly initially seems to be little more than a scatterbrained, well-to-do woman about town, the more we get to know her, the more we glean the displacement and longing that've led her to cling to her present situation. Holly has low self-respect and a history she's not proud of, and she has surrounded herself with beaming, ostentatious objects in an endeavor to give herself a degree of cozy complacence. She's a sham, but, in the words of a supporting character, she's a real phony. Opposite her, playing striving writer Paul Varjak, is George Peppard, who for at least one movie gets to stand in the limelight, although the script asks little scope of Peppard, and consequently, his performance seems fairly flat. He and Hepburn create a persuasive connection. Their interplay has a light-hearted, accustomed texture to it, getting us to feel that their characters have a rapport.In any case, however, the film has been criticized for its portrayal of the character Mr. Yunioshi, Holly's bucktoothed, stereotyped Japanese neighbor, played by Mickey Rooney, and rightly so. This ridiculous role brings the film down a couple of major notches. Rooney wore Yellowface to change his features to a caricatured approximation of a Japanese person. Even beyond the lack of good taste, if there's a reason for the presence of the character, it's not on the screen. Producer Richard Shepherd apparently apologized, saying he'd be thrilled with the film where it not for this cheap and extraneous caricature. Also, supposedly, Edwards himself stated that upon reflection he greatly regrets it. But it's there, a degrading example of white people controlling what it means to be Asian on stage and screen, an example of overt racism common to the times.That aside, this account of a party girl in love with a sensitive stud lets Edwards fashion a very aristocratic film, with pleasant Technicolor photography by Franz Planer. The final scene leaves an equally pleasant taste in one's mouth, a humane self-contained story that you can make maple syrup out of, though if you aren't moved by it you likely rape kittens Se7en-style.Taken as a superficial mythological poem, Breakfast at Tiffany's has a sort of charisma. "}{"Title":"This movie is watchable because of Audrey Hepburn","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are movies that are loved because of the cast, the music and style, not for the interesting plot, wonderful characterizations or snappy dialogue. This famous movie, Breakfast at Tiffany, has been lovingly regarded for years because of the wonderful Audrey Hepburn and the talented Henry Mancini. Moon River is one of the best movie songs ever. But there is, surprisingly, not much to say overall about this movie.Two prostitutes become friends. George Peppards' role could have been played by anyone breathing and Micky Rooney was too ridiculous to be funny. The always superb Patricia Neal did not have much to do. Only Buddy Epsen moved me.There are a few noteworthy scenes. But, Breakfast at Tiffany's is the best example I've seen of a lovely cake with a big hole in the middle. "},{"Title":"Hepburn is lovely...not your average romantic comedy...","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" in fact it is hard to classify this and not call it a classic, an easy trap to fall into. The pablum we are offered today offered up as romantic comedy is sad indeed Audrey Hepburn is simply beautiful, simply perfect as Holly Golightly, a lost girl with no direction. A girl in NYC trying to find a way out of her desperation.George Peppard is a young man being kept by Patricia Neal, a NY socialite. They befriend each other, and Peppard meets Doc (effectively portrayed by Buddy Ebsen ) a Texas country doctor whose wife ran away and left him with the kids. A story like this is believable to us because Hepburn makes it so. ...Lets get a drink darling..., she asks Peppard, so as to forget 'Doc', the past she has left behind.Blake Edwards creates a few moody scenes here; NY in its heyday as the backdrop- Holly with her over-crowded parties. Martin Balsam is very good as O.J. Berman, Hollywood producer. Jose Luis Villalonga as one of Holly's potential husbands, until he bows out. The Rooney character as Yunioshi is typecast, and annoying at times, but the rest of the film works.It is interesting that Capote wrote this with Monroe in mind. Anyone who has read Monroes biographies can easily picture her in NY, wandering, searching for a connection.This is probably the only romantic comedy which combines drama realistically and draws in the audience. I do not agree with other reviews which have noted this is now a cult classic, and not Hepburns best. 'Sabrina' for example, seems less accessible to audiences today. This is a very human and affecting film, and who can ever forget Moon River?. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Two neighbors relationship with one another","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie tremendously! Audrey Hepburn plays this role perfectly. No doubt about that. Tears came into my eyes, roars of laughter took over the room, and souls were filled, and are still being filled, and will be filled for years to come. Tears came into my eyes especially towards the end when Holly and Paul were riding the taxi on the way to the airport. I was so frightened when I thought Holly was going to marry that Brazillian Millionaire, but true love took over, which made me so happy. Laugher came when Holly was having that party, and all of those people were drunk. The overall romantic feel of it made my soul, especially, lighten. It's that strange way movies affect people. Audrey Hepburn really brought out the character of Holly Golightly, as did George Peppard did for Paul Varjak. "},{"Title":"One of the best ever ...","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So much works well here.  Acting, direction, screenplay,leading players' chemistry, great character actors in supporting roles, the brilliant use of New York City at that time ... and the scenes inside Tiffany's. It was 1961 and it is important, when making any judgements about this film, that the viewer keep in mind the period.  The '50s had ended and young people were ripe for progress ... and for romance.  Capote's novel made a beautiful transition to the screen ... but the attempt to turn it into a Broadway musical later with Mary Tyler Moore and Richard Chamberlain proved to be such a disaster that its producer, David Merrick, closed it in previews rather than let it have an official opening night, which would have insured that it would have gone into the books as a major flop show ... something Merrick did not want on his record as a producer. This is one I recommend highly to friends who, somehow, have not seen it yet.  It is also a great film for young students to watch.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Audrey Hepburn plays a party girl Holly Golightly and George Peppard a writer Paul Varjak.As persons they're very different from each other but that doesn't mean they can't fall in love.Breakfast at Tiffany's (1961) is based on Truman Capote's novel.It's directed by Blake Edwards, a great director who received an honorary Oscar at the last Academy Awards.The cast is superb.Hepburn's performance in this movie is really something to remember.She was an amazing actress.Peppard is also brilliant.There are also other great actors there, like Patricia Neal as 2-E, Jose Luis de Villalonga as Jose da Silva Pereira, Mickey Rooney as Mr Yunioshi and of course Orangey as Cat.At times this can be a very hilarious movie, like where Holly and Paul steal those masks.Then it can turn into very dramatic movie.So you can both laugh and cry while watching this movie.The ending was really wonderful.This is a movie for you to see if you like classics. "},{"Title":"Fabulous and cheerful I never get tired of Breakfast at Tiffany's","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *Breakfast at Tiffany's*Breakfast at Tiffany's is not for the cold hearted.  It's a very lovely and enjoyable movie from start to bittersweet end.  Audrey Hepburn is the real delight of this film, her presence outshines that of Peppard.  The song Moon River is gorgeous, and whenever I hear it I get all nostolgic.  It is in fact the only movie that really cheers my up on a rainy day, sometimes even just a bad day.  There is so much to love in this film.Audrey Hepburn.  What can I say that hasn't already been said?  She's incredible.  The fact that she can't act is not even visable.  She SHINES in this movie, she has grace, poise.  She's gorgeous and urbane.  You never cease to lose interest in Hepburn as Holly Golightly.  Her strange habits and bold opinions are as funny as they are amusing.  Peppard is okay, suave and gorgeous.  But his character (and every other character) just aren't Audrey Hepburn.This movie is more than just a love story.  It's kind of an ode to New York in the same way Sex in The City is.  It just makes you want to run away to New York and become a socialite in your perfect little black dress and over-sized sunglasses.*10/10* "},{"Title":"Full course breakfast!","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Give Hollywood some grudging credit.  To date, they've resisted the urge to do a remake of this classic.  And it's a good thing too, because you truly can't improve on perfection.  I mean can you imagine Nicole Kidman as Holly Golightly?  Or Demi Moore?  Or worse yet, the utterly talent-free Meg Ryan?  Hopefully we'll never live to see something like that. Knowing this movie by reputation only I was completely unprepared for the effect it had on me.  This movie has it all.  Humor, pathos, characters who are wholly believeable(except for Mickey Rooney as a Japanese landlord!  What on earth were they thinking?), and touchingly played-all the way down to the part of the Cat.  The reason this movie works can be summarized in 2 words Audrey Hepburn.  There simply aren't enough superlatives to describe her performance here.  The part of Holly could have turned into a mawkish caricature in lesser hands, but Audrey grabs the part by the horns and turns in the performance of a lifetime.  Nobody but nobody could have played the part better This movie pushes every emotional button possible, and it does so in such a way that while you know your emotions have been manipulated you don't mind at all. Just a theory, but I think the reason the movie works so well lies in the character of Holly herself.  Holly truly is a universal figure.  There are Hollys everywhere.  We either know them personally, or whether or not we're willing to admit it we probably have a little or a lot of her in ourselves. Psychology aside watch this movie.  I've written several reviews but have NEVER recommended a movie this enthusiastically.  Easily a 10 on 10.        "},{"Title":"Fun, lovely piece of fluff","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After having read the novella twice (once ten years ago, once last year), I decided to see the re-release on the big screen. While I've always thought Audrey Hepburn was classy and glamorous, I didn't picture her as this character. So the degree of authenticity and vulnerability she brought to the role surprised me somewhat. I thought she did a very good job. I had heard that Capote wanted Marilyn Monroe for the part. That I could picture very easily, and it would have been interesting to see her do it also--she would have added a softer, less chic dimension. Visually it was great fun to watch. Hepburn's outfits and makeup are wonderful. Along with the music, they mix that dash of 60s lounge into the classic Hollywood film atmosphere, and she and George Peppard look very good and have good chemistry together on screen. Plus, what a fantastic party she threw--I wanted to be there. There were some very funny moments at the party.At the risk of being pc, I really disliked Micky Rooney's Mr. Yunioshi character, or should I say caricature. It detracted from the movie for me. Rooney would have been fine as a regular neighbor with his own look, because his bumbling was funny and slapsticky, but I truly found his fake Japanese accent, makeup and buckteeth, etc, very offensive. I think I would have still found his portrayal offensive in 1961, although it's hard to tell how I'd react in a different social climate. But overall, there are so many lovely scenes in the movie that I still really enjoyed it. It's not that profound, especially with the different ending. The novella is. But the scene of them kissing in the rain...classic Hollywood glamor that is to die for! Lovely filming. I'd give this a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This movie has everything.","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has everything, slapstick comedy courtesy of Mickey Rooney, Smart and Cool comedy from Martin Balsam, as well as the obvious romantic pairing of Hepburn and Peppard, which in my opinion may be the best ever.  But there are plenty of serious moments that wrench your heart.  Hearing about Holly and Doc's relationship made me think.  While Hepburn was perfect for the role of Holly, Peppard was almost as equally entertaining.Best Scene When Holly finally realizes who she belongs to.Funniest Scene  Paul asking if Tiffany's can have the Cracker Jack box ring engraved.This is a must see for a fan of Romantic comedy's and of course Audrey Fans.  You will regret it if you don't. "},{"Title":"An absolute must see, Audrey Hepburn's best performance ever!","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Audrey Hepburn has never been better, she is Holly Golightly, and Holly is her.  The fashion in the movie is stunning and Hepburn was dressed wonderfully. George Peppard is the caring, sincere man that loves Holly enough to save her from herself. Yet each of them is lost in dead relationships only to finally find each other at the end. Lucky for us the movie does not end like the book.  The book is good, but it does not end on such a high point as the movie. It is still a must read though to get the full story behind Miss Golightly. "}{"Title":"A romantic comedy with a serious undertone","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ~Breakfast at Tiffany's (1961) ***** A romantic comedy with a serious undertone This is my third favorite among Audrey Hepburn films. First is Roman Holiday and the second is My Fair Lady. But playing the part of Holly Golightly (Truman Capote's unique creation) in Breakfast at Tiffany's is I think Audrey Hepburn's most challenging role. Her character is subtle and complex while George Axerod's excellent script and Blake Edwards's fine direction require a wide range of expression. Her performance is for the most part outstanding and certainly captivating as is usual with Miss Hepburn. There are moments of pure delight as when she sings Moon River sitting on her window sill on the fire escape and then looks up and sees Fred AKA Paul (George Peppard) and smiles that very winning smile at him. Ah, to have Audrey Hepburn smile at you! I also loved the scene when she enters Fred's apartment and lets him know she has figured everything out and then asks to snuggle with him and puts her head on his chest so sweetly, like the innocent little girl she once was.But of course Holly Golightly is not innocent. She is a poseur, a fake, or as Berman puts it, a real phony. She is the kind of poseur you meet in any big city, a quasi-sophisticate who, like the real life Paris Hilton, is more or less famous or well known for being famous or well known. She is also&#x85;well, perish the thought, but she makes a living by taking advantage of men, or like a geisha by entertaining them. I read somewhere that Marilyn Monroe turned down the part of Holly Golightly because she or her agent felt that playing a prostitute would not be good for her career! The way Audrey Hepburn plays the part, and indeed the very character of the real-life Audrey Hepburn herself, precludes any thought that Capote's upscale big city waif could be anything so crass as a prostitute! This is of course a love story, a romantic comedy and a splendid one. Paul Fred Varjak is a writer being kept by 2-E (Patricia Neal in an unattractive role that she should have turned down). Paul is at the stage of his career when he begins to falter and lose confidence in his ability, and--as Holly notices--fails to even have a ribbon in his typewriter. He has become a poseur himself, a man posing as a writer who is really just a gigolo. It is part of the magic of the script that one can hope that somehow his love for Holly will inspire him to regain confidence in his ability as a writer and allow him to throw off the shackles of being kept by an older woman.Miss Golightly herself has other plans. She wants to marry a millionaire and live happily ever after. She has a beloved brother (the real Fred) who will be getting out of the army soon. He is a little bit slow and probably will not be able to take care of himself. She believes that if she marries well she will be able to take care of him. But in truth Holly Golightly is in escape from her past, from being the country girl Lula Mae who married an older man when she was 14-years-old. She ran away from the country and hid in the city. She wouldn't be the first. She never wants to test herself; she will not fall in love. She subsists on a diet of rats and super rats and finally on a scared little mouse and none of them make for a good subsistence. Can't she see that she needs to love and to allow herself to be loved? Mickey Rooney as Mr. Yunioshi, a buck-toothed Japanese man, is a hoot and holler and amazingly transformed. Also stealing a few scenes from Audrey Hepburn (if that's possible) is cat, or as I understand, several orange tabby cats who play the part of Golightly's cat who has no name and is only called cat. (Obviously she hadn't read T.S. Eliot's poem on The Naming of Cats otherwise she would know, as all cat lovers know, that every cat must have at least two different names.) Okay, for the fun of it, here's a speculation on a theme that may someday become a PhD dissertation at some place like UCLA or USC Was Holly Golightly a kind of Truman Capote alter ego, a kind of person he would have liked to have been, perhaps the object of the desire of the man that Truman Capote wanted to attract? Perhaps Holly Golightly is the soul mate of George Peppard's character. It is interesting to analyze or attempt to analyze Breakfast at Tiffany's in terms of Truman Capote's psyche. It's almost impossible to think about her character without thinking about him. Perhaps it is better to just experience the character of Holly Golightly without the realization that she is the creation of Truman Capote. Knowing who Truman Capote was forces us to think about Holly Golightly in a way we would not if she had been the creation of someone what was not gay. One thinks of Elton John's tribute to Marilyn Monroe in his song Candle in the Wind and wonders if being a gay man somehow gives one a unique sense about women.Or perhaps the story is just an elaborate joke that Truman Capote played on the world.At any rate the bottom line is that Breakfast at Tiffany's is a totally original, sweet and delightful romantic comedy with all the fluff we expect in a romantic comedy with only a hint of the stark realism of the world.--Dennis Littrell, author of Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! "},{"Title":"Ms. Hepburn - unforgettable","Date":"30 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's has given Hollywood cinema some of its most unforgettable images, all involving Audrey Hepburn. She stars as Holly Golightly in what is probably her most iconic role, although her best performance may have been her debut in Roman Holiday (1953). Standing outside Tiffany's dressed in a little black dress in the memorable opening scene, carrying her elegant cigarette holder, singing the Oscar-winning Moon River, searching for her cat in pouring rain all images engraved in cinema-goer's memory.Hepburn, arguably the most beautiful Hollywood actress ever, lights up the screen from start to finish. Director Blake Edwards depicts her as a girl living off gifts of men, however in Truman Capote's novella she is clearly a call girl. Marilyn Monroe was originally imagined for the role, but turned it down fearing playing a prostitute would be bad for her image.George Peppard is understated and effective as writer Paul Varjak, while the supporting cast includes Mickey Rooney's controversial Mr. Yunioshi. New York is captured beautifully, whereas Henry Mancini's score also won an Oscar.A thoroughly enjoyable film, not quite up there with the real greats of romantic comedy, but definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Gave me a Smile on my Face","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was very intrigued by the story telling and direction style of Blake Edwards after watching his Pink Panther series, and thus wanted to explore some of his other noted work.Thus I came across this movie which is a perfect embodiment of the style of Edwards. Based on the novel by the famous writer Truman Capote, this movie can be interpreted in different ways by different viewers. Some may call it an out and out chick flick because the story revolves around a New York neurotic woman played by Hepburn, Some may call it a comedy because of the presence of intelligent humor, some may even call it a racist movie for the controversial depiction of Asians (Japanese to be precise) and Some may even call it a movie which is very much ahead of its times. I agree to all these difference of opinions.About the performances, I purely believe that this movie would not have been even half impressive if not for the excellent portrayal by Audrey Hepburn. She is a livewire on screen, you just cannot take your eyes off her. If there is a list of excellent portrayals who were denied the Oscar, this particular performance will surely be in that list. I have to mention the Cat (Hepburn's Unnamed Roommate in the movie) which probably is the most famous cat in Hollywood. The Japanese neighbor portrayed by Rooney was hilarious. Her Love interest played by Peppard was impressive. Overall, it gave me a smile on my face.Rating  8/10 "},{"Title":"Melancholy charm","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" thru and thru.If you are bitter and have a black heart you won't like this film. If you love things that are true, bittersweet, tinged with melancholy and have a fairy-tale ending you will love it. The scene where Paul buys Holly a gift for under 10 dollars is especially charming.Despite some of the empty-headed reviews on here, the film does hold up well. For some reason many reviewers get angry when a film actually reflects the period in which it was filmed. This film does that and does it beautifully. Blake Edwards was very cognizant of this fact and was purposeful in his use of cinematography and dialog choices. The film was cast well and provides a nice segue from the 50's into the 60's. The film acknowledges the loss of innocence which is about to hit the 60's generation broaching topics like prostitution, self-centeredness, taboo sex, manipulation, self-delusion, coolness, disassociation, self-isolation, insecurity overload, loss of integrity, etc.This film has earned a high rating on IMDb and deservedly so. "},{"Title":"The Unhappy Hooker","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film calls to mind the celebrated Brooks Atkinson quote in his review of the first production of Pal Joey in 1940. Acknowledging that the Rodgers and Hart score was up to snuff likewise the acting he then drew attention to the fact that the entire cast were low-lifes, heels and/or worse and asked 'Can you draw sweet water from a foul well?' It's a question we may well ask of this movie; ostensibly it's a sumptuous, sophisticated, feel-good chick flick but the only problem is that he's a gigolo and she's a hooker-lite. Truman Capote wrote a novella that was close to Christopher Isherwood's Goodbye To Berlin in which a gay writer (Isherwood/Capote) 'observed' a hooker (Sally Bowles/Holly Golightly) albeit 'quirky' and/or 'fascinating' but still a hooker. George Axelrod, working presumably with helmer Blake Edwards has fashioned a screenplay in which a gay 'observer' has become a heterosexual gigolo and the hooker is actually WORSE than a real hooker because she willingly and knowingly accepts cash from men on the tacit understanding that sex is on the menu and then skips out on them via the powder room - having first extracted another fifty dollars for the alleged purpose. At least the gigolo (George Peppard, aka Mr Mahogany) delivers though even here one could argue that Patricia Neal isn't exactly chopped liver - in reality he'd be humping someone who looked like Marjorie Main - whilst the hooker remains a hooker who isn't. It's obvious that a lot of viewers have chosen to ignore the sordidness and enjoy the surface which is, of course, glamor personified. It IS enjoyable, especially when Hepburn is on the screen and if Peppard IS wooden, so what. They wear elegant clothes, mix with elegant people and inhabit a Manhattan with nary a mugger or bag lady to its name. If it's escapism you want look no further and DON'T look beneath the surface veneer. "},{"Title":"A True Classic","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, i think my summary pretty much sums up how i feel about this film. From seeing Holly as the selfish, gold digger that she appears to be until she finally accepts who is she is in a classic finale this film just delivers the class of a time long gone. And as for those who wonder why everyone loves the ending so much, i think Audrey Hepburn explained it best... Cat is a no-name, no-home animal who doesn't really fit anywhere and basically so is Holly, so when she finds Cat, she finds herself! Everything fits in this movie, Hepburn is as charming as ever and she sings Moon River with so much feeling that it doesn't matter that she doesn't have the strongest voice. She made this song hers and no one else's version comes close.So to everyone that hasn't watched this yet, where have you been? Watch it, enjoy it and love it just like the rest of us.... because we're crazy about Breakfast at Tiffany's!!! "},{"Title":"Loneliness, New York City, and a cute orange cat well captured","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I suffer from bipolar disorder.  I grew up in New York.  I understand what it means to be lonely, unhappy, chasing after the rainbow's end, and finding solace in a discarded cat.Sure, there are flaws.  Almost everything in life is flawed.  And the stuff with Mickey Rooney was grossly unacceptable.  I'm Chinese, by the way.  But as with many a work, I find that if there is profound resonance for me, and if those resonances can be expressed as elegantly as Audrey Hepburn, Blake Edwards, and Henry Mancini did, then it deserves a 9 out of 10. I watched this film the night my little cocker spaniel, Cinnamon, died at the obscenely young age of six.  It made me feel a little less lonely, a little less angry at life.  The ending was not to my liking either, but the film was so good already. I thought that George Peppard was wonderful in his role also.And wasn't that the cutest cat?  How about that scene where Audrey throws him out of the cab and then we see him looking wet with his paws on the railing?  Is that face to die for or what?The party scene was ridiculously funny.And the feel of New York was so well captured.  People are too skinny in NY says Jed Clampett.  True, too spiritually starved.  New York can suck the life out of you.  But New York is also a place of hope, a place for dreamers, a place to find inspiration for writing, a place to build a future out of nothing.Finally, the scene where Peppard discovers Audrey Hepburn on the fire escape singing Moon River - has there ever been a more beautiful scene in film?  Audrey graces us with her divinity here.  A simple scene - a beautiful, comfortable, elegant, comely daughter of a Dutch baroness, singing a sad, smiling song.  And that really was her singing. The word remake should never be mentioned around this film.  This truly was a beautiful piece of American art.  "},{"Title":"If only female leads could learn a thing or two from Audrey","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Words are not enough to describe how wonderful and captivating Audrey Hepburn is in this movie. She absolutely shines from scene one till the end (except perhaps the very last scene, where she clearly overacts). Her presence transforms Breakfast at Tiffany's from an average light romantic comedy to one of the sweetest movies ever. Moreover, Blake Edwards and Henry Mancini expertly craft the NY atmosphere of the time with their direction and music. A final word about the usual book-movie comparison This is not Capote's novel on screen. But one has to admit that the film gets around the dark and profligate mood of the novel with genuine style. "},{"Title":"A True Classic","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Audrey Hepburn has been in a lot of great movies, but this film is the one that made her my favorite actress. She brought an innocent quality to Holly Golightly, a character who, as everyone who has read Truman Capote's book knows, isn't at all innocent. You forget while watching the film that Holly is a call girl and start to focus on the other elements of the character. George Peppard, Patricia Neal, and Buddy Epson are good in their roles too, but Hepburn really stands out. "},{"Title":"Blake Edwards' masterpiece","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Legendary director Blake Edwards is at the peak of his considerable powers with this 1961 Paramount release. Comedy, drama and romance are all successfully blended in this tale the love affair going on between playgirl Audrey Hepburn and writer George Peppard. A great supporting cast and great soundtrack help to propel this early 1960's classic.  "}{"Title":"The Bomb","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the bomb! No matter how bad things get in the world, I can always count on this movie to cheer me up.  I know there are things that are outdated and maybe corny, but I just like it.  In part I moved to NY because of this movie.   "},{"Title":"Awesome Audrey","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The most radiant and ravishing actress to hit the big screen, Audrey Hepburn is delightful in this comedy.  Her fascinating face and enchanting eyes are surpassed only by her immense talents.  If you want to see this godsend in a lighthearted devil-may-care role, this is your movie.  If you want to see her in a serious role, check out Wait Until Dark perhaps the greatest acting performance ever achieved by a female.   "},{"Title":"The ultimate Audrey Hepburn movie","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not to say that it is her best film or that it is my favorite Audrey Hepburn film. I think the film is very good, an interesting tale well told and superbly acted. Peppard and Hepburn have wonderful chemistry and the supporting players (Martin Balsam, Patricia Neal, Buddy Ebsen) are all marvelous.I think it is the ultimate Hepburn film because it is a love story, Hepburn, whose appeal was always more to women than to men, (the ultimate woman's woman) wears fabulous Givenchy dresses and it takes place in the sophisticated Upper East Side of New York of the early '60's. Hepburn has one of her best roles and her execution of the role is first rate. I wonder if she should have won her second Oscar as Holly, but that should have happened two years before, in 1959, for The Nun's Story.  Still, when one thinks Hepburn, one immediately thinks of Holly Golightly and her mean reds. The film is racy and sexy and I am so happy that it was made in 1961. Think of how explicit it would be if it were made today. A classic, I can see it time and again. Finally, it has, perhaps one of the best, if not the best opening sequences of any film. It's a terrible pun, but Breakfast at Tiffany's is a real gem. "},{"Title":"An Enchanting Film That Haunts Your Very Being.","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't say much more than the others who adore this film,So I will keep it brief. Breakfast At Tiffany's never fails to enchant me. Audrey Hepburn is so lovely and charming.Her performance of Holly is a screen icon. her restless yearning,the cocked head and gracful laugh,the way she sexily exhales cigarette smoke from her extra long holder. Her charm and kookiness is well matched by the highly underated George Peppard as Paul. Strong support is given by Patricia Neal,Buddy Ebsen and ,yes, even Micky Rooney! Those who complained about the stereotyping are over sensitive. He was a comedic delight! And of course there Is 'Moon River enchantingly sung by the great Audrey. This is a film to watch over and over. Let it carry you away. "},{"Title":"...","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so this wasn't the greatest film ever made and they altered Capote's ending more than a little bit, but I just can't resist Audrey Hepburn. Besides that, there's something special about this film that I just can't put my finger on. It has something which so many films lack these days. Perhaps it's the beautiful score; no matter how many times the Moon River theme appears in the film, it never becomes redundant. Perhaps it's Hepburn's undeniable charm...I don't know. So it's not the most artful film ever made, but it is still one of my favorites...  "},{"Title":"BUtterfield 8 Lite","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cut from pretty much the same cloth as the previous year's BUtterfield 8,the difference in tone is remarkable. This might be atttributed to the generational difference of their heroines' literary antecedants. There are times in this movie when Holly's dumb=cute gets so cloying that you hope that she's heading for the same fate as Gloria Wandrous. But then a future full of George Peppard as a Serious Writer might be a Hollywood ending that carries its own retribution.All this being said, Audrey Hepburn is fabulous (though she seems to have wandered in from another movie and ought to be baffled by what all the fuss is about)and makes it worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Good taste is timeless","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Audrey Hepburn could do no wrong, virtually.  She is perfectly cast in this classic comedy/romance as a free spirit, before that was really fashionable.  She becomes friends with Paul (Peppard) before they fall in love and it feels like a natural progression of a relationship.  Most movies don't bother establishing a friendship first so I appreciated that.Their friendship seems to have developed due to their similar predicaments - Holly Golightly and Paul are subsidized quite often..her by many suitors, and Paul by his interior decorator/lover Patricia Neal.  This is not brought home with a sledgehammer, as you might expect, and makes them seem very human.  When the lovers are not idealized and made out to be saints in a movie, I am grateful.  Aside from Hepburn, George Peppard is very good as well and, for me, made me forget 'The Carpetbaggers', at least for a minute.  Patricia Neal is mature, understanding and a little more vicious than she ever shows.  Her scenes are few and I hope she treated costumer Edith Head to dinner one night - I don't normally notice costumes, but Pat wears a deep blue outfit in one of her last scenes that jumps off the screen.  Martin Balsam is very funny in his couple of scenes, too, and I have to mention John McGiver also.  He works at Tiffany's and has a priceless scene with the leads as they are enjoying a great day in NYC.  Let's not mention Mickey Rooney, okay?A good movie should have several things going for it, and this has them all.  I get goosebumps when I hear 'Moon River' and I heard that song was going to be edited from the final version, which is, of course, unthinkable.Enjoy, always enjoy.  "},{"Title":"romantic and touching, Audrey Hepburn and Hollywood at their best","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  No actress could have been a more perfect Holly Golightly than Audrey Hepburn with her chic thinness and wide-eyed charm; she manages to combine just the right amount of country-girl naiveté with jet-set sophistication, the right amount of honesty with  phoniness  and in doing so has created one of the most memorable characters ever to appear on the silver screen. Accompanied by a wonderful soundtrack from Henry Mancini (Hepburn's rendition of Moon River is unforgettable), an eccentric, lovable cat (poor slob without a name) and a lively portrayal of the jet-setters in a world where you feel nothing can really go wrong,  this is a feelgood film of the first class.The story closely follows the original book by Truman Capote, with one important difference in the film, Holly does not run away to Brazil but decides to stay where her heart is - in New York, with the man she loves. This is not quite in keeping with the real character of Holly Golightly as her name suggests, she is always travelling, and does not want to belong to anyone or have anyone belong to her. However, this is Hollywood, 1961, where Happy Endings are the order of the day... and this is a film that, even forty years later, has lost nothing of its irresistible charm  "},{"Title":"Excellent romantic comedy","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Audrey Hepburn (gorgeous as ever) and George Peppard are fantastic in this very funny romantic comedy. The dialogue is fast flowing, witty and the acting is superb. Holly Golightly (Hepburn) is a fantastic character living it up in New York looking for a rich man to marry. The scene in the 50 cents shop is absolute magic. "},{"Title":"Her greatest performance!","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this film, Audrey plays someone completely out of character and that is perhaps one of the things that makes this film so excellent.Besides Miss Hepburn's excellent acting, the cast had amazing chemistry.  And next to her pairing in Roman Holiday with Gregory Peck, her pairing with George Peppard is one of the greatest in her career.  And might I add that Mickey Rooney's role as Mr. Yunioshi was also just as excellent. I would recommend this film to anyone and everyone, young or old, male or female. "}{"Title":"A film experience that can still sitr my soul.","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I still remember the first time that I saw Breakfast At Tiffany's. It was at a cinema for a friend's birthday on a double feature with Barefoot In The Park, which was enjoyable but not in the same league as this film. My friends and I talked for hours afterwards about the issues that Tiffany's adresses. A film has to  be pretty special to be able to do that.  That is still one of the most unforgettable nights of my life as far as experiencing cinema is concerned; right  next to when I saw a double feature of Bergman's Wild Strawberries & The Seventh Seal. I'm usually fairly cynical as far as romantic movies are concerned. My reason Meg Ryan, but that's another story!  This film cut so beautifully straight to my heart unlike any other film that deals with romance, except maybe Before Sunrise and, more recently, Keeping The Faith. Audrey- what can I say that hasn't already been said. The sequence where she's on the balcony singing  Moon River and the way that she looks up at George Peppard and says Hi just makes me completely melt.  The fact that this film starts off as a light comedy and develops into something a great deal more significant really touched  me, especially the way that it so beautifully expresses the way that people very much need each other in this world. Sure, the way in which Tiffany's tells it story might have a light and fairytale-like quality to it, but to me, that's part of the charm.Above all else, when I'm not involved with anyone on a romantic level, this film is what gives me hope  when I need it. I will never forget that. Minor complaints  Mickey Rooney's character and the line you belong to me, although that is a phenommenal speech George Peppard gives in the taxi about being scared about being put in a cage,  but not realising that you've, in fact, created one for yourself already. Absolutely timeless.  Sure, the climax of this film is very Hollywood, but what's wrong with a little hope? This is one to watch when you've got a bad case of the mean reds. Unforgettable. "},{"Title":"A really great film. My Favorite Actress.","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Audrey Hepburn died too young. She was absolutely the epitome of a gracious and beautiful LADY. She was the standard of grace and form that many tried to mimic without too much success. I can't say enough good about her. When she enters my television via video, I cling to every word she utters. My wife and I both concur, she was the greatest. "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn is Unbelievably Perfect","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Marilyn who?  Who could imagine in a million years anyone else as Holly Golightly.  This is my pick for the best movie of all time.  Every time I see this movie it makes me laugh.  This movie takes you on a rollercoaster like no other, From uncontrollable laughter to utter sadness.  This is the funniest movie of all time and the saddest.  Of course this movie wouldn't have been nearly as good without Harry Mancini's brilliant soundtrack. Buy this movie.         "},{"Title":"I'm just CRAZY about Tiffany's","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Breakfast at Tiffany's is quite possibly one of the best movies of all time. Audrey Hepburn is superb as Holly Golightly, the character she is perhaps best remembered as.  George Peppard, who may not be as well-known as Ms.Hepburn is, delivers a wonderful performance as Paul Varjak.  There is a certain chemistry among the two lead actors, which erupts passionately (although not sexually) on-screen. A wonderfully woven story, Breakfast at Tiffany's allows us to explore the depths of humanity.  Holly has her life set up just so, and her lifestyle suits her just fine.  Paul walks into her life and he shatters her illusion of herself.  Around him, she allows herself to BE herself, not the socialite she becomes when around her usual circle of friends.  With Holly's help, Paul discovers what he wants, and it wasn't what he thought it was. This film is a must-see.  You may even pick up a few pointers from Holly on how to dress and behave in social situations. "},{"Title":"There will never be a couple like this ever again!!","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard were two of the beautiful of their time. In Breakfast at Tiffany's they blend as a couple perfectly even though circumstances are trying to keep them apart. What ever she wore or didn't wear in the film Audrey was simply beautiful as Holly Golightly. George was absolutely gorgeous and quite moody looking which was perfect for this part. The only thing I felt sorry for was Cat. "},{"Title":"Fun, Entertaining, and Delightful Movie","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've never felt so good after watching a movie than I did after watching this.  Yeah, I've seen many classics that were also good movies.  But there's something about this one.  Whether its the characters, story, or whatever.  I can't pinpoint it exactly but I enjoyed every minute of this. Audrey Hepburn was fantastic and George Peppard was just as good.  They make a great onscreen pair.  Whenever I find the time, I'm watching this again. "},{"Title":"Holly in the book is more attractive","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen the movie,Breakfast at Tiffany's and read the book. After I read the book, I watched the movie. The stories were different. In the book, I and Holly are friends till the end. But, In the movie, they love each other at the end. In the book, Holly doesn't want to be possessed by anyone or anything. ''I'' gave her St. Christopher's medal, which was a charm of travel, as a present. But, in the movie, she wants to find a nice husband. In the end, she settled down to be married.And, She lived up to people's expectation. I think Holly in the book is more attractive. But Audrey Hepburn was so pretty. Capote wanted Marilin Monroe to act Holly, but I don't think she looks elegant like Hepburn. She has high sexuality. It's too much.In Japan, Audrey Hepburn is very famous and popular, so a lot of people know the movie. Mickey Rooney acted a Japanese neighbor who were wearing glasses, short, not cool, annoying. It's kind of discrimination. I've heard they used yellow face( It means applying yellow paint to white actors face). Now it is banned because it is discrimination. "},{"Title":"Absolutely fabulous","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie, even after all these years, is my personal favorite. It combines just the perfect amount of comedy and tragedy, fun and sadness. I can't imagine any other actress portraying Holly Golightly, Audrey Hepburn makes the heroine totally lovable and yet tragic at the same time. George Peppard is wonderful and handsome as the neighbor she lovingly names Fred after her younger brother. The whole cast are wonderful in their roles, Mickey Rooney is funny as the oriental neighbor who is constantly annoyed by Holly's shenanigans. I hope that they never try to remake this wonderful, lovely movie, as it could never come close to the original. A must see for movie lovers of all genres. "},{"Title":"Still a prize after all these years.","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is an amazing achievement for Audrey Hepburn. The part was clearly written for Marilyn Monroe. (To think of Hepburn as a backwoods girl is absurd.) Monroe would have made a meal of this and it would have been her signature role. But she was in the midst of her emotional troubles at this time and the role was given to a very different actress in Hepburn who produced a very different Holly Golightly. And yet she did it so well that it became HER signature role instead. It's not unusual for an actor to make a role his own such that you can't picture someone else in the role even thought there are actually many who could have played it. But to take a role intended specifically for another, one for which one does not appear suited, and make that your own&#133;well, that's a great acting achievement. It certainly is Audrey Hepburn's greatest role, a performance with many more complexities than any other she ever gave. It's also a fabulous film. I love beauty emerging form contradiction, like a rhapsody emerging from apparently unrelated themes and musical noises. Here we have something that is at times a wacky comedy, a breezy romance and yet is full of depth and drama. So many things have happened and we have been introduced to so many characters at the end, it's amazing they all fit together. I also like the bravery of doing a story about two people who are basically prostitutes in 1961. It's daring yet there's nothing sleazy about he film because it concentrates on who these people are as people- what they are, not what they do. And the film has the most eclectic cast I can imagine. Romantic heroine Audrey Hepburn. Method actor George Peppard. Sleek man-killer Patricia Neal. Actor's actor Martin Balsam. Old reliable Buddy Ebsen, just before he hammed it up as Jed Clampett, playing a subtle and touching version of the same thing. Mickey Rooney provides the only jarring note with his scenery chewing performance as the Japanese landlord, something we could surely have done without. Did you know that Audrey's gangster sugar daddy is played by Alan Reed, the voice of Fred Flintstone? And don't forget John McGiver's delicate turn as the clerk at Tiffany's. You can debate the virtues of a film into the night. What really counts in the end is Does it stay in the memory vividly years later? Would you like to watch it again? And when you watch it again, does it take you back to when you first saw it? Breakfast at Tiffany's certainly does. It will always be the prize in the cracker-jack box.       "},{"Title":"Thumb down at Tiffany's","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Non-stop talking from Hepburn, with Peppard by her side waiting for his turn to say a few words. This dated, unfunny romantic comedy has hardly any story, and the two main characters are so unreal. Who would believe Hepburn is a high-class hooker and Peppard a novelist kept by a rich woman? Being a Method actor, Peppard didn't even learn how to type a little skillfully before filming.Nevertheless, Audrey claimed the film was her favorite. The only explanation is that she keeps changing beautiful clothes and sings the theme song with her own voice for the first time in a movie.Apart from the stupid party intended to produce some cheap laughs, the scene where Audrey and George first meet in her apartment is also awkwardly handled, as he asks to use her phone, Audrey finds it in a suitcase but George just stands there talking and listening, with hands in his pockets (like every scene he's in). Does he want to use the phone or not?Patricia Neal, as the unlucky rich woman, wrote in her autobiography, 'I dominated him (George) in the original story, and he didn't want to be seen in that way. He and Blake almost had a fistfight. Unfortunately, I said, Let's talk about this, and Blake gave in and shot it his way. I could have killed myself for getting involved. I had fantastic lines, but they wrote my part down for gorgeous George. I always felt that had Blake stood his ground, the film would have been stronger.'Among Blake Edward's comedies, none of them worthy a position in film history, including his famous PINK PANTHER series. The only really funny one is the big budget THE GREAT RACE (1965). Unfortunately, it flopped at box office. "}{"Title":"Two drifters off to see the world","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a little odd watching BREAKFAST AT TIFFANY'S and realizing that of it's main stars only Patricia Neal, Mickey Rooney, and Jose Luis de Villalonga (who played the wealthy Brazilian in the movie) are still alive, as is the director Blake Edwards. Audrey Hepburn, George Peppard, Buddy Ebsen, Martin Balsam, John McGiver, Alan Reed Jr., Stanley Adams, and Dorothy Whitney are all gone, as is Truman Capote and George Axelrod and the cats who played Cat.The city of New York is still a fascinating one, but much of it has changed. For instance, the card catalogs of the 42nd Street Public Library that Holly Golightly and Paul Varjak visit are not in those card drawers as they showed in the film scene. They were photocopied into multi-volume sets of card catalog volumes in the early 1970s, and since then the remainder have been put on computers. Even in the late 1960s and early 1970s the reading room did not have any sculptures in them - just desks and library shelves and the central area to pick up the books you ordered.The period of the film is quite set in New York City in 1959 - 61. Take a look at the Halloween masks on sale in the Woolworth's* that Holly and Paul steal. Among the masks they try on is one of Huckleberry Hound, the Hanna-Barbera cartoon character who was popular in 1960. It is mentioned on this thread that the mask reminds us of the lyrics in MOON RIVER regarding my huckleberry friend. But that reference was to Huckleberry Finn, and his being found on the Mississippi River (possibly the original for the Moon River of the song). It had nothing to do with the cartoon character.(*Come to think of it, Woolworth's itself is a thing of the past - it having gone out of business five years ago.) But the story is still quite compelling, and Holly remains Audrey Hepburn's best remembered performance (even more than her Royal Princess in ROMAN HOLIDAY). Only her performance as Eliza Doolittle in MY FAIR LADY is as recalled by name, and Holly is more glamorous from the start.Holly is not really Holly but Lula Mae Barnes Golightly - one time second wife of Doc Golightly (Ebsen), who tired of country living and got an annulment, and has only tried to get some financial footing to help herself and her brother Fred (who is currently in the army). She has always found life hard (Doc tells Paul that Lula and Fred were caught by him stealing turkey eggs when kids). So Holly discovers that only if she can be a sophisticate can she break her poverty routes. She is discovered by Hollywood movie boss O. J. Berman (Balsam) who classifies her as a real phony, meaning that she really buys the glitz and color he has taught her. But Holly is a call girl, and she has not found the man who can rescue her (and brother Fred) from poverty.She does find a fellow drifter - Paul Varjak, a writer and kept man for wealthy (Mrs. Failenson). He is living in the apartment above Holly's, and the two do become close (in the original story they only become confidants - Paul in the novel is gay). Slowly, in the film Paul finds that Holly is such a fragile type that he falls in love with her - unlike himself she needs protection. But she is determined to hook her millionaire - so she goes after Rusty Trawler the ninth richest man in the world, and Jose Da Silva Pereira - the wealthy Brazilian). In the meantime, to pay the rent between her dates Holly agrees to deliver weather reports from Sing Sing prison, where she visits mobster Sally Tomato (Alan Reed in a really nice little cameo). She is unaware of the meaning of those messages.Holly is something of a classy feather-head, not being able to understand the reports of snow in New Orleans from Uncle Sally, nor being able to understand how she gets under the skin of her neighbor, the photographer Mr. Yunioshi (Mickey Rooney). She drives the latter crazy by her constantly waking him up to let her into the apartment when she forgets her passkey, and also by her loud parties. Yet even Yunioshi is secretly captivated by this annoying neighbor notice how she gets him to calm down by promising to allow him he'll photograph her in the buff.All the performances are fine (of note see Ebsen in his saddest part, as the broken-hearted Doc, but notice too John McGiver's fine salesman at Tiffany's). Rooney's Yunioshi is now considered racist, but it was not seen as such in 1961 - in fact it was normal (compare to Marlon Brando in TEAHOUSE OF THE AUGUST MOON). On the whole the film still is well worth watching. "},{"Title":"classic!!","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Great on-stage presence is always a positive attribute in any actor/actress. Great presence can sometimes make up for a bad performance, bad story or even sometimes both. In Breakfast at Tiffany's, Audrey Hepburn (War and Peace, Always, My Fair Lady) brings her magnetic and charismatic persona to the forefront of a movie that has a fun and witty story, that combined with Hepburn's stellar performance is a classic romantic comedy that will attract non-fans of the film genre and convert them to the church known as Hepburnism.Hepburn stars as Holly Golightly, a New York woman who falls in love with her next door neighbor Paul Fred Varjak, played by George Peppard (PJ, The A-Team, How The West Was Won). Throughout the movie Golightly is on a quest to make herself happy, but conforms to the stereotypical views of society every time. Instead of following her heart, she finds herself dating rich men who have nothing to offer her, thus breaking hearts and making herself miserable in the process. Hepburn shines vibrantly during each and every scene in this movie regardless of if she's crying her eyes out or laughing hysterically. From this movie it is easy to see why Hepburn is highly regarded as a pioneer in great female acting. Hepburn is as beautiful as she is talented, and that is no easy task.Every little nuance Hepburn performs in Breakfast at Tiffany's is either perfectly adorable or un-mistakenly charming. Even during more emotional scenes Hepburn proves in Breakfast At Tiffany's that she is a rare screen gem and that is capable of making people laugh and cry at the same time. Hepburn's eclectic style makes this movie not one to be missed by anyone.Breakfast at Tiffany's is a great example of fantastic movie-making. Blake Edwards did a fantastic job directing this film, as it is soaked in enthusiasm, drama, and smile educing moments throughout. The movie has a fantastic sense of fashion, as Hepburn and Peppard are wearing beautiful and elegant clothes throughout. The music is top notch as it captures the essence of every scene whether it's happy or sad. Overall Breakfast at Tiffany's is a defining film in the Romantic Comedy genre. It makes you laugh as much as it makes you cry, that is if you can shake the beautiful and awe educing trance of Hepburn long enough to pay attention to the movie. "},{"Title":"Sappy romantic comedy made charming by Hepburn","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Quelle movie! Mushy and improbable but a fun, frothy, light hearted bit of romantic fluff meant to be taken as a love story rather than a sociological study. It's a film most notable to me for Audrey Hepburn's amazing performance, her lovely rendition of the haunting, sentimental Moon River from her balcony, and the dramatic rainy ending that foolishly made me cry. Basically it's the classic tale of a damsel in distress and a knight in shining armour who sets forth to rescue her.Holly Golightly is a vibrant and free spirited creature, kept in a New York City apartment by various grateful wealthy men who maintain her apparently glamorous lifestyle. She is desperate for a millionaire husband to take care of her and her beloved brother Fred. Frequently hung over or returning home from an all night outing, Holly is befriended by a handsome, unsuccessful writer named Paul Varjak, who has just moved into her apartment building. Paul doesn't judge Holly as he is in something of a similar position, having a rich lady friend of his own. Holly fears being owned or making any sort of commitment even to her marmalade cat, which she refuses to name lest she grow too attached. Instead she calls this very endearing stray simply Cat. To counteract what she labels the 'mean reds' (worse than the blues), Holly likes to visit Tiffany's which seems to impart to her a sense of security. At the beginning of the movie, she appears breakfasting on coffee and a pastry while window shopping there, hence the title. As for Tiffany's itself, it actually comes across here as quite an obliging, understanding establishment!Audrey Hepburn makes this movie with her marvelous portrayal of the superficially breezy and quirky Holly, actually a very frightened, insecure, vulnerable, and unfulfilled woman. However, I have read that her portrayal of what is essentially a call girl is the one part for which Hepburn herself felt she was miscast. Holly is a gal from humble roots but has adopted a sophisticated veneer and keeps company with assorted phony people. No lady wears her clothes more elegantly than Audrey Hepburn does here, notably the classic little black dress, outrageous wide brimmed hats, pearls, tiaras, and over-sized sunglasses. Also, no other actress could so convincingly invite herself into the bed of a man (presumed naked) with whom she's barely acquainted and still come across as charming and innocent!Paul is portrayed by the handsome blond George Peppard, an actor with whom I was previously unfamiliar. He carries off with sympathetic dignity the role of Holly's stalwart confidante, protector, comforter, and friend who sees beyond her daring, sophisticated facade and falls in love with her. Buddy Epsen plays Doc Golightly, the likable, middle aged, country bumpkin Texan whom Holly married at age 14. Paul's lover and benefactress is played by Patricia Neal. I agree with negative comments made about casting Mickey Rooney as a ridiculous, ranting Oriental landlord. What's the point here? I'm not one to be overly obsessed with political correctness, but this caricature is simply too offensive.There's a cute little sub plot involving Holly's regular visits to a Mafia convict in Sing Sing prison. She is paid to bring him weekly 'weather reports', that is, secret coded mob messages from the outside world. The apartment party scene comes across as a little too absurd and cliché for me to have found funny. Also, Holly & Paul's little shopping spree at the five and dime may be amusing, but it's definitely not laudable! For those in this more enlightened age who object to all the smoking done by the two lead stars, of course this would have been the norm back in that era. Holly herself has a notable cigarette holder a foot or two long. There's a great scene in which Cat (an extremely compelling character!) plays with the holder's bobbing end. Though not truly an outstanding film, it does feature some witty dialogue. Without Audrey Hepburn, it might all have appeared just too silly. However, she has made it into something of a classic by her unforgettable portrayal of this woman who drifts unsuccessfully from one millionaire rat to another, in search of the security and happiness that constantly allude her. In any case, the movie certainly has a real humdinger of an ending. "},{"Title":"Sorry - terrible characters/worse performances","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Both Audrey Hepburn's performance, and the character portrayed, are shallow, unsympathetic, and even annoying. George Peppard was better on the subsequent, cardboard/two-dimensional 'A' Team. At first it seems as if he may have taken a triple-dose of tranquilizers, but even this could not explain the dullness and lethargy of both character and performance - he must have had a Compazine intravenous drip disguised on his person during filming. And Mickey Rooney's character/performance are an insult, not only to the Japanese, but all persons of Oriental heritage. The insult is not due to parodying them, but in the awfulness of this portrayal. The performances of Holly's South American big-shot swain, and her estranged husband (by Buddy Ebsen) are also insipid and weak. (Ebsen's television Barnaby Jones' portrayal was Shakespearean by comparison.) The best performance, and most interesting character, here, are on the part of Holly's cat (named, unimaginatively, Cat). This name demonstrates, again, the weakness of both film and character. Two stars is generous. "},{"Title":"Pros Great leads, intriguing story. Cons Cartoon racism, elevator-music score","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I hate Moon River, one of the syrupiest songs ever written. In spite of all the love he gets for this, I think it's one of Mancini's worst scores; it's just elevator music, and at times it set my teeth on end, most notably when it banged away at the emotional ending. On the other hand, the story is entertaining, and the leads are delightful. While I would be curious to see the role of Holly Golightly played by Capote's first choice, Marilyn Monroe, and I don't think this is nearly Hepburn's best role, she is quite good. I was even more impressed by Peppard's understated performance. He manages to create a distinct persona when much of the script simply has him saying sure, okay. That's not easy. He's the perfect foil for Holly.Overall, the movie is a mix of strength and weakness. There are some other excellent performances, like Buddy Epson and the salesclerk at Tiffany's, but Patricia O'Neal's part is underwritten and Mickey Rooney's buck- toothed Japanese caricature is a problem not only because of a nowadays rather stunning racism most people were unaware of at the time but also because the part was far too cartoonish for the tone of the rest of the film, one of the many occasions where Hollywood has put shrill comic relief into a comedic film. It's a shame he's such a strong presence in the beginning of the film; it throws off the tone.Perhaps my main issue with the film is that I really don't love Holly Golightly, and I think you're supposed to. Perhaps I did the first time I saw this movie, a million years ago (I can't recall), but I'm 57, and the charm of pretty, narcissistic idiots has worn away over the years. (Admittedly, I still kind of love Sally Bowles, but I always prefer creative types to partier types.)Overall it's well made and worth watching, but a different score and no Andy Rooney would definitely have made for a better movie. "},{"Title":"Finally got a chance to see it.","Date":"7 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, it's only been 55 years since it was made but finally found this film on blueray and thought I'd give it a shot as it is so well known. It's got it's good points in way, but far too many bad points. Holly Golightly, the main character is nothing more than a self serving gold digger, and possibly prostitute who uses men to get their money. George Peppard's character ' Paul' is pretty much the same. Neither characters have any redeeming qualities and there is no real plot to this movie at all. And yes, what's the point of Mickey Rooney's character? Take him out of the movie and you wouldn't miss him. However the biggest disappointment is the script. It's really written incorrectly. There is an opening short scene of Holly at Tiffany's,, but then the secondary character shows up and is in her apartment within minutes.! There's a paradigm to the way movies are shot for a reason and this totally disregards that and it shows. The story gets to the main part too quickly. Rather a disappointment for me. "},{"Title":"One of Audrey Hepburn's Best Films-Truly delightful and romantic!","Date":"19 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Holly Golightly is one of the most charismatic and unforgettable fictional characters of all time. Truman Capote envisioned her being portrayed by Marilyn Monroe but Audrey Hepburn played the screen role magnificently and of course she is rather petite in stature. It is a difficult, multifaceted roll, as Holly is nothing that she appears to be. She is bold. She is shy. She is highly intelligent. She is insecure. All at the very same time. She is a backwoods girl originally. Everything about her is invented from her accent to her style and dress. She is basically a call girl and a real phony living off her wits, fresh good looks and her desire to marry a multi-millionaire of American/international fame. It is only hinted at who actually pays her apartment rent. It might be her talent agent? She falls in love with George Peppard (Paul) who has a classic case of writer's block and is a kept man seeing Patricia Neal (2E Farlenson). John McGiver plays the Tiffany salesman and Buddy Ebsen plays her ex-husband. There is a small series of urban misadventures, an uproarious and preposterous party (staged by Director Blake Edwards) and a visit to a strip club, among other events. A nice romantic ending after she is dumped by her rich Brazilian fiancé Jose after an (almost) false arrest; Holly kisses Paul in a rainy finale. Great feline performance by Cat (trained by Frank Inn). A hilarious performance by Mickey Rooney, playing her Asian neighbor, is marred by his stereotypical miscasting. (Paramount apologizes for this in an extra and even Blake Edwards regrets it in his interview.) Yes, you really can get Breakfast at Tiffany's. It is coffee with a croissant! "},{"Title":"Very special, friendly and nice film","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One thing to notice is how something so trivial as neighborhood becomes a natural and delicate narrative drive here. Because these two people are so close and care for each other, things become very nice, subtle, friendly and desirable... It's really strange when u read out that many people didn't believe in that project, or even didn't understand why such a music in a film about New-Yorkers.This two people are so iconic of New-York because it seems they both come from elsewhere and don't look like they belong to this city at all. In fact they don't behave as New-Yorkers should, nor do we believe Audrey plays a call-girl (never)  in fact they are NEW, like we discover them, like they discover themselves... and they live around a YORK. They are a discovery game and New-York is a splendid watcher and helper for their love project. This film is really a great life achievement ! "},{"Title":"Breakfast at Tiffany's really is Delicious","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To say this movie is a classic is an understatement. So good I feel like everyone should watch it once, so even if you hate it you can at least say you've seen it because it's that popular and an icon known to so many people. The actors, Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard had such great chemistry, I love Hepburn in all her movies this being no exception, she's just a really good actor and it shows in her movies and how she works with others. There were so many great shots to, many iconic one's. This movie made the already really special Tiffany's even more memorable and special. Everything came together in this movie to make it truly wonderful and just a great movie. "},{"Title":"Breakfast at Tiffany's","Date":"11 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's is a very fun, fast-paced movie. The camera-work seems to take on the personality of Holly Golightly (Audrey Hepburn) several times. Golightly's life and quirks involve a lot of chaos, so there are nearly always many things going on on-screen during the movie.Paul Varjak, as portrayed by George Peppard, seems to be a very normal man by comparison, thrown into this chaotic life. For this reason, the audience can sort of identify with him, as they feel overwhelmed by things like the first party scene at Golightly's apartment, full of people and movement(of props, people, and camera alike), something of a social Rube Goldberg machine.Seeing Golightly through Varjak's eyes continues in scenes like the Moon River number, when Varjak leans out his window and the film cuts to a high-angle shot of Golightly singing on the fire escape, one of the only times she appears to have slowed down and been vulnerable.This use of camera work, paired with beautiful settings and shots (see any scene involving Tiffany's) make the movie visually unforgettable. "}{"Title":"A New York Classic about a girl learning to be a woman","Date":"25 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Moon River&#x85; I never quite found myself a fan of that song. Maybe due to the fact there's an emphasis on the moo reminding me of the sound a cow makes or possibly because the song was overplayed on the Galaxy commercial, which was later annoyingly overplayed in my head for months. Last night I made a crucial decision to turn away from the usual Friday night modern thrillers or love films I watch, and focus my attention on an old classic, something I've never done before.If you haven't already guessed, I made a risky decision of choosing the famous 'Breakfast At Tiffany's'. I have to admit at the beginning I wasn't overly thrilled on my choice as I was expecting a black and white film about glamorous women eating breakfast and drinking tea, yet I felt as it was a classic I couldn't avoid it. Of course as the film began that annoying song was playing as I watched a beautiful elegant woman eating breakfast, this without a doubt set the film off to a bad start for me.Audrey Hepburn is undeniably a beautiful women who could have any man she wanted as any beautiful women could, this film proved this presumption true. Within the first ten minutes of the film she was being chased by numerous men and I watched as she rejected each of them one after another. How cliché I found myself thinking, the beautiful woman has multiple choices of men and someone like myself struggles to grasp one man's attention, typical!When the handsome George Peppard enters as Holly's new neighbour, Paul Varja, a writer with great potential, her character soon began to grow on me. I loved her vulnerability at midnight as she confessed the imperfections of her life to Paul and I found myself chuckling every time she addressed him as Fred, the name of her brother he resembled.I soon began to see parts of my own personality in Holly's character, I could relate to her being a scatterbrain as she constantly lost her keys, I laughed as she blew up the dinner and loved how everyday was a new adventure for her.I found myself becoming obsessed with her character as we learn she's running away from another life as a countryside girl, in order to discover a new her in the big city of New York by surrounding herself with wealthy obnoxious people. The only problem being one cannot simply deny who they really are and Holly knows this at heart. Nevertheless, I cannot explain how impatient and annoyed I felt throughout the film with Holly's character as she constantly chose wealthy men over her true love, Paul. Her blindness to her love for Paul was so ridiculous I found myself shouting at the screen, hoping I would knock some sense into her. In conclusion this film was not Hollywood's typical 21st century clichéd love film despite the fact the main message I got from it was to follow your heart not your head. Its simplicity was beautiful and the main character was mind dazzling. I never thought I would find myself re- watching this film let alone singing along to Moon River. Yet how could I resist after listening to the main character Holly Golightly playing the song on her guitar as she sat on her apartment window gazing into the city that never sleeps. By the end of the film it became clear Holly's beauty lies within her and that's the reason myself and all of those men fell in love with her character. I highly recommend everyone gives this one a watch, it's a classic after all! "},{"Title":"Being the sexiest woman in the world was something that came to Audrey Hepburn as easily as breathing","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To celebrate my 1,500th review for IMDb I turn to another of my favourite films, starring my all-time favourite actress, although for reasons to follow I am unable to award it the perfect 10 it would otherwise have merited.Holly Golightly is a&#x85;, well, what exactly is she? A high-class call girl? No, in 1961 the Production Code was still in force so the film- makers could not afford to be so explicit. She is a mixture of good- time-girl, gold-digger and wannabe actress, and although it is never really explained how a poor girl from the backwoods of Texas can afford to live in style in a smart Manhattan apartment, prostitution is never mentioned.The film is a romantic comedy charting the romance between Holly and her neighbour Paul Varjak, a promising young writer. At least, he was once a promising young writer, but has not actually published anything for five years. He claims to be writing a novel, but the truth is that he has been side-tracked from his writing career by his affair with a wealthy married older woman, Mrs Failenson, nicknamed (from her initials) 2E. He certainly does not love her, and she does not love him enough to consider leaving her husband for him, but both are happy to go along with the arrangement, 2E because it brings her excitement and Paul because it enables him to live in comfort off 2E's money. Holly's own romantic life is even more tangled; in the course of the film she gets involved with a mobster, a crass and vulgar American millionaire bizarrely named Rusty Trawler, and a wealthy Brazilian.Truman Capote, author of the novella on which the film was based, famously objected to the casting of Audrey Hepburn as his heroine, complaining that she was not raunchy enough. (He would have preferred Marilyn Monroe, who apparently turned the role down on the grounds that playing a girl like Holly would be bad for her image). Now it is certainly true that Audrey was not raunchy, but then she didn't need to be. Raunchy is only another word for tries too hard, and Audrey didn't need to try hard. I'm not referring to her acting- she certainly worked hard at that- but rather to her inherent sexuality. In the fifties and sixties being the sexiest woman in the world was something that came to Audrey Hepburn as easily as breathing, without any apparent effort at all.As respects her age and her accent, Audrey was perhaps wrong for the role. It is clear from references in the script that Holly is, at most, 20; Audrey was 32. (Mind you, Marilyn was 35 at the time). As for her accent, I doubt if a working-class Texas girl could ever have sounded so British, even after elocution lessons from Martin Balsam. In every other respect, however, she is absolutely right. Holly is a flawed personality, but her flaws are essentially the result of her naivety, and it is important that she should remain sympathetic throughout, something which would have been wrecked by any attempt to play her in a raunchy manner. Even when Holly is behaving badly, Audrey is never anything other than captivating, and she can captivate with the tiniest of gestures- eating a pastry, raising her sunglasses, the way she holds her oversized cigarette holder.With one notorious exception, the supporting cast are all very good, including Balsam as Holly's agent, Buddy Ebsen as her former husband who is clearly still in love with her, Patricia Neal as 2E, and even Orangey as Holly's cat, unimaginatively simply known as Cat. (If there were an Oscar for Best Feline Actor he would have been a dead cert). George Peppard, long before he joined the A-Team, has come in for some criticism as Paul, but I actually found his performance quite touching. It doubtless came as a surprise for Audrey to have a leading man only a year older than herself, after years of being cast as the love-interest of men old enough to be her father (Bogart, Astaire, Fonda) or nearly so (Peck, Lancaster).Special mention must also go to Henry Mancini's fine musical score based around his wonderfully evocative theme song Moon River. Yes, I know that, taken literally, the lyrics don't very mean much, but symbolically they conjure up a whole world of yearning for new possibilities. The song also revealed, more than did her earlier musical Funny Face, just what a fine singing voice Audrey had; Mancini was to say that nobody had ever performed his song so well. The film's only two Academy Awards were won for Best Original Score and Best Original Song.Breakfast at Tiffany's is a film with a special meaning for me. The first time I saw it was when it was shown on television as a tribute to Audrey Hepburn, who had recently died and whom I had already come to love through other films such as Sabrina and My Fair Lady. That screening also came not long after I had witnessed someone very close to me trying to avoid the same trap which confronts Holly and Paul in the film. Both need to decide whether they will go for the easy option of basing their future on financial comfort and (in Holly's case) the respectability she will enjoy as Senhora José da Silva Pereira, or whether they will take the risk of basing their future on love. Anyone familiar with the conventions of romantic comedy (which, alas, are not always the conventions of real life) will know in advance what the answer will be, but that does not prevent the final scene in the rain, to the strains of Moon River, from being one of the most emotionally stirring in any film I know. 9/10. (That one mark, of course, is docked for Mickey Rooney's silly, patronising and tasteless caricature of a Japanese character). "},{"Title":"A most difficult book to transfer into any medium, but the film comes closest.","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well! Love has found Andy Hardy! says Patricia Neal's socialite to her boy toy George Peppard in this view of early 1960's New York high society as seen through the eyes of Audrey Hepburn's Holly Golightly, a rather Byzantine young lady barely making ends meet. Holly and Grizzard's Paul happen to meet one day in her building and become involved even though he's Neal's kept man, and she's already secretly married. In fact, she has many secrets of her own, and in this film version of Truman Capote's novelette, she's not as loose living even if she is a bit bizarre.Paul comes out of his shell when he's with Holly, doing things he normally wouldn't do which includes shoplifting, offering a librarian at the New York Public Library the opportunity to sign his book, and along with Hepburn, ordering a silver plated telephone dialer at Tiffany's. Through the cynical eyes of Truman Capote, the sharp direction of Blake Edwads and the elegant score of Henry Mancini, these characters from the best seller come alive, even though it's not totally perfect. Yet, it's become a beloved classic on screen even though there were two flop stage versions-one a musical that closed in previews and the other a straight play that managed to only run a month or so just a few years ago.Of course, Neal's aging socialite isn't quite so willing to let Peppard go, especially to somebody much younger and much more desirable, without a fight. This was her film comeback after time away on the stage, and Neal was only on the tip of the iceberg at her success. She's totally charming if ruthless in her efforts to hang onto Peppard, but when you've got somebody like Audrey Hepburn as your rival, chances are you won't win. This isn't an Audrey that you would see much before or sense, and even Capote had to bite his tongue (as much as he could) in verbalizing his feeling that she was miscast. The character of Holly isn't exactly sympathetic, and when I saw a screening of this at San Francisco's Castro Street Theater, the audience booe'd when she tossed cat out of the car in the rain.Appearances by Buddy Ebsen as the loving husband who has agreed to let her go out on her own to find herself, Martin Balsam as a prison inmate named O.J., John McGiver as the irritated Tiffany's salesman and Dorothy Whitney as the very drunk attendee at Hepburn's huge party give fine performances. However, the performance of Mickey Rooney as the Japanese (!) landlord is one of the most offensive and racist castings in film history, giving him many worst supporting actor awards as he beckons her with This time I ree-ree am calling the po-reese, Miss Gorightry!.Still, even with him bellowing as the noise of the party gets louder, the whole party scene just gets funnier and funnier. When she breaks into a chorus of Moon River while strumming a guitar out on her fire escape, you can't help but love her even if like Capote insisted, you find her miscast. The ending scene is touching and it stirs that feeling that inside all of us is a part that has for some reason died, and in order to really be alive, we must all dig into our souls and let those pains go. "},{"Title":"Blake Edwards Makes Magic","Date":"14 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Love the film even though it differs from the novel. Apparently, Capote was upset that Edwards made it into a big Audrey Hepburn thing rather than stick to the darker tone and details of his novel. Nevertheless, the film does explore alienation and loneliness very well. It also explores the very American idea of inventing yourself and Truman Capote would have surely acknowledged that he was a past master of self-invention. Lulu-May's transformation into Holly Golightly was brilliantly portrayed by Hepburn who herself had been transformed from skinny war refugee into film star. If you listen closely, Holly's accent and vocabulary occasionally reverts to her back wood's roots. Is she a phony? asks film agent, O.J. Berman, who personifies the phony world of high society. Yes, she is but she knows it and this is her saving grace.Of course, the film is also a wonderful romance and at times very funny. It has a theme song to die for and New York locations that are made perhaps more beautiful than they really are through the some magical cinematography. Magical transformation.Lastly, one of my enduring memories of Breakfast at Tiffany's is John McGiver's gem of cameo as a Tiffany's salesman. I am sure that many people visited Tiffany's due to the impression McGiver gave of their salesmen. "},{"Title":"A film about a woman named Holly and a writer she meets.","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A lonely, struggling writer becomes enchanted with his neighbor an independent young woman who strives to be a high-climbing socialite with a perchance for high-fashion and wild parties. But, soon he uncovers the vulnerability she has at heart. This one of my favorite films. Such a great story with a lot of lessons. Defiantly worth the watch! It is a a captivating romantic comedy that lives up to its place as a classic of the genre. Audrey Hepburn gives one of her most iconic performances in this movie. It is a favorite movie of mine since forever. Its a timeless film. You can watch it over and over and never get bored. An undeniably romantic tale of damaged goods finding love. I absolutely love this film! It contains some ugly anachronisms, but Blake Edwards is at his funniest in this iconic classic, and Audrey Hepburn absolutely lights up the screen. "},{"Title":"Romantic Drama","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am not a big fan of this genre of films, but nothing bad can be said about this film. It is very well made and the acting is excellent. The plot is not particularly interesting but that is not really the point. The point is the love story between the two main characters, which you can really feel throughout the movie. Audrey Hepburn really makes this movie. She is, as usual, perfect. Every line she speaks rings in your ear. I could not any other actress doing a better job than she did. This is a very lighthearted, well made film. I recommend it to anyone who is looking for a nice, easy to watch romantic film. I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely love this film. Audrey Hepburn is superb as Holly Golightly, the character she is perhaps best remembered as. This fairy-tale-like film is full of powerful symbolism. The youthful socialite, Holly, owns a yellow-orange alley cat that is nameless. She refuses to name the cat for the reason being that she believes the playful feline does not belong to her. This unwillingness to name the cat represents her refusal to settle down. To reinforce the idea of her unwillingness to settle down, the audience learns that Holly (formally Lula Mae) once was married and had a family. She could not fully be happy living the average family life, so she dashed off to New York City, leaving her family behind. An obvious symbol in the movie given the title of the film is the jewelry store, Tiffany's. This extravagant building is the place Holly goes to break away from the pressures of her life; it is her safe haven. As Batman had his underground lair, Holly has her New York City jewelry store. Holly has to learn to let Tiffany's go, as she cannot hide there any longer. Another symbol is Holly's reoccurring use of her dark sunglasses to hide her eyes. The sunglasses represent the idea that Holly is afraid to get too close to others. On the technical front, 'Breakfast at Tiffany's' scores high. The cinematography is wonderful, especially in the hilarious party sequence. It's nice to see how New York City may have looked at that time. I like the classic style, the way all that makes me feel. I especially liked the ending, where they not only re-find the cat, but re-find each other in the rain. "},{"Title":"Holly and Paul","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's is a dramatic romantic comedy directed by Blake Edwards and released in 1961. Starring Audrey Hepburn as Holly Golightly, a pretty and preppy woman, and George Peppard as Paul Varjak, a frustrated writer. This film is worldwide known.Paul Varjak arrives to New York City and moves into an apartment on the Upper Easy Side of the city. He is completely frustrated as he has only published one book.Downstairs lives the lovely and quirky Holly Golightly, who he befriends immediately. She often talks about the resemblance between Paul and her brother, Fred, so she starts calling him Fred. Intrigued by her lifestyle and personality (flirty and elegant in public and a mess when she's alone with him) he starts to try to work her out and even writes a book about her.As Paul tries to solve the mystery around Holly's life, he starts finding out things about her past that he never had imagined, like that her real name is not Holly but Lula Mae. Eventually, Paul realises that as he discovers more about this woman, he falls in love with her even deeper. Breakfast at Tiffany's was a blockbuster at its time and was the film that catepued Audrey Hepburn into stardom. Nowadays, ven though she passed some years ago, she is still a role model not only for her fantastic acting but also for being a charitable and truthful person.Most of the scenes in the movie are memorable and the photography of New York is absolutely amazing, making you want to be there all the time.When I first saw the film, I felt intrigued, annoyed yet fascinated at the same time by Holly's character just like Paul was when he first met her.I would recommend this movie for children above twelve and beyond because smaller kids would not get the plot completely. It is also perfect for older people. It is also a film for Audrey's fans and young actors who need a role model and someone to look up to.Julia Coria (F. Ceria) "},{"Title":"Breakfast at Tiffany's","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's starring Audrey Hepburn, George Peppard, and Patricia Neal was a good film. A young woman from New York becomes very interested in a young man that moved into her apartment building. The young woman is a little crazy at some moments and often lonely until she meets the young man that moved into the same apartment building as her. The style of the way they dressed was very classy and entertaining as well. It had a mix between romance and comedy which kept me entertained as a viewer. The music, screenplay, directing, and acting were all phenomenal in the movie. Filming this movie in New York also made it a beautiful setting. This was a good romance-comedy movie and I would highly recommend it to others. "},{"Title":"A timeless classic love story about a socialite and a writer. Must see for any hopeless romantic","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Now before I start this review I want to say that almost every romantic film wanted to be this movie. One film in particular had references to this film and that was the 2001 time travelling romantic fantasy starring Meg Ryan Kate & Leopold,where the song Moon River was been used and Ryan's charcther asked Hugh Jackman's charcther did he ever heard of Breakfast At Tiffany's as the man near her apartment would listen to the soundtrack every night before he goes to sleep.Also the Galaxy bar ad where a girl like Audrey Hepburn is on a bus and you hear Moon River playing in the background. So now I have that out of the way on to the review.The story is about a young New Yorker named Holly Golightly aka Lillie Mae (played by the late Audrey Hepburn) who is living in a flat in New York with her Cat called well Cat. We later see a new man moving into her from next door called Paul(played by George Pappard)who is smitten with Holly when they first meet up for the first time. Holly of course was married previously to Doc and she hasn't seen her brother Fred in a very long time,and often confuses Paul with Fred. She of course wants to marry a billionaire again,but Paul falls in love with Holly. Paul however is in a relationship with a much older woman and he of course wants to end it with his much older woman.But as Paul and Holly spend some time together will they or won't they get together. The backgrounds in this film are fabulous to look at and the setting is also very well done. The acting is superb as I have seen Audrey Hepburn in My Fair Lady before and her love interest George Pappard was in The A Team as the snowy white man with the fag stuck in his gob. And this movie also won 2 Oscars for the score and for the famous song that even Barbara Streisand covered Moon River,which in my opinion is a very sweet yet touching love song. Also people who have seen this movie remembers the part where Holly ditches her Cat in the rain as she confesses to Paul that she is happy on her own and doesn't want Cat or him for that matter and we see Cat drenched from the rain along with Holly and Paul and the two kiss in the rain at the grand finale of this moving picture.Bottom line I was very happy to come across this movie on DVD as it was on sale at one of my local supermarkets and I truly enjoyed every minute of it. I can't get that Moon River song out of my head now as its such a truly loving song to hear. The late Blake Edwards(who was married to legendary actress Julie Andrews) did a great job in the directors chair.If you are a hopeless romantic or have a significant other and wants to watch a truly romantic movie about old-fashioned love with a bowl of popcorn,Breakfast At Tiffanys is the one for you. I know consider adding this to my top 100 best films of all time. I'll probably have it at No 90.10/10Ps Thanks to that 2001 film Kate & Leopold for making me even love this 1961 romantic comedy.Keep an eye out for Mickey Rooney who is barely unrecognizable as an Asian man who is living upstairs at the apartment Holly is staying in with her cat. "}{"Title":"Moon River","Date":"31 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It seems to me that Breakfast at Tiffany's is one of those films that everyone has seen. The iconic Audrey Hepburn look, the Johnny Mercer song, Moon River, and the class of old New York. I had read the Truman Capote novel but have only seen pieces and never the whole movie. On a cold winner day, I decided to take the plunge. The movie is about Holly Goligtly (Audrey Hepburn) whose safe place is Tiffany's department store. With all the glamour and glitz, nothing bad can ever happen there. This movie takes you to the early sixties where there was still a sense of style and glamour. The party scenes are fun and the story cute. This girl is trying to make it and break free from a forgotten past. Doesn't hurt that her love interest is a neighbor writer who is played by a very young George Peppard. Breakfast in Tiffany's is one movie everyone should experience. A side note, Truman Capote wanted to originally cast Marilyn Monroe in the role of Holy. How would that have made a difference? I guess we will never know. Wilson Trivino "},{"Title":"Casual racism aside, this is 1960's gold","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" (76%) One of the finest romantic comedy dramas ever to hit cinema, that's head and shoulders above the many imitators and glut of awful movies that litter the same genre. The rock solid performance at the movie's heart from Audrey Hepburn on brilliant, unstoppable form as the lost and more than a little dotty Holly Golightly is perfect, and this simply wouldn't work half as well without her. The great use of soundtrack, and superb bitter-sweet moments throughout really do make this more than just all gloss and no substance, as it does delve more than a little deep into the two main characters lives in a very well crafted, expertly handled manner. Mickey Rooney's comic relief character is not socially acceptable anymore, and does hinder and horribly date the film, but thankfully he wasn't given too much screen time. But just like the jewellery in Tiffany's, the first- rate ending, charm, and quality will never ever go out of fashion. "},{"Title":"Traumatized teen slowly revealed","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was only 11 when it came out, and remember my parents thinking it was too mature for me, which seemed unfair since I started buying Henry Mancini records when I was 7, and was blown away by the beauty and romanticism of Moon River. My parents were spot on about the story. I didn't read the book, but the screenplay plugs the viewer into a very opaque drama brimming with unanswered questions, where the behavior of Holly is beyond quirky....she is damaged goods psychologically, unable to connect emotionally with anyone, person or cat. The plot tests the psychosexual maturity of the viewer the whole way through. The immature viewer is swept up by the first impression of Holly as chic, sexy, hip and stylish. The men who lust after her are similarly shallow, satisfied to be lit up with her eye candy, but not complete enough men to want anything emotional.....Sally, OJ, the $50 powder room guy. Yes, Holly is a prostitute...that's how she gets by. When Doc shoes up at her apt., the mystique of Holly's aloofness starts to unravel. She and her younger brother Fred were orphaned (or abandoned), and Lula Mae (Holly) had to become Fred's provider and protector at age 14. Her life-path undergoes a tectonic shift the day widowed veterinarian Doc catches she and Fred stealing eggs from his farm. Doc takes a liking to Holly, marries her within a year (adopting Fred), and there is a strong suggestion that Lulu Mae, in marrying at 15 a man clearly about 30 or older, given her desperate situation, did not enter the marriage on equal terms. Her claim that the marriage was annulled is suspect....maybe it was a common law marriage....there's no way to know. What we do know fairly certainly as soon as Fred was old enough for the Army to take care of him, she can finally afford to leave Doc. She doesn't just leave, she puts half a continent between herself and Doc, and changes her name. Are you getting all this? It's all implied. But, only to the viewer who is looking for an intimate understanding of the protagonist. Once it clicks that Lula Mae was severely traumatized, and sexually abused (her dependence and Fred's taken advantage of) as a mid- teen, her ditzy behavior starts to make sense....she has cultivated a full repertoire of defensive behaviors, for instance, being willingly used as a drug deal messenger by Sally unconcerned about the meaning of his weather forecasts. As viewers, when Paul and Holly meet, we are rooting for romance to break out between this Venus & Adonis, but sense a major obstacle when she cannot call him Paul - she has an overpowering impulse to fill the emotional role vacated by her brother Fred, and insists on calling him Fred. Her need to cuddle and fall asleep on Paul (without sexual arousal) leave the invested viewer to bleat out a confused Huh? But, after Doc gives Paul his version of the backstory, the dots start to connect. Paul would like a younger lover, and Holly would like a surrogate brother.The rest of the movie rings true, in the sense of a very unlikely-to-succeed love story. The way it ends, one interpretation is happily everafter. But there is another possibility, I'd say a probability, that Holly's baggage is going to take years of professional help to unpack, and Paul doesn't really know Holly when he professes his love. Where this relationship is heading, at least statistically....doesn't look real good.The guitar scene where she sings Moon River (actually her vocal double) is as good as it gets emotionally, cinematically, musically...well it won 2 Oscars for Mancini -- well deserved.I disagree that it's a period piece. The theme is timeless. What ties it to the early '60s is the artistic freedom that Capote, Edwards & Mancini were riding....making it possible to build a complex storyline and anti-hero character as a victim of childhood sex abuse. This would have been too risqué a storyline in the conformist '50s. '60s movies chased a new level of relevance and dark, gritty reality with moral ambiguity. This flick helps establish the genre.But, weren't her outfits great? Wasn't Peppard a hunk? "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn absolutely makes this movie","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's is a wonderfully sweet romantic comedy that holds up nicely. The plot admittedly isn't much. It's just 2 people gradually falling in love doing various everyday things. Then why is it so good? Well, because of Audrey Hepburn that's why. Her performance is amazing in this film. She completely encompasses the titular Holly Golightly and she is the main driving force behind this movie. I honestly believe without her, this would have been a horrible borefest. As far as complaints go the only one I have is the character Mr. Yunioshi. It's Mickey Rooney playing an Asian guy with a really stereotypical accent. It's a product of the times I know, but it doesn't make it any less offensive. Other than that, fantastic film and probably one of the best the genre has to offer. "},{"Title":"The Real Breakfast","Date":"12 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's as a romantic comedy, reconstructs that urbane and pompous time. But why the breakfast was acquired to be at Tiffany's? Isn't breakfast universally supposed to be enjoyed at some places like IHOP? The movie apparently transcends the genre of romantic comedy which meanwhile, turns out to be a genuine story of love.Even after having appreciated the movie for thousands of times, it's always easy to be captivated deeply by the marvelous and humorous acting of the two romantic protagonists, Holly Golightly and Paul Varjak.Holly, an aspiring gold­digger socialite looking for a wealthy sugar daddy, always love to wander around the Tiffany's holding a cup of coffee and enjoying a danish. Moreover, Holly always hangs around with phony persons pretending to be sophisticated and unparalleled. But as a matter of fact, the more often Holly forces a smile, the more accessible it will be for the audience to see through her facade.Paul, an aspiring and promising writer, makes a living based on taking money from a married wealthy woman keeping Paul for her time. They started as simple neighbors and friends. And just when Paul realized that Holly was the girl who actually needed more help than he did, he gave up all what he may leisurely enjoyed and determined to help Holly get a real happy life which finally made Paul fall in love with Holly.The most memorable scene is supposed to be the one Paul was entirely disheartened by Holly senseless persistence of her dreaming marrying a wealthy man and slammed the car door after saying Here. I've been carrying this thing around for months. I don't want it anymore. The moment Holly was gazing at the ring, she abruptly perceived that Paul actually was the one accompanying her enjoying the happy time. At the end, the famous song Moon River swelled. And Holly found her non­name cat back and figured out the real breakfast­­real life, is supposed to be based on the reality instead of what she imagined.No matter how I take fancy to the movie, there always some opinions opposite exist. There is a comment named Meagre Meal of One Famous Breakfast which primarily insisting that the film is the most disappointing version of all the times owing to there is no trace of the original message of the novel and Holly had been grossly transformed. As far as I know, a triumphant film is supposed to be absorbing and amusing instead of being authentic original copy. Absorbing the audience into the characters of a film is always the priority. In a nutshell, I don't think this film is for the ones who are only expecting and willing to see the original novel version.To sum up, why not take a time machine with Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard, enjoying the Breakfast at Tiffany's? And I highly recommend those who have romantic feeling inside to join the tour of romance. "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn Is Gorgeous","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast At Tiffany's is one of Audrey Hepburn's most icon roles and movies. That doesn't mean it is any good though.Happily though I really enjoyed most of it, and it's all down to Hepburn's performance as Holly Golightly. Her performance is so engaging and likable you completely excuse her faults and the unlikeable things she says and does. Such as only planning to marry rich men for their money. Mail me a list of the top 50 richest men in Brazil Hepburn is utterly gorgeous and it's hard as a red blooded male not to be attracted to her. George Peppard is good as Pete, not great, but good, and for the most part the two leads had decent chemistry but their end kiss is one of the worst on screen embraces I have ever seen. However on the downside I found Mickey Rooney as the Chinese neighbour very offensive and in very poor taste. "},{"Title":"There are all of Hepburn's charm","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hepburn is one of the famous actress in the world and Breakfast at Tiffany's is one of masterpiece film of Hepburn. I think one of the Hepburn's best point is lovely look. She is cute, slender and high-voice. All of these are symbol of feminine. In this film, she exercise her good point. About this story, it is very love story of Harrywood. Hepburn play a woman she is very cute, childlike and free. There match Hepburn's impression. Also in this film, there are many kind of Holly's household goods, include her clothes. All of these are very pretty and individual.Finally, there is same name book exist, it is original of this film, but I like this film. This film is very love story, and there is Hepburn in the film in the end. "},{"Title":"A Whole Lot of Movie","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's has everything, humor, class, sexiness, heart, wit, and romance. Overall, it is an incredible film. Adapted from Truman Capote's novella/short story of the same name, it expands on its source material to make a more dramatic tale. While the book's great artistic merit is in its brevity and wit, the film tells a brilliant, classy love story with plenty of laughs along the way. This is best seen in the characterization of our main protagonist Paul Varjak. Whereas in the book Paul is our passive narrator who experiences Holly Golightly, in the book Paul is a deeper character who actively pursues his love for Holly. Audrey Hepburn gives a legendary performance as Miss Golightly, and one cannot picture anyone else when thinking of the character. For me, the other star of the movie was the music, which I think is one of Henry Mancini's finest works. The gorgeous song Moon River sets the tone for the film and provides the central theme for the score. My only complaint would have to be the portrayal of the character of Yunioshi, which made me pretty uncomfortable, but that has been covered extensively by others so I won't go into it. Overall, Tiffany's is a lovable classic and I'm glad I watched it. "},{"Title":"I wanna be rich so I can marry Audrey Hepburn","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is all about her. She talks and talks and keeps saying nonsense, and every word she says you feel more in love with her. Now I get what was all the fuss about her back in that time. There are a lot of gorgeous actresses nowadays, but it's difficult to think of any contemporary actress that can be an object of so many platonic loves as Audrey Hepburn is. It's not only her beauty, there's something else that just makes you wanting to say yes to whatever she says, just like George Peppard's character does in this movie. Apart form that, well, there isn't much more. The acting feels terribly awkward, but I guess that's just the way it used to be done back then. Capote's plot is pretty simple, but it keeps you entertained and hooked, and it gives Hepburn just enough lines to show her charm. The music is pretty good, too. ¿Whose idea was it to stop using orchestras for movies' soundtracks? "},{"Title":"Iconic character","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Holly Golightly (Audrey Hepburn) is a social butterfly with a wild night life. Mr. Yunioshi (Mickey Rooney) is her angry upstairs neighbor. Paul Varjak (George Peppard) is a struggling writer newly moved into the NYC apartment building. He's a kept man of older wealthy Emily Eustace Failenson (Patricia Neal). He is fascinated with Holly's lifestyle and infatuated with her.This is all about the adorable Audrey Hepburn. However there are things that keep me from liking it as a classic as other people do. First there is the racist caricature Yunioshi. Times have changed and humor does as well. It may be funny back then, but it's horribly clunky now. Second I find George Peppard very stiff without being suave. To me, Peppard will always be Hannibal. I just don't see enough chemistry between them. There is also the glossing over of what Holly actually does. But there is no denying that this is an iconic character that transcends the ages. She is not just a movie icon but a style icon. And don't forget 'Moon River'. "}{"Title":"Reminds Me How Good Cinema Can Be","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is cinema at it's finest. And quite frankly it's Audrey Hepburn at her finest. Hepburn truly embodies her role as Holly Golightly. it's just one of those movies that makes me remember how good movies can be. In particular how Romantic films can be. Hepburn plays a socialite who never takes life too seriously until she meets a new man who moved into her apartment, played by George Peppard. Peppard plays Jack, but is called Fred for most of the movie. The fact that Holly calls him Fred for nearly the entire movie shows how much she even cares for him. Of course during the course of the film, one of the great love stories begins to develop. Something about Audrey Hepburn that every time she does a movie, I feel invested in the relationships she has.The way she goes about herself in this movie is fascinating. She walks around like she owns all of New York City, and based on the parties she has, she might as well. Now I didn't find some of the comedic elements of the film to hit the way they may have if I would have watched the movie 50 years ago, but it didn't diminish the huge entertainment the movie is. Hepburn is Holly in the movie, and lets face it she loves Tiffany's. The fact that Tiffany's is a jewelry store makes her character that much more compelling. I think the chemistry is good between Hepburn and Peppard but nowhere near the greatness she and Gregory Peck shared in Roman Holiday.The emotional moments hit exactly the way you want them to, especially towards the end. Hepburn has always been good with showing the emotional side of her characters, as seen in The Children's Hour. Overall it's a classic love story that has a bit more 'swag' for lack of a better word, than most 60's Romances. It's never too early for Tiffany's.+Hepburns complete embodiment of Holly+Emotional moments hit +Iconic in every way-Could have used more laughs10/10 "},{"Title":"At first I was hesitant.","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If The director clearly intended the viewer to after watching this movie feel like the main character of the film. Then He or She defiantly knew what they were doing. I went to Tiffany's a few months after watching the movie and asked if they had anything for Ten dollars ($10) Apparently they do not sell anything for $10 Dollars. At-least not at the Worth Avenue Store on Palm Beach Island, in Palm Beach, Florida. The person I asked was in her mid twenties and had no idea what I was talking about. What a great movie. If I missed anything or if I had to compare it to my before and after notions I would recommend watching this movie especially if you are hesitant to do so. The story is quite revealing. "},{"Title":"A classic film","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I finally had the chance to see the film and unthought it was very well. Audrey Hepburn plays holly as a different socialite since she doesn't serm the type of woman that is depending on a man to take care of her. Rather she seems like a lost soul who is trying to find herself and what purpose she has. George peppered is splendid here as jack the love interest for holly. It seems as though the both have excellent chemistry on screen together and the two actors remained rather close as friends until Audrey's death in 1993. I would say that the film is a classic that is worth seeing since it explores the concepts of love, self discovery and self discovery. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"15 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Typically I wouldn't watch this type of movie but I figured its a classic so I'd give it a go.Audrey Hepburn was a delight to watch and played the part of Holly magnificently. She was quirky and fun and her character is what really kept me interested in the movie. The character Holly Golighty is complex, she is afraid of love yet unknowingly yearns for it. Watching her experience different degrees of ups and downs is what really makes this movie wonderful to watch.There are quite a few romantic scenes in the movie which makes it a perfect girls night in go-to movie. However, At times I found myself bored and the story bit dull. That being said I would still recommend this movie to anyone who hasn't already watched it. "},{"Title":"Blake Edwards' version of Truman Capote's Breakfast at Tiffany's still has a charm of its own after all these years","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...And I say what about, Breakfast at Tiffany's/She said I think I remember the film/Yes, and I recall I think, we both kind of liked it/And I said well that's one thing we got... The preceding was the lyrics to the single by Deep Blue Something whose title refers to this movie I'm now reviewing. I had previously watched this on VHS or afternoon television but usually after it already begun so this was the first time I saw it in its entirety. It was also the first time my mom watched it. She found Audrey Hepburn very pretty but that her character was weird. My mom's always been a more pragmatic sort so that colored her view. Knowing this was based on Truman Capote's story but only knowing it by reputation, I found most of this movie quite enjoyable but yes, Mickey Rooney's stereotypical Japanese characterization leaves much to be desired. Director Blake Edwards and adapter George Axelrod streamlined whatever changes made from the original source-for both censorship and commercial purposes-to mostly charming effect. George Peppard was fine as the leading man and I also liked Patricia Neal, Buddy Ebsen, and Martin Balsam in their supporting roles. There was also a nice cameo part from Alan Reed-also the voice of Fred Flintstone on the then-current animated TV show The Flintstones at the time. And then there's the music with score by Henry Mancini and that wonderful song he wrote with Johnny Mercer. You know what I'm referring to, don't you? If you do, here's the lyrics that ends that song, Moon River-...Coming 'round the bend/My huckleberry friend/Moon river and me. "},{"Title":"Delightful entertainment","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The 1961 release of the film Breakfast at Tiffany's is a light-hearted romance that tells the story of Holly Golightly, played by Audrey Hepburn, who is in search of her future wealthy husband. However, Holly instead falls in love with Paul Varjak, played by George Peppard, who is far from wealthy. Paul meets Holly for the first time when he moves into her apartment building which is located in New York. Paul is a struggling writer who supplements his income as an escort to an older woman that goes by the nickname of 2E, played by Patricia Neal. Holly does not have a career other than a side job of delivering messages to an inmate in prison. Paul ultimately hopes of success as a writer while Holly is in search of a wealthy husband.Paul and Holly form a casual friendship but as their friendship grows, so do their feelings for each other. As the film progresses, both Paul and Holly have skeletons in their closets that are revealed to each other. Holly discovering of Paul's escort services and Paul learns of Holly's former marriage that she ran away from. This is by far not your average chic-flic, lovey-dovey romance movie. Paul and Holly's relationship begins with companionship, grows into a friendship, and then forms into stronger feelings of love and affection. While denying her feelings for Paul, Holly pursues a relationship with a wealthy man in hopes of marriage. During this time, Paul does get a break in his writing career and he hopes to impress Holly. They each could have chosen their separate paths at this point, however, that doesn't make for a love story. Breakfast at Tiffany's is a delightful and entertaining film that shows love in a serendipitous way. While neither character was looking for love, they were in search of happiness. Holly thought happiness came in the form of money but discovered that this was not. Paul thought happiness came in the form of success and money as well. Both Paul and Holly found each other and love which they had not intended. There were several techniques used throughout the film that effectively portrayed the different emotions in the film. The use of sound with background music set the mood for the opening scene. There were different tones and pitches used with the background music to engage the audience with the film. The camera angles used were also a highly effective technique used in this film. The close up angles showed much detail and engaged the emotion of the audience. With the techniques used of sound and camera angles the film effectively portrayed its dramatic feel when verbal dialog was not present.The effects of editorial cutting and transitions were used effectively to set the pace of this film. The techniques the editor used by assembling shots within a scene was cohesive and it also established rhythm. This directed the attention of the audience to the characters and helped maintain your attention. One of the scenes in particular, was when Holly snuck into the window of Paul's bedroom. There were several camera angles and close up shots and the editor effectively pieced these quick cuts together for continuous rhythm. I noticed several fade- out/fade-in transitions between major scenes which was an effective way to end one scene and begin the next. It heightened the audience awareness as well as gave a moment to reflect on what had just happened. Overall, I was very impressed with the editing of this film as well as the camera angels used. The quick cuts in each scene were new to me and it enhanced the viewing of this movie. It was enjoyable to watch and delightfully entertaining. "},{"Title":"Breakfast at Tiffany's","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's was about a young woman named Holly Golightly played by Audrey Hepburn. Holly was desperate to find a man, who could potentially be her husband that was very wealthy and successful. She would do anything to get her hands on a rich man. Holly lives this ideal life pretending to be someone she is not. Living in New York she feels the need to be the fashionista she is. Holly has quit expensive taste, noticing how she has an obsession with Tiffany & Co calling it her cure for the mean reds. Paul Varjak played by George Peppard, who Holly loving nicknamed Fred; after her beloved younger brother who is in the military. Holly and Paul unknowingly find themselves in a defining moment of what love really is. This film had several themes. One of them being isolation, It reflects a desire to remain unconfined by close personal relationships since a life spent alone presents no complicated attachments to other people. But too much isolation also proves to be a source of great fear as Holly realizes that everybody desires a sense of belonging at some point in their lives. She has limited herself from having close relationships to anything even her pet cat who she had not given a name to. She felt that 'Cat' did not belong to no one because she believed she did not belong to no one. This fear has caused Holly to keep from moving forward in her life and surrounding herself with those who truly love her instead of pushing them away. She has denied the love Paul has for her due to the fact that he is not financially successful as she would like him to be. Love is a major theme in this film. Towards the end of the movie Holly has an epiphany that what she has been running towards (money) which was a disguise for love that kept her from running to Paul, where real love and happiness waited for her. Breakfast at Tiffany's shares the same story line to some modern day films we have today. A movie that it closely relates to is Pretty Woman. It starred Julie Roberts playing Vivian Ward and Richard Gere played Edward Lewis. Vivian was a beautiful prostitute who was hired by Edward, a very wealthy man, as a client. Breakfast at Tiffany's and Pretty Woman shared the same theme. Both of the two women were attracted to rich men and they both did not know the true meaning of love, chasing after the wrong things in life, which was money. Techniques were used very well in the film Breakfast at Tiffany's. They used lighting, sound, and visual effects to bring the movie together. Lighting was used well during the scene when Holly was in her room crying on the bed when she found out bad news about her brother. The dimmed lighting in the scene makes the viewers feel her void. Sound was used well especially the scene when Mr. Yunioshi was standing over the balcony while wet from the shower before seeing him the viewer first hears the water droplets landing on the banister. The visual effects when Paul and Holly kissed one could feel the intensity in their eyes. All of this together works towards the theme of the movie which was filling in the void Holly had in her life of not belonging to someone, the quest of true love, and acceptance. "},{"Title":"Lula May","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched Breakfast At Tiffany's for the first time for a college course. This film was a romantic comedy. The leading characters were Holly Golightly a beautiful, young lady with a free spirit and Paul Varjack who was a writer. Holly and Paul met as neighbors and quickly became good friends. Their landlord Mr. Yunoioshi was not too pleased to have Holly as a tenant due to her noise and always waking him up by ringing the door buzzer because she seemed to always forgot her keys. Holly made her money by visiting a friend who was in Sing Sing (a prison) and he would give her weather reports to inform his attorney of so he knew she made the visit and he then paid her. Paul made a living from writing and a woman he referred to as his decorator named 2-E. The pair, Holly and Paul who she calls Fred begin to spend a lot of time together and become closer. As soon as you think you have the film figured out it takes a sudden twist. One moment Holly seems to really be into Paul and the next she does not want to be bothered by him at all. Paul, unlike the other rats as Holly called them would not bite his tongue when it came to Holly. He would tell her how he felt whether good or bad, I think this is was attracted her to him. I gave this film a 7 out of 10. I think it was a good film, kind of predictable but for me could have had a better ending to the story. "},{"Title":"Sex in the City 1960's style","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's was a movie before it's time, or maybe one would consider it the movie that started it all. This film exposes the life of a young girl, Holly Golightly, played by Audrey Hepburn, a Manhattan socialite who is vivacious, beautiful, witty, independent, and has a passion for fashion. One would think Holly had it all. However, she does not; there is something missing. At the opening scene, the viewer sees her hopping out of a taxi cab, clearly dressed from the night before, because her back reveling gown is one that's more suited for an after five or formal event. As she sips her cup of Joe and takes a bite out of a pastry, she can't help but notice a beautiful bracelet in her favorite stores, Tiffany and Co., window so she stops for a moment to admire their displays. This is the viewer's first glimpse at her style and fashionable taste for the finer things in life. There are many directions the theme of this movie takes the viewer&#x97; dreams and the hopes of one day&#x85;, one's unwillingness and/or fear of being tethered down, even though it leads to emptiness. However, I think the major underlining theme in this film is one of learning the true meaning of love. Holly puts up a brave front throughout this movie hoping to convenience herself and others that she can only have love for objects or things and has no real need for human affection, that is of course, unless it or he comes with a big bank account. This idea is supported by how she views her relationships with men and she did not even bother to give her cat a real name, she called him Cat. There is a gentleman, Paul Varjak, played by George Peppard, who is clearly interested in Holly, but because he is not of the class Holly is looking for in a man, she cannot be bothered. It appears the only other person she truly cares for is her brother, Fred, who is away fighting a war. As I mentioned before, this movie is very applicable to modern day films and TV shows. One that comes to mind immediately is the film and television show, Sex in the City. Holly's character is closely related to that story's character Carrie Bradshaw, played by Sarah Jessica Parker. They both chase love in all of the wrong places and have great sense of style. Was it Breakfast at Tiffany's Holly that inspired Carrie's role? One will definitely be able to see the similarities. There are a lot of enhancements that add to the making of Breakfast at Tiffany's through the use of sound, lighting and motifs. Sound and lighting is used to add drama when needed (pouring rain on a darkened day) to let the viewer know this is a serious scene or laughter and the sound of a crowd enjoying each other's company to signify this scene is Holly's enjoyment in life, to name a few. Holly's feeling of not belonging, unwillingness to be tied down and kept in a cage by anyone or anything, and her dreams and hopes of one day. It all adds up to create a picture of this young lady's adult life and her journey to fill her emptiness and need to be accepted in high society. "},{"Title":"superb performance","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's is about the romantic story between the socialite Holly Golightly and Paul Varjak. The reason why i liked it so much is, Audrey Hepburn played her role so good, it's probably one of the best performed characters of the 60s. Holly is a woman who doesn't come to the real understanding of her life even if she falls in love with the young Paul Varjak. He shows her what life mean and what real Love mean, though Holly just thinks about rich guys as well they are very ugly. - haha =) The ambiance is great and the tomcat yields some fun in the story, I think the whole story is in a kind funny, because there can only be the feeling of true love with some fun. Everything matches in the movie, the locations, characters and so on.. and the end - I don't wan't to spoiler so it is just great. "}{"Title":"Classic Romance that Still Brings a Tear to the Eye","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" BREAKFAST AT TIFFANY's might be a tad long, and Mickey Rooney's performance as a Japanese neighbor is simply an embarrassment, but Blake Edwards' narrative never fails to maintain the attention. Chiefly this is due to the two central performances Audrey Hepburn's Holly Golightly is at once maddening, engaging, winsome and vulnerable - we can empathize with her desire to discover herself, while trying to retain a basic freedom of spirit. This is no easy task in New York bourgeois society where everyone is out for what they can get, both materially and physically speaking. Throughout the movie she believes she has found what she is looking for, only to be frustrated at every tick and turn no one is quite what they seem. As the writer - and kept man - Paul, George Peppard tends to be reactive rather than proactive; the kind of person who would prefer to remain in the background, especially when confronted with Holly's so-called 'friends.' However the film suggests that Paul possesses a kind of basic integrity that everyone else lacks; he might not be able to earn any money, but he can offer Holly emotional stability. The ending is predictable yet haunting; neither Paul nor Holly know what will happen to them in the future, but at least they can live for the moment. "},{"Title":"Moon River & The Cat..","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Blake Edwards directed this adaptation of Truman Capote's novel that stars Audrey Hepburn as Holly Golightly, a nice but mixed-up young woman who lives in New York and supports herself through mysterious means the film doesn't get into. George Peppard plays Paul Varjak, a young writer who moves into Holly's apartment building(financially aided by his relationship with an older woman played by Patricia Neal), and ends up befriending, then falling in love with her, and is determined to uncover the secrets of her past, which involve a man from the country(played by Buddy Ebsen). Romance between Holly & Paul is appealing, both actors fine, but it is the combination of the beautiful song Moon River and the climax with the cat that make this film work so well; emotionally wrenching yet ultimately satisfying, and quite moving, though can only bear to watch this once in a great while! "},{"Title":"The film's thorough understanding of its central character makes up for an awkward racial caricature","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If it weren't for the ignorant, hateful caricature of a Japanese person played by Mickey Rooney, this would be a superlative movie. As it is, it manages to be a great movie despite that problem. Holly Golightly is a woman with a cultivated sense of irresponsibility. She is not irresponsible by accident or merely by nature&#x97;she's far too intelligent for that&#x97;but rather by design, as a means of avoiding potentially- painful entanglements such as an early marriage that robbed her of the chance to explore her identity independently. Her conscious insistence that she neither depend upon nor be depended upon extends even to her relationship with the nameless cat who shares her apartment. I don't say her cat, because Golightly would object to the use of the possessive. Details like that make the character believable, and Audrey Hepburn's fine acting makes her likable.The fanciful New York lifestyle Golightly imposes upon herself is fun to experience vicariously, but the script is ever attentive to the distinction between fanciful and fantasy. In pursuing a life that is fanciful, Golightly takes trips to Tiffany's on a whim, but because this is no fantasy she cannot actually afford anything there. Her world seems ever ready to come apart at the seams, with literal and figurative fires apt to break out at any moment. Her apartment is in disarray; to make it more than a campground would be to make an intolerable commitment to being there the next day. There are emotional costs to these fancies, and Hepburn makes them manifest in a subtly bipolar performance. Hepburn understands the character deeply, and I see clearly in her people I have known who suffer from the same pain and have the same ways of responding to it. If the film does eventually stray from fanciful into fantasy, it is only in its conceit that George Peppard's hangdog, straight-and-narrow Paul (whom Golightly and her jet set satellites call Fred) could change a person like Golightly and make her settle down. "},{"Title":"Diamonds Aren't a Gril's Best Friend.","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For a long time I've wanted to watch 'Breakfast at Tiffany's' but not before reading Truman Capote's novel. I've had the DVD lying around for months and when I finally got the book, I read it. Then after a month or so, I watched the film. If one can overlook the fact at how toned down the movie is (and I use the term tone down very loosely) compared to the much darker book, then as a stand alone it's quite entertaining and has earned classic status. Of course hardly anyone would have dared to make a movie as dark as the book itself. Going by the plusses the performances by the two leads George Peppard and Audrey Hepburn are delightful. Peppard's character in the book is quite different and I liked the change screenwriter George Axelrod made here by making the character more similar to Holly. The chemistry between the leads works superbly and of course Audrey Hepburn is the star of the film. A lesser actress could have easily messed this up but Hepburn effectively captures the layers of the complex Holly. Most of the rest of the cast do an adequate job. The cat impresses. I only scowled a little at Mickey Rooney's very stereotypical portrayal of Mr. Yunioshi.On the technical front, 'Breakfast at Tiffany's' scores high. The cinematography is wonderful, especially in the hilarious party sequence. Who could forget that scene? It's nice to see how New York City may have looked at that time. Lighting is mostly good. Mancini's score is fine.The story felt a little underdeveloped. At times, it felt as though it jumped from one sequence to another and the passage of time wasn't very clear.Blake Edwards's film is a fun classic but I would also like to see a real adaptation of the book. "},{"Title":"My Favourite","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The reason I love this movie so much is because it captures the irresponsibility and spontaneity of youth in a sophisticated way. It reminds me of my first time entering the big city, the feeling of liberation and anonymity. There just seemed to be so many options, and being carefree was part of learning about everything. My favourite scene is when she has to rescue the cat and she realises something about the realities of life. It also makes one realise, looking in retrospect, that even an incredible star like Hepburn ages and dies. That each of us is equal in that sense and although, youth is a mask,it's still full of wonderful memories... This movie represents that in a metaphor. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A classic romantic comedy","Date":"12 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My opinion is that this film has not stood the test of time. Yes, the plot is logical, the characters are logical in what they do (even if what they do is illogical) and the acting is solid. The locations are fitting and all this creates a very sweet and romantic movie. It's just that newer movies have copied or processed further the events of this one so many times that they are no longer unique. I'm young compared to the age of this movie, but I get the feeling that the events that transpire in the movie caused a lot of conversation back when it was released. Stereotypes and generally quite irresponsible life is portrayed, but unfortunately those things are the norm nowadays.I gave the movie 7, If you like romantic drama with a bit of comedy you can easily give this movie a 9. "},{"Title":"One of the best older movies around","Date":"15 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my all time favorite older movies! The iconic portrayal of Audrey Hepburn as Holly Golightly is as timeless and classic as it gets. The movie has a really good story reminiscent of Amelie. Holly is essentially a bachelorette living in NYC. The premise sounds boring and uninteresting but the underpinnings are what really make this film shine. Holly appears on the surface to have everything she needs in life and to be blissfully unaware of any sadness or ill feelings she may harbour, but in the final scene you can see that she really does have something missing in her life. Similar to Amelie, except the main character is much more extroverted, you're taking through the story of a women finally having the courage to admit defeat to her own true feelings. I highly recommend that anyone reading this watches this film. It is truly worthy of all the praise and recognition it has achieved throughout the ages. "},{"Title":"Breakfast at Tiffany's","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For the sake of Audrey Hepburn, BREAKFAST AT TIFFANY'S has glamorised her beauty and elegance up to a paramount limit which nowadays seems difficult to imitate, if only the star power could still buoy a film all by itself. Directed by comedy veteran Blake Edwards (THE GREAT RACE 1965, 6/10; VICTOR VICTORIA 1982, 6/10) and adapted from Truman Capote's much more provocative source novel (e.g. our protagonist's homosexuality has been completely discarded), the watered-down film version could still hold many on-lookers' attention since Hepburn magnifies her much maturer charisma (compared with ROME HOLIDAY 1954, 9/10) in a disgraceful call-girl paradigm, which Capote originally conceived for Marilyn Monroe. It may be uneasy to find out the once goddess-princess swerves to a far more derogatory track as a gold-digger courtesan, and this time her saviour is not a knight in shining armour (as Richard Gere in PRETTY WOMAN 1990, 7/10), ironically condescending and chauvinistic, the prince charming is her mirrored other-half, an unsuccessful writer- gigolo, whose (inexplicable) awaken dignity serves as the final wake-up call to trawl back both Hepburn's Holly and the film back on the morally-correct trail. Hepburn's rendition of Henry Mancini's MOON RIVER is the emblem of a life-time achievement as a true idol, the inherent flair cannot be outstripped, plus she is transcendently stylish in every occasion, which has transformed the film into a surrealistic fete for the star, like in the party scenes, the material world is shallow but deadly irresistible! The lucky man George Peppard may fall short of allure to match Mrs. Hepburn, but also should not be taken as the fair game, which cannot be dispensed to anyone else but Mickey Rooney's OTT and disagreeable portrayal of the Japanese neighbour living upstairs (it supposes to be funny, right?); an overpoweringly superior Patricia Neal is another treat, whose low voice and towering poise betrays a diva living inside. The film may be fuzzy sometimes, but Holly's character development never be tainted by the unorthodox view of value (as long as there will be corrective moment to turn it around before the coda, which is the reason why Billy Wilder's SOME LIKE IT HOT 1959, 9/10 is a much pluckier film than this one), the well-anticipated paradigm-shift preaching may sound corny, but who would allow a cute pussy straying in the streets under the pouring rain, the film knows exactly how to manipulate our sympathies and frailty, so they did it, again! "},{"Title":"A movie is not a book!","Date":"15 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Other reviewers seem obsessed with Capote's original novella and criticize this movie saying that it's not the same as the book.Well - get over it. A movie is not a book! This is a Hollywood romance with some slapstick thrown in to balance the pathos. Would a more downbeat drama be a better film? Despite the treatment, the deeper issues of identity and truth (She's a real phony) still shine through. Audrey Hepburn plays a character re-inventing herself in NYC. Like Don Draper in Mad Men, Holly Golightly has discarded her rural family. It *is* a stretch to imagine the svelte and sophisticated Hepburn as an overweight child bride - Capote's original choice of Marilyn Monroe in the role might have worked better. Sadly, Norma Jeane's star was fading.In any case, Hepburn's performance was iconic. Nobody can deny that.The supporting cast are strong, in particular Buddy Ebsen and Patricia Neal. In my opinion, Peppard is stoic not wooden as some think. And what about that cat! "},{"Title":"Lighthearted and fun and...ooooh, that black dress!","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's will never break new ground on the nature of humans, the inner workings of society or the human spirit but if you are looking for a zany and somewhat irreverent movie this just might be for you.To begin, the titular black dress that has become Audrey Hepburn's trademark is seen in full at the very beginning of the film as our heroine (Holly Golightly) steps out of a cab quite early and has a coffee and pastry staring in at Tiffany's with those Manhattan sunglasses. Quite the sight and Hepburn makes this movie her own then and there.Our story progresses as Holly meets Paul Varjak (George Peppard) (or is it Fred?) and both come to realize they are opposite faces of the same coin. Holly gets $50 commissions for visits to the powder room and Paul is a kept man by 2E (Patricia Neal in a deliciously vulturous turn) for slightly better wages. Following are wild parties (the massive party in Holly's apartment, where she almost burns a guest's hat with her cigarette holder, is unforgettable) some painful appearances by Mickey Rooney in yellowface and stereotypical Asian mannerisms and a decent appearance by Buddy Ebsen as Doc Golightly, Holly's husband from Texas.We see friendship develop between Varjak and Golightly but she can't return his increasing affection as she's a social climber and never meant to be a loving partner...or so we think until the end.Fun movie and Cat is worth the price of admission on its own. "}{"Title":"Breakfast at Tiffany's Media Student Review","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany'sBreakfast at Tiffany's, directed by Blake Edwards, centers around superficial desires and love that reunites individuals with vulnerability.Holly Golightly is a naive character that accepts false pretenses. Constructing her own reality is her game and she is evidently efficient in her role. At times Holly seems magically in the way she utilizes herself and her imagination to assert a unique identity. Holly and Cat's relationship is a way to escape social constructions. Holly is frightened to truly experience the emotion of love. She associates love with being caged. Unlike most people, Holly is not equipped with dealing with her emotions. Much like an animal, she behaves impulsively. Therefore, Cat and Holly are much alike because they exercise a there freedom and are very selective in expression. Holly continues to create and control her reality when she is riding in the taxi cab with Paul and Cat. She does not like the sensation she feels when Paul attests to loving her. She continues her dominating nature when she decides to halt the cab and free the cat. The release of Cat is freeing for Holly. However, Paul convicts Holly by addressing the fact that people do fall in love. He also claims Holly has caged herself by trying to escape a natural process. Holly is bombarded with the fact that people sometimes cannot stop clashing with themselves. All romantic comedies have conflict. Breakfast at Tiffany's is a romantic comedy and has conflict.Holly's move to the city and explorations with in the socialite scene where distractions from the identity issues she refused to deal with. Many people have identity issues and attempt to fill the void by creating and constructing menial structures with no foundation. I believe this movie is primarily dealing with self-actualization. Exposing insecurities is and embracing them is the truly freeing part, not hiding behind the fake pretense. "},{"Title":"Breakfast at Tiffany's","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Holly, the main character, has a gold digger personality that dreams of an over the top life style that is supported by Tiffany's. She begins to realize that to find who she really is she has to give up Tiffany's. The producers of Breakfast at Tiffany's use the time of day to show when the emotions of the individuals will change. In many of the morning scenes, you get a sense that something good is happening. The characters' inviting moods make it easier for me to get really involved with the exciting activity. I am able to connect more with the exciting memories in the morning because people have more of an excitement for the day because I think that the day just started and a new day is a new beginning. In the film when Holly tells Paul she is moving to Brazil to start her new life, she tells him before breakfast. In the night scenes, the cops were threatened to be called and were called. To many people, this action would be considered a bad event. The actor, Audrey Hepburn, does a wonderful job playing the part of Holly Golightly. She is able to really connect with the audience by showing how Holly is longing to be a part of a group. I am able to connect with her because while going through my life I will go through multiple groups of friends and live in different locations that will suit my personality the best. When watching the film, you feel that the actor is really living their life and I did not get a feeling that she was just trying to portray a character. Holly and Paul have the same types of personality; they are both lost trying to find themselves and they go through many groups of friends. Holly goes from living in Texas to California to New York in search for her identity. Paul is the writer who is being paid by a cougar even though he feels as if he is being pulled in the opposite direction of where he really wants to go. They both are being surrounded by many people but still have a feeling of being completely alone. You can get a sense that Holly is escaping from the current reality and moving to find herself, when she uses the stairwell outside her window. I feel when Holly goes through the window to Paul's room, she finally relaxes and begins to see who she really would like to become. When she goes back down to her room, I think she gets a frigid feeling; she does not seem to be as relaxed and she seems like she has to be in a constant rush to do the next thing. The other matching personalities are with Sally Tomato and Paul's friends. Both characters are helping support individuals in exchange for the company. Sally Tomato hires Holly to come and keep him company at Sing Sing. Paul's friend pays him whenever she comes over. Both of the individuals have a type of second life with the people they help financially. They feel as if they have a connection with these individuals and a sense of completion. Holly and Paul show the typical boy and girl love story. They have the normal arguments and laughs. They are able to understand each other's wants and needs and are even able look deep into each other to find themselves. With their first meeting, when he wants to use her telephone, you can feel the connection and the spark. When he looks at her, you feel that urge to get to know her more because she is not what he normally finds. You are able to feel the struggle between them to actually give each other the chance and lose their old identities. I just noticed a pattern that many of the parties and events in the film included smoking and drinking. Just from these few ideas in the events, I am able to assume that living in New York City would consist of parties and smoking with large groups of people. I am also able to assume that the individuals maintain more of a care free spirit. "},{"Title":"Media Literacy","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The main message of this sophisticated, yet bittersweet, movie is finding yourself, along with pursuing happiness, or what each one of the characters understands this to be. Neither of the main characters seems to have a well organized life, they come into view as lost and dependent of others. The characters will later grow to learn that all they need is love. This film illustrates the frenetic, high-speed lives of a woman and a man who can't move forward in life. The character Holly Golightly plays an interesting role as a gold-digging girl whose businesses are very questionable. The movie gives the understanding of her being a prostitute, yet the details of her sleeping with men for money is never declared. What are perfectly visible are her professional skills of manipulation. She seduces all kinds of rich men to get whatever she wants. She likes to build an image of herself as a sweet and innocent lost girl who needs a rich man to make all her wishes come true. One of the interesting points in this movie is that Holly always seems to get what she wants, mainly because of the decade this film is based on, the 1960's. This character understands happiness through money, thinking that love is just a cage and proclaiming herself as a free spirit. It looks like she needs to keep distracting herself from reality in order to fulfill her goal. The only person who she seems to care about is her younger brother, who later dies. His death allows us to see Holly's first real (and natural) reaction to what happens in her life. She builds a facade around herself changes her name, tries to belong to a place she is not used to, cuts all her relations with her past. In essence, she tries to forget who she is to become someone new. It seems like her self-esteem is high, but the truth is that she is unable to love herself; this is the reason why she does not believe in love. When she finally is able to accept who she really is, she becomes open to love. This movie presents New York City between WWII and The Great Society, where being hip and urban was reachable and attractive to the middle-class. It portrays the city as a beautiful and vibrant place where nothing but parties and other fun events happen. The film builds an impression of a magical city that only exists in our imagination. The opening scene shows exactly what to expect from Holly for most of the movie. It shows a beautiful Audrey Hepburn in a gorgeous black dress coming home after pulling an all-nighters. Her taxi stops right in front of the famous jewelry store Tiffany's, she walks towards the shop window drinking coffee and eating a croissant. Holly likes to keep her phone inside a suit case. This is part of showing how her life is upside down in so many levels and also a symbol of her not wanting to have to respond before anyone, not wanting to hear from anyone, not caring for anyone. It can also be considered as her way to state the fact that she is ready to leave at anytime. Holly's cat plays an important role during the film. The cat is a reflection of herself in many ways. She doesn't name it because she doesn't want it to belong to her, she thinks of that as caging the animal. However Cat starts to become its actual name. After realizing that she might be caging Cat, she sets it free. For a few moments it looks like Cat might be gone forever, but she hears it meowing and runs to get it back. This is a big symbol in the movie; like cat, she was lost and now is found. She picks her Cat up and kisses Paul. Also Cat and what it represents is present in the movie in many different ways. Holly wears a cat mask that she steals from a store and the book that Paul writes is called Nine Lives I have to say that to me, as soon as Holly and Paul met it was pretty obvious that they were going to fall in love. This movie, as any other romantic movie ever written, is divided in three structured, never changing elements. First, the two main, lost and confused, characters meet and start to fall for each other, after a brief yet intense, let's say, week, they find something terrible about each other or they say, like in this film's case, something inappropriate or harmful to one another that makes them break up. And when the audience thinks that there is nothing else to do to save the relationship (nowadays every person in the world should know that is NOT the case) something marvelous happens and both characters fall in love with each other all over again. One of the aspects of this movie that have definitely surprised me the most is the infinite amount of little connections that one can make. It really impressed me how Holly's cat was a key for the movie, as stated before. After finding the importance of the cat I started wondering about any other connections that were found in this movie. The Cat lead me to wondering the meaning of the suitcase (she is ready to leave anytime), and the suitcase lead me to find the meaning of Holly's shoes. A few minutes into the movie Holly can't find her shoes, this has a deeper meaning. Holly is unable to move forward in life, unable to keep an order, to find her way. All this little, almost hidden details helped me to better understand Holly's character in a whole new level. "},{"Title":"Diamonds are my best friend!","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Every girl ought to have a safe haven like Tiffany's jewelry store- a place where they can go to and forget the mean reds. After all, diamonds are a girl's best friend. This movie accentuates glamor and shows the great lengths people go through to live the good life. Holly is constantly chasing after a fancy lifestyle by earning money as an escort- we've all seen and heard stories about people that would go to hell and back to live the life they so much desire. The stripper at the gentleman's club, who is wearing a white gown and earns a decent amount of money, is a parallel image of who Holly is. I like the opening scene where Holly Golightly is looking through the window of Tiffany's jewelry store, in the morning because it brings the title to life. It also somehow reminds me of those times I have gone shopping and looked at a pair of shoes that I really want, but can't have. All the scenes that happen in the morning are important in this movie. I am not a morning person, but when I see the rising sun, it gives me hope for that day. At the end of the movie, I saw that same hope take the form of a new relationship between Holly, Paul and the Cat, as they discover who they really are and break away from their pasts. The camera did a good job of capturing the importance of mornings by using fades as they switched from scene to scene. Nomenclature plays the role of reflecting the true life and personality of the main character. Holly Golightly is an easy going person who lives every day like she is on a vacation, just like her name suggests. Holly, Paul and cat can all be viewed as strugglers in finding their true identities. Holly refuses to name the cat, saying that they do not belong to each other. Paul is also trying to find himself through his writing. Holly is a young lady who is just trying to find and make a way through life in New York. Holly's sunglasses and the use of masks as well as windows in the movie show how she is trying to hide her true self from those around her. I have actually had the privilege of visiting New York and experiencing the fast life, even if it was only for a few days. Breakfast at Tiffany's reminds me so much of the city-yellow taxi cabs, party life and the human traffic on the streets of New York. Even Paul in the movie says, People in New York never get to know their neighbors. In my opinion, this is true because nobody there has much time to stop and make nice with the person next to them. There is definitely no running away from the drama in movies like Breakfast at Tiffany's. In this case the main character is confronted by her past. This moment of truth is brought when like Doc gives us an insight of Holly's past that she is trying to run away from. There is also the tragic death of her brother Fred which completely destroys her. Of course there is even more drama with Holly's arrest and rescue by Paul. I have always known that movies most times, if not always have a happy ending. After watching Breakfast at Tiffany's, I learned that such movies deserve a happy ending. It's what kept me watching because I was hoping it would end right the right way, with Holly and Paul finally getting together. "},{"Title":"Breakfast at Tiffany's","Date":"26 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's to me represents two people, Holly and Paul, who are trying to find themselves as individuals, and they find themselves by finding each other. There are several settings in this film, which are the apartment building, the city, and Tiffany's. The apartment building has its own little inner circle separate from the rest of the city where most of the film takes place and where the two find each other. The city for the most part is an empty setting, except for, of course, when the two go on their date and connect on a deeper level. Tiffany's is not in the film often at all, but it carries a lot of value throughout the film. Holly and Paul are both headed down paths that only bring them temporary happiness and never true happiness in the start. They eventually break that spell for each other, but Holly takes longer than Paul. The meaning goes much deeper than the actual plot in this film and I believe that it is depicted well by the plot. The writing in Breakfast at Tiffany's keeps the message close in its simplicity. I believe that the writing in this film is good based on the support it gives to the overall message. There are a lot of grouping examples in this film that all seem to be fairly significant. Holly and Paul are, of course, the most important. They are the two main characters who are both lost in their lives that lack fulfillment and love. Paul is also comparative to Fred, Holly's brother, in many ways throughout the film. Although Fred is never met, Holly cherishes Paul at first, because he resembles her brother whom she loves and misses dearly. There are several more cases of grouping in this film as well, but none as clear and relevant as these. In the start of the film Holly is shown outside of Tiffany's eating breakfast and drinking coffee. Tiffany's has very little to do with the plot as a setting for the rest of the film, but is mentioned several times as a place of comfort. Tiffany's is such a small part of the film for most of the time, but in the end it is what brings Holly and Paul together. It is obvious in the film that women are not necessarily treated as equals to men. That is a large part of why Holly does not want to be owned or to own anyone. She never gives cat a name, because she does not want to own him. This film offers several insights to creating a good film that can be learned. The way that the film starts with every morning as happy and seems to forget what happened the day before creates a new situation each day. The random turn of events that seem to keep coming makes the film more interesting. The overall message in Breakfast at Tiffany's is that for a person to find happiness he or she must first stop running from life and find his or her self. "},{"Title":"fragility grace","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" it is more than a nice film.it is more than an adaptation. a labyrinth, a travel in the heart of a world, story of a princess and her Charming Prince, fascinating clothes, brilliant humor and unique performance of Audrey Hepburn. kind of fairy-tale, it is a precious stone for its e3xtraordinary art to suggest to many nuances. sure, part of old manner to make movies, full of glamor and perfect dialogs, sad, bitter and pretty, it is difficult to define. because its porpoise is delight. to seduce, to give basis for dreams, to imagine a Tiffany for everybody and present real porpoise of existence. more than a film, it is beautiful show of fragility grace. "},{"Title":"A one-of-a-kind snapshot","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film Breakfast at Tiffany's was released in 1961, based on Truman Capote's best-selling story of 1958 which itself was set in 1943-1944. So we get an interesting picture-in-picture-in-picture effect, further compounded by the fact they you're watching this 50 years later. If that doesn't freak you out, read on. I think you'll like the movie.The setting may be hard for us to grasp, and thus characters may seem unbelievable, but that's the name of the game. In particular, Audrey Hepburn's character Holly Golightly is a comic book caricature of the self-absorbed New York socialite (or phony as she would've been called in Catcher in the Rye). But as one character says in the film, she's genuine because unlike the others, she actually believes all the phony stuff she pretends. This makes Holly one of the most complex characters in 20th century literature, and Audrey Hepburn's brilliant performance really brings her to life.Audrey's performance works for 2 reasons 1) she Audrey Hepburn... duh! and 2) she plays the role with a confused innocence that instantly makes her likable, despite her oftimes selfish behavior. I can't think of many others who could pull it off. It's quite different from her earlier Roman Holiday and Sabrina performances where she plays cute little sprite wandering out into the world for the first time. Here she plays the reverse a sophisticated, gold-digging woman-of-the-world who's trying to get back to the simplicity she abandoned years ago.Blake Edwards' directing style is perfect... humorous but with a sharp touch of sarcasm and satire, as in the famous party scene where he brutally exposes phonies for what they are, making us laugh at them without them knowing it. He accomplishes this with fast paced snippets, quirky angles and surreal moments almost bordering on something you'd see in the surrealist comedies Airplane and Naked Gun which would come 20 years later. Blake Edwards and Jerry Lewis were pioneers of this memorable style of directing.What really brings it home is the soundtrack by Edwards' pal & longtime collaborator Henri Mancini. Moon River is the defining theme of this film, and there's a really nice scene of Audrey singing it while playing guitar on a fire escape.Of course I have to say a final word about Mickey Rooney playing the role of Mr. Funiyoshi. Why? Because Blake Edwards, producer Richard Shepherd, and several cast members themselves made a point to voice their embarrassment and regret over those scenes, even including a special feature on the 45th Anniversary DVD called Mr. Yunioshi An Asian Perspective. In a nutshell, they deeply regret the choice of an American actor mocking a Japanese character in yellowface complete with buck teeth and coke bottle glasses. It was a bit over-the-top even for 1961 audiences, despite the postwar Japanese phobia that prompted it. Nowadays it's just plain uncomfortable, and those 3 or 4 scenes can be very distracting, accomplishing the opposite of the comic relief that was intended. Like I said, you'll have to acknowledge the picture-in-picture nature of this film, leave your body and see it as a snapshot of the past, and try to overlook the offensiveness if you can. The filmmakers have apologized repeatedly for the mistake so we have to let it go.Overall this is a great film that's sure to entertain and possibly inspire. I've read that in the 60s this story inspired hoards of women to leave their humdrum lives in search of adventure. Perhaps the same way Brigitte Bardot was inspiring women in Europe to embrace freedom, this film did the same in the states.If you like this film, don't miss the similarly-themed Vivien Leigh performances in Streetcar Named Desire (1952) and Gone with the Wind (1939) if you haven't already seen those. Also check out anything by Brigitte Bardot who always seems to play the uncaged bird. And for more recent stuff, check out the French film Priceless (2008) starring Audrey Tautou from Amelie... it's a loose re-invention of Breakfast at Tiffany's set as a modern rom-com. All of these films are worth the price of admission and more. "},{"Title":"an undeniable classic","Date":"7 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just recently had the pleasure of seeing Breakfast at Tiffanys on the big screen for the first time. Although, I enjoyed the film I toiled about writing a review for it. Just because I'm not sure it's really fair to give the film a critical review measuring it by today's technical standards or cinemas moral compass so to speak. But here it is. I can definitely see why this film is a classic. The two leads have a great, realistic chemistry and the films plot line is a bit risqué. I can also see why Audrey Hepburn is heralded as such a cinematic icon she has this addictive quality to her that always keeps you immensely engaged when shes on screen. The film moves clumpily at times but there are a few laughs and maybe even a few tears towards the end. Heres the negatives and don't scold me too much but from a technical aspect the film is a bit messy as I'm sure many of the films are from that era so I'm not gonna be too critical of that. Here are the main problems I had with the film that bothered me a little when watch first and foremost the ghastly, garish performance from Mickey Rooney as her upstairs neighbor. An obviously racist nod to the Asian population and an not even a remotely accurate one by any means. I can see where it could have been funny back in the day but now it just comes across offensive and completely takes you out of the films charming effect every time. Also I couldn't help but notice the constant animal abuse of the cat throughout the film it's thrown around constantly and although it makes for a cute final scene you can't help bust feel bad for that animal he/she ends up being the star. All in all it's a good flick with a great song Moon River it doesn't completely stand the test of time but it has this ever apparent charm and classy sheen to it. And I'm sure it will be remembered for as long as movies are around if for only the fact that it ended up inspiring pretty much every romantic movie to come after it especially since Hepburn's quirky character is probably the reason we've had so many charmingly quirky characters. A debt alone in cinematic gold is owed to that. "},{"Title":"Adorably brilliant...","Date":"10 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Audrey Hepburn certainly has her theatrical skills to pay for her admirable beauty. I remember reading a comparative review about Natalie Portman, with critics stated she's the present times' Audrey Hepburn. Upon hearing some good remarks from my officemate how Audrey did well on her movies Roman Holiday and Breakfast at Tiffany's, then maybe it is high time for me to see this lady predefine Natalie Portman's paralleled fame. I went to watch Breakfast at Tiffany's. The film was entirely great! I mean the story (first and foremost) was unexpected. Seeing the movie posters makes you think straight how the movie will turn out to be, but make you revoke your first impression upon seeing the rest. It was a good deal of a story. Nothing I could exactly remember in my movie experiences the same lucid story of a woman's desperateness to climb the top to provide for someone, while cloaking her pretentious strength and feebly endure her tangled situation. This is the first time I saw George Peppard and I must say he possessed the classic handsomeness and theatric skillfulness so unheard of that in my opinion (base on my research) was so underrated or underused. Audrey and George were cool together. Their tandem was a bit off because of their apparent differences but easily understandable as each other's milieu were understandable to his/her own. You could quickly discern that the moment they met, Oh, he's the one. It's predictable, but what I don't hate about predictability is the storyline's beauty coating the entirety of the film to compensate for such clichéness. You may have predicted it but you still haven't understood the rest yet.George Peppard's performance was good. The first time I saw him use such skills was finer than any famous actor could claim for and averagely perform the act instead. He's was cool. The character was patient, conservative, looks weak and common at first glance, but straightforward and truer than any man you could imagine in the world. Audrey Hepburn was indeed superb. I can't find a word to truly describe her in this film. It's somewhere between best and average. I don't want to overrate her or even undermine her. She was really fun. It felt watching Katharine Hepburn in a different setting. She's fun, adorable, interesting, keen and makes you keep an eye until she broke the character's inner depths. I saw Natalie Portman's Black Swan before this, and I can see the two actresses' skinny stature comparable. But that was a pun. I can see half of it now why critics consider Natalie Portman as the current generations' Audrey Hepburn. I can't wait to see Roman Holiday and My Fair Lady. Audrey indeed did well in this film and so much of her I wanted to see more. "},{"Title":"A sad film...","Date":"2 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Before Jersey Shore and the Kardashians there was Holly Golightly. A stunningly played roll on the part of Audrey Hepburn, that sings to the depths of misery while surrounding itself with decadence. When Holly feels sad, or angry, or melancholy she goes to Tiffany's and when movie-goers want to escape the drudgery and complacency of life they pop in Breakfast at Tiffany's.It is band-aid of a film about the band-aids that people use to cover their wounds. Holly and Paul stumble through life using parties, shopping, sex, money, judgement, and prejudice to escape the tragedy of their own unhappiness. They desperately try to escape one another while feeling inexplicably drawn to one another, for each sees themselves in the other.The characters are truly complex and brilliant, but the lightheartedness of the film tempts the audience to gloss over their short-comings and humanity until we fall in love with them just as they have fallen in love with themselves. We ignore their tragedy and hail them as whimsical and classic and we build our society around their debauchery and escapism.If one looks past the glamor the characters become reminiscent of Fitzgerald. But a typical Hollywood ending scrapes away the depth and leaves us with an empty blue box. "}{"Title":"I loved this movie.","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Probably, the most recognizable Audrey Hepburn's character as Holly, though she was iconic in lots of films and is remembered in a variety of roles. My favorites have always been 'Roman Holiday' and 'Breakfast at Tiffany's'. I loved her tiny black dress, big sunglasses, widely-opened eyes, beautifully penciled eyebrows, fear of love and the Cat altogether. It felt much more heartfelt, eccentric and charming watch the movie. The supporting actors are brilliantly cast, even the Cat. Moreover, the original score and the soundtrack 'Moon River' is especially magnificent. Make your way to the Tiffany's, I love every bit of the film. "},{"Title":"Fabulous Fairy Floss","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had had no great desire to see Breakfast at Tiffanys until prompted by a friend recently. To my very pleasant surprise, it lives up to its reputation.Breakfast is a delightful, if unlikely, confection which filters adult themes through a G rated prism, delivering Audrey Hepburn at her most charming.Everything is so wonderfully bright and shiny, for example, Hepburn's Holly Golightly is roused from her sleep, having returned at dawn from a night out, with full, unsmudged make up. She then proceeds to go from just arisen, to catwalk glamour, in a matter of minutes. George Peppard is very come hither in all his bare chested glory. Mickey Rooney's Asian landlord IS a curiosity.The restored, digitised copy was wonderful on the big screen, but frustratingly soft focus. Was this true of the original print?If only the devil-may-care party lifestyle were so benign. "},{"Title":"Simply delightful","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Try as I have. I still can't find Audrey Hepburn someone to punch the clown about. Still Breakfast at Tiffanys starts with a glorious theme, the setting is New York and Holly Golightly emerges from a taxi in the early morning, drinking coffee and eating something I couldn't make out and this classic opening sets the tone for what is genuinely a classic picture. Mooon rivvverrr!!! lovely. And really the whole film is smashing, even for a guy like me who also likes Cannibal Holocaust. In this movie however thankfully Holly does not get impaled on a stake, she just falls in love with the guy upstairs. Holly is of course a high class call girl who falls for man whore Paul played by a straight George Peppard who I thought was quite good in it some don't but hey I liked it. Or should I say they fall for each other then Holly being the kind of girl she is ..does one. It all ends pleasantly however with another classic scene in the pouring rain with Paul and Holly's smelly wet pussycat. Its got a classic theme and a classic vibe about it. I would highly recommend it. It would have got 10 out of 10 but Mickey Rooney's character is plain irritating, thankfully he ain't in it much. "},{"Title":"Still good entertainment","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In some respects Breakfast at Tiffany's holds out quite well, and in others it's aged terribly - most notable are Mickey Rooney's horrific and incredibly offensive performance, and the sentimental ending that makes a mockery of Capote's original work. However, thanks to excellent performances from Peppard and of course the wonderful Audrey Hepburn, it still holds its own as an entertaining movie that strikes a good balance between silly romanticism and oddball humor on one end and very dark psychological undertones on the other, and in that respect it's very much in tune with Capote's writing. Watch it with an open mind, don't expect too much or too little, and you may find it's a very rewarding little movie, if not the classic masterpiece it's sometimes credited as. "},{"Title":"A flawed but dazzling gem.","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When you click on the 'hated it' filter here at IMDb you get a rather narrow variety of criticisms; primarily targeting Mickey Rooney's admittedly jarring comic relief turn as a shouty Asian hothead, the bowdlerization of the original novella and the dislikeable central characters. Whilst Rooney's 'Mr Yunioshi' should have been recast with an actual Asian actor (and it wasn't like there weren't any around in 1961), the other two criticisms prove less concrete when examined. Simply put, you couldn't have an implicitly gay narrator (the George Peppard character) or a lusty, foul-mouthed bisexual 'heroine' in 1961. Neither could the novella's haunting, wistful ending (she actually does go to Brazil and they never meet again) have made it into such a major Hollywood movie. Even so, given the characters' parameters, it is fair to assume that their reconciliation and apparent resumption of their romance is merely a temporary situation. After all, both Holly and Paul are deeply flawed people, with manifest (and largely unresolved) commitment issues. Both are people-users, dependent for their livelihoods on the largesse of others and neither deals well with brutal reality (although Paul grows a backbone and ceases his involvement with '2-E', the married woman who keeps him in his apartment as a boy-toy). However, they reveal their vulnerabilities when together and become entirely understandable (if not wholly likable) characters. This movie is popularly regarded as a classic, mainly for its undeniable sense of style (New York is beautiful, and if only all the call-girls looked like Audrey Hepburn circa 1961. Yes indeed...), the charm of both its stars and the engaging screenplay/direction. The underlying darkness is still there though, and one does wonder just how long Holly and Paul really did (or feasibly could) stay together after that final scene in the alleyway. Still, 'BAT' endures as an enjoyable, absorbing rom-com and a fascinating time-capsule of post-1950s, pre-Beatles chic. One final point; the makers supposedly used several cats to portray 'Cat'. From the way the poor creature was alarmingly used and abused throughout, I'm not surprised. "},{"Title":"movieinthepark.blogspot.com","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From Blake Edwards, known for the Pink Panther series, who unfortunately died very recently. This movie portrays the relationship between a naive but extremely beautiful lady and her new neighbour, Holly (Audrey Hepburn) and Paul (George Peppard). The argument is very poor. Basically, a writer arrives to NYC and goes living upstairs from this girl with quite a social life. He gets to know her other side and falls in love with it, but she won't give up her dream, marry a very rich man. This is actually the biggest problem with America, very few can write. Happily, there are still several exceptions for our bliss. You should note that in spite of the awful technique, the acting is very good. Specially Audrey Hepburn, I don't know what's with that name but there a whole bunch of actresses with that name that match great acting with extreme beauty. Anyhow, kind of a dramatic or romantic comedy, this movie explores a very stupid way of making comedy. Typical in the American 60s, very strange if you analyse the rest of the cinematic panorama around the world, as comedy was much more evolved, suble and clever, after the golden comedian times with people like Jacques Tati and Jerry Lewis, in the 50s. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Powerful, if somewhat flawed film. Well worth the watch","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the first time I've seen this movie even though it's been around for over 50 years. At the beginning I was not particularly impressed, but as the film progressed it revealed something special -- that certain it factor that differentiates great films from good or even very good films. Granted, it's packed with lots of Dahlings (apparently that's the 60's version of babe), but if one can get past those frivolities the movie really packs a punch -- not so much as a great romantic epic, but more as a study of human nature, as well as socialite upper crust society (most notably how boredom factors into a lot of what animates and motivates these creatures).I was surprised to see, given the title, that the film actually semi-mocks Tiffany's -- although it does manage to render its mockery in a somewhat heartfelt way. Additionally, I was surprised to hear the words of the main theme song, Moon River, in a completely different light than I'd ever heard when Andy Williams sang it. There's an almost Over The Rainbow quality to that song. Clearly the book's author, (upon which the film was based) Truman Capote, had some interesting things to say about socialite society (as well as some parts of impoverished Texas). More than that, however, it drives home a very valid point that so-called wild rebels can actually be running from themselves, all the while waving (or hiding behind) the flag of stoic independence.The film also highlights quite well the twisted underbelly of relationships in general. It's not what I'd call an easy film to watch, but it is a worthwhile one, IMO. To its credit, it's clearly not your typical Doris Day/moon June 60's Hollywood fare. In fact, it was surprisingly, if not shockingly racy for a film of its day. It's a shame, however, that it's tainted by an overtly (and unnecessary) stereotyping of Asians in the form of Mickey Rooney's ridiculous character. So while not excusing that clear injustice, along with the aforementioned plethora of annoying Dahlings that permeate and tend to dilute the seriousness of this film, Breakfast At Tiffany's has something to say even 50 years after its initial release. That places it in an elite group of films indeed. "},{"Title":"Breakfast at Tiffany's (1961)","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast At Tiffany's is an absolute classic. The opening scene had me intrigued at once. It felt like an ending to a movie. The gentle and soft chords of Moon River playing, as a cab pulls up. This really felt as though it was early morning. There was already a lot of sadness and charm in these few opening shots. As the film progresses, we follow a woman on a self destructive path. She seems so free, but really she is trapped by her efforts to try and remain free. Hepburn is gorgeous and charming, but also sympathetic. She does well to make her lifestyle seem appealing, but then pushes us away with her attacks on those close to her. The dialogue and humor in this film are excellent. Some of the dialogue seems so modern, such as the chit-chat between Fred Baby and the Tiffany's Clerk. It's casual, honest, and cleverly comments on the story itself. It all looks good and sounds good. We also have some of the best feline performances of all time. The cats that played Cat, and their animal trainer, should all be saluted. The cat is great at interactions, and just being awesome. This isn't just a cat that sits around. The ending is something so soft, but cruel, that it's a relief to see something so well handled. A moment that helps the characters and audience realise something, without being cheesy. Apart from Rooney's ill-judged performance, this film is perfect. "},{"Title":"It's Like This, Cat","Date":"4 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There once was a very lovely, very frightened girl. She lived alone except for a nameless cat. Looking chic in Manhattan, thin and attractive Audrey Hepburn (as Holly Golightly) pays for her East Side apartment by accepting money from interested men, but she doesn't return their kindness with sexual favors. Consequently, some of the men follow her home; this, along with Ms. Hepburn's knack for misplacing her door key, upsets bucktoothed Japanese landlord Mickey Rooney (as Mr. Yunioshi). Nice-looking new tenant George Peppard (as Paul Fred Varjak) moves into the building. He's a dry-spelled writer being paid for sexual encounters with matronly Patricia Neal (as Emily 2-E Eustace)... Author Truman Capote was reportedly upset with the changes made in his Breakfast at Tiffany's - the setting was significantly altered in time, and original choice Marilyn Monroe was not employed to play the lead. However, the present proved to be perfect. And while Ms. Monroe would have once been likewise ideal, she was chronic by the time Breakfast was shot. This gave Hepburn the great but more difficult (for her) charming, phony role, and she responds with a classic characterization. The smoking, shoplifting, and other strangeness can be forgiven, but Mr. Rooney's nearsighted landlord hits a sour note... This film was a big hit and remains cherished for its adult romance and beautiful soundtrack. The Henry Mancini and Johnny Mercer theme song Moon River is certainly one of the best composed for a motion picture; more remarkable is how exceptionally well it is used within the story. One of the most unusual things about Breakfast at Tiffany's is how it captures an elusive early 1960s quality Jacqueline Kennedy dubbed Camelot, after the 1960 song and stage play. People and things mentioned herein all have that elusive, optimistic and chic - but strangely fragile, delicate and doomed quality. ********* Breakfast at Tiffany's (10/5/61) Blake Edwards ~ Audrey Hepburn, George Peppard, Patricia Neal, Mickey Rooney "},{"Title":"George Peppard--Audrey Hepburn's Finest Leading Man","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Though I had always been charmed by Audrey Hepburn and her movies of the 1950s, it wasn't until Breakfast that I truly fell in love with her. But what bothers me is that George Peppard is rarely mentioned in tributes to the movie, and when he is, the comments about him are usually derogatory. In her previous films, Ms. Hepburn's leading men always seemed old enough to be her father. Breakfast broke that creepy tradition by casting a young, handsome, sensitive newcomer named George Peppard, and the chemistry between them is electric. Instead of portraying his role as a traditional two-fisted matinée idol, Peppard quietly underplays, revealing his character well-aware of being a flawed young man, unhappy at being a failed writer, only able to pay his bills by being the kept man of an East Side harridan (Ms. Neal's portrayal of this role is almost as much a caricature as Mr. Rooney's as Holly's Japanese neighbor). So let's give Peppard (also superb in Home From the Hill) credit for being Ms. Hepburn's most appealing romantic lead--until six years later when Albert Finney (seven years her junior) stole her heart on-and-off screen in the sadly underrated masterpiece Two for the Road. Incidentally, when my snooty friends told me a long time ago how inferior the movie version of Breakfast at Tiffany's was to Capote's brilliant novella, I finally read the damned thing and loathed it! Everything that is so magical about the movie is NOT in the book, including the character of Paul, portrayed so subtly and sincerely by George Peppard. He, Ms. Hepburn, Blake Edwards, Henry Mancini, George Axelrod et all may not have known it at the time, but they created what I consider the finest movie of all-time that, 50 years later, still sparkles like an exquisite Tiffany's bauble. "}{"Title":"Didn't I tell you this was a lovely place?","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Much as we tend to think of cinema as being propelled by ground-breaking and innovative new movies, in truth it's a little more complicated, with progress being made in lots of little nudges as trends and movements come and go. What is true is that some pictures seem to encapsulate an upcoming wave so well that they appear revolutionary. Breakfast at Tiffany's is a movie that one cannot imagine having been made any earlier than it was, that despite its straightforward style and romantic plot seems far more modern than any of those edgy jazz movies from the late 1950s. In retrospect it seems to herald the beginning of 1960s cinema more than any of its contemporaries.Director Blake Edwards was recently commemorated as cinema's Mr Cool, and it's for movies like this he got that distinction, even if it's not exactly representative of his whole career. He is not an exceptional dramatic director, but he handles things with simplicity and confidence, giving us some considered long takes and pretty shot compositions, such as the one of Audrey Hepburn lying on the bed as pillow down falls like snow around her. But probably the most unique thing about Edwards was his bringing slapstick back to the Hollywood movie. For Breakfast at Tiffany's his physical comedy stylings are in their infancy, but there are still a few chuckles to be had, mostly in the party scene that occurs about a third of the way through and was apparently thought up by Edwards during production. The trouble is that it is not really the right sort of comedy for this movie. Standing alone as it does, turning extras into characters for a few minutes, it unbalances the first half somewhat. Edwards would make better slapstick movies when he found characters and stories that suited the style.Oddly enough though, the thing that makes Audrey Hepburn's performance really stand out is her ability to do comedy &#x96; not Edwards's slapstick, but a gentler, smoother humour that weaves its way through the picture, material that may come from Truman Capote's novella, George Axelrod's screenplay or may again be on-the-set inventions by cast or crew. It's the way she drinks milk from a champagne glass or does her makeup in a mirror on the inside of a letterbox, with an air of innocence and total normality. It's the look of determination in her eyes as she bears down on the millionaire Rusty Trawler. It is Hepburn, through her subtly comedic performance, who brings Holly Golightly's chaotic, ditzy, adventurous world to life, and makes it a place that looks like fun to live in. It is, in other words, Hepburn who really makes this picture work.But there are lots of other wonderful little titbits that go into the mix. The seemingly trivial moment where the staff member at Tiffany's says it's nice that they still have prizes in Crackerjack boxes is, I feel, one of the most significant in the whole movie, because it provides a very human link between the upmarket jewellery store and the earthy sentimentality of the characters. The Henry Mancini score, all seemingly built around the song Moon River, is appropriately sad and beautiful. Yes, overall there are some problems with the movie's structure and pacing, but the thing about Breakfast at Tiffany's is that the sum of its parts is greater than the whole. It is this cornucopia of touching and delightful creations that makes it linger in the mind, a great iconic movie that has come to define its era. "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn at her best!...","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen this film many times over the years, usually on a rainy Sunday afternoon when I lived with my parents, with my brother and sister, usually arguing, in the background. It was nice to see it again, but this time with no distractions and I was surprised just how 'grown up' a lot of it was. I remember a light romantic comedy with the rather good Johnny Mercer (words)/Henry Mancini (music) song Moon River running through it, but I found a much darker side to it this time. More of my thoughts later after this brief summary.When writer Paul Varjak is moved into a new apartment by his rich lover, known as 2-E, he meets his new neighbour, Holly Golightly. She has an immediate impact on him and they soon become friends. They are very similar in certain ways, Holly lives off the generosity of the men she meets, without compromising herself, I should add. She is paid by a lawyer to visit a gangster, Sally Tomato, in prison and report back the weather report. As you can probably guess, this will cause problems for Holly later on. As time goes by Paul and Holly grow closer, but she is always on the lookout for a rich man to marry. Things take a turn when her former husband, Doc Golightly, turns up and this gives Paul pause for thought. But she persuades Doc to go back home without too much bother and, as Paul begins to believe he has a chance; another rich man appears on the scene. Also some bad news affects Holly quite badly&#x85; Will they ever get together? What is the bad news? Well, I can't really tell you here or the Spoiler Police will be sending me to Sing Sing (again).One thing that immediately struck me about this film was just how beautiful Audrey Hepburn was. She really shone and put in a tremendous performance as the free spirited Holly Golightly. I thought George Peppard as Paul Varjak was excellent too in a role that many might find a little surprising given his later, more infamous, TV roles. The supporting cast were also very good; Patricia Neal as 2-E, Buddy Ebsen as Doc Golightly, Martin Balsam as O.J. Berman, José Luis de Vilallonga as José and the comic relief was supplied by Mickey Rooney as Mr. Yunioshi. Oh, and I mustn't forget Putney as 'Cat'.As I said at the beginning there is a darker side to this story, it made me wonder a little about how Holly came to be this person, and how Paul ended up in a situation where he is a 'kept' man. There are hints to their past lives but it is never fully revealed. I really did enjoy seeing it again, but I did feel it was a little too long and there were a few scenes in there that didn't really add much to the story. It is all, however, very well done and one I have no problem in deeming&#x85; Recommended.My Score 8.1/10.IMDb Score 7.8/10 (based on 43,462 votes at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes Score 88/100 (based on 48 reviews counted at the time of going to press). "},{"Title":"Our Huckleberry Friend","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Checking out both the original novel and the Wikipedia article on Breakfast At Tiffany's I was surprised to see how different Truman Capote's vision of this story was. Capote who wanted Marilyn Monroe cast as Holly Golightly lived to see Audrey Hepburn make his literary creation one of her best cinematic creations. I think given Marilyn's track record for behavioral problems on film sets, Capote, Blake Edwards the director, and everyone else concerned with Breakfast At Tiffany's probably dodged a bullet. Capote's story is set in the Forties and the film is contemporary 1961 when it was filmed. There's no real plot to it, Capote did a character study and so is this. It's about two people and the fascination that George Peppard's character develops for the unconventionality of Holly Golightly as Hepburn essays her.Hepburn is the kept woman of a cross section of the male species and Peppard is the boy toy of another woman who rents in their apartment, Patricia Neal. Neal who would win her Oscar the following year for Hud has her character as curiously underdeveloped. It's the main weakness of Breakfast At Tiffany's.The strength is of course Audrey Hepburn who took Capote's character completely over and it's her vision of the story that we see when the film is broadcast. She's an amoral minx who in the end realizes that her life is really meaningless. Breakfast At Tiffany's won two Oscars both for Henry Mancini for Best Musical Scoring and Best Original Song for Moon River. That song is best known for Andy Williams's rendition, but there are also superb recordings by Frank Sinatra and Tony Martin. Hepburn got a nomination for Best Actress and the film was also nominated for Best Art&Set Decoration for a color film and Best Screenplay adapted from another medium, in this case Capote's novella. Considering all the changes made, maybe the credit should have read inspired by Truman Capote's work. In any event this film belongs in the top rank of the works of Audrey Hepburn. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time!","Date":"26 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's is an adaptation of a 1958 novel written by Truman Capote, of the same name. Three years later, in 1961, this movie comes out, starring Audrey Hepburn as Holly Golightly. I still remember my first time seeing this movie. The opening of the film has a cab coming down a New York Street stops at Tiffany's. Audrey Hepburn comes out with a danish and coffee while window shopping, having Breakfast at Tiffany's. I think that opening scene has become big in pop culture, and fifty years, or a half-century later, this film still holds up for repeated views, just like I've watched it over and over. I'm so glad that Audrey Hepburn was picked for this film. It was originally supposed to be Marilyn Monroe, just one year before her 1962 death. I think Audrey fits the character of a café society socialite who gets 50 dollars for the powder room perfectly, even though Audrey Hepburn in real life wasn't anything like that at all. The film from beginning to end engages you and makes you want to see it a second time, from the iconic images of her with a cigarette holder, to the opening scene, the cocktail party, the scene where Audrey Hepburn performs Moon River (my favorite movie song) composed by Henry Mancini, the no-name cat (played by Orangey the Cat), and the romantic ending. It's all great and should be considered one of the best films of all time. The film also stars George Peppard (a writer who she falls in love with), Patricia Neal (his decorating friend), and also including Buddy Ebsen, Martin Balsam, Villalonga, and Mickey Rooney as Mr. Yunioshi, the Japanese apartment manager. (I don't see why people get so offended by that role and think it's racist.) Anyway, I can't wait for the Blu-Ray release on September 20th! "},{"Title":"The Betrayal by Hollywood  Blake Edwards","Date":"19 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Holly Golightly, the protagonist, in the short novella, by Truman Capote is a one-off. The story is narrated by the writer who, while living in an Eastside Manhattan brownstone and working in the writing field, meets Holly, and subsequently becomes enchanted by her non-conformist lifestyle.As a good-time-girl, Holly drinks and parties, and in the unsanitized novella she also smokes weed. The elements in her persona, that most attract Truman Capote, are her taste, wit ,charm, and beauty Tiffanys have the most expensive, and presumably the most elegant jewellery. Her three outfits designed by Givenchy become the fashion precursors for more dash than cash as Holly mixes and matches, spawning a voguish 60's personalized style, of fashion/couture, self-expression.In the movie, the viewer is introduced to the Holly character, as she returns to her apartment, early in the morning. After,having first gazed yearningly through the window, of her own personal consumer Heaven, Tiffanys. She arrives at her front-door, and then her nightly ritual of having lost her front door key, begins. Holly, in flagrant disregard for her fellow neighbours, wakes up the Japanese photographer, Mr. Yunioshi played for laughs by Mickey Rooney. Mr. Yunioshi is enraged, as anyone would be, but Holly disarms him with her charmingly apologetic manner, and silences him with a promise to do those photographs he had solicited. We also find out that Holly's technique for earning a crust, is being a bar room escort to lonely rich men, who tip her generously.The movie is all about Holly, perfectly illustrated by Audrey Hepburn, her dreams,her biography and her desires.It turns out, that like Truman Capote's own mother, she was a child-bride from the South, who came to New York looking to hook and land a wealthy husband. Thus enabling her to gratify herself in the Sylvian Fields of the jewellery retailer, Tiffanys. The satirical exaggeration of the novella caused Norman Mailer, the writer, to comment I would not change a word, its perfect!.The party scene is well choreographed, Blake Edwards went on to do the Pink Panther series and the hilarious, The Party. In the dialogue, Fred, the writer and narrator, played by the young hunk, George Peppard, is informed by Holly's Hollywood agent, O.J.Berman Martin Balsam, that in his world, there are only phonies, a redolently 50's term, but, that Holly is not a phony, but a Real Phony because she actually believes all this stuff. We are also informed by O.J., that Holly was sent to finishing school, where she picked up a better accent, and the ability to colour her speech with French colloquialisms. Holly also had a penchant for calling heavy set woman, who stood in her way, bull-dykes.After Doc Golightly arrives, and outed Holly as Lullamae Barnes a hick from the sticks. Holly is distressed by his visit and is portrayed as vulnerable. She expresses her personal philosophy as wild not regulated and the idea that it is better to travel than to arrive lends itself, to her quest, not to have her freedom curtailed - in essence a thoroughly modern woman. She has not dated, unlike the rest of the cast.Finally, I should mention that total scene-stealer the cat, who took all the attention away from the human actors, every time he appeared on screen - what a performance - apparently played by 9 different cats!The Hollywood betrayal that's how the artist Truman Capote put it, takes place at the climax of the story where the movie refuses to acknowledge the Female Will, instead giving Holly the typical good feeling capitulation of her indomitable will to this rather dour and hardly witty hunk Peppard. I found this totally implausible, he would have bored her to death. It is a total contradiction of Capote's vision of the post-modern woman, independent, free, unchained and of course, camp and witty.The movie criticisms withstanding still exudes charm - the Holly character is light and dizzy, giving her a fairy tale air of nonchalance and mischievous, nose-crinkling, impishness. Sophisticated, entertaining, satirical comedy. "},{"Title":"A modern fairy tale","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A thoroughly delightful fairy tale loosely drawn from the novella of the same name by Truman Capote but with many differences (including the ending). The '60s was a time of increased sexual freedom but the movies were still bound by earlier codes that limited showing sexual behaviors.Holly Golightly (Hepburn) is a 19 year old, southwestern farm girl from a tragic family background (orphaned; a marriage at 14, later annulled) who moves to NYC and then transforms her speech, appearance, and apparent personality into a hip, cosmopolitan, high class party girl. She supports herself by partying with money from her admirers--whether that's for the pleasure they get from her beauty and company--or for deeper bodily favors or the pursuit thereof is unclear. (And this film is NOT a literal version of the book). She's on the look-out to snare a wealthy man to marry.Whenever Holly is having the mean reds (her stage beyond the blues), as soon as she gets up in the afternoon, she browses Tiffany's, the ultra-high tier jewelry store, to refresh her spirits. Hence the name of the book and film.Paul (Peppard), a struggling writer, moves in to an apartment in the same building as Holly's. We see that Paul's also being supported by an older, wealthy married woman. While it's not shown, it's quite clear that their relationship is based on his supplying her those deeper bodily favors.Holly has a cat (extremely well trained for this film) that's one of the stars of the show.The lives of Holly and Paul progressively intersect more and more. This 1961 film has one episode with a wild party, perhaps a little over the top (but not by that much), that's so VERY typical of parties of that era it brought back memories. The tension in the film comes from wondering if Holly and Paul will leave their established means of support and find each other--and should they? (SPOILER the film has a happy ending.)In IMDb's Message Board for this film (which has comments, Qs & As), there are many threads & comments discussing Holly's psychiatric/psychological diagnosis (various suggestions are bipolar, depressed, psychotic, etc.) and/or whether she's capable of ever having a mutually satisfactory life with a husband, etc., etc.BUT, this film is NOT a documentary--IT'S A FAIRY TALE, told to amuse and entertain--not to instruct, educate or warn. IF Holly's character, as portrayed in the film, HAS to have a DSM-IV diagnosis, my vote is for Mixed Personality Disorder. (But surely one would also have to note her remarkable ability to so successfully transform herself to make such a remarkable, functional transition from farm to NYC high life.)BUT the film NEVER asks us to believe that this is REAL life. Instead, maybe it invites us to imagine ourselves in either Holly's or Paul's shoes (or the partner of) and asks what would we do in that situation? OR, much more probably, to just watch and go along for the fun ride. "},{"Title":"Good film, great book","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought I'd read the novel before watching the movie and I'm glad I did. While I can understand the great affection everyone has for the film and the actors in it, it's a far cry from the original story which, as at least one other reviewer has pointed out, is not a love story at all but an amazing, beautifully written, sensitive portrait of a troubled young woman. The first Truman Capote I've read and it totally changed the ill-formed view I carried of him as just another celebrity writer. For me, this is a work of literary genius for which he is justly celebrated. The exquisite Audrey Hepburn is closer to his original Holly character than to her slightly transformed screen image - Marilyn Monroe would not have been remotely comparable. As also pointed out, the book was heavily and crudely watered down for the screen. Which is not to detract from the performances of the cast. This is one film I would welcome a remake of, if it returned to the original! Need to find out what Truman Capote thought of the film. Enjoy it, by all means. Love it. But do not miss the book if you want to discover the real, living, breathing Holly/Audrey. "},{"Title":"Slow yet intriguing","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To be quite frank about this film, to me Audrey Hepburn is really the only aspect that keeps it from sinking into gray mediocrity. Hepburn is absolutely wonderful in this movie, but it pretty much ends there. The story seems very basic, it's a classic boy meets girl tale that never really goes anywhere interesting or creative. It's not really bad, but at times the proceedings do tend to get boring. Blake Edwards tried to solve this with a bit of comic relief, sadly dressing up Mickey Rooney as a stereotypical Japanese guy is just way too bizarre to ever get funny. All the co-stars are really quite dull, yes even George Peppard. He does find some of his talents back for the ending scene, but before that he just seems to lack interest. In my opinion this movie actually isn't nearly as special or remarkable as many say, however the undeniable charm Audrey Hepburn carries makes it incredibly easy to keep watching. "},{"Title":"Breakfast At Tiffany's Triumphs.","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Prepare to immerse yourself in the world of Audrey Hepburn and her cat... Cat. Because after you get past the somewhat slow start of Breakfast At Tiffany's, you will look into the head of the seemingly simple, scatterbrained character Holly, and see that she is not as cheerful, as happy-go-lucky as you may think; no, her brain is a confused tangle of pride, anguish, and confusion. And, convincing herself that there is no such thing as love or possession, she does what she knows how to do; she woos men for money, and then cheats them out of what they cashed in for. For she is convinced that money is the only true path to happiness- forget love, forget care, if she can get to a rich man and take his money, she'll be happy.And then comes along Paul Varjak, a writer who is also getting paid for sex. Now, in Truman Capote's novel, this man is gay; but in the adaption, he is straight, and falls for Holly. You may originally think, homophobia!, when you hear this. Or perhaps you think maybe the writers changed this because America, at the time, wasn't ready to see a movie surrounding a gay man. But it is neither of those. In Truman Capote's novel, Paul is the lead; in this adaption, it centers more around Holly. And Paul is just what Holly needs to yank her out of her prison of greed and phoniness. In order for this to happen, Holly and Paul must be smitten with each other. This is not homophobia, rather then a rather intelligent change of character by the screenwriters in order to fit a different point of view.Once we have met all of Breakfast at Tiffany's characters, the story really begins to accelerate. We hop onto a crazy roller-coaster ride of lust and resistance, as Paul tries to woo Holly, who is fixed on marrying a richer man. Both Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard give sublime performances, for even though they are portraying complete opposites, you can definitely feel the chemistry between them. The music is extremely fitting (who could ever forget the infamous 'Moon River'), and the art direction contrast in Paul and Holly's apartments is spectacular; in Paul's, we see a neater, stringent, even. Holly's is the opposite; lax, messy, relaxed. However, as Paul becomes more acquainted with Holly, we get to see changes; the bed is often messier, there are goofy masks on his statues. The art directors never really seem to get enough credit for the amazing work they do; art direction often defines a character.Blake Edwards' shots work very well with the art direction; wider shots for Holly, and then longer shots for Paul. Only until the end do we get wider shots for Paul; only then do we get to see his world open. This is a wonderful movie in all aspects. If you weave the wonderful acting, the complex plot, the clever screenplay, the fantastic acting, the heavenly score, the glorious art direction, and the thoughtful directing; well, then, you've just cooked up Breakfast At Tiffany's. A near-masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Holly Golightly Delightfully Insane","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" *Breakfast At SPOILERS'* Young Paul Varjak (George Peppard) lives into an old house as a kept man by a rich lady, and his downstairs neighbor happens to be Holly Golightly (Audrey Hepburn), a young woman with an unusual behavior and way of life, who manages not to let life bring her down, with a special cure; going to Tiffany's.According to Holly, 'nothing bad can happen to you in there'. In the time they pass together, Holly goes through a lot; being an unknowing Corri, meeting - and saying goodbye to - her former husband, losing her beloved brother, and even going to jail, and Paul falls in love with her. Will Holly return the affection? Based on the 1956 book by Truman Capote, 'Breakfast At Tiffany's' is a classic of the romantic genre, with stellar acting by Hepburn and Peppard, great music ('Moon River'), awesome direction (by Blake Edwards) and a greatly-written script.Don't miss it! Breakfast At Tiffany's 9/10. "}{"Title":"of the movie","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" the movie was an excellent movie i only saw a little bit of it, i loved the part where she was windowshopping and then walking down the sidewalk and then having breakfast, I also liked the part where the movie was in black and white, that I found to be most fascinating and intriguing. I especially like the part where she is drinking coffee and looking at jewelry through a store window, since I myself also love jewelry and love looking through store windows, however sometimes I notice jewelry doesn't look as good through store windows as it does under special lighting. I don't know why that is maybe they need to windex down those windows better...oh i dunno...or maybe its because I had a fuzzy in my eye at the time...who knows "},{"Title":"I feel reborn!","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have always been a big fan of Audrey Hepburn! This is the most favorite of the Hepburn movies for me though. She is kind of unusual as well as beautiful. She has a slinky-style the way she walks and talks, it makes this movie really enjoyable too. I can't see anyone else in her place. Tiffany's is a ritzy store that has character and a feeling of wealth, that makes the setting for the story above average. George Peppard was a character that added a lot to her and the drive he had for her his desire, they look good together.I like the classic style, the way all that makes me feel. I especially liked the ending, where they not only re-find the cat, but re-find each other in the rain, and all the kissy-face stuff that followed.  four stars  "},{"Title":"not amazing but good","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It was a lot different than i expected, things like the outrageously racist 'japanese' character, Hannibal from the A-Team as a leading man, the groovy party scene, and just generally the tone of the film.The biggest shock to me was Hepburns character. I really didn't know anything about the film except the iconic image of her all dressed up and had formed my preconceptions of what that character (and consequently the story) would be like so wasn't expecting Holly Golightly to be as she was.Overall it was pretty good, not amazing but good. It is a part of Hollywood history though so you should watch it. "},{"Title":"Same As Cabaret","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Has anyone noticed that the plot of BAT and Cabaret are almost identical? Of course, BAT came out 11 years earlier so I give them the benefits of the doubt. They are both about dysfunctional women, who are trying to earn a living by sleeping with rich men. Both have a single, poor, young writer move into their building. In both movies, the young writer becomes her friend, then, after getting bad news in a telegram, lover. Both end semi-happy.Anyway, I love BAT and have seen it many, many times. I love Audrey and the whole movie except Andy Rooney's character, which is so out of place. In the commentaries, they even admit that it was a bad idea.I miss you Audrey! "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn at her most enchanting...","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A luminous performance by Audrey Hepburn that earned her a fourth Best Actress Oscar nomination, BREAKFAST AT TIFFANY'S is the glittering 1961 comedy-drama based on a story by Truman Capote which follows the misadventures of a good time girl named Holly Golightly a completely beguiling and exasperatng party girl who isn't actually a prostitute but is not above accepting $50.00 for the powder room from gentleman who desire her company. Holly is a girl for the moment...her apartment, though having lived there for years, looks like she just moved in three days ago and she refuses to give her cat a real name because it implies commitment. Holly's perfectly isolated but satisfactory existence is interrupted when she meets a struggling writer (George Peppard), whose fascination with Holly leads him to want her to unpack and name the cat. Hollywood folklore claims that Holly's story was cleaned up considerably for 1961 movie audiences who probably couldn't have handled Capote's story in its raw form. I think if this movie were ever remade today, it would stick more to the original story where Holly would be a prostitute and Paul Varjak (Peppard's character) would be gay. The story as it is an entertaining one, lovingly mounted by director Blake Edwards with a deft screenplay and charming performances from the stars. Solid support is provided by Martin Balsam, Patricia Neal (in a wonderfully stylish turn as Varjak's benefactress), Buddy Ebsen, and Elvia Allman. Only Mickey Rooney misses the boat as Holly's Japanese landlord. It's definitely a watered down version of its original source, but it is also one of the most romantic and endearing films of the 1960's that cemented Audrey Hepburn's position as Hollywood royalty forever. "},{"Title":"Favourite Scene?","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie for the 2nd time a few days ago and I think it' one of the best romantic movies. If I ask you guys which your favourite scene is, I'm sure that at least the female part of the viewers would say that they liked it when Holly was calling for her cat in the rain and when she comes back to Paul and they have that kiss... I loved that scene in the beginning when Paul wakes Holly up and they see each other for the first time. I could name many reasons why I liked that but I'd say that the biggest one is because Audrey looked sooo pretty there. "},{"Title":"How Iconic does it get?","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is full of icons - Hepburn merged into the character in an almost organic manner. Her elegance at 600 am in that amazing black dress - surely one of the most pivotal points of womens' fashion.The empty 5th Avenue at the film start - the New York rain at the end. This is a film where there is emotion in the setting without the screenplay but the Mancini score compounds the effect.There is light comedy - OK, the masks are a little weak but all the more believable for that. Mickey Rooney's multiple cameos were at times a little irritating but they added to the film's overall charm. Then there is the totally understated part played by Peppard - and rightly. I was captivated by his ability to keep his hands in his pockets almost entirely throughout the film - but then, people do that! He was the ultimate gentleman letting Miss Golightly take centre. His understanding of Doc was almost tear-jerking. And the cat was great. "},{"Title":"audrey at her best....","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i have been a huge fan of audrey hepburn, since the first time i noticed her in my fair lady... she gave an astounding performance in that.. as a pauper turned princess.. coming to.. breakfast at tiffany's... she looks breathtaking in this movie.. to all audrey fans.. you will fall in love with her in every frame of the movie.the movie itself is funny, emotional, naughty and makes one empathize with her character...i totally enjoyed the movie and i hope all of u feel the same... i give this movie a 10 "},{"Title":"The chicest film you'll ever see!","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Being a die-hard Audrey fan, this is my fave film of her entire career. Set in New York, this location adds to the glamour and glitz of this classic masterpiece.Audrey shines as my namesake- Holly Golightly, and demonstrates a good acting ability. She sings 'Moon River' with emotion and her voice is brilliant.The Givenchy wardrobe is by far the best I've ever seen and shows hoe truly glamorous Audrey Hepburn was, and remembered today.George Peppard is good as Paul Varjak- but it is Audrey's movie and she claims it with style and dignity! A must see movie- watch it now! "},{"Title":"An Absolute Classic","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film really helps define what is a romantic film, and helps set the standard for all films dealing in romance; one could call it the standard for a romantic film. And perhaps above even this, it blurs the lines between comedy and drama, in the end making it emotional and entertaining.Andy Rooney especially does a good job with his role and was hilarious and truly timeless in his performance (as was Audrey Hepburn). From the beginning to the end of the film there is a steady progression through the story, never leaving one drunk with action or bored with rising plot. With an impressive score and powerful & unpredictable twists in the plot and very well acted & produced, it is a film that is both entertaining and provocative.  "}{"Title":"An absolute DARLING film","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had my various opinions of Audrey after seeing Charade and My Fair Lady, but THIS has to be one of the most lovely films EVER made. Audrey Hepburn isn't even a favourite of mine, but this is one of my favourite films ever.  Audrey is Holly Golightly, a sweet, charming, beautiful, stylish classy chick of the sixties. She continually throws parties in her appartement which send the japanese man above crazy; and she has one man after another after another, which all turn out, as she puts them rats, or super rats.   Then she meets Paul. Although their relationship may be turbulent, is clear that they must be together from the start. Uptill then, Holly has lived alone with Cat and her concience. Now she has a true rock of a man in her life, and it takes a while for her to tame her pride and calm down.   The story trundles sweetly along until suddenly somebody new appears on the picture. This is Doc, Holly's long forgotten husband from out in the wild west of America. This shocks Paul and Holly also, who's real name is Loula-May. Much as she loves Doc, she does not want to return to her past, as a wild little girl always getting dirty and into mischeif. Though she really is that little girl inside, and always will be.   This film has a heartwarming sentiment, and beautiful moments. My first and favourite is when Holly sings Moon River and plays the guitar, the second and most touching is the kiss in the rain with cat   I highly recommend this film... I loved it.   "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's is a funny and witty movie, about a spoiled girl who has her way in life by lying until love sets a trap for her.I know we have heard this story before but what makes this movie special is Hepburn herself. She is beautifull, elegant, intelligent and it is impossible not to notice her even 40 years after the movie was made.Not one of the best movies ever, but surely one with charm, a true pleasure to watch. "},{"Title":"Much better than expected","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Besides the Mickey Rooney's caricature of a Japanese man, the movie is deliciously warm, charming, and infinitely likeable. The theme of the movie is that we can never have chance for happiness unless we belong to someone, and the committment which precedes such belonging takes courage, taking risks, and abandoning freedom. One of the underrated aspect of this film is its music. Who can forget Moonriver and the chorus melody when Holly goes to Tiffany's with Paul (Fred)? I found myself watching this film over and over again and wanting to actually meet the characters. "},{"Title":"Much better than expected","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Besides the Mickey Rooney's caricature of a Japanese man, the movie is deliciously warm, charming, and infinitely likeable. The theme of the movie is that we can never have chance for happiness unless we belong to someone, and the committment which precedes such belonging takes courage, taking risks, and abandoning freedom. One of the underrated aspect of this film is its music. Who can forget Moonriver and the chorus melody when Holly goes to Tiffany's with Paul (Fred)? I found myself watching this film over and over again and wanting to actually meet the characters. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't really know why do i like it that much. I guess because I understand Holly. I think that whatever she decided to do with her life- was right. I also liked Fred (Paul?) for he believed in love (how common).I gave it 9 of 10. For the predictable end. Though I always watch it every time it's on TV. Never get sick of it... "},{"Title":"In short ...","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great movie.  Loved it.  Just a thought though.  Would it have been so much more touching/heart rending, whatever, if the movie ended as it has in the book, without the leads getting together?But hey, I still love it the way it is. "},{"Title":"Rusalka's first film review they just don't make 'em like this anymore","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The names Audrey Hepburn and Holly Golightly have become synonomous since this dazzling romantic comedy was translated from the screen from Truman Capote's best-selling novella. Hepburn plays Holly Golightly, a deliciously eccentric Big Apple playgirl who's determined to wed a Brazilian millionaire.  George Peppard plays her next-door neighbor, Paul Varjak, an up and coming writer who is sponsored by a wealthy Patricia Neal.  Guessing the right man for Holly is easy.  Seeing just how that romance blossoms is one of the enduring delights of this gem-like treat set to Henry Mancini's Oscar-winning score and the Oscar-winning Mancini-Johnny Mercer song Moon River.Breakfast at Tiffany's perfectly captures the essence of New York life in the early 1960's from the establishing shots of Audrey Hepburn munching on a danish pastry in front of Tiffany's jewelery store early one morning to the rain-swept ending on a street tucked far into Greenwich Village.  Of course, Hepburn was nominated for Best Actress for her portrayal of the Bohemian Holly (but lost to Sophia Loren in Two Women) as well as the set decorations and the screenplay itself, written by George Axelrod (of The Seven Year Itch fame).All in all, this is a charming, vivacious warm-hearted story full of love and promise.  They just don't make 'em like this anymore.My rating 3 stars "},{"Title":"They just don't make 'em like this anymore","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The names Audrey Hepburn and Holly Golightly have become synonomous since this dazzling romantic comedy was translated to the screen from Truman Capote's best-selling novella.  Hepburn plays Holly Golightly, a deliciously eccentric Big Apple playgirl who's determined to wed a Brazilian millionaire.  George Peppard plays her next-door neighbor, Paul Varjak, an up and coming writer who is sponsored by a wealthy Patricia Neal.  Guessing who's the right man for Holly is easy.  Seeing just how that romance blossoms is one of the enduring delights of this gem-like treat set to Henry Mancini's Oscar-winning score and the Oscar-winning Mancini-Johnny Mercer song Moon River.Breakfast at Tiffany's perfectly captures the essence of New York life in the early 1960's from the establishing shots of Audrey Hepburn munching on her danish pastry in front of Tiffany's jewelery store early one morning to the rain-swept ending on a street tucked far into Greenwich Village.  Of course, Hepburn was nominated for Best Actress for her portrayal of the Bohemian Holly as well as the Set Decorations and the Screenplay itself.All in all, this is a charming, vivacious warm-hearted story full of love and promise.  They just don't make 'em like this anymore.My rating 3 and a half stars "},{"Title":"Timeless classic","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A masterpiece, blending humour and pathos. Directed with a sure hand, perfect timing, and true sympathy for the characters. Superb acting by all the players. Wonderfully scripted. A film truly worth watching again and again. This is a timeless classic which relies on the viewer's intelligence. "},{"Title":"Why not just love Holly?","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is played so often on AMC and other channels that I've gone through an evolution of sorts with it. Having lived in Los Angeles for years, I've known many gold digging Holly Golightly types. At first I hated the character Audrey Hepburn so effectively brought to the screen. But over time, I've grown to love her in a way. I think Holly Golightly's desires are the same we all have, the want for something better, the desire for something unattainable. Also, I'm in a long relationship now and I don't have to date those affected, perpetually unfulfilled people anymore. That might have something to do with it.  "}{"Title":"lovely little film","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is no doubt about it in my mind, Audrey Hepburn made this movie.  She is just so captivating here, I spent most of the time just mesmerized by her charisma.  Because of that, her occupation of wooing upper class men became very, very believable.  If you don't get into Audrey, this film will probably seem rather mediocre.  I was so into her persona that Mickey Rooney's incredibly offensive Chinese landlord character didn't even bother me.  I just sat there wide-eyed listening to Holly Golightly say god knows what.  Special film.  9/10. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorites! Audrey is sublime as Holly Golightly. It's a great story with lots of humor and wit. It's really  fun to watch and anyone who really loves movies can recognize what makes it so classic. "},{"Title":"strange plot...","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like this movie because of Audrey's performance, but alsobecause the plot is rather a strange one. Just imagine, anyonewho wants to solely please the audience by the performance willnot include so many contraversial ideas in the film. Surely thestory wants to tell you something and is not 'just a chance to showoff Audrey and earn fast cash. The main characters are believe itor not protitutes. And the character Audrey plays is not particularly alikeable one; inspite that she can get away with it by her looks andcharm. The good thing about the film is that I actually can relate orknow someone that is like Holly and also understand theunderlying problems they face. There are some really goodscenes; my most favriote ones would have to be the reallybeginning and the end of the story. Both are very memorable and itreally makes you feel happy and sad at the same time. Of coursethere are some problems with the movie, like that racist commentpointlessly added in. But hey, what films don't have their flawsunless you are watching Godfathers or memento. Just like Holly,the film can get away from these flaws with charm and meaning. Igive it 8.1/10  "},{"Title":"Can a movie Get Any Better than this?","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Breakfast at Tiffany's is in my top three all-time favourite movies, most definitely. Audrey Hepburn shines as Holly Golightly, and George Peppard is excellent as Paul Varjak, or Fred as Holly calls him!Breakfast at Tiffany's is possibly the greatest chickflick of the 60's. Hepburn brilliantly portrays Holly Golightly, a chic and fashionably eccentric twenty-something woman out in the world wanting to be free and not caged in by anyone else. Peppard is Paul Varjak, a plain and anything-but-wealthy young writer, a new neighbour of Holly's, whom she affectionately calls Fred after her beloved brother. Paul falls for Holly, but she does not reciprocate the affection. Instead, she is determined to move to South America and marry a Brazilian billionaire.The most romantic part is watching their only friends basis unfold into a brilliant love story between them. The final scene is tear-jerking. Don't miss Audrey perform Moon River from her window ledge as George Peppard watches lovingly from his, or the scene in the bar and following. Hepburn should've won the Best Actress Oscar for this one as opposed to Roman Holiday.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful. Just Beautiful.","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first heard the song Moon River when I watched BORN ON THE FOURTH OF JULY. I loved it then, and after watching BREAKFAST AT TIFFANY'S, I love it even more. What a beautiful movie to accompany such a well-written composition. It's as though the music and the film are carrying on such a sweet romance, as are the leads. I'm surprised George Peppard did not get much more work than this. Granted, he's only the sideshow to Audrey, but he's wonderful in his own regard. So many scenes to be cherished Audrey playing guitar, the day they do things they've never done before, the scene that obviously inspired the final scene of FOUR WEDDINGS AND A FUNERAL, etc. The comedy is so rich here, too. The party scene is absolutely hysterical. I could go on forever.  "},{"Title":"Audrey in top form","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the chemistry between George Peppard and Audrey Hepburn is not the greatest, he is stolid and she perfectly quel fou in one of the best character films ever made. "},{"Title":"Peppard - from the sublime to the ridiculous.","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a trip this movie is! I saw BAT recently for the first time on the big screen (after a few video watchings) and like it even more now.Hepburn's got it all. Poise, class, what a looker! She even made smoking look super sexy and I can't stand the cancer sticks! She pulled off the high class hooker/innocent country girl act with great finesse.Peppard is also terrific - it's a shame that most people will remember him for that dross The A-Team. What a fall from grace!Finally, a comment on the music. The soundtrack is a superb excursion into the Lounge Era, and I'm not talking about Moon River.Buy the video, buy the soundtrack, fix yourself up a bourbon (with water) and indulge. "},{"Title":"Hepburn and Peppard are undoubtedly the cutest coupling to hit the silver screen.","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Over the years, I found out that, without exception, all great movies are based on a previously written material. It seems that a movie needs the backbone that the book source provides to be thoroughly engaging. Another thing that I found out with the passage of time is that, and I'm roughly quoting Linda Hunt's character in 'The Year of Living Dangerously, if one does not lapse into the promiscuity of the failed romantic, one will always leave the movie theatre after seeing Breakfast at Tiffany's befuddled by this world where unrequited love is always lurking in the corners and where beauty has no alternative. Only recently did I re-live the magic of the onscreen Hepburn/Peppard duo and that was when I went to see The Object of My Affection. What binds these two movies together in my mind is the fact that they deal with unrequited love between two out-of-this-world cute people (now is the time to note that the happy-endish twist that the story gets in the movie is so contrived and preposterous, without in the least bit damaging the quality of the goods, that I prefer to treat it as an unrequited love story as it is in the book). Having been there myself, I would dare suggest that there is nothing more beautiful and heart-rending as unrequited love. That is why I find both movies deeply moving.Another major plus for Breakfast.. is that, by some miraculous coincidence , Hepburn was around when they were casting it because she IS Holly and Holly is HER as Peppard is Fred, aka Truman Capote with whom he shares an uncanny resemblance.I am, however, left toying with the thought that if love is impossible between these two, many of us have little to look forward to. Except, maybe , the next screening of Breakfast at Tiffany's. "},{"Title":"Two drifters in New York","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Audrey Hepburn as Holly and George Peppard as Paul combine their talents as drifters in New York City who find friendship together and then come in conflict when Peppard realizes that he is in love with her. There is a strong cast of supporting actors, including Patricia Neal, and Mickey Rooney and a great musical score. Then there is an adorable cat, called cat. The lives of the two main actors are false personas that Paul realizes they need to discard if they are to move on with their lives. The movie is full of humour and smart dialogue with cutaways to Holly's pet cat. There are some fascinating scenes as the two have fun together playing out their public characters. But the charade comes crashing down when Paul decides that he must accept who he really is and demands that Holly do the same.Throughout the movie we are delighted by the relationship that develops between Paul and Holly as two free spirits in the big city. The finale involves the two of them with cat in a scene that is entertaining and totally original. Every movie goer should see this one because it is one of the most imaginative movies you will ever see. "},{"Title":"great character","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think like everyone else I loved Audrey Hepburn's Holly. If those stupid Mickey Rooney scenes were cut from the movie it would be so much better. It really is disgusting to see that. On the other hand any time Holly was on screen I could not help but love her. I think the only great thing about this movie is the casting of Audrey Hepburn. She was perfect. As a lost little girl playing grown-up in a world with too much to take in she was perfect. Without that natural ability to get everyone to fall in love with her instantly the movie would have fallen flat. She drew us in so we wanted to love her, but also pity her and want to help her. I love dialog and this movie had some great dialog. Few can write great dialog and even fewer who can deliver it. I am complete bias when it comes to anything with Audrey Hepburn in it and I am not afraid to admit it, but I really enjoyed this film. Everything other than her is kind of nothing to write home about, but that girl has got it going on. Maybe something must be said the writing, but the delivery may have enhanced it quite a bit. "}{"Title":"Nice, but it's still not The Movie","Date":"16 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie is appealing in its one thing that is the way some people charm you and you don't understand why. You can tell from the very beginning that Capot's novel had something that made the novel worth turning into a movie. This something is only the character played by Audrey who charmed her new neighbour and he found himself drawn into her apartment, then life, and eventually into her completely. Capot's successfully manages to show this in Peppard's fascination with this character and if you come to think about it you'd find that you have the very same character in your life which attracts you in the same way , not necessarily in a romantic way, into trying always to seek their company and enjoy their merits. Other than that, I couldn't find attractive things about the movie. "},{"Title":"We belong to nobody, and nobody belongs to us. We don't even belong to each other","Date":"3 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Even beforehand, I got the feeling that 'Breakfast at Tiffany's (1961)' wasn't really my sort of film. Adapted from Truman Capote's controversial novel of the same name, it tells the story of Holly Golightly, a free-wheeling call girl (in the novel, at least) who attempts to dissolve herself into upper-class society by attending lavish parties and courting wealthy men whom she denies her honest affection. There's plenty to like about the film, and it's certainly the most polished and elegant effort I've seen so far from director Blake Edwards 'The Pink Panther (1964)' and 'The Party (1968)' seem somehow irretrievably trapped in the 1960s. However, in what is probably a simple case of personal preference, it never quite clicked, at least not in the same way as 'Casablanca (1942)' or 'An Affair to Remember (1957).' I did, in any case, understand to some degree why many viewers, particularly women, could connect with the main protagonist on a more intimate level. Maybe they can see a little of themselves in Holly Golightly.Of course, any mention of 'Breakfast at Tiffany's' immediately calls to mind the image of Audrey Hepburn, and it's certainly among her most iconic performances, which is interesting given how it strayed somewhat from her typical screen persona. Unlike the shy and girlish Cinderella of 'Roman Holiday (1953)' or 'Sabrina (1954),' Holly Golightly is slightly arrogant, intrusive and fiercely extroverted. So determined is she to remain a free-spirited personality that she has barred herself from any meaningful human relationships, despite having accumulated a social circle that extends into the hundreds. Truman Capote had originally envisioned Marilyn Monroe in the main role, but Hepburn brings to Holly a certain delicacy and keen-eyed intelligence that is unique to her. Behind the character's breezy and outgoing personality is a sense of vulnerability and loneliness, of a drifting soul who idly attaches to thirty lovers a month without making any sort of emotional connection. Blake Edwards poignantly ties up the climax with an embrace in the rain, demonstrating a tenderness and sophistication that I hadn't expected of him.Among the supporting performers, Martin Balsam is most certainly worth a mention, playing Holly's womanising, to-the-point agent, who publicly holds the opinion that his client is a real phony &#150; that is, she herself genuinely believes in her own spurious lifestyle. Finally, I like Mickey Rooney as much as the next man, but what's going on here? When Richard Barthelmess donned ridiculous Oriental make-up in Griffith's 'Broken Blossoms (1919),' at least the portrayal was respectful and sympathetic. Racial stereotypes can work adequately enough in comedies (see Peter Sellers in 'The Party (1968)' or 'Murder by Death (1976)'), and 'Breakfast at Tiffany's' certainly has comedic elements, but the rest of the film also has an impeccable elegance that clashes horribly with the dim-witted slapstick of Mr. Yunioshi. If, indeed, the character had to exist, it would have been far less distracting had an Asian actor been cast in the role; some would certainly have existed in Hollywood at the time. Blake Edwards really needed to give that one a second thought. "},{"Title":"In spite of its Flaws","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always liked this movie. It is all Audrey Hepburn in the part of Holly Golightly, written by Truman Capote as a hooker in his novella, but here toned down to an 'escort' to make it more palatable for the classy Audrey.There are some memorable scenes, in one of which Audrey sings the title song Moon River and very well too.Blake Edwards, who directs, inserts the wild New York party scene which is sporadically funny.George Peppard, who plays the lead is fairly wooden. I couldn't help thinking of Paul Newman in the role. He would have played off Patricia Neal (in the role of the older woman supporting the younger gigolo)so much better.The other frightful piece of miscasting was that of Micky Rooney who brought a cartload of offensive, racist tics to the role of an elderly Japanese tenant, down to the incessant pratfalls, buck teeth and slanty eyes. Surely this must be the most repellent role of all time? I cringed at every appearance the first time I saw the movie and the last time.But that said, it is worth watching, for the lovely New York settings, for the truly magnificent Audrey whose luminosity is legendary. She lights up every scene with her glamour and wit. She is one of the very few actresses who earned the term 'icon'.I gave it an 8 out of 10 for the sparkling script and the many parts that do work and for the lovely romance underlying it all. "},{"Title":"You can't help but fall in love with Hepburn...","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well this movie is a true classic. Audrey Hepburn steals the show, and the way she plays the lead role in this movie is what makes it totally worth watching.I don't often post here, usually I just rate movies after watching them, but Hepburn's character in this movie displays all the screen appeal you could possibly imagine, so I had to post something.She is infectious, lovable, and plays her role of a mixed-up, confused, dizzy young woman to perfection in a way you can't help but admire.The way she takes pleasure in the simple things, like looking into the window of Tiffany's to make herself feel better is reminder to us all of how even the simplest things can bring us some pleasure, and of how vulnerable Hepburn's character is. "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn takes on quite a different sort of role","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's is directed by Blake Edwards, is based on the novel by Truman Capote and stars Audrey Hepburn, George Peppard, Buddy Ebsen and Patricia Neal.Breakfast at Tiffanys tells the story of Holly Golightly(Audrey Hepburn)an escort who lives how she wants to live, she has all night parties,one of the worlds longest cigarette holders and owns a cat with no name.She meets Paul(George Peppard) in the apartment building she lives in and the two become friends and later in the film Paul finds himself falling in love with Holly.Featuring some iconic moments including Holly eating her breakfast outside the New York Jewellery store Tiffany's in an elegant black evening dress,Holly and Paul's days around New York city doing things the other has never done before and the very moving ending in the rain looking for the cat. A film for anyone who is lonely,a big romantic or who believes there is happiness to be found even if you think otherwise at times.A true classic also featuring fine supporting performances from Buddy Ebsen,Patricia Neal and Martin Balsam plus a totally miscast appearance by Mickey Rooney as a Chinese neighbour of Holly. Rooney's performance is both silly and offensive. The rest of the film makes up for this though and the rest of the cast are superb. Audrey Hepburn is superb playing a very different character than we are used to see her play. Audrey captures Holly's bohemian style and her vulnerability and she does this so well that you feel like she has become Holly. Patricia Neal is very good as a middle aged decorator who is having an affair to Paul and who doesn't realise he might not want to be with her anymore. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but lacking real passion","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's is an iconic film, I mean it even has a song written about the movie. Well, I must say that Key Largo was a better song and a better movie. Although I was interested in the characters, and my love for Mickey Rooney allowed me to look past his cartoon stereotype of the Japanese-American, I couldn't help but feel a certain amount of revulsion and pity for these people. This was Days of Wine and Roses without the truth. Paul and Holly are alcoholic prostitutes (this is no spoiler as it's revealed very early in the movie). It's very sad that they have to cling to one another, but their only other option is to keep performing sexual favors (although Holly's are only hinted at) for their paying customers. Holly has gone through several relationships and is very willing to marry for money. Paul would rather sleep with Patricia Neal than sit down and write (although, I probably would too). Neither one has an honest moral and find the act of petty theft to be charming and entertaining. Basically they are hooligans. If they weren't so darned attractive (and if Moon River wasn't playing in the background) this would be a precursor to a movie like Barfly.I do have to admit I'm glad I finally saw the movie, rather than wondering what all the talk was about. And I'm glad to have seen Fred Flintstone himself in the role of Sally Tomato (I'm going to have to look him up and see what else he's lent his face to). However I found this breakfast lovely to look at, but it left a gritty taste in my mouth. "},{"Title":"One of Audrey's most famous roles","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a huge fan of Audrey Hepburn, and this was the first movie of her's that I saw. I saw the DVD while out shopping, and had heard much about it so I bought it. I loved it. Movies are not made like that any more-its a true classic.I cannot imagine anyone else in the part of Holly Golightly(not Marilyn Monroe who author Truman Capote wanted). Audrey is fantastic in this role, which she was initially going to decline. The first scene where she is eating breakfast outside Tiffanys has become iconic and famous.The music score by Henry Mancini and Johnny Mercer is beautiful, and the song Moon River (sang beautifully by Audrey) was rated number 4 in the American Film Institute's list of the best 100 movies in a movie. The only criticism I have is the casting of Mickey Rooney-which has often been said-in the role of Holly's Japanese neighbour, especially since he is not Japanese at all, and the producers have said they would have recast the role if they could.Overall, I think it is a great movie, and I believe Audrey should have received the Best Actress Oscar for it, though she was nominated. A completely charming film. "},{"Title":"Identities","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is fun...it's still fun today. More importantly, this has the gravitas needed to keep it from careening into frivolity, which is attributable to Capote's strength as a writer (who places himself in this as Peppard's character - the 'writer within').We see three themes developed here between the two lead characters they lack identities when dealing with the world and have to find their identities, they have to discover each others' identities, and they have to reveal those identities to us, the observers, which is the denouement of the romance - very neatly done.But heck, we could just -read- that...what makes this worthwhile as a -movie- is the way Edwards' presents this to us visually. The framing and camera placement is especially competent, especially at that moment Hepburn lies on the bed and is covered with falling feathers. But structurally, note also the clever use of perspective on the fire escape, which is used as the platform from which the characters view each others' worlds. "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn is the epitome of Glamor","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" WOW,,,what a glamorous and gorgeous Audrey Hepburn in Breakfast at Tiffanys. She has never looked more beautiful in any of her previous films. As Holly Golightly, she plays that role to a T. Witty and funny, and dialog can't be beat. She should have won the Oscar for her role. From Roman Holiday, Sabrina, Children's Hour, The Nun's Story, Charade, My Fair Lady, and Two For The Road, Ms Hepburn's acting talent is unsurpassed. She sure was the FAIREST FAIR LADY OF ALL. How sad that she had to leave this life at the age of 63. Thank the Lord for giving her the talent to entertain the billions of people throughout the world, even after she departed this earth. And to you Audrey, thanks for sharing your talents. You were and STILL are the best actress to ever be on the silver screen, and color screen. "},{"Title":"Delightful Hepburn in Dated Manhattan Bohemian Rhapsody","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Premiere Magazine named Mickey Rooney's over-the-top impersonation of the pompous and sexually obsessed Japanese neighbor upstairs as one of the fifty most offensive things in movie history. I don't disagree, and as a Japanese-American myself, I have to admit I find Rooney's Asian make-up a bit much. But it's hard to take his sideshow character too seriously, as his casting is consistent with the loopiness of this film. This 1961 film classic must have been considered quite daring in its day, but as with most such attempts, it feels dated in certain ways, as director Blake Edwards tries awfully hard to capture the upscale bohemian atmosphere of early sixties New York. The party scene, for example, plays on a bit too long, I suppose to show how decadent those creative types truly can be.At the time, Audrey Hepburn was at a crossroads in her career having spent most of the fifties playing innocent, dewy-eyed ingenues, so the role of self-proclaimed hedonist Holly Golightly (aptly named but hardly a no-name slob as she puts it) must have had great appeal. After all, Truman Capote, the author from whose novella this movie is based, wanted to cast Marilyn Monroe. But it is hard to imagine how Edwards could have pulled this off without the inimitable Hepburn, a sheer delight as she dances quite flagrantly around the fact that her character is a high-priced call girl by exhibiting her trademark sense of style, fun and vulnerability. Holly's fear of commitment is the crux of this story, even though she is hopelessly drawn to failed writer Paul Varjak, Fred to Holly, played by George Peppard. A kindred spirit whose feelings for her are more than mutual, his character is not above taking a few dollars himself, as well as a Baroque monstrosity of an apartment, from a wealthy, married interior decorator played with conniving sophistication by the always wonderful Patricia Neal. I still think Peppard is the weak link here as he doesn't have the requisite light touch to keep up with Holly's shenanigans, although he does well in capturing the pained look of a novelist with semi-permanent writer's block.The rest of the cast can be best described as eccentric, in particular, Buddy Ebsen (pre-Jed Clampett) as Holly's backwoods first husband, Martin Balsam as her fast-talking agent (for her apocryphally explained acting career) and of course Rooney, whose accent is actually surprisingly accurate if you can get past the make-up. Designer Givenchy is also at work here, and here you'll see the debut of the classic black cocktail dress that launched a million copies to this day. Henry Mancini's romantic music provides the perfect accompaniment, and Hepburn's plaintive, ukelele-strummed version of Moon River is still the most definitive. The film does end on the most romantic of notes with a rain-soaked kiss in the alley, just about as lovely a scene as you are likely to see in movies. "}{"Title":"All Time Favorite..","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my all time favorite movie. I saw this when I was 13, and I fell in love with it the moment I saw it. I had been so used to seeing the terrible movies of today, and this was something new and wonderful. Audrey just lit up the screen with her charm and elegance. Breakfast at Tiffany's was the first movie I had ever seen with her, and she is now my favorite actress and role model. This movie tells a charming story of a girl trying to find where she belongs and who she is, and realizing that you only need someone who loves you to find out. Holly wants to run away because she can't seem to stand in one place and discover where she is, until Paul tells her she belongs with him. A very mushy, make-you-cry, chick flick ending. It's fantastic.Although George Peppard isn't my favorite, he and Audrey work wonderfully together. One of my most memorable things about this movie, however, has to be Moon River. How can you hear that beautiful song and not think of love? It just makes you feel happy and content. I give Mancini a standing ovation.Everyone knows the name Holly Golightly, and knows the beauty of Audrey Hepburn. You must see the outstanding 1961 movie once in your life, "},{"Title":"A wonderful Audrey movie!","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely loved this movie, there was never a dull moment. I just saw this movie today with my friend, and I was just sitting there so darn entertained. Audrey Hepburn did an amazing job as her role as Holly, I think the role suited her perfectly. She is such a beautiful actress, I am so upset that she died. Breakfast at Tiffanys, was an amazing movie. I think the actors did a fantastic job keeping the story together. I think the cat, was a really good part of the story, and how she said she didn't have a right to name the cat. I loved cat he was so adorable and her and fred aka Paul were so amazing together, you can tell they had so much chemistry between them, it was such a totally fantastic romance. This was an overall amazing movie, I think anyone should watch it if your in for a good old fashioned laugh. Thanks for reading, Krista "},{"Title":"Fantastic...","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's is a heart-warming and heart-wrenching tale about a woman named Holly Golightly who is trying to get by in life on her own terms and theories. She is a call girl and socialite who believes that she can go about life by not needing other people, and that no one should be able to tie you down.Things have pretty much worked for her in this life she has created for herself, and her views do not change as she meets her new neighbor, Paul Varjak (George Peppard). He is a writer and is having an affair with a woman who pays all of his bills. It doesn't take long for Paul to be swept into Holly's emotional whirlpool as the two get to know each other as friends.This movie is truly sigh-worthy...it is sad, happy, funny, and heart breaking in parts as well. Audrey Hepburn portrays the eccentric Holly Golightly with such precision, letting you see the bright and dark sides of her character's personality. George Peppard tears at your heart as you follow his character throughout the movie. I have seen this movie more than ten times for sure, and it never gets old. You watch it each time like it is the first time you are seeing it. Definitely worth the watch, you won't regret picking up this movie. "},{"Title":"A splendid time capsule","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was born in 1961 but this was the first time I got to see the movie all the way from start to end. The thing I appreciate about it is that these people are so politically incorrect and no one is tsk tsking about how they 'ought to be acting'. Even Doc's representation of 'down home' values becomes suspect when it's revealed that he married Holly (Loula May)when she was 14. Holly is a chain smoker, heavy drinker, a phony (but a good phony), and lets face it a 'ho'. Yet I challenge anyone not to fall in love with her. Much is made of Mickey Rooneys portrayal of the disgruntled neighbor, but that was the characterization of Japanese at that time. He looks like he walked right out of a WW2 propaganda reel. Can you imagine what a mess this movie would be made today? Having your booze delivered!! Everybody smokes and no one saying 'second hand smoke' or anything stupid like that. The party guest passes out to the cry of 'timber' instead of 'call 911'. Given the choice I would give up cable TV, C.D. players, and even yes even the internet to live in that time before it became government's notion that its job to tell you how to live. I loved this movie and regret the times that we now live in. "},{"Title":"Thee Best Movie*","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow, this is by far one of thee greatest movies I have ever seen! I've been wanting to see this movie forever but it was usually already checked out at the movie rental store. This movie has so much to it; it made me laugh/giggle with the cute comedy, to the sweet secret feelings of romance.. and also was a tear jerker for me! It makes you sit there and watch, anticipating for what will happen next. And the characters are somewhat similar to relate to. Like Holly, I adore her! Audrey Hepburn did a spectacular job on this one. She totally took it all, it was amazing. Oh yeah, and I can relate to how Holly feels; afraid to commit to certain things and avoiding her fears. After watching this movie, I'm getting myself to the library to check out the book. And that's a rare occasion for me, I never read! Breakfast at Tiffany's is a definite classic that I could watch over and over again. I advise everyone that has not seen this movie yet, to go out and rent it! I love it, it made it on my TOP 10 and I know it will make its way onto yours! "},{"Title":"Holly Golightly -- The New Kid in Town","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My first time with this magical cinema experience was at age 12. I knew, from the first sound of Moon River as Holly Golightly stepped out of the cab in front of Tiffany's, that I was going to like this film. I was completely enchanted by Audrey Hepburn's grace, style and beauty. Several viewings (and many years) later, the final scene still brings a little tear to the old eyes.This is one of the greatest cinematic achievements Hollywood ever accomplished, and easily Audrey Hepburn's best. Not even the Princess in Roman Holiday or Eliza Dolittle in My Fair Lady compare to Ms. Hepburn's performance as Holly Golightly in Breakfast At Tiffany's. A young George Peppard was perfectly cast as her love-interest.One tiny flaw, not evident at the time, but eventually becoming more and more clear, was the politically incorrect, stereotypical portrayal of Asian Americans in this film. This was not brought to the public's attention until some 25 years later, when it was mentioned in the filming of The Bruce Lee Story. Similar stereotypes were cleaned up between the 1958 filming of Auntie Mame and the 1974 musical version Mame. Times are getting better, making the world a better place for everyone, removing stereotypes and celebrating people's differences. I'm not faulting the producers of Breakfast At Tiffany's; in 1961 the world still lived in relative ignorance regarding political correctness. "},{"Title":"A Jewel of a movie","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's is as sophisticated and stylish today as when it first graced our screens in 1961. The highlight of the film is of course the outstanding performance of Audrey Hepburn and her portrayal of Holly Golightly. Holly Golightly is a New York Socialite. She has no job and no income but manages to maintain an ultimately fashionable existence trading on her looks and manipulating rich bachelors. She is described by her Hollywood agent as a phony, but a 'real phony'as she has lived a life of comfort for so long, she no longer realises that the persona she presents isn't really the woman she really is.Her superficial life is set to change when Paul Vajack (played by George Peppard) moves into her apartment building and the two of them share a mutual curiosity of how the other lives. Their relationship blossoms beautifully and convincingly on screen and the two characters are forced to take a look at their lifestyles and re-evaluate how they live, and how they love.Peppard and Hepburn share an on screen chemistry second to none, and certainly set a benchmark for all following films to strive to. Watching the film I was sat in an audience of varied generations yet it was amazing how similar the looks on all the faces were. In the darkness of the cinema, seemingly safe from the prying eyes of our partners, not a man in the audience could hide their admiration for Hepburn, her subtle charms and affectionate gaze had us in the palm of her hands right from the outset. Similarly the woman amongst the audience made an adoring sigh in unison as Peppard, in a romantic gesture convinces the shop assistant in Tiffany's to allow Holly a gift, and again when he finally embraces her.Breakfast at Tiffany's is certainly a cinema milestone. If all heart warming romantic comedies where glittery items in the renowned windows at Tiffany's, the shiniest, most desirable jewel of all would be this film An Absolute Diamond! "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn the social mosquito","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Audrey Hepburn has her moments in this almost perfectly-executed display of high drama and slight comedy. She was brilliantly cast as the wild New York girl Holly Golightly, with George Peppard playing the less-wild, more sedate love interest. However, the story begins much in the way most romantic comedies do (instant success in the two relationships) and they have a great time together. However, as time goes by, Holly gets tired of her relationship with the quiet man who moved into her apartment block and moves on almost instantly to more people. She can be described very accurately as a social mosquito, spreading from one person to another and sucking them of all of their love before leaving them to die and moving on to the next person whom she shall suck dry of all of their love. I was convinced that this movie was good by the moving ending, but not by a lot of the rest of it. It is slow moving, but it builds up and is easy enough to follow. I would have to say that it is one of the best60s comedy/dramas I have seen in a good few years and recommend it to those who know they can handle high drama "},{"Title":"The original and best Romantic Comedy","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I like both the book and the film, but the two are only similar they are not the same. I first saw this film as a little girl and wanted to be Holly. A bit of me still wants to be Holly. This movie really is the blueprint for all romantic comedies that have been made since, and I am not a fan of the contemporary versions, I hate anything with Meg Ryan in it.Aside from the beautiful costumes and stylish sets, this film is really about two people who have lots of baggage to carry around. The plot is as fresh as when it was first conceived....two people who have been damaged and have lots of baggage to carry around, find solace in each other.This film is my personal guilty pleasure...perfect for a rainy afternoon, tucked up on the sofa with chocolate and a box of tissues. There are two ways to watch this film...you can either admire and envy Audrey Hepburn looking perfect in Givenchy numbers or marvel at the fact that when it comes to human relationships, things really haven't changed since 1961. Alternatively ignore the above and get lost in it. I would also urge you to read the book which portrays Holly as a much grittier and complex character.The reason this film will remain my all time favourite is because it portrays the ups and downs of emotional life but with glamorous sparkle. "},{"Title":"Audrey's beauty helps to create a romantic comedy to remember","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS There was always something magical about Audrey Hepburn. Many a person, from the oldest to the youngest, talks today about Hepburn's style and charisma. Like so many classic actresses, Audrey Hepburn dazzled audiences with a beautiful face and pure sophistication. In Breakfast at Tiffany's, Audrey starred in her most famous role. As Holly Golightly, she wowed not only George Peppard, but the audience as well.Paul Varjak (Peppard) has a new apartment. Given to him by rich married woman 2-E (Patricia Neal), Varjak begins to settle into the place. It isn't long however before neighbour Holly Golightly (Hepburn) makes her presence known as the two begin to spend time together.Breakfast at Tiffany's is one of those films which most people can quote. Like so many good films from the 1960s, the film is full of lines which are remembered years later. Unlike a lot of other films from the 60s though, the film remains timeless. In the main role, Hepburn shines throughout, forever touching the heart and making men jealous of Peppard.Peppard himself, probably known more for his role in the television series The A-Team, is a fine hero as he captures Golightly's heart.It's hard to know what else to say really. Famous for the opening scene and Audrey's memorable outfit, the film features comedy, romance and Audrey Hepburn. All in all, there's nothing anyone could want more. "}{"Title":"Beautiful Audrey With Belligerent Peppard Playing Sensitive!","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of Ms. Hepburn's trademark roles, Holly Golightly is a fascinating creature and although Truman Capote wanted Marilyn Monroe to play her, Audrey created a delightful screen character and deserved her Oscar nomination. George Peppard is the opposite of who should be playing Paul. Peppard, a good actor, was much better suited to THE CARPETBAGGERS. Mickey Rooney is an embarrassment, Buddy Ebsen is touching as Doc, and Patricia Neal is a consummate professional.An 8 out of 10. Best performance = Audrey. Lovely musical score, great party scene, Martin Balsam is a crackup and a great opening scene. Moving ending of a great New York tale! Audrey was never prettier. Her best performance was THE NUN'S STORY. An incredible woman. "},{"Title":"A darling film, this is a classic, Audrey Hepburn is adorable","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having heard so much buzz about this film, I finally ordered it. Oh my! This film is just wonderful! I've only seen one other Audrey Hepburn film (Roman Holiday), but this film truly makes me understand why everyone was so in love with her. She is absolutely charming here, quirky, funny, naive, flaky, lovable and bittersweet. There are many sides to Holly Golightly (love the name), as her friend Paul (George Peppard) discovers, many surprises and many disappointments. Even though this 1961 film has typical corn to it, it is so cool to watch. My husband especially loves the opening scene, the wonderful mood of it, the ambiance of Holly walking around a deserted early-morning New York City street, munching on a pretzel, wearing the height of fashion evening gown and jewels, gazing in the window at Tiffany's. The cool 60's taxis, the bathtub sofa, the outrageous fashions, and of course, my favorite, the handsome fat orange tabby cat with no name. Get the film, get the soundtrack (lovely and goofy) and wrap yourself up in this charming world. And don't forget the book by Truman Capote, which I am just about to read. There are many differences between the two, but it works well for both.  "},{"Title":"Moon River","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How can you go wrong with a score by legendary composer Henry Mancini, legendary leading lady Audrey Hepburn and a much loved novel by Truman Capote? But who could have guessed future Pink Panther director would have been the right man for the job? Watching the opening slapstick scene with Mickey Rooney playing a Clusoe-esque Asian burlesque character, you could be sure he was going to stuff it up. But, aside from the terrible racial sterotype, the slapstick actually fits the cutting-loose nature of the movie.This movie is about how the world had changed since the 50's. This is hinted at when Peppard tells Hepburn he is a writer, and his only book was published in 1956. 1956? She says, as if he had mentioned a previous century. Well, have you written anything lately? The cutting-loose jazzy fun of the early sixties is seen at the party scene a shot of a bum dancing; a woman weeping into a mirror; a man with an eyepatch having an argument with a woman, and after a whole, taking off the eyepatch so he can argue better, a man and a woman making out in the bathtub; a woman looks like she's about to feint and Holly, noticing this, shouts out Timber! and everyone stops dancing to watch her fall; a close-up of a watch on someone's ankle, with someone sitting by the feet of an (not literal) orgy of dancing legs, who lifts up the foot and checks the time). It can also be seen in Holly's Dahling manner, and in Mancini's jazzy score. And all of it adds together to say We didn't have this much fun in the 50's. Things weren't this loose in the 50's. Things are changing.The beauty of this movie is much given by Mancini - Moon River, which he wrote for this, is such a wonderful romantic song that I can't help swooning whenever i hear it. The opening sequence of this movie, with Holly Golightly in bliss, with a breakfast pastry and a coffee, window shipping at Tiffany's while Moon River plays, is gorgeous. Audrey Hepburn lived forever in that moment, if she didn't for her other iconic roles as the leads in Roman Holiday, My Fair Lady and Sabrina. Audrey Hepburn with that black dress, the diamond tiara and the cigarette holder as Holly Golightly has become an iconic figure. You can see her in poster stores, on bedroom walls, on billboards and keyrings.My favourite bits are in the middle, especially the scene where Hepburn sits on her window sill and sings Moon River, and then Hepburn and Peppard spend a day where they do things they've never done before. The final scene in the rain is beautiful. "},{"Title":"Read the Book","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In short, this is a fun movie, but it really is tamer than the book by Capote.  For example, in the book Fred is GAY, while in the movie, Fred and Holly get together in the end.  Someone should remake this movie true to the book--it would shock more than a few of us.   "},{"Title":"Short to the point.","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Anybody that watches this movie and doesn't cry when Miss Hepburn gets out of the Taxi to find Cat just doesn't have a heart. I have watched this one scene over and over and it gets to me just like the boy shooting the dog in Old Yeller. "},{"Title":"Classic romcom with Hepburn at her best","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful, beautiful, incredibly romantic movie with Audrey Hepburn at her kookiest and most adorable, as the wayward socialite Holly Golightly, living on the edge of sanity in a world of millionaire playboys, model-actress-whatever friends, dodgy mob connections and tips for the powder room, totally bewitching new neighbour George Peppard from the off and leading him a merry dance through various ups and downs to a rain-soaked happy ending. Peppard stands up well as the leading man, feckless writer/toyboy Paul, the visuals are bright and hip, the dialogue reaching Casablanca-style levels of quotability. The only bad point is Mickey Rooney's clumsily racist Japanese neighbour, the rest is near perfection. Except, of course, the ending of Truman Capote's novella is far superior to the touch of Hollywood injected here. Still great though. "},{"Title":"I'm crazy about Tiffany's!","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw Breakfast at Tiffany's today on Turner Classic Movies and was altogether enchanted. Audrey Hepburn is luminous as Holly Golightly, a free-spirited prostitute trying to improve her life. Although Capote wanted Marilyn Monroe, only Audrey could've played this part. She is the epitome of cool elegance and warm vulnerability, and watching this movie made me realize how much I miss her.Support is provided by the appealing George Peppard as Holly's romantic interest, an out-of-work writer also working as a prostitute. Patricia Neal is his client, a steely society broad; Neal provides an unusual amount of dimension to what might have been a one-note character. Though I can understand how Mickey Rooney's character may offend some, it really didn't bother me; I found him no more offensive than Harvey Korman on The Carol Burnett Show.The photography and Blake Edwards's direction are sleek and stylish, as are Audrey's fashions and accessories. I love the way she handles a three-foot cigarette holder in a crowded room--though there is an amusing accident involving a guest's ornate hat and the tip of her cigarette! I also loved the nameless marmalade cat perched in the oddest places (the kitchen sink, a mounted cow's head, etc.). Some people really seem to hate the ending, but I think it's perfect. It's what I really wanted to see, and there's nothing wrong with characters being happy once in a while. Though often regarded as a light, frothy comedy, there are very affecting dramatic overtones to the proceedings, and it's Audrey's film all the way. Wherever you are, Audrey...you were magnificent. "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn can make a movie","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Audrey Hepburns performance in this movie was outstanding.  I was reluctant to watch this movie, thinking that it was going to be just a tired old love story but this was actually a great movie.  I would have given this movie a 10, but the only bad part is the overly stereotypical portrayal of Hepburn's asian superintendant, played by Mickey Rooney...Aside from that, the movie is a gem! "},{"Title":"Are we after the same rainbow's end?","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Breakfast at Tiffany's has been my favorite movie like many others who like the light romantic feel of the movie or the Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard on-screen chemistry. Although a bit different from the actual Truman Capote novel, I really enjoy the Hollywood ending that was given to it. Audrey Hepburn's portrayal of the wannabe New York socialite is classy and she gives a lot of heart to it. $50 for the powder room? George Peppard was nonetheless amazing as well.But does pity lead to love? How do we know if we're just being charitable? Paul Varjak feels he can help Holly. But I guess people need people not necessarily because we need help but we belong to each other. Hmm... Just a thought. "},{"Title":"A richly textured romantic comedy","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This wonderful romantic comedy featuring Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard and adapted from a novella by Truman Capote is as complex as it is touching.  As we meet Holly Golightly (Hepburn), she appears to be a quirky girl of modest means who yearns to lives the jet set lifestyle.  She window shops at Tiffany's and throws wild parties in her apartment.  Her chief source of income comes from weekly visits to a Mafia don in prison, relaying `weather reports' to his lawyer on the outside.  She seems to be the picture of superficiality, described by O.J. Berman (Martin Balsam) as a `real phony', a person who is not what she appears to be, but is convinced she is.Paul Varjak is an apathetic writer with one book and no ideas.  He moves in upstairs from Holly and they immediately strike up a fire escape friendship.  His only source of income comes from being a gigolo to his wealthy interior decorator (Patricia Neal) who pays him handsomely for his services every chance she gets.  Paul and Holly seem to be two of a kind, abject losers pretending to be what they are not.However, as the story unfolds, the layers are peeled away and the motivation for Holly's go-lightly personality is revealed in her difficult past.  She is far more complex and deep than we first believe, using her lifestyle as a defense mechanism, a way of running from herself.  The friendship and love that grow between Paul and Holly make better people of each and ultimately help them to transcend their personal flaws, but not without great difficulties.For director Blake Edwards, who became most renowned for a spate of Pink Panther movies, this film was probably among his finest moments.  These were complicated characters and he revealed them slowly with nuance.  They were also developing as people and his treatment of this effect was both subtle and powerful.The film is not without controversy.  Truman Capote was adamant about having Marilyn Monroe in the lead, but the studio went with Audrey Hepburn, who was far less popular but who was probably better for the complexities of the character.  They had selected a very young John Frankenheimer as director, who at that point had only TV credits on his resume.  Hepburn refused to work with him and he was dumped in favor of Edwards.  Capote wanted the film to remain true to the book's dark and depressing ending, but the studio chose to play to the masses and end it on an upbeat.  Personally, I'm glad they did.The film has been roundly criticized in the present day for the character portrayed by Mickey Rooney.  Rooney played a caricature of a bumbling Japanese neighbor that was extremely unflattering to Asians although admittedly it was hilarious.  This is considered a shocking portrayal in today's politically correct society, but it stirred little furor at the time, when everyone was far more insensitive and far less oversensitive.  When the film was released, the biggest criticism was that Edwards overused the character to the point of making him nauseating, which was an obvious error in judgment.  If Rooney only had one or two scenes rather than roughly a dozen, it probably wouldn't have become such a lightening rod.Hepburn and Peppard were both terrific in the leads.  Hepburn, who was nominated for best actress for the role, gave Holly a lovable quirkiness that belied her deeper troubles.  When it was time to broaden the character, Hepburn gave her a fullness and depth that I feel Marilyn Monroe never could have accomplished.  Peppard was more than just a dashing and handsome foil for Hepburn.  He played Paul with sensitivity and refinement and had incredible chemistry with Hepburn, making the romance very natural and believable.One of the best things about the film was the soundtrack, which brought the film its only two Oscars from five nominations.  Henry Mancini's musical score was marvelous and film's theme song, `Moon River' written by Henry Mancini and Johnny Mercer is an enduring classic.This richly textured film has both depth and range.  It has just the right balance of lightness and heaviness, with well-explored characters that change before our eyes.  I rated it a 10/10.  It is an intelligent and affecting film that is worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Enchanting","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Audrey Hepburn's part as Holly Golightly is absolutely captivating. This comedy/drama/romance is a wonderful roller coaster ride of the emotions. Paul Varjack, played by George Peppard, is a terrific man who falls for Holly. The story is terrific, the characters are fantastic, and Hepburn and Peppard shine! A must-see for old movie lovers and fans of these two magnificent people.  "},{"Title":"It's amazing.  Best romantic film I've ever seen","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, first I must admit that I'm a romantic at heart and that many a movie has set me crying.  But still.......I was absolutely weeping at the end of this one.When the movie began, I was skeptical.  Paul just comes in to use the phone and I'm supposed to believe that Holly immediately starts confessing feelings to him?!  And Rooney's dated, stereotypical Japanese man is GRATING!  But I let it fly, suspended my disbelief, and was carried away.And what a ride.  This is the best romantic film I've ever seen.  Hepburn is absolutely charming.  She just creates this aura of grace from the moment you see her.  Somehow, even as this movie hints at a darker world of drugs and gangsters, it remains an enchanting fairy tale.  I was pulled in by every plot twist, and they are many and unexpected.  The ending was sublime!  I absolutely melted.  Unless you are a cold blooded cynic.....if you have anything romantic in you.......see this movie and be swept away! "},{"Title":"I'm just crazy about Tiffany's!","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie! Audrey Hepburn is just delightful as Holly in this film. George Peppard gives a wonderful performance as well. Those two just fit together. The ending is the best.. I wont say what happens here but... ohh you just have to see this one. "},{"Title":"A collage of Capote Characters","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Breakfast at Tiffany's is a delicious film - a treat for anyone who has an eye and ear for sophisticated New York comedy. It is kinda dated - no blacks nor hispanics, and one can sit in a relatively safe Central Park - how did they film that breakfast in front of the Tiffany's window without getting mugged? hhmmm oh well. Everyone dresses like a mensch, so you can see this film pre-dates the Beatles. Audrey Hepburn, George Peppard, Mickey Rooney, Buddy Ebsen and Patricia Neal are perfect in their respective roles. Audrey Hepburn was a marvellous Holly Golightly; although perhaps Marilyn Monroe might have been excellent,  but we shall never know and who cares? George Peppard was perfect in his role of Paul Varjak. He never tries to overshadow Holly and yet he turns out to be quite a tower of strength for her at the end. Buddy Ebsen was great as the bewildered and good Dr. Golightly who is genuinely loved by Lulamae Barnes i.e. our Holly.But.....I adored Mickey Rooney's  Mr. Yunioshi, since I live in Japan and Mickey Rooney gives a slapstick rendition of all the stereotyped Japanese we admire. No one has such horrible buck teeth and I have yet to find a Japanese who talks like Mr. Yunioshi but hey it's funny!!! I kept laughing till my sides hurt at the opening scene when Yunioshi takes his own picture. No, Japanese men are not that myopic either,  really!!! The party at Holly's apartment is fabulous - the cheap tawdry phonies are all there and Martin Balsam.'s O.J. Berman starts off as a true slime ball but later on shows a genuine worth when Holly is in trouble with the law. There are no real boring moments except I felt uncomfortable with Patricia Neal's character - but that is because Neal is so good at it, that we do feel uncomfortable with her. A great film and the music is sooooo good.PS LOVED that cat!!!  "},{"Title":"Excellent. A movie that any film buff should see.","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You call yourself a free spirit, a wild thing, and you're terrified somebody's gonna stick you in a cage. Well baby, you're already in that cage. You built it yourself.Now this is what I like to see. Breakfast at Tiffany's is one of those classic movies that has a great legacy so many years later because it's just that good. This is the iconic Hepburn movie for a reason.Audrey makes a great Holly Golightly, and it's even more impressive when you consider how different the outgoing, flighty character is from how the actress was in real life. Her chemistry on-screen with George Peppard is immediate, and makes the whole convoluted relationship between the two work. And immensely satisfying in the end.Watching Breakfast at Tiffany's really highlights how pale in comparison these kinds of movies have become in recent years. Check it out. It leads you in a lot of different directions, and you'll enjoy every turn and twist. "},{"Title":"A lot of Eastern audiences didn't get it because of cultural differences.","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Don't make me wrong, I am not gonna criticize about the Breakfast at Tiffany's. On the contrast, I'd like to give it a big hand as not only a fan of Audrey Hepburn but also a realistic person about modern society and romance in real life.However, I still heard of many negative reviews about the movie because they don't fully get the movie, especially Hepburn's part. They can't really suffer Hepburn play such a playgirl because most elder Chinese people don't really understand what is a playgirl. Apparently, in most senior Chinese' concept, girls are flirting and willing to marry a rich man but no necessarily a playgirl. Yet Hepburn had been playing innocent girls for most of time. Generally, they just don't get the movie.But Breakfast at Tiffany's is personally convincing to me because of many reasons, one of them being Hepburn's playgirl. The story shows a 1960's USA but it's more alike Chinese nowadays. Girls don't necessarily means innocent and pure anymore. Instead, most of girls has been poisoned by the color of money more than men and are rather comfortable with it. In the movie, the story is mainly told in the view of Frank, who witnessed the psychological change of Hepburn's role. Sometimes I just felt like if I were Frank, a man who has to give in the heart to the innocent soul of Hepburn but also has to be let down by her desire for fortune, her childishness.Truman Capote's original novel hasn't been read by me, however, I am pretty sure that this movie (novel) has been so successful because it's socially insightful and mind-provoking, which is a moral class without explicit teacher.9/10 Nearly perfect comedy. "},{"Title":"My favourite Audrey movie","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this movie when I bought it on DVD 3 years ago and ever since it is my favourite of one Audrey's. Moon River is a great song and I'm glad Audrey got to use her real voice. I loved Orangey who played Cat and the other cats who played Cat. It makes me sad when Holly throws Cat out of the taxi when she was going to leave for Brazil, but I was glad Cat was found. I disagree about Audrey Hepburn saying she was miscast in the role as Holly Golightly, I thought she was great. I have to say the sixties was the best decade for movies. My favourite scene was when there was the party at Holly's apartment and the scene where Holly was singing Moon River. "},{"Title":"One of the best oldies, excluding Hitchcock. Audrey is perfect!","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's is a touching romantic comedy which has stood the test of time very well and is now an icon due to Audrey Hepburn's beauty and mesmerising performance. Whilst the comedy has little edge and is fairly simple, it is the charm and innocence that induces laughter and the lack of political correctness is also refreshing in a time where political correctness has gone mad. The character of Mr Yunioshi is a prime example of politically incorrect humour that would probably get a film banned these days! The plot is very good as we follow a deeply narcissistic character with a very complicated background through her chaotic lifestyle which is being threatened by a serious relationship with Paul (pre A - Team George Peppard).The acting is very good from the leads, although somewhat static compared to modern actors. Rather than static, subtle might be a more appropriate word (except for Mickey Rooney as Yunioshi) as the actors do provoke certain emotions from the audience. By any standard, Audrey Hepburn is a great actress and is someone you immediately want to fall in love with, in spite of the fact she plays such a peculiar character who is far from perfect. Every aspect of Holly Golightly is played to perfection by Hepburn as she shows a great range of emotions, each juxtaposed against one another. Despite her narcissism, she is very likable and when her usual apathy is challenged by her feelings for Paul, a great transformation is witnessed on screen. Audrey is quite simply perfect and with this film, her beauty will last forever. George Peppard gives a likable performance as the infuriated Paul. He garners a great deal of sympathy from the audience as we watch him bang his head against a wall for an hour and a half until his emotional speech at the films climax. Martin Balsam in a supporting role is also good and it is nice to see him in a more humorous role after watching him in 12 Angry Men and Psycho. His phone conversation with Paul is amusing and probably one of the 'non Audrey' highlights of the film.Breakfast at Tiffany's won two Oscars for music and this is due to the touching score that compliments the action perfectly. Moon River is a very sad piece and this is very effective in highlighting Holly's sad past and how unhappy she actually is, despite her illusions that she is very happy. The direction is also very good as we are given a subtle film delivered at a surprisingly fast pace so it doesn't become boring for one second. As I said before, the plot is very good and the small twists, turns and sub plots do a great job at making you think. Truman Capote did a fantastic job at writing such an accomplished novel. His great story thoroughly deserved to be immortalised on the silver screen. The only question I have to ask is, how did such a screwed up guy write such a beautiful story?Slated by some as a mere chic flick of the 60s, Breakfast at Tiffany's is much more than this as it is an emotive, thought provoking story played to perfection by the two leads and offers so much more than a couple of giggles. Never before has a cat appeared so poignant in a film (excluding of course Garfield) and it is small quirks like this that make the film so special. Audrey Hepburn made herself a legend in her role and deserved all the attention the world gave her. "},{"Title":"It still is one of the best romantic movies of all time.","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This has to be one of the most charming and likable romantic movies ever made till date, with a perfectly charming, mood-setting and recognizable Henry Mancini Oscar winning musical score and theme song, that perhaps is even better known than the actual movie itself.The movie is perhaps more of a romantic comedy than an actual romantic movie. Its fun and humor is not in its comical situations but more in its little subtle fun moments and delightful quirky characters that are all each in their own way unique.What makes really Breakfast at Tiffany's such a great genre movie, even for the non-fans of the genre (like myself), are it's charming and also unusual fun characters. Audrey Hepburn is charmingly delightful in her role and she is the main reason why this movie works so great as a charming one. The rest of the movie is filled with some delicious stereotypes that are so obviously caricatures that you can't take them serious. Best example of this is of course Mickey Rooney (under lots of- and silly looking make-up) in a crazy role as the always complaining Japanese upstairs neighbor. The characters are perhaps the main reason why this movie is such a charming one and a real pleasure to watch. It makes this movie also not as heavy as other genre movies, although there of course is still plenty of drama going on.The story is solidly written and shows also some of the great and unique elements of love. The movie shows how great love is by just doing little things. The best example of this is Holly Golightly and Paul 'Fred' Varjak doing things together they never have done before. Simple things, such as going to a library, taking a walk together through the city in the morning or stealing a small item from a shop. It shows that it mostly are the simple things that make love such a great thing. It also shows that love is about wanting to help each other and making each others life better. The dialog is also very well written and is also really one of the reasons why this movie is so much better than the average genre movie. The Truman Capote touch, of who's book of the same title this movie is based, is certainly notable in this movie with its characters, dialog and situations.Not everything however works fully out, especially the typical 'book-story-like' subplots and some other quirky unusual moments. But it's of course also due to the fact that some elements in this movie are by todays standards terribly outdated, that some things in this movie might come across as unusual and quirky.If I had to name one reason why you should watch this movie I would say; Audrey Hepburn. She is such a delight to watch in this movie. She is absolutely beautiful, charming and yet at the same time naive looking. She gives the movie some real class. Often just her looks and facial gestures are enough to make a sequence work and they say more than a thousand words. This is the role she will always be remembered for and for a very good reason.The entire movie is perfectly directed by Blake Edwards, before he got real fame as the director of the Pink Panter movies. He knows how to create the right mood and atmosphere for this movie and also creates a perfect balances between the comedy and romantic elements of the movie.One of the most charming movies ever made. A real movie to fall in love with!9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Syrupy classic","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This entertaining but syrupy film is surely overrated, but I am just as sure to be shouted down by sentimentalists. Its flaws are legion. Mickey Rooney's racist caricature of a Japanese man was over the top even for 1961. Audrey Hepburn is miscast as Holly Golightly, something Truman Capote himself said. Audrey is far too sophisticated and elegant. The film totally changes the tone of Capote's novella.  Most importantly, the ending is completely changed from that of the book. I can't tell you how, because that would be a spoiler. Suffice it to quote Hemingway referring to another film, The Snows of Kilimanjaro There's a slight difference between the ending of the film and my story. In the film the hero lives, and in my story he dies. (No, nobody dies in either the book or movie versions of Breakfast at Tiffany's, but the point about the difference in endings is the same.)  7/10 "}{"Title":"A Wonderful Song and Lead Actress and Actor, But With a Ridiculous Story in the Present Days (2003)","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Holly Golightly (the wonderful Audrey Hepburn) is a very sophisticated hooker, with the roots of country girl. She meets the pimp and pretentious writer Paul 'Fred' Varjak (George Peppard) and she becomes her friend. Paul falls in love with her, but she wants to marry a rich guy. Watching this movie in 2003, there are many points to be highlighted. The positive points are the marvelous Audrey Hepbun, the performance of George Peppard, the song `Moon River', one of the most known soundtracks in the cinema history, wonderfully performed by Henry Mancini and the funny situations of the plot. But this screenplay in the present days probably would not be accepted by any studio the main character is an elegant escort girl (prostitute); the `hero' is a caftan;  smoking is 'in'; `Doc' commits child abuse; the bad treatment to the cat in at least two scenes, when it is thrown up when Holly receives the news about his brother Fred, and when she drops it in an alley, in a rainy day; the long play with Portuguese sentences. This scene is so ridiculous for a Brazilian, since she is listening to a Portuguese (from Portugal) accent not used in Brazil; last (but not the least), her Brazilian lover has not the biotic or pronunciation of a Brazilian. For the rest of the world, it may be OK, but it is so ridiculous for us, natives. Anyway, my vote is eight.Title (Brazil) `Bonequinha de Luxo' (`Luxury Little Doll') "},{"Title":"One of the most satisfying Hollywood romances ever made","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really could not praise this film enough, nor could I really find adequate words to do so. All you have to know is that it is the most perfect romantic comedy I've ever seen, in that it is entirely successful at being both, a romance and a comedy. It's also a stunning drama with excellent characterizations. Holly Golightly, played by Audrey Hepburn, is a beautiful creation, a lot of which can be credited to Truman Capote, I assume, but it would be insane not to credit Hepburn, also. She is extraordinarily successful at expressing the innermost aspects of the character, her innate sadness and the intelligence behind the gold-digging, phony (in a real way) facade. I was very skeptical about George Peppard - I had never seen him without leather gloves and a giant cigar - but he pulls the role of Paul Barjak off with flying colors. Among many great supporting players, Martin Balsam, whom, the year before, was viciously murdered by Norman Bates in Psycho, has two especially hilarious scenes. I do have one complaint, and I'd bet, having not read through other reviews, that two out of every three reviewers bring this up what the hell were they thinking with Mickey Rooney's Japanese landlord character? I mean, talk about a major blemish on an otherwise masterful film! I can't think of a more offensive racial caricature in ANY film, and I've seen a ton of other films, much earlier than 1961, for Christ's sake, where white people played Asian, but I've never seen such gross stereotyping before. It's almost as if they started production on this film on December 8, 1941!Besides that racist scar, the film has a couple of script problems, especially concerning the whole gangster part of the script. It feels very contrived, and they should have figured out a better way to shape the plot. Other than those two things, the film's perfect. If Mickey Rooney's part wasn't in the film, Breakfast at Tiffany's would surely make it onto my top 100 list. I'm still giving it a 10/10. I can't remember having cried as hard at an ending in the recent past.  "},{"Title":"Let's all fall in love with Audrey, yet again","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Truman Capote was right;  Marilyn Monroe would have been perfect for the role of Holly Golightly as Capote had written it - sad to say, she was Holly in real life.Blake Edwards' movie was shot in the real Manhattan yet it evokes a certain suspended unreality - just as Holly would have it.  OTOH, while he sticks to 90% of original short story, he played to the mass market fears of the backers by installing a happy ending.  A pity he didn't step ahead of his time and shoot it both ways.Mickey Rooney as a stereotype comic relief doesn't work;  the picture gains nothing from it the way it was written.George Peppard doesn't act;  he stands there and looks handsome Perfect for a charming-couple package.  But how far did that take him?  Besides The A-Team, I mean?Audrey Hepburn doesn't act so much as charm, which is probably why the part stays with her in the fans' minds to this day, long after her death.  In a strangely psycho-cosmic way, the fictional Holly has trumped the real-life actor, just like Scarlett O'Hara, Charles Foster Kane and Vito Corleone. "},{"Title":"Who wouldn't want to be in this world?","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As others have noted, who wouldn't want to live in a world with no traffic, a love affair that manages to be (No!) platonic for much of the way, and all these eccentric, fun people running in and out?  Not to mention the radiant Audrey Hepburn; now, who wouldn't want to spend a day with her shopping and stealing cat masks from five-and-dime stores, and who wouldn't want to go to a party with her making like a young Auntie Mame-complete with cigerette holder- over a crowd of tipsy models (Tim-ber!) and groggy agents?  Sure, this world never existed, but does it matter?  Yes, just what is meant by her visits to the Mafia boss and all the money she gets to go to the powder room isn't made clear, but do we want to know?  Anyway, Audrey plays Holly Golightly very much as a three-dimensional person, an eccentric airhead who also has a sad, lost-soul quality, and she is marvelous.  (Anyone who jeered over the news of her being dubbed for My Fair Lady, just listen to her sing Moon River in this film)  Anyway, as for the rest of the film, it isn't bad, either, although it falls too much into soggy melodrama in its last third or so and had to include the Caucasian-as-Asian for extra comic relief.  (Remember, this was made in 1961)  Otherwise not-bad performances from George Peppard, Patricia Neal, and the others in the cast.  Good direction from Blake Edwards and a pretty good sript.  But it's Audrey that's at her best here, of course.  Perfect for a rainy day or when you're in the mood for some good old fashioned, glorious escapism. "},{"Title":"an extremely emotional film!","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Breakfast at Tiffany's is such a modern, love-realistic film. It makes us appreciate our friends and family by showing the loneliness of two who kind of don't have any, or any true friends or family for that matter. Anyway, This film is so emotional, that the first time I saw it my blood pressure skyrocketed, and I was forced to drive around my block a few times while smoking cigarettes! I guess you feel such a strong bond to the characters, and of course Audrey Hepburn is so beautiful and young, and George Peppard such a strong figure, they easily let you put yourself in their shoes so to speak. This is undoubtedly a classic movie and a pleasure to watch. "},{"Title":"This film has haunted me","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What I mean, I've not seen it until last night, and yet I've heard it referenced a million times. First It's pre Beatles- Flower Power etc, everything is square, men wear ties to parties. As far as I can remember there are no blacks even in street scenes. But people toss litter, smoke, drink with abandon. Peppard is surely unconvincing as a writer-artist. The film is a classic because of the stunning Holly Golightly (AH), Peppard should surely freak-out each time she appears, I would just be reduced to a gibbering idiot in her presence, but he's rather calm. (BTW Audrey Hepburn was voted most beautiful woman of the century by the French) "},{"Title":"This is one of my most favorite movies","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For all of you idealists out there! This is the movie for you. Whenever, I'm feeling down, I just pop in this video and it makes me feel so much better. This is one of my top three romance films. This is definitely Audrey's best performance. While this role was intended for Marylin Monroe, Audrey makes it hers as she plays Holly Golighty without a single flaw and virtually carries the movie from start to end. I can't imagine anyone else playing Holly Golighty in this movie.As an Asian American, I feel that the only flaw in this movies was the poor portrayal of the Japanese by Andy Rooney in this movie. However, this is easily overlooked with Audrey's performance.Overall, definitely a good watch! Totally recomend it!  "},{"Title":"the book is the book and the film is the film","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  though I'm quite aware this movie doesn't follow the exact guidelines of the book, that doesn't mean it's a bad film.  I've never care for George Peppard in the way that I adored Gregory Peck in Roman Holiday or Humphrey Bogart in sabrina, simply because I don't see the connection between the characters. That doesn't mean I don't absolutely adore him.  and, as always, Audrey Hepburn is beyond amazing.The magic of the movie isn't in the love story.  The magic is in Holly Golightly herself.  Audrey, as always, exudes class and charisma from the screen.  For years it's been my dream to run off to New York and live the life of Holly Golighty.  It was this film that got me hooked on Audrey Hepburn, and so I have to love it for that alone.   "},{"Title":"Yes, but ...","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The novella was better.The real point of the movie was let's all fall in love with Audrey yet again.  And it does it superbly.But there was much that the movies of 1960 wouldn't allow from written fiction, such as a sad ending.  In the book Holly doesn't find Cat; instead she goes to the airport and out of Varjak's life.  But the audience rules;  they will not buy a sad ending if it isn't powerful.  This isn't a powerful story, so Paramount ordered a happy ending.Other than that, the movie script follows the novella word for word about 85% which is why I found the story line hard to follow - it's like a play;  most of the drama is in the words, the rest is off-screen.  It works on the page but I want to *see* what's onscreen more than listen to it.  Plus, they changed the time from WWII to 1960, partly to save on the budget and partly to give Givenchy full run of dressing a thoroughly modern Audrey (not that there was anything wrong with that.)Personally, I would have rewritten it so that all Holly's past gradually catches up with her to climax all at once.  It would have made for a bigger pay-off at then end, no matter which way she went.None of the actors got to fully run with their characters - George Peppard just had to stand there and look handsome, and Mickey Rooney as Yunioshi ... well, what can you expect from that time and generation?  And that Rusty Wallace character looked more than a passing resemblance to the original author but nobody really wanted to follow up on that.But then, this was Holly's story.  A.H. was great in the part but, like someone else has noted, she was a limited actress - can you picture her in the same scene with the other Hepburn?  It would have been a one-sided bloodbath!All in all, this was simply the crown on A.H.'s career.  And Holly, being Holly, never did let Audrey shake the image off.  For one thing, A.H. in real life was a dog-person, not a cat-person - sorry to burst any bubbles out there!One last  I agree with Truman Capote when he (reputedly) wanted Marylin Monroe for the part.  A.H. simply behaved the part;  M.M. *was* Holly in real life. "},{"Title":"Great picture as long as you haven't read the original short story","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the chemistry between the actors playing the main two characters doesn't work well for me, this flick is well worth watching. Unfortunately the scenario deviates from the original short story by Truman Capote, and turns the story ending somewhat too mellow to suit my taste. Indeed, also all ambiguous autobiographical references to the homosexual nature of the main character Capote put in the story have been rigorously weeded out.Still, the great acting (and singing!) by Hepburn redeems all misguided attempts to make the script acceptable to the mainstream audience of the time. You should not miss this one. "}{"Title":"magical rainy days","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Breakfast at Tiffany's' is an impossible, romantic, wonderful film, based on the novella by Truman Capote. Despite whitewashing the characters of Holly Golightly (surely one of the best female characters in the history of movies?) and Paul the writer, making their day jobs seem a bit more innocent than they were in print, the film is wonderful.As Holly, Audrey Hepburn is the queen of style, and is adorable. George Peppard is so sweet as the perfect man for Holly - even if she can't see it. Buddy Ebsen and Patricia Neal are also memorable in the cast, although Mickey Rooney's Oriental neighbour strikes an odd note.Best scenes? The party, with the phone in the suitcase and Cat on the shelf; the library where Paul shows his book to Holly; and the final scenes in the rain. All this and 'Moon River'. What more could you ask for? "},{"Title":"What a piece of crap","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm an aspiring writer/filmmaker and I saw no value is watching this. Look, I can appreciate good films and these older flicks can be interesting and it's good to go through to avoid older clichés and whatnot but really they're useless. I can understand why people are reluctant to watch them. It's because they don't age well. Not all but most. Breakfast at Tiffany's hasn't aged well at all. What a boring, pretentious, racist, stupid film. I'm falling asleep here. I don't give two rat dicks about the characters. Performances and dialogue are a product of their stupid time. How is this film going to better me as a filmmaker? It isn't. Extremely boring waste of time. "},{"Title":"This would not be good without Hepburn","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My Rating *** out of ****. First off, let me say I did enjoy most of Breakfast at Tiffanys but found it to be Overrated. I dont see what the big deal is about the movie. It is better than some romantic comedies of today but I wouldnt say its the Best.Audrey Hepburn carries this movie. She is delightful, wonderful and charming as Holly Golightly. George Peppard is adequate at best, although the chemistry was quite believable with Hepburn and him in a few areas but flat in others. Patricia Neal was good. Martin Balsam seemed miscast. Mickey Rooney's character was annoying and not that funny. The script was good but didnt exactly have the witty dialogue of Charade (another Hepburn movie). I think the movie tried to be funny too much. But it does have some interesting scenes in it, one is at a party and deals with a cigarette. The movie does contain nice sets. It also has a really good score. I especially liked the score when Holly and Paul stole that toy mask.Breakfast at Tiffany is worth seeing for one main reason Hepburn. She is the movie. She overshadows the whole film.   "},{"Title":"Watch and enjoy the film, but DO read the novella by Truman Capote...","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Upon first viewing of this film adaptation of Truman Capote's novella of the same name, I was tempted to call it Lo-cal snack at Tiffany's... that's in reference to the much lighter, not to mention 'happy-ending', tone of the film as compared to the novella.But I don't wish to be one of those nerds who is constantly bitching about the film not being as good as the book, etc. etc. That's because I don't think it fair to compare books to films, or vice versa, even if the film is/was based on the book version. I feel that visual media (movies, film, pictures) are essentially a different creature than printed media (books, literature). They both stand or fall on their own merits. I don't know of many books out there, if any, that can successfully be translated into visual media without losing much of what the literature experience is all about.As a film, I think BAT is a very good film, a nice film, superbly photographed, well acted, rich with poignant, vintage scenes of late-fifties New York City (I love (among many others) the scene in the five and dime store where they shop-lift the Halloween masks...). I won't say it's worse than the novella, only different - much different, in my opinion. The movie follows the same general plot as the book, but the tone of the book is decidedly more raw and cutting edge, perhaps even bordering on what the more prudish out there would consider sordid and depraved. The novella takes place during the middle of World War Two, but in the film, there is no real reference to the war, so I suspect it was moved forward about 15 years, to the late fifties. And the ending of the novella, though not exactly an unhappy ending, is not the more upbeat 'Hollywood' happy ending of the film.It's funny to read here how some have commented on the horrid stereotyping of a Japanese person (Mr. Yunioshi, played by Mickey Rooney). But once you read the novella, you will see just how tame this is, in comparison to Capote's no-holds-barred depictions uttered by various members of the protagonist's immediate society (the term dyke for example is freely used in Capote's novella).Also, you don't get a real sense of the clawing, conniving, gold-digger edginess of which the character Holly Golightly is easily capable. Here, Audrey Hepburn is too sanitized, too squeaky clean, to portray the upwardly mobile, young (and streaked blonde), high-priced call girl Holly Golightly of the novella.In summation, the film is well worth watching, it does stand on its own merits, and should be a visual feast for those who like spectacular color photography (filmed back in the day before all that faky soft focus stuff that so regularly permeates the big screen nowadays). But do yourself a favor and get a copy of the novella by Truman Capote and give it a read. I still rate it as one of the best short pieces of distinctly American literature around. It's not terribly long, scarcely more than a hundred pages, but it is quite masterfully written you will appreciate the vivid descriptions, and the lilting, poetic prose of Capote as he takes you on a trip down memory lane, recounting his days spent with Holly Golightly.  "},{"Title":"Tiffany's may have gotten top billing, but The City won my heart","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I originally saw this film as a teenager in Massachusetts and mistakenly thought that I'd fallen in love with Audrey Hepburn as a direct result of having seen it. Miss Hepburn does an excellent job portraying Holly Golightly, a flighty emotionally distant New York party girl looking for one of the 'fifty richest' men in the country. George Peppard, Patricia Neal, Mickey Rooney, Buddy Ebsen, and Martin Balsam also turn in creditable performances but the real star of this 1961 production, the star I really fell in love with way back then, is the City of New York.Blake Edwards, Truman Capote, George Axelrod, and especially Henry Mancini's score have combined to give us a tribute honoring the universally agreed upon greatest city on the face of the earth (except by those poor misguided parochials who jealously defend the honor of other places).New York is where I'd live if I could afford it. I'd keep a helicopter handy on the west side to whisk me periodically to my country horse farm, but The City would always beckon me back. I once saw a real estate broker interviewed during the early 80's real estate recession. He described himself as being a seller of single family homes in Manhattan only. He commented that his clients were 'wealthy people, not your typical guy who walks in off the street earning five or six hundred thousand, I mean wealthy people!' Oh sure, the film's producers gave the old girl a few coats of make-up. The alley in which Holly finds Cat looks as clean as my kitchen (looking out there as I type I can attest to that statement's truth&#133;messy but clean). They also made the camera angle show some of her best features. The section of Fifth Avenue in front of Tiffany's scans a little better than the DVD shops on Eighth. But it's still The City, The Garden, The Park, The Battery, The Village, East side, West side, all around the town&#133;The City.Tell someone in Atlanta that you're going to see the Who play the Garden and he'll probably know where you're going. Tell someone from Omaha that you're going to visit a friend who was just made Vice President of a prestigious Advertising House and you'll be staying at her apartment in The Village&#133;she'll probably know.I give the film a ten. Tiffany's may have gotten top billing, but The City won my heart. "},{"Title":"A quirky and slightly absurd comedy","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Years before The Coen Brothers unleashed their trademark eccentric characters and even before Woody Allen got on the scene with his endless talkies, Blake Edwards gave us this subtle but weird comedy that seems to be overlooked by most audiences desensitised by films like Mud in Manhattan, Hitch and the latest Bridget Jones crap.What most of these films lack is a strong sense of character and involvement in their world. You really do feel drawn into the relationship between Holly Golightly (Audrey Hepburn), a teenage runaway who ended up a high-class escort in New York and Paul 'Fred' Varjak (a youthful George Peppard) a writer/gigolo who has had nothing to inspire him of late until Holly came into his life. The only time caricature comes into the film is Mickey Rooney's Japanese landlord (and he's not Japanese), but he hardly features that much for it to be annoying.The film has a lot in common with There's Something About Mary, which I am sure owes most of its ideas to. Almost every man who meets Holly falls head over heels in love with her but it takes someone just like her for Holly to love back. Both Holly and Paul are struggling to make their own way in the city. Both have to sell themselves to the opposite sex in order to make ends meet. While Paul just wants to be a successful writer, Holly is desperate to marry a rich millionaire to snag some of the fortune for herself and take care of her brother once he leaves the army. Her escort girl lifestyle is taking its toll on her so much that 6am is only the end of the night for her and not morning. As a result she eats a fast food breakfast on a deserted street while longingly window-shopping at Tiffany's, a shop she'll probably never afford to buy from. However you just know that, despite not having much money, Holly and Paul will take good care of each other by the end of the movie.What gives this film a unique charm on top of the performances are the many oddball moments and quirky touches. Most of them supplied by Holly's cat, known simply as Cat. And Henry Mancini's score (before he and Blake Edwards teamed up for the famous Pink Panther) seems right out of a Broadway musical and plays a strong part in making the movie what it is. There's no generic piano cues or pop songs here.I haven't read the book so I cannot compare like so many other people here have, but the film certainly does stand up on it's own. No film sticks entirely to the books they are based on anyway. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For years I have heard of party loving goal less people as being described as a Holly Go lightly and I never knew why.  I am a genxer and the only thing I knew about breakfast at Tiffany's was the popular 90's song based on the movie.What a wonderful treat!  A fascinating insight for someone of my generation into life in that era.  Audrey Hepburn was brilliant.  She is my new favorite actress.  I now want to see more of her work.  It was good seeing what kind of an Actor George Peppard was earlier in his career.  All I had seen of him was his role of Hannibal on the A-team in the 80's.For a genxer or generation y person, seeing this film would make you realize why it is still so talked about to this day.  Don't procrastinate any more and rent this!  You have all heard of it, now just go fulfill your curiosity and see it. "},{"Title":"Love or Sociology?","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This odd romantic comedy tweaks the genre, jarringly for some viewers, but many of its scenes are memorable and pleasing.  The formula ending -the rainy embrace over the rescued cat, the slow pullback and dreamy-melancholic theme music, may not satisfy those who insist it is illogical to assume love is eternal, especially when it involves a character with Holly's reeling eccentricity. Romantic comedy, however, is about love not sociology, and most viewers want to believe that such a rescue is possible.  Because of the actors involved, many of the scenes have an afterglow Holly-Hepburn singing her bitter-sweet theme song, the sad sophistication of Patricia Neal, John McGiver's tolerant and sentimental salesman (don't try this at your local Tiffany's!), even George Peppard's paternal-savior confusion. These virtues may not matter much to those who obsess over the film's weaknesses  the grating racial stereotype, the sometimes cloyingly cute-weirdness of Holly, the deviations from Capote's plot (who cares?). They may have some fair criticism here, but it should not cause anyone to miss BAT's several memorable moments and images.    "},{"Title":"Hepburn's finest hour","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When recalling the film legacy of Audrey Hepburn, the first title that will usually come to mind is 'Breakfast at Tiffany's,' although a minority of fans will bring up 'Charade,' 'My Fair Lady,' and perhaps 'Sabrina.' For the most part, Hepburn and her character in this movie have become one and the same; no discussion of the actress's life is complete without mentioning 'Breakfast' somewhere along the line.Hepburn was actually an eleventh-hour selection for the role of Holly Golightly. Truman Capote envisioned Marilyn Monroe as the lead female character and an offer was later made to Kim Novak. Hepburn was selected in the end, however, and George Axelrod's screenplay was massaged considerably to befit her elegance. Her performance has entered film history as a classic and will retain that status for years to come. Unfortunately, Hepburn's glamor came at a price; while suiting 'Breakfast at Tiffany's' to her disposition, much of Capote's novella was lost in the shuffle. 'Breakfast' is without doubt a very good film that belongs in the American canon. I do think, however, that it is slightly overrated, because the intense storyline of Capote's novella is thinned out for the sake of Audrey.The Capote version of Holly Golightly is a saucy, foul-mouthed drifter who is torn between her need for independence and her desire for an ideal, life-long partner. She is something of a forerunner to the 1960s 'liberated woman,' instead making use of loopholes in the 1940s social framework. We get a sense of Holly as go-getter in the film, but Axelrod and director Blake Edwards forward the action to 1950s New York City and portray her as more of a chic socialite than a vulnerable, Texas-bred outcast. Two of the underlying themes for Capote are our search for identity and the constant transformation that our selves undergo; these were only touched upon at moments in the Axelrod version of 'Breakfast.'Instead, the movie version seems to deal with a struggle between two wants emotional connection and material security. Both Holly and her on-again, off-again lover Paul Varjak (George Peppard) find themselves locked in situations where money is offered but love is not readily forthcoming. Paul is first in this jam, trading sex for money with Mrs. Failenson (Patricia Neal), a wealthy interior designer. Holly, herself a call girl, meets José, the rich Brazilian diplomat whose 'love' is not politically correct back home. Needless to say, the Hollywood formula in 1961 was for both characters to accept their true love, which is exactly how this film ends.Certain scenes in the film are clearly designed to show off the elegance of Hepburn, such as the apartment party, the visit to Tiffany and Company, and the five-and-ten shoplift, all of which are too long and detract from the main aspects of Holly's character. Axelrod and Edwards also give strange priority to Mr. Yunioshi, played by Mickey Rooney. The Japanese photographer annoyed by Holly is just a minor player in Capote's book, darting onto the stairwell and yelling in broken English every so often. In the movie, however, Yunioshi is used a great deal for comic relief, with Rooney giving an over-the-top effort. This stereotype is offensive nowadays, but racial slapstick was common at the time. It is one part of the film that has not held up well over the last four decades.Having said this, Hepburn and Peppard did know what they were about. Their romance is convincing and the two actors' chemistry is sensed from when they first meet on-screen. Patricia Neal and Martin Balsam (playing Hollywood mogul O.J. Berman) are excellent in their abbreviated roles and Buddy Ebsen (Doc Golightly, Holly's husband) gives a memorable performance 45 minutes in. José Luis de Villalonga (simply called 'Vilallonga' in the film credits) also does well in a modest English-speaking part as the Brazilian aristocrat.'Breakfast' was nominated for five Academy Awards, winning two in music. Henry Mancini won for best dramatic/comedy score, while Johnny Mercer and Mancini won for best original song with 'Moon River.' Mancini does some nifty work here, transforming the 'Moon River' theme into each given situation and linking up the entire sound-picture. Blake Edwards should also be credited with his lovely visuals of New York City, including Central Park and, of all places, the New York Public Library's main branch on Fifth Avenue.I read Capote's novella about one year before watching its film version. While I have enjoyed both, the Hollywood treatment leaves something to be desired; the book offers much more. 'Breakfast' is available on DVD through Paramount and has received favorable treatment from the company it is presented in widescreen with a choice of Dolby surround audio, 5.1 surround audio, or French 'dubbing.' English subtitles and a theatrical trailer are also provided.*** out of 4 "},{"Title":"What some think of as Audrey Hepburn's best film, it is certainly her signature role","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Many think that this is Audrey Hepburn's best film (I think it was Charade) or that this is her best performance (I think that was in Wait Until Dark).  What this was for Hepburn is the most single memorable role of her career-her signature role.  I cannot picture anyone else as Holly Golightly, no matter how hard I try.  She made better films (Charade and My Fair Lady, among others) and did better work (The Children's Hour and Wait Until Dark, among others) but this is the part most people associate with Audrey Hepburn in their minds first.  ery good film, with a memorable score and an excellent cast, although Mickey Rooney chews the scenery a bit TOO hard here.  Most recommended.  "}{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie when I was in high school and thinking that for an old movie it was wonderful, funny, and wistful (and in retrospect, I saw it not too many years after it was made).  I remember being quite a fan of Audrey Hepburn and many of her movies (Charade, etc.) that were often shown on TV in the early 70's.Years passed. I came across the short story by Capote and read it.  I was amazed,  the story is rich with atmosphere and complex characterization.  Holly Golightly is a real three-dimensional person, a tough bohemian in the Village who is just barely holding on to life.  The narrator is an enigmatic writer who is fascinated by her, maybe he loves her, but clearly not in a standard heterosexual kind of way. A short while later I saw that the movie was on TV and I really looked forward to seeing it again.  Not only was it a sentimental favorite of mine and it would give me a chance to relive a tiny part of my youth, but it might be fun seeing the movie as retro time capsule of thirty years past.  This was before Audrey Hepburn had died, and the movie had become a slightly forgotten comedy of the pre-Kennedy/60s era. It was a well regarded classic that got pushed aside to make room for the endless stream of contemporary romantic comedies.So, I saw it.  I have to admit that all of the magic I remembered was invisible to me.  The names were familiar and some of the circumstances were the same, but how they got that movie out of that short story, I'll never know.  In the story, Holly is a survivor living in a grimy neighborhood with the social outcasts of the time.  In the movie, Audrey's Holly seems to be some New York sophisticate who's really a scared little girl underneath, forever posing in little cocktail dresses and chatting to businessmen until she gets rescued by the dashing writer/gigolo upstairs.  It's almost like Rob and Laura Petrie's life before they got married.  I understand the pressure in Hollywood to force a love story into every script, but here the love story overwhelms the original intent, the study of Holly's life and character.   There is little that is sentimental in short story, but the movie is a gilt treasure chest of preciousness.  Aside from the story there is the acting too.  I have often lectured people on the importance of judging the acting in an older movie not by contemporary standards and trends, but by the acting at the time the movie was made.  Well, as much as I wanted to like Audrey, her acting had me squirming in my seat.  Bette Davis and Joan Crawford are positively naturalistic compared to her.  I've since seen a few of Audrey Hepburn's movies again and I've had to re-examine my fondness for her.  She's quite good at projecting a well-bred vulnerable appeal, but some movie roles would benefit from something more. "},{"Title":"A Real Phony","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"39 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some of these old movies do not age well. But this one is perhaps more charming now than when it was made. Hepburn and Peppard, Mancini and Mercer, Edwards and Capote, Each (except Peppard) is master of their own quirky corners of the universe which are briefly brought into alignment here. The end is a little smaltzy, but that's unavoidable and it is brief.Capote set these characters as biting caricatures rooted in the real, twisted world, and Blake wisely (in retrospect) made them more cartoonish (more phony), somewhat off kilter in a pretend world. The score is one of those rare scores that can support the non-bombastic vision of clever wryness. (Danny Elfman is possibly equally capable, but his patron is a little too weird.)Hepburn makes this work, as the visible part of the team. I wonder if she had even a part of the charisma in real life she shows here. Monroe was to have done the part originally, and it is fun while watching to view a parallel imaginary film with Marilyn instead of Hepburn.The racism of the Rooney character jars today. That's the only rough spot, but it does add well to the phoniness. "},{"Title":"Not bad but not a classic in my mind.","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a classic film I had never seen before and thought i should watch it before i die. )It was OK, but it was not as good as Roman Holiday.The film is about a man who moves into a new apartment in New York. When he meets the neighbour he finds she has a few issues but he wants to help her. He ends up falling in love with her but all she is interesting in is not getting close to anyone unless they have money.I like Audrey Hepburn, I think she was a great actress and she didn't disappoint in this film. She did a great job. The film also has George Peppard in it as the man who moves in. Now being an 80s kid, I know George from The A-Team. Seeing him in this was surprising, he was actually quite a good actor.The story of the film was OK, but i was expecting more. This is one of Audreys most famous films, but i don't think it was as good as everyone makes out to be. I don't see this film as a classic.I give this film 6 out of 10... good to watch on a rainy Sunday afternoon, but i wouldn't invite the mates over for a film night. )For more reviews check out my facebook pagehttp//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204 "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest","Date":"14 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As with all movies featuring Audrey Hepburn, it's impossible not to dwell primarily on Audrey Hepburn. In this movie more so, because it is primarily a character sturdy of Holly Golightly. Though there have been some who've expressed views otherwise, Audrey was a magnificent actress. This is, in my opinion, not only her best performance captured on film but is in my top 5 of all film performances I've ever watched. Narrowed down to actresses, it is the second greatest performance. Only Vivien Leigh's performance in 'A Steetcar Named Desire', is greater in my opinion. That Audrey had 5 more performances of almost equal calibre, a very rare feat among actors/actresses, should say all that needs to be said of Audrey, the Great Actress. In B@T, she brings in her usual and totally unique Audrey charm, she plays wonderfully quirky/kooky, she's sexy, witty and funny and play-acts wonderfully for the cameras after she's arrested towards the end of the film, among many other highlights. She's the thread that holds the film together as we weave from one situation to the next. We also see an obstinacy in her character and an outright coldness that is unlike anything Audrey showed in any other film. So much so that, even if I care less about cats than most, I was quite turned off by Holly Golightly in the scene where she throws the cat out of the Taxi. Then at the end she is the little girl lost whose very existence depends on finding back the cat, that she so heartlessly threw out onto the rainy street. Heartbreaking. That is just a slight overview of what Audrey brings to the role of Holly Golightly and why it is so acclaimed but there's much more to it, like the expressiveness of her face. In some cases something will just show up for a fraction of a second. Blink and you'll miss it. Literally. Watch for example at how her expression changes during the somewhat jocular lighter exchange between her and Paul (Peppard) as she asks him, would you marry me for my money? Check out as her face suddenly turns serious after Peppard says In a Minute. Underscoring it as in any other role she played was the naturalism that she always brought on screen. This performance just flows. The other thing I love about Audrey in this film is the way she moves. It adds immensely to the charm of her character and the film. First off the way she jumps around at the beginning of the film after she realises that it's Thursday. Fantastic! If others get praise for being oh so wonderful at physical comedy, Audrey deserves more than full marks for that here. Then there's her sexy entrance with apparently no more than a towel wrapped around her in the party scene as well as later when she goes to talk to Rusty Trawler. Finally, there's the goofy walk in the stealing scene. Brilliant brilliant stuff and endlessly re-watchable.In addition to Audrey bringing more than her A-game to this, I really liked George Peppard in his role as Paul Varjak. Fantastic performance by him, all beefs on the set aside. On screen, he has great chemistry with Audrey and is quite convincing as the guy who gradually falls for Holly Golightly and is in parts just outright fascinated by her. As we all indeed are. The final monologue he gives when he tells Holly that she'll only end up running into herself no matter where she goes is just as perfect a delivery as you'll ever find. Excellently played. Most of the movie focuses of course on Holly and Paul Varjak but the recently deceased Patricia Neal (R.I.P.) plays a very stylish girl indeed as 2-E. Also great performances by Buddy Ebsen as Doc Golightly, Martin Balsam as O.J. Berman and John McGiver as the Tiffany's salesman.On top of all this, what makes Breakfast at Tiffany's so great is Blake Edwards great direction. On the surface, watching it for the first time one might be too overwhelmed by Audrey to notice but being a movie that is endlessly re-watchable, one eventually notices some of the great shots and touches in the film beginning with Holly G. at Tiffanys in the very first scene. The shot through the car glass to Holly's apartment. The 360˚ shot as Holly and Paul are walking in NY City. Most of these are very unobtrusive, as opposed to the latter part of the 60s where it seemed that directors like Stanley Donen, went out of their way to set up crazy shots. In addition to these artistic touches, you have the great and famous party scene and the stealing scene which I love immensely. Of course and not intended as a footnote at all is the great score by Mancini. The music is just excellent and greatly adds to the beauty, charm and timelessness of the Film.I could write much more and I have left out quite a bit but I believe the place of Breakfast at Tiffanys among the Greatest pictures ever made, is more than richly deserved. "},{"Title":"Not as good as I hoped but has fantastic moments","Date":"30 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I start as a film student in September so in preparation I have decided to start watching films that people always rave about and I have not seen. It is for this reason I watched Breakfast At Tiffany's.Before the film I knew nothing of what happened except that it is supposedly one of the best 'rom-coms' in history and well I have to say that if that sets the level for every other romantic film the world of this genre is screwed.I found the film to lack in real charm between the Holly and Paul and whilst Hepburn's performance is good it is not as fantastic as I have heard. A majority of the jokes in the film seem to be based on slapstick comedy for instance at the party where Paul climbs out the window and there is not enough emphasis on the actual verbal jokes (which is probably because they're rubbish).The film however did have a few moments which I thoroughly enjoyed and which is why I am giving this a rating of six, the scene where Paul and Holly go out and do things they've never done before, like stealing from the store and signing the library book. This little section in which the romance actually exists in the film is presented perfectly by the director and I did find myself laughing along.So in general a fairly average 'rom-com' that has moments of perfection but largely did not live up to my expectation. I just hope that the other 'cinema classics' I am yet to see impress me more else I shall be a film student who doesn't like film.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Welcome to Audreyland Rob!","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the first AH film I have ever seen although I have been aware of Breakfast at Tiffanys forever, and I guess to summarize it, I was wowed by Audreys' on screen ability to pull in the viewer. For me the viewing of this film last night was like a jolt, because now I know why she is so popular still, why the AFI ranks her as #3 all time, why the ladies still love her style! I am now planning on getting the anniversary edition DVD from Amazon..I love that party scene in her apartment, one of the best directed film sequences I have ever viewed! Everything has been said about this movie that can be, perhaps with time the Mickey Rooney/Asian neighbor portrayal will settle into a contextual zone of historical acceptance, but that aside the film is a great romantic look at where we have been, a pioneer romantic comedy, charismatic, I'll be back! "},{"Title":"More than meets the eye","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Everyone knows the imagery of Breakfast at Tiffany's but I think few people have actually watched the film. More than a classic romance movie, I feel like this film really makes a statement about the lives that we (and the people around us) live in a very beautiful and honest way. Watching it I found myself relating to Holly and her relationship with Paul in many ways. It was a relief for me to watch a film in which the characters are not perfect, the relationship isn't obvious or overly sexual or dramatically romantic. It is real. Very amazing film. Plus, the clothing in the film is to die for. I wish I could wear my hair like Audrey Hepburn does in this film. "},{"Title":"Hepburn was so beautiful~","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have never seen any film of Hepburn until 1.1.2009, the breakfast at tiffany's.And until then, I even don't know who is the amazing girl in the advertisement board of LG.I am crazy about the angel - Hepburn.Her style, her grace can't be duplicated any more...The moon river, likes a reflection of her life in the film, is perfect.Thanks to my colleague Kelly, her recommended this film, the greatest new year present ever! I am so regret for not knowing her until now, so late...Why the angel can't be with us for ever ?! Why couldn't the technique of film making more better in that age? ... "},{"Title":"Delicious Breakfast","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A writer moves into a New York City apartment and falls in love with the girl next door, a free-spirited socialite named Holly Golightly. The Capote novel is turned into a wonderful romantic comedy, excellently directed by Edwards. Hepburn is absolutely charming as Holly, looking fabulous in de Givenchy gowns. Peppard has perhaps the best role of his career as the writer. There are also good performances from Neal as a woman who pays Peppard to keep her happy(!) and Balsam, quite amusing as Holly's agent. The party scene in Holly's apartment is hilarious. The memorable score by Mancini is highlighted by Moon River. "},{"Title":"love or diamonds","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm surprised Capote wanted Monroe for this part because it would have turned into something completely different. The winning thing about Holy is that she doesn't really want just money.That would have made her cheap.The way Hepburn portrays her,Holy wants NYC glamor,its more a style she likes than plain riches.She loves Tiffany's like she loves NYC.Its all a big playground that helps her,like a grown child, escape the reality of herself.There is some real life-truth in it because Hepburn herself supposedly loved the NYC skyline. But all the sparkle for Holy is lost when she falls in love but will not admit it to herself.Somehow she has to face the possibility that something very common can beat the dreams of glamor she had.Thats about the essence of this story.Its all been done before and is done here again but with the style and elegance of Audrey Hepburn. This is one of the better NYC movies and the use of locations is excellent.NYC is really the other star in this movie. Peppard is OK but IMO doesn't really click with Hepburn.He is more the heavy type but he tries in this movie and is acceptable. Like people say,the score is great ,the clothes are great and this is a 60's movie if there ever was one. "}{"Title":"Classic mixture of comedy and character study","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very fun and also insightful comedy of human manners, directed by Blake Edwards from George Axelrod's script (and Truman Capote's original story). One of Henry Mancini's best scores propels both the humor and the emotions of the story. Audrey Hepburn gives the most vulnerable and exciting performance I've seen her give. George Peppard is so sympathetic and so sincere that you tend to forgive his lack of real spontaneity -- in fact by contrasting with Hepburn's Holly Golightly it makes the movie and their chemistry stronger. The only false note I will allow is Mickey Rooney's performance; he's an actor I greatly respect but the whole thing is kind of stupid. Even if you had a really funny Asian actor playing the role, Jack Soo for example who was doing movies at that time, it still wouldn't be a highlight. But it hardly ruins an otherwise perfect movie. Buddy Ebsen's performance more than makes up for it. When I first saw this movie, I realized that Buddy Ebsen was not just a funny guy from Beverly Hillbillies but actually a genius. Since then I've sought out many of his films and I have come to think of him as one of the 20th Century's most remarkable performers. The movie is worth watching even if it was only for the few scenes that Ebsen steals, riding off on that greyhound by himself with all of our hearts in his back pocket. It's great too how they manage to make him seem scary at first, because he's trailing Paul/Fred's (Peppard) girlfriend. The first shot where you see Ebsen's face you hear this scary note from Mancini's score and I had to laugh this time around because, I mean, it must be the only time in film history that Buddy Ebsen was introduced as an object of fear! This, like so many seemingly difficult or impossible tasks the film attempts, actually works. There's two scenes in the movie that actually make me feel real sad and almost like I want to cry, and I'm not usually affected that way by movies. The first is when Ebsen rides off on the bus, and the second is at the end when they're trying to find cat in the rain. Those scenes are just so charged with the power of real people and real feelings. The whole idea of cat and of Holly Golightly herself (an invented name) is very simple of course. It's the idea that she's using her expressive and footloose manner to hide her fear of emotional attachment and involvement, much like Gaston in Lerner/Minnelli's Gigi (there's also a similarity between the Milo character in Lerner/Minnelli's An American in Paris and the Patricia Neal character in this film). But to me it's not on an intellectual level but on an emotional level that the film works most strongly, through making us really care about these wild things we already knew that we shouldn't be falling in love with.Mancini's music is a high point of the film as well, and it highlights the characters but for the most part is used in a broad or situational way. For example there's a burlesque song for the scene with them at the naughty bar, there's a great cat-burglar type song for the scene where they steal the masks from the five and dime store. And the classic Mancini/Mercer song Moon River is not a song for either of the primary characters but rather a song about their strange kind of love for each other. Mancini may arguably have written a handful of scores that were better than this one, but from what I've seen it's the best marriage between his wonderful music and a wonderful movie that fits it very well. The music is like Holly herself -- open and seductive, very obvious and clear about itself and what it is and burying any complexity beneath the surface.Blake Edwards is probably not a director who's known for subtlety, so I have to give him credit for a lot of restraint in this film compared to the more obvious nature of a lot of his comedies and suspense films. This film is less about things that you can see; it's about wearing masks and hiding things about yourself, running from yourself. Axelrod deserves some credit for the high quality screenplay and the excellent dialog that preserves the integrity of the characters at all times (with the notable exception of the Rooney comic relief character who is handled extremely broadly in a more typical Blake Edwards style).This is a beautiful film about romance and the dangers of trying to be emotionally anonymous. As with Tiffany's Department Store itself, the beauty is in the details and in the contrast between minuscule perfection of form and the cathedral walls of the city buildings. It's easy to get lost in the beauty, and it's easy to run and hide, but the true romantic in all of us needs to believe that the beautiful wild thing could find a place for herself in all the madness, not just for a quick breakfast of pretzels at Tiffany's window. "},{"Title":"A bit of a disappointment","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I never saw this movie when it first came out and always longed to see it because it had one of my favorite actresses - Audrey Hepburn - and one of my favorite songs as its theme - Moon River. I also knew it had won and been nominated for several Academy Awards. Not too long ago, my curiosity about this movie was again piqued when I met Henry Mancini's daughter and saw a video tribute to her father using clips from the movie. After finally getting to see the movie, however, I was kind of disappointed.Although the plot is fairly simple - two seemingly mismatched people fall in love - I had a hard time getting into the characters. George Peppard's character was believable - a good-looking writer with writer's block and a wealthy female patron, but his acting seemed stiff and uncomfortable. Miss Hepburn's acting was superb as the neurotic social-climbing, Holly Golightly, but the character was unbelievable. Why did she have to be a hick from Tulip, Texas? Does anyone really believe that intense French lessons could turn someone from a hick into a sophisticated socialite? Was Buddy Ebsen's brief appearance as her former husband a screen test for The Beverly Hillbillies a year later? Couldn't the same story been more realistic if Holly had been a smaller town New York girl and leave the hick past out? I also felt the ending was a little contrived...the rain, the abandoned cat, etc. The party scene also didn't make much sense - who were the attendees? There were no references to her having any friends. Mickey Rooney's portrayal of a Japanese person may have been funny then, but I think it would cause the movie to be boycotted today as racist. And what was the point of that character - comic relief? Wasn't it already supposed to be a romantic comedy? The 1960s gave us a lot of this genre of movie. Back then, love conquers all was an overriding theme in many of these movies. Looking back, however, I think other movies did a better job, such as The Pink Panther, Barefoot in the Park, to name a couple. Well, at least the movie still has one of the greatest theme songs. "},{"Title":"Tiffany's and Audrey. A perfect match","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a delightful and fanciful movie that entertains from start to finish. Audrey Hepburn is simply beautiful. She plays the fetchingly lovely Holly Golightly as if she was born for the part. She's such a beautiful woman and she from scene to scene like a graceful swan. When she and George Peppard were in Tiffany's looking for a gift for $10.00 or less and the sales clerk, played wonderfully by John McGivor, showed them a sterling silver phone dialer, I rushed out and bought one. I have it still and it bears the long heralded Tiffany silver mark. I have only one dial style phone that I steadfastly refuse to get rid of as I revel in occasionally dialing a number with my silver dialer. This movie was based on the book Breakfast at Tiffany's by the late Truman Capote whose tremendous talent was only recently championed in the highly successful movie Capote. You have to wonder how such a tormented man was able to create such an uplifting and wonderfully entertaining Romantic comedy. A great movie that no one should miss. "},{"Title":"68th time","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" it is my 68th time of watching the movie and it is still good to the last second - despite the sappy 'love story' bit, or the long overplayed 'moon river', it is not the many awards that recommended it. it is simply because of its many depths of honesty, witti-ness, humor; not to mention the many levels of human emotions involved that renders it so endearing. and so after all this time is STILL has the capability to charm, enchant and inspire. Audrey Hepburn is the epiphany of the carefree-spirited soul, with the right amount of spontaneity and friendliness. the ending makes it heartbreaking - not in a bad way, but letting the cat go always does it for me, every time i see that, it absolutely proves to me that i've died a little on the inside because it is the absolute crumble of her happy spirit. enjoy the movie! hope to see YOUR comment after your 68th time. =) "},{"Title":"Holly is my Tiffany...","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...she goes to Tiffany, I go for the movie's DVD...to get out of that particular blues... That's one of the most delicate, enchanting, incredible movie of everyone's life. Audrey is what every girl would like to be, elegant, feminine, sweet and moody...incredibly beautiful in her morning tuxedo shirt on the tub-sofa. George Peppard the man every girl would like to have in her life, beautiful, understanding, romantic...and in the same time strong and willing. Every time I go to NY I take a cab to E 71, 171 (actually 169)...and dream to be in that little entrance, wearing a cat mask...just about to kiss my beautiful Paul Varjak...or singing moon river sitting on that window. Ciao Audrey "},{"Title":"Fantastic romantic comedy drama - Hepburn shines","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Audrey Hepburn (Charade) stars alongside George Peppard (The Blue Max) in this classy film about two simple people living in the same building, wanting a bit more to their lives. The plot follows the two characters around and in doing so, the film magnifies on their different but also similar personalities. It's a great film to watch for character development and it helps having two easy to understandable characters, dealing with love, life and complicated lives, reflecting society.What's intriguing about the movie is the ideology of Tiffany's the jewellery store. The connotations of the title seem to reflect a luxurious lifestyle, which is pretty much a contrast to the way the central characters live but is perhaps an idea of a dream, to wake up and spend it in a place of elegant beauty. Tiffany's is used in this film as a dream for the characters and in doing so, is a marvellous signifier for hope and desire, sensational.It's a plain story, running smoothly and slowly throughout and for only a few lacklustre scenes the plot is always consistent in conforming to the romantic, comedy and drama genres.The ending is great as well, a fantastic ending to the film and not conventional like some romantic film endings e.g. Love actually.It's often a very funny film to, usually through the apartment owner but also Hepburn's attitude towards others.This is one of those great romantic tales and from the brilliance and elegance portrayed by the gorgeous Audrey Hepburn and the charismatic style of Peppard the film succeeds on all levels to satisfy audience's wants and needs from a romantic genre. Hepburn is simply sensational once again as the sophisticated Holly Golightly (a brilliant play on words) and delivers on every level to conform to her type of character.One scene at a party in her house had me physically clapping her brilliance, watch her facial expressions during that scene.definite watch for anyone - particularly for those romantic lovers "},{"Title":"Over Forty Years Later and Still a Winner","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A call-girl fighting against the world and trying to get rich through marriage meets a writer who has problems of his own. Will their lives come closer together or grow increasingly apart? Audrey Hepburn is beautiful and elegant, a timeless cinematic creature that will be remembered for all time. Her character, Holly Golightly, is a legend in film history. While playing a call-girl, the plot is so written that nothing objectionable is ever said or done on screen. I had another person ask me if Golightly was a call-girl, as they were not entirely sure... such is the subtlety of the movie.The use of Tiffany's is very nice, though there is never a breakfast in the store (and I don't understand the title). Many of the scenes come off as memorable, from the opening scene to the final act.This is the worst review ever written for this movie, but I don't know how to sum it up. I liked this movie. Timeless, a great plot and a great love story. Continuing the tradition from Gone With the Wind that would end up in Pretty Woman -- the story of a woman achieving power through rich and powerful men around her. But Golightly is not Scarlett, nor is she Vivian. She is one of a kind.Just watch it, please. "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn's Signature Film Breakfast At Tiffany's","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast At Tiffany's (1961) Starring Audrey Hepburn, George Peppard, Patricia Neal, Alan Reed, Buddy Ebsen, Mickey Rooney, Jose Luis De Villalonga, Martin Balsam, John McGiver, Dorothy Whitney, Beverly Miss Beverly Hills Powers, Mel Blanc, Stanley Adams, Claude Stroud, Elvia Allman, Joe Gray, George Fields, Kip King, James Lanphier, Hanna Landy, Fay McKenzie, Miriam Nelson, Robert Patten, Annabella Soong, Helen Spring, Michael Quinn, William Benegal Rau, Wilson Wood, Joan Staley....Director Blake Edwards...Screenplay George Axelrod.Released in 1961, director Blake Edwards' Breakfast At Tiffany's effectively captures a fleeting sense of attitudes, culture, style and life in hip New York City in the early 1960's. Blake Edwards' long career saw many notable films, including the iconic The Pink Panther and Days Of Wine and Roses in the early 60's, as well as later films such as Victor/Victoria which starred his future wife singer/actress Julie Andrews. The screenplay by George Axelrod was taken from a short novella by Truman Capote, whose life and times were recently portrayed in a film Capote starring Phillip Seymour Hoffman. Capote was born to an upper-class Southern family, was related to playwright Tennessee Williams, and wrote many plays and short stories himself. He never liked this Hollywood version, which strayed from the originally cynical and sad story (the film became more of a romantic tribute to New York City and ended with a romantic kiss in the rain) and felt that Marilyn Monroe should have been cast in the lead role. By 1961, Audrey Hepburn was an established star (Roman Holiday, Sabrina, Funny Face, The Nun's Story) and this film, in which she portrays a hooker (albeit in a charming, sweet, girly girl New York City social-climber manner)- Holly Golightly, she would attain a level of Hollywood immortality. This is her signature film. If Marilyn Monroe's subway scene in The 7-year Itch was her most famous film scene, the opening scene to this film, which has Audrey, dressed stylishly in diamonds, a super-model black dress, tiara and sunglasses staring into the window at Tiffany's as she eats a danish and sips coffee is her most famous scene. Her co-star George Peppard was not a big-name actor like the actors she had worked with in the past, among them Gregory Peck, Bill Holden, Humphrey Bogart, Fred Astaire, Cary Grant- But Peppard was making several big films at the time, including How The West Was Won and he would appear on TV for a number of years, including on The A-Team in the 80's when he was much older. Peppard has a combination of casual coolness, reserve and brooding masculinity necessary for the part of author Paul Varjak, a character loosely based on Truman Capote himself. In Breakfast, the milieu of the 60's, especially its shallow, materialistic and elitist social scene (a world seen by Capote) is recreated with comedic flair and is never as satirical or cynical as the Capote story. High-class escort(prostitute) Holly Golightly finds that the world of wealthy clients, with whom she hopes to someday marry, is a meaningless world where she could never hope to find authentic love. Rather than choosing Brazilian millionaire Jose Da Silva (Villalonga) as her partner, she falls for bohemian, struggling writer Fred Paul Varjak. But before they can finally embrace and kiss, they must overcome the conflict of their similar situation- they are both being kept by someone of the opposite sex and use their body to earn a living. Paul is having an affair with his married editor Mrs. Failenson (Patricia Neal) while Audrey's escort job means she can pick and choose a number of wealthy men as her partner. While never as complex or as realistic as the Capote story, Breakfast At Tiffany's is a delightful romantic comedy and one that has stood the test of time. Perhaps the only major flaw of the film is the casting of Mickey Rooney as Holly's Japanese landlord, Mr. Yunioshi, a total stereotype by today's standards. But even this is overlooked when you consider the fine performance by Buddy Ebsen in a pre-Beverly Hill Billies performance as Doc, Holly's ex-husband. People remember this film fondly, from Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard's sparkling chemistry to Henry Mancini's classic song Moon River, made popular by singer Andy Williams. Splendid Cinematography by Franz Planer, providing the film with color, nuance and nearly photographic early 60's style. Further, we are treated to Audrey Hepburn's beautiful and classy wardrobe, by long time friends Edith Head and Givenchy. All fans of Audrey Hepburn will enjoy this iconic role of hers and a film that, while possibly superficial and certainly not as literary as Capote's original book, is nonetheless a great film, a reminder of a time in New York City in the early 60's, full of writers, publishers, super models and gold-diggers. Take a trip back to 1961 and enjoy your breakfast at Tiffany's. "},{"Title":"Near-diamond crystallization of Blake Edwardiana cum typical BE frat-boy 'humor'","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" All eight stars for the literally 'adorable' Audrey and her haut wardrobe and salon stylings, ditto that long but sustained cocktail party sequence that unreels like a single-take masterwork. But, alas!, poor Blake cannot seem to escape his juvey bent for diss'd Orientals, herein the grotesque Mickey Rooney as a bucktoothed, and how!, Japanese photog, idiot cousin to Benson Fong's cleaver-wielding Chinaman of another and slightly MORE sophisicated satire of male-bonding funereals. Whatever the original Capote framework, this flick stumbles somewhat in the lightweight boy-toy writer of George Peppard, along with the uneasy peckerwoods avuncularities of Buddy Ebsen, both of them upstaged irrevocably by the theme Moon River. Best support for sure from Martin Balsam herein, and that authentic urbanite, Jose Luis de Villalonga, actually made you believe in the character. Shades of La Dolce Vita. The ongoing, including this?, latest postings on this film seem to me a fairly accurate assay by John and Joan Q. Public. "},{"Title":"One of the most charming  movies in film history","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" B @ T's is a gorgeous Valentine to the NYC of the '60's. Despite the tacked-on Hollywood ending (quite different from the Capote novella, ) it captures beautifully the charm and pathos, as well as the humour of the kind of souls who want desperately to help the people they love, but are not always capable of doing so. The cast is dazzling - Hepburn, of course, is unforgettable as Holly Golightly, but not enough is made of Buddy Ebsen as Doc from Tulip, Texas, and Martin Balsam as OJ, the fast-talking', softhearted showbiz mogul, as well as whomever the animal wrangler was, who got a regular-alley-cat performance out of a live animal, in those days before animatronics. Andy Rooney's embarrassing, unfunny, racist caricature of Holly's Japanese neighbor is the only blight on this otherwise lovely film, and the only reason I gave it a 9 instead of a perfect 10. "}{"Title":"Happy hour at Holly's","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have never heard so much bellyaching or moralizing over a 45 year old movie. This Blake Edwards romantic comedy shatters every politically correct notion and then some. It's wonderful. The opening is one of the best Audrey Hepburn, window shopping at the crack of dawn, chows down on a danish and cup of coffee, while gazing at a Tiffany's display case. Henry Mancini, assisted by Johnny Mercer, bangs out a hymn for the ages. There is a dark undercurrent flowing throughout the 114 minutes of running time. So tiptoe--don't run. Quietly. Hepburn's Holly Golightly is a revelation and a wild thing. She sings a heartfelt rendition of the title tune, while sitting pretty on her fire escape. Truman Capote's cynical novel doesn't white-wash her occupation call girl. The movie, however, takes a different tact. She is never labeled as anything more than a woman who enjoys the good things in life. The gifted writer (the script says as much) is played by George Peppard. He accepts gratuities from his female sponsor. Cheap trick? The sumptuous cocktail party is a hangover highlight. I wish I was invited. I enjoyed the scene where Peppard shows Hepburn how to use a public library, especially a card catalog. An Important scene takes place in Central Park. It introduces an alarming fellow played by Buddy Ebsen. He discloses a secret from Miss Golightly's past. More surprises are to follow. So watch out for that Cat. "},{"Title":"Breakfast at Hillbillies.","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The moment that I saw Jud from the Beverly Hillbillies in this movie, I thought that Irene Ryan might pop out and tell him to behave himself. This movie has no solid plot. It's about a woman who has wild parties and an Asian guy who tells her to stop. Then a man comes along but she doesn't love him. All Holly wants is to marry a rich man but the rich men reject her.The author who really loves Holly runs around town with her acting like they are about two years old. Holly falls for a rich guy who looks a lot like Truman Capote but he rejects her too.The movie has no solid plot and the ending is strange but the acting is excellent.Watch before breakfast. "},{"Title":"Heaven on a movie tape","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some people say Romeo and Juliet, some Anthony and Cleopatra, but I firmly believe that the greatest love story of all time is that of Holly Golightly and Paul Varjak.Audrey Hepburn's presentation of Holly is unlike anything we'd ever seen from her before. No longer was she the naive damsel in distress in need of a handsome saviour, she was perfectly capable of looking after herself, thank you very much. Or was she? Right from the iconic opening shots of her gazing through the window of Tiffany's with a hot beverage (my guess is coffee) and a pastry (pain au chocolat, perhaps?) we fall helplessly in love with her effortless charm, her naivety, and her desperate need of saving. OK, so maybe Holly is like Hepburn's other characters, but her passion and confidence sets her apart.Enter George Peppard. His Paul Varjak's lack of confidence and romantic ideals provide the perfect balance of contrast with Holly, and his desperation in convincing her that she loves him is tragically beautiful.The culmination in the final scene is worth waiting for, and is one of the best film endings I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Chic but I wanted more from this film","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen this several times over the years but never on the big screen until recently when I saw it in a theater. It was an old worn reel but still it was great seeing this film up on the big screen. Audrey Hepburn is of course excellent in her portrayal of Holly Golightly in Blake Edward's film and George Axelrod's adaptation of the Truman Capote novella Breakfast at Tffany's. It earned her an Academy Award nomination and won Axelrod an Oscar for his screenplay. The film also won Henry Mancini an Oscar for his musical score and another for best song in Moon River. It was also nominated but failed to win in the art direction category. I think George Peppard as Paul was good but was miscast. I didn't see much chemistry between his character and Hepburn's. Maybe the story didn't exactly call for there to be much to maintain her aloofness but in following that logic the ending didn't work and would have been more believable with a true on screen spark between Hepburn and someone else. She was 32 at it's release and Peppard was 33. Maybe an actor younger than her like Robert Redford who was 25 at the time may have been interesting or slightly older like Paul Newman who was four years older than Hepburn. As it is the ending was kind of hokey. In the original story she goes to South America and Paul never sees her again. I think that may have worked better but it's not a Hollywood fairy tale ending. The Mickey Rooney character is a cartoon and detracts from the flow of the film instead of enhancing it comically. If they wanted an Asian landlord they should have used an actual Asian actor and made him a real person running an apartment house and not what was presented here. As a side note, I found interesting in this film how much smoking there was. Everybody smoked. I myself am a smoker and sometimes in a theater when you see someone light up on screen it makes you through suggestion crave a cigarette yourself but in this flick there is so much smoking going on that suggestion is so overly stimulated that you lose your craving. I know it was the early 60's but it was a little overboard. A great supporting cast here with notably Patricia Neal, Martin Balsam, Buddy Ebsen and John McGiver. This is a good movie and a great showcase for Hepburn but it could have been better. I would give it an A in style but as a film a 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A good starting place for new fans to Hepburn","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is about the fourth or fifth movie starring Audrey Hepburn that I've had the pleasure of watching. Charade was really what turned me on to her brilliance, and some of her other roles just had me hooked. Strange then, that I was keeping this for a little later, as I've only ever been told that this is her masterpiece, this is the movie that everyone knows her by, this is the movie that will really make you believe? Unfortunately, for me I found myself a bit disappointed. Unlike her earlier roles in Sabrina and Funny Face, where she was treated as a child, she would hardly act as one. But I'd found that Breakfast was really a childish type movie, trying too hard, you know?And this movie really is all about Hepburn. She is the focus of the complete film, and everything pretty much revolves around her, but it seems to be just a little bit out of focus. As if everyone's running around with heads chopped off to make it seem better than it could be.I would have probably enjoyed it more had it been earlier in her career. But with all of the movies surrounding this one that were released (pre and post), it just seems like a disappointing middle-part. "},{"Title":"The very definition of bittersweet","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen Breakfast at Tiffany's several times over the years--found its story  line clever and beguiling, the completely disarming acting of Audrey Hepburn at  her enchanting and lovely peak to be a joy to watch, the classic music score of  Henry Mancini with the single best song ever written for the movies to be sobeautiful and haunting, and the classy-hip 1960's portrayal of New York City to  be a forerunner of countless movies and shows like Sex and the City.  Butwhat has always been an underlying presence for me in this modern classic film  are the intense feelings of loneliness and confusion in each of the characters.   Your heart goes out to all of them--of course Holly's vulnerable, manic- depressive, sophisticated yet childlike call girl, but also the maybe succesful,  maybe not succesful writer of Paul Varjak, the hard as nails but somehow also  touching Patricia Neal character,  the innocent and pathetic Doc and evenHolly's poor off-screen brother Fred.  There are funny scenes galore--butalways, always, the movie veers back to the sad and even tragic--epitomized in  that last heart-breaking search for Cat.  Yes, there's a sort of happy ending, but  the rain is pouring and the story line is not completely resolved.  You know--it's  kind of like life! "},{"Title":"A magical romantic comedy","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If I told you that a film about a relationship between a sad hooker and a gigolo that included stealing masks from a five and dime and an abysmal oriental caricature was one of the most magical romantic comedies of all time, you probably would laugh out loud. That is if you never heard of Blake Edwards' 1961 delightful Breakfast at Tiffany's, recently released on DVD. Based on a novella by Truman Capote, Breakfast at Tiffany's is the story of the relationship between a kept writer and his slightly nutty upstairs neighbor who makes her living courtesy of wealthy men.Nominated for an Oscar for Best Actress, Audrey Hepburn is Holly Golightly, a wild thing who spends her time going from man to man and party to party, seeking instant gratification in a transparent attempt to distance herself from her past. Holly categorizes her men as either rats or super rats, refuses to give her cat a real name for fear of attachment, and idealizes Tiffany's, an upscale jewelry store in New York. She says of Tiffany's, It calms me down right away, the quietness and the proud look of it; nothing very bad could happen to you there, not with those kind men in their nice suits, and that lovely smell of silver and alligator wallets. She pretends that everything is just fine until she gets the mean reds which she describes as suddenly you're afraid, and you don't know what you're afraid of. All this time she covers up her murky past that includes a marriage to Doc (Buddy Epson), an Okie farmer who she left many years ago and who now seeks to find her again and take her home. Her downstairs neighbor, writer Paul Varjak (George Peppard) is not much better in the commitment department. He last produced a book of short stories some seven years ago and survives only by the grace of his benefactor, a wealthy decorator (Patricia Neal) who keeps him living in the style he is accustomed to. Paul (who she is always calling Fred because he reminds her of her brother in the Army) and Holly go from distant neighbors to close confidants. The way these lost souls find each other of course is the stuff of Hollywood and in spite of some obvious flaws, Breakfast at Tiffany's has remained one of the most popular films of all time and I loved it as well. The main reason the film works so well of course is Audrey Hepburn who brings the character of Holly so completely alive with the power of her performance that you lose sight of the fact that you are watching a movie. Add to that the stunning shots of New York in the sixties and the enduring Henry Mancini song Moon River and voila! -- a great film. Now if you could just overlook Mickey Rooney's attempt to imitate Jerry Lewis portraying a mentally impeded Japanese photographer&#133;well let's not get into that one.  "},{"Title":"Audrey's role","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you look back and think of the actresses of that time, who really could have played Holly Golightly besides Audrey Hepburn?...Truman Capote wanted Marilyn Monroe. PLEEZE!!!!! Holly Golightly ends up realizing that love does/can conquer all at the end of this movie and that wild things can be changed. Marilyn Monroe was a wild thing from the start of her life to finish, she just wouldn't have been innocent enough for that role. Anyways this movie is not about Marilyn Monroe... this role is the role that Audrey is probably most known for. But about this movie, this can be a realistic movie for then and now. Just like Audreys role in Roman Holiday, that was actually happening to a princess while that film was bieng made. All I'm trying to say i guess is this is the role that made Audrey an icon, with the way she wore her hair, the little black dress, and big sunglasses "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies of all time and if you don't like it, that means you don't understand it.","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't possibly understand how anyone could say a horrid thing about this movie.  I've seen this movie more times than I can count and I have never once gotten sick of it.  The magic of the entire movie lights up the moment you see Tiffany & Co., which makes the New York scene feel so alive.  The acting was splendid and the movie makes a person feel good about the world and how love and friendship can happen anywhere to the most unlikely people. It also shows two people finding out who they REALLY truely are, who they'd like to be and who they've become.When you watch the movie, don't watch it with the disgust and distain you have had from the beginning, but look at it from the point of view that you are there and watching or even are in the magic situation and the wonder of it all.  Look at it in New York, one of the greatest places on earth.I drive by Tiffany's every day and I can't help but smile at the setting.  (You know, it is a great store!  I got my wedding ring there.) People need to settle down and stop trying to drag other people down with themselves just because they cannot understand it and watch the movie, REALLY watch the movie!   "},{"Title":"Anxious for a Remake!","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I find that as time goes by I enjoy Breakfast at Tiffany's primarily out of nostalgia rather than on the merits of its story or performances.  Having read the Capote novella, I find that the film's weaknesses spring primarily from the areas from which it departs from the book.  For example, why did they make the Paul Varjak character a gigolo?  The clumsy, overhanded depiction of his relationship with Patricia Neal contribute to some of the weakest and most unbelievable scenes in the movie.  I suppose the intention was to create a male version of the Holly Golightly character as a way to draw a comparison, but I believe the male character would have been better off portrayed as the Everyman suggested by Capote.  As a guy, I would be able to relate to the story better had the male character not been kept in a pointless, stereotypical affair.  Unrequited love is a powerful theme, familiar, painfully, to everyone, yet it is not a theme that is often used by Hollywood, even in modern times. This film would have been bolder -- and of course sadder -- had the movie stayed true to the ending in the book. Of course, the picture was produced in 1961, when Hollywood usually went the safe route, cutting the heart out of a story on the alter of mass commercialism.  I wish I could see a movie version of this story presented as originally written by Capote.  True, a remake would be weaker for the lack of Audrey Hepburn.  Don't get me wrong -- I enjoy the 1961 version of Breakfast at Tiffany's, but this story has all the makings of a real solid tearjerker, and wouldn't it be interesting to see a romantic drama -- with a bittersweet ending -- depicted from the point of view of a young man? Imagine, a remake that would be fresher and more unique than the original! I encourage modern filmmakers to to have another go at Tiffany's. "}{"Title":"As two drifters drift on the Moon River of life ...","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ... are they mere flotsam, or can they be more? Can they hook up? Can they become one flesh?The two are attractive, on-the-make hustlers in jazzed-up New York circles circa 1961. Holly Golightly (Audrey Hepburn) was once Lula Mae Barnes, forced at 14 to steal turkey eggs and marry widower Doc Golightly (Buddy Ebsen), who really loves her but can't understand her, just to keep herself and brother Fred (now off serving in the Army) alive. Having run off and taken a new first name, she's now professional arm candy in the Big Apple, wading through the rats and superrats in hopes of wedding her one true millionaire.Paul Varjak (George Peppard) was once an up-and-coming, sensitive writer. Now he's a kept man, the sex toy of possessive, rich, matronly, curiously-named 2-E (Patricia Neal). Having been installed in the apartment upstairs from Holly's, he and Holly meet. She's winsome. He's captivated. She says he reminds her of brother Fred. The first time she crawls into bed with Paul, it's completely chaste and sisterly. She needs comforting, not sex.Her life is a gay (in the old-fashioned sense) chaos, equal parts phoniness and hope. But, as Paul can see, she's a real phony on a desperate quest for the rainbow's end. Perhaps they can chase it together?If so, she will have to find a more realistic way to fend off the mean reds (much worse than the blues) than occasional visits to Tiffany's to ogle diamonds she'll never possess. When she takes Paul there, he wants to celebrate his revived hopes for a writing career by buying her a gift. What might be available for under $10? Oh? Then, how about engraving this ring that came in a box of Cracker Jack? Do they, the arch-but-sympathetic clerk asks, still offer prizes in Cracker Jack boxes? It gives one a sense of continuity, of solidarity with the past.Which is exactly what Holly Golightly never had. Will she find it, and herself, with Paul at her side? There's still such a lot of world to see; can she resist, settle down, accept Paul's limited prospects for wealth, and become a real non-phony? Can Paul, for that matter, stop prostituting himself, become a real man with her?Interestingly, the story comes originally from the pen of the late, famously effeminate Truman Capote, and the film direction comes from Blake Edwards, for whom the question of what it means to be a real man has always been major subtext (10, Victor/Victoria, even The Pink Panther). Unfortunately, the terms of the union Paul proposes to Holly are archaically pre-feminist if she accepts him, she will belong to him. That need not deter us from hoping they can actually come together, latch onto love, and even give her cat Cat (who steals every scene he's in) a permanent name. "},{"Title":"Audrey at her best","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Audrey Hepburn is terrific as Holly Golightly in Breakfast at Tiffany's you never know what to expect from her.The party Holly Golighty has is great Audrey's comic timing is great. The pairing of Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard is terrific.Miss Hepburn was a  great actress and her movies are classics she was the epitome of elegance,grace and style. "},{"Title":"Audrey can breakfast with me anytime","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the finest performances I have seen from any on screen duo.Before he was John Hannibal Smith in The A-Team, George Peppard was a young writer named Paul Varjak and his counterpart was the ever so talented, elegant, and beautiful Audrey Hepburn as Holly Golightly. Buddy Ebsen had a bit part in this movie but it was memorable because he is another favorite actor of mine from Matt Houston.The chemistry between Peppard and Hepburn is so undeniable it is ranked up there with Ryan O'Neal and Ali Macgraw in Love Story.This film was not the best love story ever told but it had its good and bad points. I was so mesmerised by Hepburn's beauty, style, grace and elegance in Breakfast At Tiffany's that it overshadowed the otherwise one dimensional plot that really lacked a reason for me to care with all my heart.I give Breakfast At Tiffany's a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Old movies and us","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think sometimes that these movie data base in this age of internet doesn't give a fair chance to the movies of the past. We rate movies based on their special effect, and what would those special effects do for people 40 years from now???  This movie is my favorite movie ever, and I think prehaps it's gotten a lot harsher of judgement than it would have by people who saw it in 61.For all those critics who have read the book and who feels that the movie doesn't accurately represent the book, it's true. But for everyone who thinks this is a bad thing it's not.  The book is down and dirty. It's about a girl who is a user and what we would in modern day call an escort. She's slightly cheap and a lot disturbed.  Audry couldn't play that part. Ms. Hepburn could never be cheap, not with the way she walks and talks and carries herself.So the book aside, lets just look at the movie.  Every time I have the mean reds, I just watch this movie. I don't know if this movie is realistic, I've never lived in NYC in the 60's, and no one has ever gien me 50 dollars for a taxi ride. But I know that when you watch the movie, it takes you to it's world. It takes you to a place called NY that may or may not be realistic, but in the movie it's real. In all science fiction, you have to believe in what they tell you, not apply what you know as reality but accept theirs, and this is what this movie does.  This movie is idealistic and hopeful and full of pain redemption and love. AH is amazing in it, you can feel her pain. I know the ending is a forced happiness, but for anyone whose ever done anything bad, or even had anything bad happen to them, the idea that redemption and love is just around the corner waiting for them is wonderful. I would never give up that hope and that ending so we can see something realistic. Why can't we make happy endings real?I love this movie because it makes me feel good and that's what movies should do. I have enough bad stuff in my real life, a movie should take me to another world and make me happy and this definately does. It makes you feel like you've been transported and when you are done, you feel like you have a little bit of Holly in you. And in the end, I hope there is a little bit of Holly in all of us. "},{"Title":"In a haze of a dream . . .","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thinks one respondent said it best, watching this film is like going through a dream.  Except for the ending which is typically old Hollywood, the rest of the film has this modern (excluding the brief racism), lonely feeling.  Many people have compared it to the novella, and although I agree the book is very different and wonderful in its own respect, we should keep them separate.  Audrey is magnificent; she brings beauty (both inside & outside), warmth and dimensions to Holly.  No one else can be Holly Golightly and of course Moon River is perfect (who says Audrey can't sing?). I think Paul could have been portrayed a bit better, but nevertheless this is the movie to see for the idealists and romantic at heart. (And *especially* an Audrey fan!)                 "},{"Title":"Audrey's Best","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    This is Miss Hepburn's best flick! Although I think the idea of her playing a call girl is shameful she still holds fast to that classy, good-girl aura she had in Roman Holiday, Sabrina and Love in the Afternoon. George Peppard, believe it or not was her first leading man to be in the same age group  as she. Patricia Neil played a slutt that you loved to hate with a passion, Buddy Ebsen was a lovable Doc Golightly, Dorothy Whitney was a fun yet obnoxious Mag Wildwood and Mickey Rooney made a crazy cameo as the semi-psychotic Mr. Yunioshi. I cry a little every time I watch Holly sing Moon River (the best song written for a film since Over the Rainbow and When You Wish Upon a Star) and a whole flood of tears are shed at the end when Holly finds Cat and she and Paul kiss with Cat practically squished between the two of them. All in all, this is a great film with a great song and a great cast. Bless you, Audrey! "},{"Title":"The lovely Audrey","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just finished my second viewing of this film.  Even though I liked it, I just can't understand what all the fuss is about.What I liked AUDREY!!  What a looker!  Great sense of fashion.  Not too many can put off wearing those treads convincingly.New York.  I love that crazy city but wasn't the opening scene in which Holly was dropped off at Tiffany's was a bit unrealistic? (I do wish sometimes that NYC could be as tranquil as it was that morning)The music.  Great!Humor.  I certainly did laugh.Okay, now the negativesMainly the story.  I know it's just a movie but it's a love story.  Holly obviously has issues that have been present since day one.  Am I suppose to believe that in the final scene she is miraculously  cured? Ah, yes, Holly knows she belongs to Paul now. NOT!! I guess the reason I wasn't able to enjoy it fully was because I just couldn't relate to it.  Just my feeling. I know I sound like some crusty old dude.Length  Just a tad bit long for me.Okay, in short it was a fine film.  Just didn't do it to me.  But it is a classic, so go out and rent it.  "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard star as Holly Golightly and an aspiring writer Fred in a delightful romantic comedy.","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent movie.  There's a lot of laughs and lots of interesting things!  And this movie doesn't have too much to do with Tiffany's.  There are some problems in this, but everything turns out OK at the end. "},{"Title":"Overrated, and disappointing","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm a huge classic films fan, and obviously have heard of this film for many years but I wasn't able to watch it ever. A couple of weeks ago I decided to finally watch this film that I've heard such great things about. All I can say is, what the heck are people smoking? This film is anything but a decent, well-composed , marvelous film as people rave about. Actually I'm pretty sure the only people who like this film either don't really watch classic films, or know very little about films in general. The film just drags along, and there really isn't any story behind the two main characters except their interaction with one another...boring! Oh yeah, maybe Audrey looks cute, but who cares how they're dressed. Everyone tells me the book is a lot better than the film, I bet they're right. I'd rather read the book than watch this incredibly over hyped film again. The only thing I really liked was Henry Mancini's score. "},{"Title":" You will discover,  no matter  which direction you run, you'll always run into yourself  ","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Truman Capote wrote the book upon which this Black Edwards film is based on. Capote did not want Audrey Hepburn, he preferred Marilyn Monroe. Indeed, the full character played by Hepburn as written by Capote, was not what he had in mind. Nevertheless, Holly Golightly the main character as played by Hepburn living amid the New York skyline, is nothing short of incredible. In this reviewer's opinion, this will always be Hepburn finest role. The story is of struggling a New York Writer, Paul Varjaka, (George Peppard) who takes an apartment with the aid of Mrs. Failenson (Patricia Neal) who is cheating on her husband. Moving in to his apartment, Paul is smitten by Holly due to her ability to blend-in to New York's hip social lifestyle. Holly's erratic behavior intrigues him and he quickly discovers, it's because of a duel identity created by events in her early upbringing. But it becomes even more interesting when the woman he falls in love with already has a husband, despite the fact she is also a high price call girl. The film is fascination to watch as the multi-identities of Holly emerge to confound anyone who draws near her. Mickey Rooney who is playing a Japanese national seems strangely out of place in this movie, while Buddy Ebsen, Martin Balsam and John McGiver appear to add adherence. If you seek the complexities of Adurey Hepburn's acting, this is a film you must watch. Wonderfully provocative. **** "}{"Title":"The most beautiful woman in the most beautiful film","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My stepfather bought me this movie on DVD earlier today and, like Audrey Hepburn, it's beautiful! She plays the fun-loving Holly Golightly so splendidly and she has the ability to make her character fun-loving but not without class.What can I say about Moon River? It's so moving, I also shed a little tear! To match, here is a moving story that also has a comical side to it. Not ideal for young children but older people will be caught under the spell of this lovely musical film with its delightful humour, touching music, romantic plot, tearful moments and, of course, truly classy elegance. We also hope a happy ending; it's climatic but there is definitely a happy ending, you'll have to watch to find out.It's so sad that Audrey sadly died in January 1993 of colon cancer at only 63 but her elegance and legacy will never die.If you want a heart-touching movie overflowing with flawless style, you MUST see this! "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I usually enjoy a good love story, but I'm afraid this one wasn't quite what I was looking for overall. I feel that Breakfast at Tiffany's may be just slightly overrated. The problem was that the film just took a little too long to get going, and it really did not keep me engaged for the majority of the time. There are too many scenes of arguments and other depressing material, when I was hoping for a more overall lighthearted romantic comedy. However, there are two things that I think the film did really well, and I'm going to give the film a fairly good overall rating as a result. First, the film introduced us to one of the all-time great movie songs, Moon River, beautiful and memorable. Also, this film has one of my all-time favorite endings, which I won't spoil. However, it was an ending that was romantic, tear-jerking, and happy, especially because it felt like the scene was being set up for worse. It was somewhat of a surprise ending that was delightful and made the whole film worthwhile. Still recommended, but don't get your hopes up too high.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Sentimental and cynical at the same time","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What an odd film this is, if you take out the charming bits. A cruel, harsh and sad story of liars and sellers of bodies, turned through dismal croon-fest Moon River and some cool outfits into a charming and pretty love story. How to make sense of it? Was it Hollywood that took the sharpness and bitter tang out of this story and put the sugar in? It's not my favourite film or my favourite Audrey Hepburn film, and I think that when the present craze for a piece of Audrey on every single bag, compact mirror and poster finally fades, it might eventually lose its best-loved status. I think George Peppard's pretty nice to watch in it, though; before I finally saw this film I'd only ever known him in The A-Team, so that was a pleasing revelation. But don't even get me started on Mickey Rooney, whose performance makes me want to destroy things. I wonder if they'd have put him in black-face had the story required it? Grotesque. "},{"Title":"Women's pic, chick-flic or rom-com weepie?  The choice is yours...","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you are prepared to forgive the 'cleaning up' of Truman Capote's novella and one of the worst cases of racial stereotyping ever perpetrated by the movies, (Mickey Rooney's Japanese cariacture), then there is much here to delight you. Cast against type, (in the way Deborah Kerr was cast against type in From Here to Eternity), Audrey Hepburn made the part of Holly Golightly her own. It's an iconic performance in every way from the look, (she wore Givenchy), to the voice and it may be one of the best things she's ever done, (my own soft-spot, however, is for her Maid Marian). You may say that without her the film would never have become the classic it has but there are other pluses in the shape of George Peppard, (easy-going, charming and never more beautiful), and Patricia Neal, (rich bitch and nice to see her in colour), while George Axelrod's script is reasonably frank. Hepburn's Holly may not be a call-girl, just a kook, but he makes no bones about the relationship between Peppard and Neal. New York also looks lovely thanks to Franz Planer's cinematography and even the incessant theme song, 'Moon River', charms rather than irritates. "},{"Title":"I finally just saw this film on DVD","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is really amazing and I would recommend it to anyone. I have filed it in my personal viewing folder as a film to watch when I am blue, because it will definitely lift me out of the doldrums. I must say for half the film I did think 'what is all the fuss about'. New York looks fantastic yeah, yeah, and the clothes and the music and all that etc etc...but in the second half I became aware that it was really extremely clever and brilliantly directed. Audrey Hepburn is superbly cast, I mean she is just wonderful. And I didn't realise that George Peppard was so cute when he was younger. I wouldn't have put the film at having been made in 1961, its so ahead of its time. At last, finally, I now know what all the fuss about 'Breakfast at Tiffany's' is about! Oh, and of course, Henry Mancini's score is a knockout! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable romantic comedy","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I often wonder exactly WHY Audrey's Hepburn's performance as Holly Golightly in 'Breakfast At Tiffanys' is more famous today than most of her other film roles. Audrey Hepburn is not at her best her here, and in some stages of the film is quite unconvincing, but I suppose it's her character's notoriety that pulls it off. The quirky kook that is call-girl Holly is an intriguing, glamorous character who, despite her many flaws, is ultimately endearing to the audience.This is a frothy, lightweight but enjoyable film. Hepburn's early winsomeness as seen in the delightful 'Roman Holiday' (for which she won her sole Academy Award)was replaced later in her film career by a more 'practised' charm. Hepburn was acutely aware of the unique 'Hepburn magic' audiences expected to see when viewing her films, so it's little wonder that Holly's quirks and whims seem more like straight 'acting' than simply 'being'. Still, audiences love her in the role. Perhaps it's because of the fashions. One of the most recognisable images in cinema today is Hepburn's all-black wearing Holly with sunglasses and elegant gloves. She also proves that she can look good in ANYTHING, including a white sheet! As Holly's love interest Paul 'Fred' Varjak, George Peppard is adequate and reasonably good-looking (nice blue eyes!). Still, he's no great acting talent and Hepburn outshines him in every scene. Mickey Rooney has a ridiculous role as Holly's landlord, Mr Yunioshi. It's well-intended humour, but I just cringe every time he is on screen. Patricia Neal, ever the consummate performer, is good in a supporting role.Holly provides an interesting character study. She believes she belongs to no-one (including her beloved 'Cat'), but instead of butting societal conventions she conforms to them. She is a woman with that old-fashioned view that a rich husband is better than no husband at all, and she fools herself into believing that she will be happy with any one of the slimy, old millionaires on offer. The man who truly loves her (Paul) is right in front of her, but she is too blinded by her ideal to allow herself to fall in love with him. She comes off across quite shallow and stupid sometimes (to me, at least), so I wouldn't call her a good role model for young girls.If you want to see Audrey at her most naturally charming, see 'Sabrina' or 'Roman Holiday'. However, this is a fun, feel-good film definitely worth a look.8/10. "},{"Title":"The best performance of the 1960s.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film easily has the claim to the best performance of the 1960s, and it is of course Audrey Hepburn, perpetually lovely, as Holly Golightly. Although neither she nor the film won no major awards, it is still the best. The fact that Sophia Loren won the Academy Award for Best Actress in 1961 (for La Ciociara) still to this day serves to incense me as one of the grossest overlooks in AMPAS history.Aside from that, the film shines, and on many levels as well. At times it is an upbeat, light comedic romance; while other times it is a depressing, cynical outlook on loneliness. The balance between the two couldn't have been presented better as they are here. George Peppard, not the shining beacon of the film, still manages to put in a good performance, as do Patricia Neal, Buddy Ebsen, Mickey Rooney, Villalonga, and Martin Balsam.  The music is superb, easily among Mancini's best (along with Charade, Wait Until Dark, Days of Wine and Roses, and of course The Pink Panther. Moon River is the perfect song for the film and within itself presents the balance described above. Interestingly enough, Audrey Hepburn (whose major talents definitely do not include singing) perfectly sings this song, better than any other adaptation that has been made, especially better than that vulgar Andy Williams adaptation. She just seems to capture the essence of it.Anyway, this film is a must see, and after you do see it, you will agree with me that it is one of the worst Academy oversights ever. "},{"Title":"Seriously Dated","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is no surprise that &#145;Breakfast at Tiffany's' maintains a large cult following, over thirty years after its initial release. It is stylized, charming, physical, and refined to the extent that one forgets that fashionable Holly Golightly (Audrey Hepburn) is a call girl and cerebral Paul Varjak (George Peppard) is a gigolo. The infantile fortune hunter and the uptight aspiring writer subconsciously build bridges of interaction that penetrate their isolated, urban subsistence, and pose alternatives to their materialist pursuits and unfulfilled desires.Although the film's central premise is timeless, its delivery is extremely dated. Contemporary audiences are not shocked by the central characters' decadent lifestyles, nor are they scandalized by Golightly's loose behavior, on which much of the script's vigor depends. Moreover, the dialogues are overly scripted and flat, and the jokes (including the famous &#145;party scene') are often cheap and farcical.Thus, although numerous devoted fans swear by this film, most contemporary viewers will find it charming, without being particularly awestruck by its candor and social message. 5.5 stars out of 10.  "},{"Title":"mmmmmfff...","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  to describe this movie in one word eh. it was mildly amusing. but it's not hepburn's greatest role by any means. the stereotype of the japanese landlord in this movie is frighteningly cruel and disgusting.even so, there are some cute parts of this moviethe costumes are nice, and hepburn is a talented actress, making holly a MILDLY charming character. but a cute movie is not the same as a good movie. if you want to see a good hepburn movie, see roman holiday. rating 2/4 stars "},{"Title":"no tiffany diamond","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Audrey Hepburn is one of my favourite actresses, unfortunately this film is not one of my favourites. I'm a huge fan of the classics no matter what anyone says, but this story doesn't hold my interest for very long. Sure, Hepburn is exquisite to look at, but i believe she could have approached this role differently. Perhaps less of the typical (i hate to use the word) innocence that she portrayed in most of her films would have made for a more exciting portrayal. I understand that Hepburn took this film, wanting to challenge her usual roles, alas no such thing. Unfortunately, in my opinion there was no chemistry between Peppard and Hepburn and after years of watching her with older men, it seemed as if she was too mature and experienced for him!Perhaps the most memorable scenes are that of her rendition of moon river and the opening credits, where she stands outside Tiffany's eating her pastry roll. In stark contrast, are the loud, raspy scenes like the party scene (too much colour, noise, and timber!). The overly-emotional cat scene in the rain seems out of place- almost too dramatic, compared to the whole tone of the movie. Perhaps though (i'm trying really hard Audrey! You're my fave!) in a few years time i will appreciate this film for its meaning. I await in hope. (I loved Hepburn in the more challenging Wait Until Dark and My Fair Lady. And i will never forget the first time she enchanted me in Roman Holiday. And respects to Gregory Peck who recently passed away.)  "}{"Title":"Simply glorious","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are good reasons why this is such a favourite movie with so many people - it's certainly the best film I've ever seen. It is a love story, and one with more genuine heart-felt empathy than most, but it also contains a lot of humour, intelligence and depth. Every time I watch the film, I notice new things and spend longer reflecting on some of the issues touched on in the film. Holly comes across superbly as the gorgeous, flirty, outrageous good-time girl who happily accepts money from men on dates, but also manages to portray the complexities of her personality; the vulnerable little-girl-lost who runs away from problems, and wants so desperately to take care of her brother, despite being unable to take care of herself. The acting is so impeccable that it is easy to see why the two leads have fallen for each other, and yet why the obstacles between them still seem so real. There are plenty of smiles along the way, particularly during the scene with the masks, but it is always the love story that keeps you on the edge of your seat, even when you know what's coming next. The ending is, of course, famously beautiful, and makes me want to laugh, cry and jump out of taxis in the pouring rain. Admittedly, I'm a huge fan of Audrey Hepburn, but it seems clear to me that this is undoubtedly her best film. Brilliant! "},{"Title":"Poor Audrey Hepburn!","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Audrey Hepburn was a real good actress and also in this movie she presents her character very convincingly. The rest of the movie failed. I think it's supposed to be a melodrama but they present it as a comedy. The music is going on one's nerves after some time and you really wait impatiently until the film is over. The story is also not well-developed. Different things happen, people appear and then, later there is no word about them. Again, Audrey Hepburn is a fine actress but she can't help the film. "},{"Title":"Classic??","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a regular film watcher and took the opportunity recently to buy the Audrey Hepburn boxed set which included Breakfast at Tiffany's which is oft quoted as a 'classic'. Having watched the film with my wife last night, when the film ended we both looked at each other in absolute puzzlement - classic what classic?. This is not the first time I have been disappointed with that epithet when applied to cinema. Firstly, I found the screenplay to be cluttered and wordy for no real reason. Audrey Hepburns lines in some cases are verbose and vacuous. The casting director should not have been paid - Mickey Rooney was completely miscast and to cast Buddy Ebsen as the husband was the height of stupidity as the character was completely unbelievable as his age in relation to Hepburns character was way to old. The acting was not up to par in any sense - Peppard was wooden in the extreme; Ebsen was poor and elicited no empathy from the viewer and finally Rooney was farcical and embarrassing. At the end of the film we then watched the 'Making of a Classic' feature which is on the DVD it was full of self congratulatory claptrap most of which came from the director Blake Edwards. He clearly felt that the party scene was one of his best!! Watch it for yourself and you decide. As for his admission that Mickey Rooney was miscast, that's a bit rich when he could clearly have redirected the actor - that is his job after all. In short I found the whole film a great disappointment and if you do watch it, do it with open eyes and an open mind and don't believe some of the sycophantic 'classic' reviews. "},{"Title":"Average Fare","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was very impressed by Audrey Hepburn's Oscar winning performance in Roman Holiday so I was really looking forward to this movie Breakfast at Tiffany's.What do I have to report after seeing it? I have to say that it is a mixed bag. Let me explain.First the positives Firstly, I have not yet seen a movie in which Audrey was so stylish. If you are into fashion and style that alone is good enough for seeing this movie. Audrey loses some of the innocence and freshness from her Roman Holiday days but gains in sex appeal and glamour. Her wardrobe in this movie is quite stunning. Even the décor of her apartment looks good.Secondly, she has a fairly good chemistry with Peppard and the fact that the two are in the same age bracket helps in that regard.Thirdly, Audrey Hepburn's acting in this movie is superb, she got an Oscar nomination for it.Fourthly, Moon River the song that Holly (Audrey) sings is great and the tune itself is haunting.The negatives The story gets off to a fine start, Audrey plays the part of an escort (a call girl but it the early 60's so that is not what she is called in the movie), Peppard plays the role of a struggling writer who is kept by a rich older woman as her companion.Now in this movie Holly (Audrey) is the kind of woman who is terrified of relationships, so much so that she does not even name her cat. Her only aim in life is to snare some rich man so when she starts falling in love with Peppard's character she does not know how to react.What a great start, one would expect the story to race ahead but it exactly here that things come to a grinding stop. It is obvious in the first twenty minutes of the movie that they would fall in love but the next hour or so of the movie does nothing to build on that. It is only in the last ten minutes of the movie that things come to a head.I think one of the reasons why her first movie Roman Holiday held the viewer's interest throughout it's length despite it's rather flimsy storyline was the character development that her and Gregory Peck's character go through.In that movie Audrey character (Princess Ann) goes from an immature princess, to a drunk, to a wide-eyed ingénue to woman in love to regal stateswoman. In Breakfast at Tiffany's however Audrey's character is basically the same the entire length of the movie and there is nothing else happening with Peppard's character also to get the movie into fast track. The story chugs along slowly till the end comes. The ending I must say is pretty romantic, but the overall impression that the movie leaves is that Breakfast at Tiffany is average fare nowhere in the same class as Roman Holiday or My Fair Lady.I would also like to say that Mickey Rooney's depiction of a Japanese man is extremely insensitive. It was the early 60's so maybe society was not so understanding then, but what leaves me sad is that even now there are some people who think that the depiction is funny. I am reminded of the Bruce Lee movie, Dragon The Bruce Lee Story in which the martial arts legend spends a romantic night out with his American wife and they end up seeing Breakfast at Tiffany's. At the end of the movie Bruce Lee is hurt and angry that Hollywood still did not treat Asian people with respect. Poor Bruce Lee, he should have known that some things never change. In this world bigotry is never out of fashion.It would be fair to point out that Mickey Rooney's role is pretty minor so if you can shut your eyes to it this movie still has a lot to offer. "},{"Title":"Overrated movie","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know why all the fuss was made over this movie and Audrey Hepburn. I disliked the artificial portrayal of everything, the position of women in society, the empty life and daily activities or non activities of a call girl, the size and character of her apartment, the glossing over of how desperate, vulnerable and depressing Holly would truly have been in real life. Hepburn's Holly as adapted, portrayed white women as spoiled, indulgent and dependent on males to be relevant and to survive. . As a matter of fact most of Hepburn's movie roles reinforce these characteristics about women repeatedly. She is a call girl and shoplifter living in an impractically over-sized apartment in a neighborhood of tenements and brownstone buildings in New York City. Not to knock George Peppard's portrayal as Paul, but can you imagine if Truman Capote himself was allowed to play Paul as his novella intended? Boy that angle alone would have made this movie more believable and palatable and quite a challenge for the censors. The only aspect of this movie I liked was Mancini's a masterful Moon River score. "},{"Title":"Charismatic actors for trouble-minded characters","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Everybody is familiar with the title Breakfast at Tiffany's, a timeless classic starring the beloved actress, Audrey Hepburn. While the story itself isn't particularly noteworthy, the charm that the actors bring makes the film well worth viewing. After all, the film is responsible for the iconic image of Audrey Hepburn arrayed in the famous black dress.The film represents the social aspects of the time, filled with smoking, drinking, and more smoking. Holly Golightly (Audrey Hepburn) is in the middle of it all, using rich men to sustain her flamboyant lifestyle. Paul Varjak (George Peppard), the obvious love interest, sparks an attraction with Holly and attempts to save her from slowly destroying herself. The love story is pretty straightforward and lacks any sort of twists. However, the film has its moments (particularly the ending scene) and Cat (the ironically, nameless cat), that tie the story together with its recurring motif that people and things actually do and can belong to one another. Cat also provides some comic relief when scenes become a little too intense with emotions.Both Holly and Paul don't make for such interesting (or healthy) characters. One smokes and drinks all day, leading a frivolous life, while the other is poor and acts as a gigolo. Both characters are deeply troubled, but Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard do a great job at giving the characters some likability and allure. Even though Holly is childlike and unpractical, she is undeniably enjoyable to watch, similar to Leonardo DiCaprio's performance of Jay Gatsby. Upon watching Breakfast at Tiffany's, it's understandable how Audrey Hepburn was one of 20th century's most celebrated actresses. "},{"Title":"Elegant, charming and enchanting but not without its problems","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After seeing her in My Fair Lady, I wanted to see more of Audrey Hepburn's work, and Breakfast at Tiffany's was the film that almost everyone I spoke to about her recommended. After seeing it for myself, I found it delightful, it does have its problems but a lot compensated. One is that it is really nice to look at. The cinematography and settings are really elegant, and Audrey's black dress makes her look amazing and svelte. Henry Mancini's score is also superb, full of sweet, poignant and jaunty melodies, and I have to say the song Moon River for its sublime melody and meaningful lyrics has to be one of my favourite songs of all time, it is so beautiful and romantic. In terms of performances, while George Peppard looks handsome and acts sweetly, it is Audrey's movie as she pretty much epitomises the film on her own. Her Holly Golightly, like Sigourney Weaver's Ellen Ripley, Vivien Leigh's Scarlet O'Hara, Bette Davis's Margo Channing and Ingrid Bergman's Ilsa, is very iconic as a character, like the film she is elegant, charming and enchanting even with her character flaws we still love her. In terms of comedy highlights, the early party scene really does stand out. However, despite all this, there are problems with the film, Mickey Rooney being at the top of the list. I have nothing against Rooney, but his Japanese landlord felt stereotyped and unnecessary despite one or two mildly amusing moments, and I felt Rooney overacted. While the dialogue is witty in spots, it is also very fluffy and sugary, while the story is uneven in places, and meanders as well. Lastly, the ending felt somewhat tacked on, sweet yes but you couldn't help thinking I want more and it could've done with being less unambiguous. Overall, despite the flaws, it is engaging and delightful. 7.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn's Iconic Movie","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have watched this movie - with the producer Richard Shepard's commentary - 3 times now.Each time I see something new.I have to say the interest in the movie led me to reading Truman Capote's novella - published in 1958 - and upon which this movie is based. I also had to read the biography of Audrey by Hepburn's son, Sean Ferrer, which was beautiful and recommended. They (novella and movie) complement each other even though they have very different endings.The Novella is based during the wartime years - 1943-1944 in Manhattan while the movie was made contemporary at the time of its making, 1960.While Truman Capote was very disappointed with the direction the screenwriter took, both movie and novella stand on their own as excellent works.And THE PARTY - man - if you don't wish you were there you are more dead than alive. Half of it was perfectly choreographed while the other half was impromptu. It took 8 days to film. All I have to say is when in Manhattan I would love to seek out Holly Golightly's apt and wrangle an invitation. Will Holly Golightly and Paul Fred Varjak get together? I would call the movie a romantic comedy while the original novella more a social commentary. And as I mentioned both are excellent in their own right.Audrey Hepburn, who feared whether she was up to this role, played the part of Holly to the hilt. And time has shown this to be her signature movie. The opening scene, shot on Fifth Avenue, was a work of cinematographic art, shot by the Hollywood legend Franz Planer. One observation I will note since really studying not only the history of this movie and Truman's original novella Henry Mancini wrote Moon River for this movie - and particularly Audrey Hepburn. At the film's initial screening in San Francisco, after the showing all the principals converged to director Blake Edward's suite. As the story goes (told by producer Richard Shepard) the then-head of Paramount wanted to scrap Moon River. Over my dead body, both Hepburn and Shepard reputedly said. There is a controversy to this day over whether the song should have remained, with the lyrics being a bit weak (in the opinion of some in the industry) but I maintain that it is the melody that is so powerful. Hepburn's son Sean Ferrer in his wonderful biography of his mother, maintained that Audrey felt the same about melodies. Good to know Audrey and I are in agreement ;-) In any event Mancini maintained that of the thousands of versions of Moon River in the intervening 50 years, Hepburn's singing of it (uncredited) with her guitar was the purest and most representative of what Mancini wanted. And Moon River took an Oscar that year, and is still played 50 years later. So as far as I am concerned that should end the controversy. The only downside to this movie - and both directors Blake Edwards and Producer Richard Shepard have admitted so 50 years later - was the caricature of a Japanese by Mickey Rooney. It isn't Rooney's fault as he was doing what the director and screenwriter wanted 50 years ago but today the performance is more of stereotypes and not realistic. The novella really didn't do this - only mentioning that the landlord was Japanese - only the movie.But overall it is a small flaw in an otherwise classic movie that will still be appreciated another 50 years from now. "},{"Title":"A delightful film which really showcases Hepburn's charm.","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very Holywoodized version of Capote's novelette, but judged on its own terms, Breakfast is wonderful, except for Mickey Rooney's over-the-top, stereotypical performance as Holly's Japanese neighbor (just dreadful). If Audrey hadn't already been a star, this would have made her one; the emotional range this film gives her is a true demonstration of her acting talent and humanity. And George Peppard is more than just a prop as Patricia Neal's sponsored writer and Hepburn's would-be lover. I rarely cry at sad movies; they almost always seem to be working too hard for that effect. But happy endings can pretty much destroy me, and the last few minutes of Breakfast with Audrey and George and Cat clinging together in the rain make me cry every time I see the film. Just excellent.--arnie113 "},{"Title":"Breakfast at Tiffany's","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember seeing this film once and probably not understanding it properly, and I couldn't appreciate it being five stars and being the actress's most well loved role, so when I got the opportunity I was going to pay full attention, based on the book by Truman Capote, and from director Black Edwards (The Pink Panther). Basically Holly Golightly (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Audrey Hepburn) is the free spirited glamour loving kitten, you could say call girl because of earning money from male escorts, and being paid to go to Sing Sing Prison to see Sally Tomato (Alan Reed), and she lives in Manhattan's East Side. She lives in her partially furbished apartment with Cat the cat, often makes her Japanese photographer neighbour Mr. Yunioshi (Mickey Rooney) mad with her loud noise activities, and often visits the Tiffany's jewellery store. New neighbour Paul Varjak (The A-Team's George Peppard), a struggling young writer moves in, he is supported by the elderly 2-E (Patricia Neal), and he becomes fascinated with Holly after meeting her. After getting to know her more at one of Holly's wild cocktail party hosted by her agent O.J. Berman (Psycho's Martin Balsam), Paul bumps into her ex-husband Doc Golightly (Buddy Ebsen), she explains she was fifteen when they married, but it was annulled. Paul and Holly spend more time together, they go on a day out to things they never got to in their childhood, including shoplifting a dime store, and of course a trip to Tiffany's to engrave a cereal prize ring for $10. He realises he is in love with her, despite the fake celebrity-like lifestyle she tries to portray, and he proposes marriage, but she declines because she is planning to get married to South African millionaire José (José Luis De Villalonga), but he abandons her after finding out the involvement she has with narcotics mob boss Tomato. Angry at everyone she gets mad at Paul, wants to get away to Brazil, and even ditches Cat in an alleyway in the rain, but Paul talks her round and Holly desperately searches for Cat, and after finding the cat Holly and Paul look at each other lovingly, and have a wet New York happy ending kiss. Also starring Dorothy Whitney as Mag Wildwood, John McGiver as Tiffany's Salesman and Stanley Adams as Rusty Trawler. Hepburn is indeed the star of the show with her fabulous choice of clothing and sparkling head, neck and anywhere else gear, Peppard is likable as the writer who falls in love with her, and even though it is a little politically incorrect, you can't but laugh at Rooney with his large glasses, big teeth and that accent. It is a simple story of boy meets girl, boy falls for girl, and eventually they get together, I'm really glad I gave it another chance, it is funny and lovable entertainment that I guess won't date, a nice romantic drama comedy. It won the Oscar for Best Music for Henry Mancini (who also won a Grammy), and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy. Audrey Hepburn was number 13 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, she was also number 3 on Britain's Finest Actresses, and she was number 3 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Women, the Oscar winning Moon River was number 4 on 100 Years, 100 Songs, the film was number 61 on 100 Years, 100 Passions, and it was number 47 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers. Very good! "}{"Title":"Truman Capote's slim tale suits Hepburn and Peppard...","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite some of the sordid themes that abound in BREAKFAST AT TIFFANY'S, it's a very tasteful transfer of Truman Capote's story to the screen with AUDREY HEPBURN, delightful as Holly Golightly, and GEORGE PEPPARD nicely complementing her role with his understated writer facing writer's block and involved in a kept affair with an older woman (PATRICIA NEAL).Franz Planer's Technicolor photography more than does justice to the New York City backgrounds and Henry Mancini's delightful score (with the wonderful 'Moon River' theme), adds to the film's many charms.As I watched it, I wondered what Marilyn Monroe might have brought to the story if she played Holly, as Capote wanted her to. Monroe had her own brand of charm when she played scatterbrained heroines and perhaps Holly would have been even more suitable for her than it was for the elegant Hepburn. However, Hepburn's charm is undeniable in the role and she makes it her own.The story centers around two drifters, Holly and the young writer who lives above her in a W. 71st Street apartment house with an irate Japanese man (MICKEY ROONEY in Asian make-up) as an upstairs neighbor who threatens to call the police every time she makes noise or rings his bell to get in (which is pretty often). He's the only really miscast player and remains the only racial slur that offends contemporary audiences.BUDDY EBSEN has a brief role as Holly's former husband (she says the marriage was annulled), and there's a poignant scene where she bids him good-bye after warning him that it's foolish to try to tame a wild spirit. She insists she's no longer the creature he remembers.But, in truth, she's a frightened creature and it takes a strong stand by Peppard to make her realize the truth about her situation. The rain scene with Cat is a heartwarming one and ends the story on a proper note of all's well that ends well, appropriately romantic while the 'Moon River' theme concludes the film with the lovers in the rain.Summing up A charming bit of nonsense, played to the hilt by an ingratiating cast and giving us a glimpse of a fairyland New York City that never really existed except in the imagination. Can you imagine any store clerk at Tiffany's treating naive young customers with such utter respect and consideration? Only in the movies. "},{"Title":"Only for Audrey.","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Have you ever been to Tiffany? Well, I never have been there. But I saw Tiffany with Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard. What am I doing? O.K Let's talk about 'Breakfast at Tiffany's'with me.Suppose Marilyn Monroe appeared as Holy Golightely(Truman Capote wanted Marilyn to appear), movie's allure might be declined. why? Marilyn really wants to change her images, not a blonde bombshell, as a mature lady, not depending on her physical attraction, but her acting attraction.I think Holy Golightely had a slightly naughty girls images, so directer chose her.(MM worked at 20th Century Fox, AH worked at Paramount. That's the main reason even Capote wanted MM) Anyway, Audrey Hepburn never disappointed movie viewers. Although she have never been a sex symbol, her plain image makes people love her. By her plain image, people thought that she never been contaminated by desire, greed and corruption.(I mean some actress looks like nymphomaniac, you know, but Audrey, I never find out that kinds of things) That movie showed Audrey's allure. She never becomes a bad girl in any movie.(She never enticed any men) So that's why she is well-known as an ambassador of UNICEF "},{"Title":"New York nostalgia...","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen a few times on video and I like it but it's much less than the classic film I thought it was.Audrey is adorable in her most famous role, stunningly chic in her simple clothes but I have to say she's miscast s Holly! I love Audrey as Holly but it isn't believable that she would be a call-girl taking money from men. Not for a minute would ms. Hepburn be so vulgar, she's too refined in her little girl way. She certainly does not convince that she comes from the south.The film is a little silly too, as I feel a lot of Blake Edwards films are. They're fancy on the surface with a few nice sight-gags but often there are parts that are empty and don't add up.The party scene is famous but oh how badly it has aged, even for sixties standards! It looks more like something from the fifties since nothing naughty happens at this party where no one looks under twenty! It is very lame when the guests are crazy standing upside-down or talking to a mirror or wearing a watch on an ankle...It has some dull parts. Ms. Neal has a thankless role as the older woman. Mickey Rooney is terribly embarrassing as the photographer. It's a cute film all in all, unforgettable because of Audrey... "},{"Title":"read the book","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some movies cant be remade. I love Peter Jackson, but he cant make a new King Kong. To much monkey business. Dawn of the dead, the old one is a classic, the new one is a C-movie no mather the dollars involved. New movies with old names.But this one... One of the greatest stories ever told reduced to a simple love story... A grown man don't cry, but sometimes he wish he could.This could have been a pretty good movie, just another love story. But when you use a story like Breakfast at Tiffany's you got to make it better than pretty. Its wrong from the first scenes, and the ending? I want the cat in the window, not two happy and in love people... the mystery is gone, the story is dead, you can kiss your woman or get laid but you just missed a great story. Read the book, and prey to your God that some good director read it to. And that he will make a movie called Breakfast at Tiffany's.  "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite sanitising Truman Capote's novel, this is a charming fairy tale about a lost girl looking for love in the big city. Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard sparkle to the memorable refrain of 'Moon River'Audrey Hepburn created one of her signature roles in Holly Golightly, the hard-living escort girl who wants nothing more than to find love. That comes in the shape of her new neighbour, would-be writer Paul Varjak (Peppard, a long way from 'The A-Team'). Romance, however, is a complicated endeavour, given that Varjak is himself being kept by his wealthy patroness (Neal).Romantic comedy is a difficult genre to perfect and it has rarely been done as well as it is here. Hepburn and Peppard create the kind of screen chemistry that comes along all too rarely. Despite the sordid implications of the realationships portrayed, the humour and the Oscar-winning refrains of Henry Mancini's score maintain the feelgood factor. The result is a charming fable of love in big, bad New York. All this and one of the best cats ever to grace the screen. "},{"Title":"Holly Go, lightly here","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've always loved this movie. It is so not completely true to the book.If Capote had had his way, Marilyn would have done Holly as anoutright hooker and Paul would have been openly gay. Be a goodremake to do it that way, actually.Whatever. It's a much sweeter movie for those edges beingblurred, and the sub-text obscured. It's a moment in time, so itreally does seem to capture something about the transition fromlate fifties to early sixties, from small-town striving to big-city life,from hidden sexuality to more openness. But I don't know that, I'mtoo young. My favorite parts are actually the Buddy Ebsen scenes, andwhenever Holly talks about her brother Fred. They're very corny, butthey are sort of the glue that makes the film work. Besides all thesmall bits - giving the cat a name,  the shop-lifting scene, theparty scene. Those are all good story-telling. "},{"Title":"OMG!!!","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OMG! i absolutely love this film! its my favorite live action movie of allll time! i love it! in fact everything i write is under the name Holly Golightly! i like it and if you ever see anything written by that or thanking holly golightly you will know it was me! and email me if you are as much of a freak as i am! i love this movie sooo much! i cant describe how much i love it! its funny, and wierd and  expresses just how i feel because sometimes i really do have a case of the reds! the reds definitlly do suck but thats okay, and i know im rambling now but i have to make this ten lines long! ) i love tiffanys and Breakfast at Tiffanys is the best!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"was Buddy Ebsen good or  what......?","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   My esteeemed colleagues and beings ; do we not exist in a pervasively absurd and meaningless realm. Even Shakespeare cannot dissude us fom this despair. The music of Mancini, the beauty and grace of Audrey Hepburn and the genius scribe Capote can only distact us transitorily from the excruciating absurdity of our lot.  How do you gutsy folks abide ? "},{"Title":"Why wasn't this one on the AFI 100 List??","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really have nothing new to add here. I just wanted to put my two pence worth in. This is a true classic. I can't think of any one else who could have played this role except for our Ms. Hepburn. She IS Holly Golightly!! As for the rest, George Peppard (is handsome and blonde), Patricia Neal(playing it cool and cat like), Buddy Ebsen(really surprised me here, great) and Mickey Rooney(the comic relief) round out the quirky cast. An excellent script, cool music(Audrey sings), and hip '60's fashions(look at those hats) add to this film to make it one of my favourites. Can't see why this didn't make the AFI's 100 best film list, and My Fair Lady did! This is far more superior. "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn is lovely and stylish - but the story... Hmmm","Date":"3 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I know there are two schools of thought on this movie. One is in love with the timeless style and beauty of Audrey Hepburn and can't get enough of this movie. The other believes this movie is boring, overacted, and poorly written. I'm in the second group. And let me say, before starting... I do love movies from just about every era - if they are good movies and keep my attention.Positives The music is enchanting. Even 50 years later, Moon River is still amazing. Well done, Henry Mancini. Audrey is and shall remain forever THE fashion icon of the '60s. New York City has never looked as beautiful in the 1960s. All wonderful touches for a classic film for those lovers of this movie. Anytime Buddy Ebsen does hillbilly is incredible fun. Unfortunately, it's the entire rest of the movie that just boggled my mind. For one, George Peppard is ridiculously stiff (method actors only fit a small percentage of roles - comedy is NOT one of them). He was a deadly anchor for the plot actually. A Jack Lemmon, Tony Curtis, Walter Matthau, Paul Newman, even Elvis Presley would have been a better lead-role choice (could you imagine Presley singing with Audrey just once??). The male character needed to be light and breezy and as likable as Holly. That might have worked. But, no. How a flighty, non-trusting, call girl like Holly Golightly could ever feel comfortable enough to share her innermost secrets with a bland, boring, unimaginative stiff like him is unbelievable. Holly deserved MUCH better. The dialogue is so stilted and over-expository it's as though Blake Edwards (whom I do like) was trying to make sure the audience was always with it. The conversation in Holly's party scene for instance where Holly's manager sidles up to the previously unknown - and unwanted it seems - Peppard and starts telling a perfect stranger EXACTLY what Holly does for a living (hello? she's a prostitute! the guy could be a cop!), where she came from, how he created her from a hillbilly to a high-class call-girl... Seriously? Oh, and throw in the fact the guy can clean up a hillbilly accent by teaching her French - and it will automatically come out as the Harvard-educated New England accent that Audrey Hepburn already had... Ummm, sign me up for those language lessons so I can sound intelligent too. Come on.Oh... And then you have Mickey Rooney playing a caricatured Asian... W. T. F. was the director thinking??? Honestly. Just wow... That decision isn't only tragic by epic proportions. It's wrong on every level. Actual demonstrations by minority groups should tell you enough about what the general population thought of this misfire of the century. Offensive isn't the only word I'd use. I'm horrified and I'm not even a minority. This movie is a classic DESPITE this insensitive trash???I won't speak anymore as I don't want to offend any Tiffany fans further. I'm sorry for my opinion. I know I'm in the minority and some of my own favorite movies are not generally loved either. I am happy you love this movie. I'm just not a fan. I've given my deluxe version DVD to a friend who adored it. I hope she gets much more enjoyment out of what would have been an expensive coaster in my home. This is a 3 out of 10 simply because New York is gorgeous and Audrey Hepburn is, well, class personified in the 1960s. But Mickey Rooney... he deserved a -5 by himself. "}{"Title":"Breakfast At Tiffany's (1961) *1/2","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The only thing this 1961 film has going for it is the Academy Award winning song-Moon River, beautifully sung by Andy Williams. After they play the song, you can forget about the entire film. It is extremely boring.Audrey Hepburn goes totally over-the-top as Holly Golightly, a NY fashion plate in NYC. To me, her character drawn is quite an obnoxious one. She goes through Tiffanys as if the place belongs to her. The lady has definite emotional hang-ups as well.This is really an old-fashioned romance with the boy next door. Even a great ensemble cast can't work wonders and this film is definite proof of that.Moon River-wider than a mile, but unfortunately, this film isn't. "},{"Title":"Slightly Ahead of Its Time","Date":"22 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After seeing this movie I was surprised to know that it was made in 1961. The party loving bohemian lifestyle of people surrounding Holly is like that of post Beatles era of mid '60s. The '60s life style must have been well on its way in some parts of New York by 1958 when Truman Capote wrote this novel.Holly Golitely (Audrey Hepburn) lives her life off of rich men. Her aim in life is to marry money. She has parties at her apartment to attract the rich set. One day a new neighbor Paul Varjak (George Peppard) moves in. He's an aspiring novelist (what else ? he's probably an alter ego of Truman Capote) who's also making his life as a lover to an older woman (Patricia Neal). Holly finally gets engaged to a wealthy Brazilian millionaire. Unfortunately, she gets arrested for being an accomplice in a drug ring run by Sally who she made weekly visits to at Sing Sing prison. Holly's engagement is canceled but Paul confesses his love to her.The fashion shown in this movie is well ahead of its time. It's very different from the way people dressed in movies from the '50s. You can see new culture emerging in this movie. Even Holly's hair has highlights just like many women do today. Light irresponsible way of living life was already part of American culture before the hippies took over in the late '60s.No other movie predicted the culture to come better than this movie. In that sense this was uniquely original piece that was slightly ahead of its time. "},{"Title":"I can't believe it.","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A few actresses and actors have the ability to play a wide variety of character types with absolute believability.  Robert DeNiro and Meryl Streep are commonly-cited examples.  Many of our most popular modern film performers, though, may be perfectly suited for specific parts, but really shouldn't try to stretch into roles for which they are not suited.  Jack Lemmon, for example, is one of my favorite movie stars with dozens of wonderful characterizations under his belt.  But in a minor role in Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet, he was completely out of place, disastrous for the part, and a sad joke.  He was as wrong for his part in Hamlet, as Audrey Hepburn was wrong for her part in Breakfast at Tiffany's.  It's like this Audrey Hepburn was a princess; a lovely, beguiling, transcendent beauty who graced the silver screen in many memorable roles throughout her all too brief career.  It is impossible for me to believe in Breakfast at Tiffany's that an Audrey Hepburn character could have married a Buddy Ebsen character at all, much less when she was a child at the time of the marriage.  It just couldn't/shouldn't happen.  Audrey Hepburn was too dignified, too classy, too delicate to be a woman with the past she was supposed to have had in Breakfast at Tiffany's.  And she wasn't the only actor in the movie who was out of place.  How about Mickey Rooney as a farcical Japanese photographer?  Everything about this film rings untrue for me.   "},{"Title":"overrated","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The main reason I took the trouble to get this video was the reference to it in one of the Seinfeld re-runs.  Also there was a song with the same name that I had heard last year.I found it quite a trial to sit thru this.  Hepburn's Over The Top exuberance got to be thoroughly taxing and the ambiguity of her occupation quite irritating.  Is she a call-girl?  Is Fred a gigolo?  And the Japanese guy provided precious little comic relief.Lastly, on the Seinfeld episode, someone says that Fred is gay.  Did I hear them wrong? "},{"Title":"An aggravating bore","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It takes a long time for nothing to happen in this candy-coated bore. It's unfunny and charmless, overruns by about half an hour and drags along at the pace of a funeral procession. It's a typical Blake Edwards film, in other words.Young writer George Peppard, ditzy call girl Audrey Hepburn, blah blah parp yawn work the rest out for yourself. Hepburn is as luminous as always but her character is so one-note that her charm is wasted; meanwhile Peppard is blander than a rice cake. Gatecrashing the movie every so often is Mickey Rooney as their Japanese landlord, and if that bit of miscasting makes you cock your head, wait until you see his brutally unfunny and, if we're honest, utterly racist routine. I'm not sure what he or Edwards were thinking with this.Anyway, it's a banal and hopelessly dated movie in which nothing of any interest happens. In fact it all seems completely pointless. "},{"Title":"Elegy to an old love (possible spoilers)","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Breakfast at Tiffany's' always makes me feel sad - the novel may have been softened from its source, as detractors suggest, but a rainy reunion in a rubbish dump with a huge 'Pawnbroker' sign in the background isn't exactly cosy - but this time it was a different kind of sad.  'Breakfast' was one of those films I saw at a certain age which made me fall in love with the movies about ten years ago.  So it was sad to think of myself as young and hopeful then, and a little wearier and warier now; this made me identify more with the film, and all these characters who are either trying to break from a past, or reconnect its broken continuity,  This sense of loss is pervasive, and makes the film's more joyous sequences - especially the day the couple do what they'd never done before - so precious, because they are shored fragments that can't hold back the ruins.  people don't seem to remember how downbeat 'Breakfast' is - it's the party scenes, Holly in her 'kooky' chic outfits, the startling cigarette holder, the shoplifting (borrowed from Melville's 'Les Enfants Terribles').But it was also the film that made me fall in love with Audrey Hepburn.  It was a weird kind of love, heartstopping and admiring, yes, but fiercely protective, as if she was fragile porcelain that could break any moment.  If a character was in any way harsh with her, I would fume murderously.  Like Judy Garland, her biography and her roles elide troublingly - and although in the background there is another Audrey Pygmalion story (the young oakey tearaway given manners and an accent by an older man (see 'Funny Face', 'My Fair Lady'), in  this instance it is criticised (Doc may be sentimentalised, but we feel his marriage with a 14 year old as monstrous) as if taking to task the actress's career, or the use made of it for certain rather dubious male fantasies.  But it is the gap between Holly's public persona(e) and her suffering vacuity, just as Audrey's Givenchy chic masked traumatic soul- and body-destroying experiences in Nazi-occupied Holland, that gives the film its force.No.  What really made me sad was the slow realisation that I may have outgrown this kind of film.  Ten years ago, it was enough to be moved by Audrey, her every body movement, her wit, her facial expressions, the terrible loneliness in those huge, vulnerable eyes.  For some reason not any more.  I have become brutalised by watching too many films, too obsessed with wretched soul-dampening formalism to be heart-quickened by Audrey Hepburn.  I don't deserve films any more.  So although I can appreciate the 'intellectual' elements of the film more - the use of colour (predominantly grey, yellow and beige) to link character, environment and history; the use of clothes and the donning of costumes as a motif; the melodrama framing (windows, behind blinds etc.; the use of a glass reflection to introduce Holly) which reveals to the audience the truth about characters they themselves have no access to; the animal metaphors, not just the scatalogically metonymic Cat (surreally and serenely watching above the chaos), but rats, greyhounds etc.; the use of play and role-play (the party, the shoplifting masks), not only as a marker of fragmented or lost identity (which mask is the real one, etc.?), but a kind of freedom from being stuck in stock roles - but the emotional experience has been deadened, especially when emotion is signalled by earnest, pseudo-Tennessee Williams verbosity.  Auburn New York, where crime is a joke, the police a restraining sexual presence, and nothing is arbitrary, still appeals (and this, as well as the use of caricatures and stereotypes to define difference looks forward to the mighty 'Seinfeld'), and 'Moon River', sung in a cracked whisper, Holly suspended over a window sill, still has the power to haunt. But now it does matter that the romance is contrived.  Varjac is so clearly set-up as a Capote figure (he even looks like him in those early Cartier-Bresson photos), that his flat, bemused observing is perfect, he is a writer gathering material as well as a character, and the scene where he rescues Jose from the party suggests where his inclinations lie. When this passivity becomes love, the effect is jarring, and the picture becomes unbalanced, as George Costanza found out during one reading class.  In Capote's novel, the elusive Holly remains so, she escapes to Brazil, and the last we hear of her is in her own words, controlling her own legend, whether true or not.  Here, as she fears, she is caged, imprisoned by her lover, a screen writer, a director, smothering her freedom. "},{"Title":"Mealy mouths","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the Thirties and Forties, Hollywood's notion of a female star was Davis, Stanwyck, Crawford or Katharine Hepburn women of wit, character and independence who ruled their roosts. By the Fifties, era of The Feminine Mystique, the best we could do were Monroe and Audrey Hepburn. Both were in the running for the lead in Blake Edwards's utterly specious romcom.Monroe, the wiggling, busty airhead blonde with too much sex, the middlebrow's Jayne Mansfield. Audrey the skinny, simpering, self-dramatising brunette with not enough sex, Julia Roberts with a touch of class. Compare Tiffany's with Pretty Woman the style is the difference between East and West Coasts, but like Roberts Hepburn appeals to other women, not red-blooded men. Both she and Monroe played gold-diggers who adore diamonds-- Marilyn hymned them in Gentlemen Prefer Blondes-- but Holly Golightly is far too much of a lady to, er, do anything in return for her mysteriously comfy, workless existence in New York City. Or if she does, we are not given a hint. Throughout her short career Hepburn played girl-women (whose sophistication did not extend to the boudoir) kept by sugar daddies, or an untouchable virgin princess, or a young widow, or a trainee nun. Full-blooded relationships with men of her own age were outside her range. In this late role, she is given the tics schoolgirls adopt to make themselves interesting. She has a nameless cat, a long fag-holder, wears dark specs in murky bars and does a little mild shoplifting anything to be thought kooky. Improbably, Holly is also a teen runaway from the sort of Southern place where your uncle is your first husband, but they needn't have bothered, since Hepburn does not bother with any sort of American accent half the time. Capote was scratching for inspiration in Breakfast at Tiffany's, a short novel published in 1958 after he had exhausted his meagre experience in his first two. It's an obvious rip-off of Christopher Isherwood's Sally Bowles both feature queer writers in a strange town who take up, sexlessly, with insecure, pretentious semi-prosties. Like Sally, Holly says dahling and divine a lot and latches on to rich suckers.If anything, the filmic Paul Varjak's sources of income are more mysterious. Holly sports almost as many costume changes as Lana Turner, while Paul keeps his end up with a parade of natty suits and jackets like Joe Gillis in Sunset Boulevard. Is Patricia O'Neal paying? In the finale the two impoverished waifs sport matching rainwear.The movie was produced just before permissiveness struck, and boy does it show not only in the central evasion about how our heroes support themselves, but in such details as Holly's party (broken up by the cops although it's milder by far than De Mille would have shot in the 1920s) and a visit to a strip club where no garments are shed. When Audrey croaks through Moon River you can hear why Marni Nixon had to dub her in My Fair Lady.If Tiffany's gets remade more accurately, I suggest Julia Roberts as star she should manage the southern child-bride side after Pretty Woman, that other monument to Hollywood's dishonesty about prostitution. And after Aspects of Love and Sunset Boulevard, Andrew Lloyd Webber could wreak more overblown musical tedium out of Capote's last work of the imagination before he took to writing up killers and society gossip.  "},{"Title":"Only the cat deserves an Oscar","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here is another Hollywood classic to be demolished.Audrey Hepburn was unaware of the fact that even superstars can run into a bad movie, so her acting was something like oh gees what a great actress I am! Here we go with another masterpiece! George Peppard is insipid, just like all the other characters. Blake Edwards must have been asleep.The movie is so improbable that it irritates, from the very first scene where Hepburn and Peppard, 2 perfect strangers until that moment, start a very profound conversation.The movie is never funny and it is even less entertaining. It is stupid, artificial, phony, frivolous, silly and boring. Cruising speed is very low and there is never a wriggle. Mickey Rooney is ridiculous. He turns out to be an imitation of an imitation of Jerry Lewis.There is only one thing to be saved the cat! "},{"Title":"Redemption and Givenchy","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After 4 decades I finally got around to watching Breakfast at Tiffany's. New York pre World Trade Towers. There is really only one funny scene in this movie and it isn't the silly party scene in the beginning (shades of Blake Edwards' Party to come). It is Audrey Hepburn surmising that she is knitting a Ranchhouse while Jose is building a sweater. Probably the one clever line in the movie. With her streaked locks she looks fabulous. Absolutely quintessential 60s fabulous. I do not believe there was any decade as fantastic as the 60s for style. Truman Capote's dark look at 60s social mores is more complex than the light touch Edwards' would suggest. A would-be call-girl in denial and a giggolo saved by his boyish good looks befriend each other and find redemption. Holly's quirky, off-the-wall behaviour was called female hysteria in the 60s, in the 70s it was split personality, in the 80s it was manic-depression, and in the 90s it became bipolar disorder. I don't find it charming. Even though I detest the business of sex for hire, I believe it is a private business exchange between 2 willing people. What I don't like is the Hollywood belief in the woman's prerogative to change her mind. Holly did have an implied business arrangement between those silly Johns and everyone thinks it is charming that she takes their money and runs. If women are truly keepers of their own bodies then why didn't she go through with the exchange? Only Buddy Ebsen and George Peppard seem to come off with their integrity intact. The whole mess is redeemed by the other-worldly beauty of the incomparable Audrey Hepburn who can take the most pedestrian script and elevate it to a thing of beauty. It's useful being top banana in the shock department she says. Anyone else in this role would have infused a cheap value, come off as shrill but somehow she makes it entirely believable and we forgive her. "},{"Title":"Very deft dramedy","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Breakfast at Tiffany's is a more mature work than 1961 was entitled to. Even after being scrubbed of most of its sexual commerce, and after it's been converted into a light comedy, it still has complex things to say about American ideas of personal transformation, striving and failure. Holly has abandoned a dead-end life in Texas to become an ambitious, metropolitan gold-digger, but she's flying blind. Neighbor/author Paul Varjack has settled and is willing to prostitute himself to a matronly interior decorator in exchange for a cushier life; a living death as a hanger-on. The two have no designs on each other and the narrative is largely freed up from gluing them together (until that happy ending which it's best to just ignore).This review leaves out the better-known aspect of the film long stretches of brilliantly choreographed comedy that are as deft as any ever filmed. The early party sequence (Mag Wildwood and Rusty Trawler), is a beautiful comic setpiece, with great lines, a great visual sense, and arch developments. Having enjoyed it as 'comedy' in my teens, I failed to see that this is a deep work, and probably the deepest thing Edwards ever made ...while being awfully funny. It goes heavy places, while treading very lightly. No small feat.Mickey Rooney disappears into a now appalling stereotype of a Japanese landlord but he's so lost inside the character it has to be noted as an accomplishment of some sort. It's impossible to imagine Billy Wilder made something similarly adult, but infinitely more immature and insipid, two years AFTER 'Breakfast' (Irma la Douce!). "}{"Title":"Decent, flawed romantic comedy","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently caught the last half hour of Breakfast at Tiffany's on cable, and decided to watch it all the way through at the next showing (I'd never seen it before).  First off, this film seemed really long... the 158 running time felt more like three and a half hours. I'm not sure if audience attention spans have diminished greatly since the early 60's, or I just wasn't enjoying the film all that much (probably a combination of both).  Secondly, the movie leaves a good aftertaste despite being somewhat difficult to sit through.  Hepburn really shines in the role of Holly Golightly, and her portrayal of the character is complex and interesting.  The main problems I had with the movie were an astonishing lack of dramatic tension (none) and a feeling that nothing much was really happening on screen despite the relative complexity of the plot.  I must confess that I'm not at all a fan of pre-1970's old Hollywood films and this is one of the maybe dozen (at most) I've seen.  Overall, a bit of entertaining fluff with a few deeper elements to it and an interesting glimpse of a time long gone.  Languid pacing, slight sappiness and lack of dramatic tension will likely turn off some modern viewers.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Charm rescues a bad movie","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Proof that even Audrey Hepburn's bad movies are worth watching, and make no mistake about it this is a bad movie.  The director Blake Edwards, the screenwriters and every member of the cast except Audrey seem hell bent on making this a snore.  It hasn't got story, dialogue, characters, exciting camera work or anything else that is required of a classic movie.  It all comes down to Miss Hepburn and her Givenchy dresses.  Having said that don't let that stop you from watching it; any time spent in the company of the charming Miss Hepburn (and she is at her most charming here) is time well spent.  Just don't expect a classic, like say Charade. "},{"Title":"Blake Edwards is a terrible person","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Breakfast at Tiffany's is a great movie even though Blake Edwards apparently tried to ruin it as much as possible.  He does everything in his power to put cutesy, compromising touches in the film, not to mention the use of an absolutely pointless and offensive stereotype in the form of an Asian landlord, who was played by a white person wearing fake teeth.  One may recall that Mr. Edwards' later works consisted of the Pink Panther movies, as well as 10, a Bo Derek-nudity-sells vehicle.  Oddly enough I doubt that either of those were originally written by Truman Capote.  It just baffles me that no one at the studio noticed that this was more a tale of escaping from dreariness and depression of post war America rather than the vile saccharin sweet confection which the esteemed director appears to take it as.  It could have been one of the best romance films of all time, and to some degree it is, but thanks to the fact that some moron decided to sprinkle Sweet N' Low on top of the prime rib, it's hard not to pine for what could have been.    "},{"Title":"Breakfast at Tiffany's","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This great movie is a impressive mix of melancholy and fun. Audrey Hepburn's performance as the young naïve and eccentric Holly Golightly is absolutely memorable. This two names will always belong together in the movie industry. It's a must-see movie, incomparable with other films and is just fitting in the genre of classics.It's very moving how Holly lives alone only with her cat in a tiny apartment in New York and is still dreaming of a better future with her brother Fred in South-America. She has no money and no real friends and she manages her existence by dating rich men who pay her money for the attire but then finally are standing in front of the closed door. Very entertaining!!! When Paul Varjak, a poor writer moves in the apartment above her, they become very good friends by discovering the faults but also the amenities of each other. The two neighbors are falling in love with different people and finally with each other. I love all these funny complications and affairs in this film! Also the soundtrack of this movie is a kind of magic and very gripping. Moon River from Henry Mancini sounds so hopefully and fainthearted. When I hear this song, I can just close my eyes and see Holly Golightly standing in the rain with the cat in her arms kissing Paul. Moon River is a homage to this fantastic movie and belongs to it like Audrey does. This film consists of details, the charming actors and a wonderful soundtrack. Without anything of them it wouldn't be this classic which impressed several generations and people around the world. I love this movie and could watch it ever and ever again. "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not joking. Wasted my life with this movie. Hepburn's character is insufferable, Mickey Rooney plays a racist role. Plot points pop up and go nowhere. Painfully unfunny comedy stuffed into over dramatic pap. No characters are worth watching. Holly makes me cringe. I don't care about her or what happens to her. No emotional scenes ring true. Paul is stuck in the friend zone but still tries to get Holly to love him back. Holly is insane, and clearly emotionally crazy, yet Paul seems to be her pseudo-gay boyfriend.Film is drawn out, completely false, unfunny, and a waste of time. Any lovers of critical thinking, logic, film, or people worth your time should run the other way and never look back. "},{"Title":"Superficially Encapsulated NY Upper Class Bohemia in the 50s","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A selfish man triumphs to put a free spirited woman into a cage called love. Back in the early 60s, Breakfast at Tiffany's has shamelessly established the American rom-com formula, which still prospers like an epidemic. Audrey Hepburn doesn't fit into a role of materialistic and selfish playgirl Holly Golightly; at the same time, Hepburn's persona is the reason the film remains bearable to watch. The story is lazily written; the relationship between Golightly and Paul 'Fred' Varjak (George Peppard) repeatedly goes up and down in similar scenes one after another. Even understanding the social weather in the 50s, it is a big enigma that the filmmakers negatively describe ethnic minority; it adds no benefit to the film but ugliness. One merit of the film may be an encapsulation of NY upper class bohemia in the 50s in a superficial way, but who needs it while Cassavetes' Shadows is there? "},{"Title":"Appallingly Bad","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The fact that 45 years later this film is heralded as a great movie is a shame. The script watered down the original story to utter blandness. A movie built around a song, Moon River, with no context to the rest of the film is pathetic. Any magic and wonder is lost on the poor acting, frenetic script writing and bad stereotypes. In fact, it is hard to believe that Truman Capote would even have approved of this bastardization of his original vision. The royalties must have been too good. If you are searching for true entertainment value look in to Capote's brief series of works. The original story of Breakfast at Tiffany's is dark, smart and savvy, not dumb and plodding like the movie. In Cold Blood stands as a testament to writing. And subsequent film versions were not meek and dishearteningly bad. Also, for pure enjoyment Deep Blue Something's song Breakfast at Tiffany's is more enjoyable and doesn't drag on for two hours. "},{"Title":"a confused party girl's life gets even more complex when this guy moves in to her apartment complex. there's also an angry Asian dude.","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i saw this movie with some friends at a theater that was having a chick flick day. i came to this movie with no prior knowledge of what it was supposed to be about. i sat their for the entire duration of the movie and still had no knowledge as to what it was about. there was no plot to this movie, and i have to idea why it has just good ratings. from what i watched this is just a whiny girl who is trying to get herself together and it takes the whole movie to do it. i guess to summarize, i walked away from this movie not entertained and confused. usually, a movie will convey a message by the time its over, but if this one had one... i have no idea what it was supposed to be. "},{"Title":"This movie is weird","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The start of this movie was interesting. It really made you want to keep watching it. Hepburn was crazy in it, but that was good. It made you want to know WHY she was crazy, and what her story was. Peppard was good as the sane, good looking guy. Neither of them are particularly good actors, but in those days that WAS good acting. When you did find out about her background, it made it even more interesting. But, the end wasn't satisfactory. She became a little too much of a psycho, and you just keep thinking, When's this gonna end?. It just keeps dragging on with nothing new to entertain us. If you gave the ending to another director, it may have made it a better movie. "},{"Title":"Audrey Hepburn is 20 years dead","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Audrey Hepburn died 20 years ago today. Having just watched one of her most famous movies, Blake Edwards's Breakfast at Tiffany's, I'm unsure what to think of it. Truman Capote - who at the time of the release was working on In Cold Blood - wasn't too fond of how the movie version of his novel turned out (I have no doubt that the studio's sanitizing the story contributed to that). I've never read the novel, but the movie seems too fluffy. Don't get me wrong, Audrey Hepburn looks really fine in her Little Black Dress, but I don't see that the movie has much point. Mickey Rooney's toe-curling performance as a stereotyped Japanese doesn't help.The thing about the movie that retroactively comes across as really funny is that it's directed by the man behind the Pink Panther movies, and co-stars Milton Arbogast (Martin Balsam), Jed Clampett (Buddy Ebsen) and Fred Flintstone (Alan Reed). Otherwise, it's not something that I would recommend.Audrey Hepburn probably never guessed that she would die on the day of the inauguration of the first US president who came of age during the peak of her career. "}{"Title":"Lovely Audrey in a dopey movie","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" George Peppard and Audrey Hepburn are gorgeous, but this movie stinks! There is not an authentic moment in it. And it's terribly dated. If you see it on the cable schedule, tune in for the last 5 minutes. The kiss in the rain is great. Watch Audrey in these far more worthwhile movies Two For the Road (With Albert Finney...her best film, in my opinion) The Nun's Story (With Peter Finch, a heartbreaker) Roman Holiday (Gregory Peck...sigh!) Sabrina (William Holden (sigh!) and Bogart (miscast but who cares?) Robin and Marian (With Sean Connery) It Takes a Thief (With Peter O'Toole)Of course, the fashions in Tiffany's are classic. "},{"Title":"I don't get it","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After reading all the dripping comments left by others, I feel I have to voice my opinion.I tried watching this film several times, even after the recent pop song. The first couple times, I just turned it off in favor of cleaning the house.All I see are a bunch of Hollywood hype dopes chasing after things which are unattainable. Not a unique concept. The Japanese character is disgusting, and I think it was even back then for non-whites.Sure, the camera work was good, and the acting was ok, and the lifestyles portrayed by these rich guys was well done (I guess, since I wasn't a jet-setter in 1956). But was this intended to be just fluff? Is it supposed to be a precursor to Lifestyles of the Rich & Famous?Nah, I don't want to try again. Well, maybe when my daughter is older.  "},{"Title":"Why do people like this movie?","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My wife and I watched this movie last night and we were appalled at the overwhelming dysfunction portrayed in this movie. Here's this young woman who was married to some sick, country vet in Texas before turning 14! That is horrifying to say the least! On top of that a gigolo who moves into her building, who poses as a writer when asked his profession falls for her and observes her increasingly bizarre attempts to escape her past. Why does anyone find this sad, sad tale at all appealing? The underlying context of the whole story is so brutally perverse and twisted it made me and my wife just look at each other in shock. Does no one else find it sickening that this woman trying to run away from her past was married to some pedophile country vet and when he shows up in New York to take her back to where she belongs that she tells him that she still loves him, it's just that she isn't Lula Mae anymore? Geeeeeez! "},{"Title":"Looking for a clean classic movie? This is not it.","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"7 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie must have been scandalous for it's day. There are some bright spots (Good acting, Moon River, Buddy Ebsen, Mickey Rooney). However, this movie is a trip through the gutter. It smells of substance abuse and adultery. "},{"Title":"OH!  GEE! DAMN!","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"15 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OH! GEE! DAMN!  Not only was this the most memorable line from the movie, it could serve as a synopsis of the movie.The movie suxed royally.  Well that wasn't all they were suxing on in this movie!  I wonder how many scenes in this movie, actually had people NOT smoking cigarettes?Very distasteful.  Very dated.  Pass on this piece of tripe!Wayno "},{"Title":"Mixed Review","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"8 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this film because a short but memorable clip was featured within the movie Dragon The Bruce Lee Story which is another drama that I highly recommend.  Breakfast at Tiffany's is a light-hearted romantic comedy which is quite endearing and would have been one of the dominant romantic classics had it been a bit more politically correct.  There are racist overtones throughout the film, most likely spawned from the anti-Asian sentiments of the era.  There was a clear attempt to use racism as a form of comedy.  But even overlooking this aspect, there were quite a lot of unrealistic portrayals in the film.  Any woman living in New York City would know better than to invite a stranger into her apartment and bedroom, wearing only a shirt and underwear.  I gave this movie an 8/10 for the romance, 3/10 for the comedy.  Before you see this movie, I recommend that you first see Dragon The Bruce Lee Story. "}]