[{"Title":"Don't Be Fooled By Pre-teen Appearances","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"42 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  A period piece that boasts about The Glad Game?  Ready to tune out?  So was I, until I got what was happening.  This movie is profound, not only in its execution of story, but in the relevant, lovely message it naturally brings, as opposed to the message it sells.  I've viewed it 5 times and each time, I am newly informed as to how I can adjust my attitude for a better way of life.  I come from a school of thought where sunny is ridiculed and message movies are tedious, so the lead is an obvious target of disdain. Stay with Pollyanna awhile and watch her reform all the bitter, crusty malcontents on the planet into fans with a straightforward logic and uncanny point of view.  A true heroine.    "},{"Title":"Wonderful performances make this worth viewing","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"25 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  A vast improvement on the cutesy, blatantly unrealistic and cliched story on which it is based, the Disney film Pollyanna is a truly enjoyable, BELIEVABLE film.  It has a very charming, nostalgic feel to it.  The period costumes and sets are very good, and the direction is good, too.  The best thing about it, however, are the performances.  The talented cast really makes you believe in them and forget they're all stereotypes.  Jane Wyman is quite good as Aunt Polly, as are Agnes Moorehead, Adolphe Menjou, and espicially Karl Malden.  And Hayley Mills more than holds her own, giving a very good, subtle, believable performance.  This Pollyanna does not spend all her time chatting her mouth off and misinterpreting every cold act of her aunt's as an expression of love, which made her very annoying in the book, but rather, she really gets to know people and very subtly brings out the best in them.  A truly good family film, much better than the book, and one really worth viewing. "},{"Title":"The best film to ever to come out of the Disney Studios","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  This is an absolutely remarkable film.It is uplifting,life-affirming,and painfully truthful about human ways.Even though it is set in the early 1900's, its message is still very applicable in the modern world.I was blown away by the genuine power of Hayley Mill's performance.The supporting cast is also excellent,especially Karl Malden and Agnes Moorehead.If you want to see a nearly flawless and absolutely charming fim,than this is the one to see.Far and away Hayley's best performance. "},{"Title":"Arguably the most heart-warming of Walt Disney's live-action films","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  SOME SPOILERSI wish that this movie could sink-in to some of the more cynical minds that walk the earth today.  It is a great story that is full of meaning and nostalgia (which I love).Now before you sit down to watch this film, remember that the book, Pollyanna,' was a smash hit in the early 1900s.  Several books followed the original along with board games and other children's merchandise.  It is also important to note that the Pollyanna character was much more glad (more on that later) and overly talkative in the book than in Disney's rendition.But Disney's telling of the story, choice in casting, and authentic 1900s period recreation could not be any better.  The film is set in the picturesque town of Harrington where all politics and decision-making are controlled by the wealthiest resident, Polly Harrington (Pollyanna's adopted aunt).  Until being adopted, the little girl Pollyanna did not live a silver-spoon lifestyle.  We soon find out that she was very poor while living with her missionary parents before they died.  This somewhat explained why she is overwhelmingly upbeat and glad.'  She plays The Glad Game with her new friends and neighbors and gradually wins over the entire town with her optimism and love.  What was so moving about this story is how this little girl made grownups realize that they should be happy to be healthy and alive.Director David Swift went through hundreds of girls to find the right Pollyanna.  And thanks to Uncle Walt (Disney), he found a Special Academy Award winner in Hayley Mills.  Other notable characters that I loved were Jane Wyman as the prim and proper Aunt Polly, Karl Malden as the fire and brimstone Minister, Adolphe Menjou as the town hermit Mr. Pendergast, Reta Shaw as the cake-baking Mrs. Lagerlof and Agnes Moorehead as the hypochondriacal Mrs. Snow.  All of these characters had great moments of dialogue which made the story seem so real.The one thing I love about Walt-era Disney films is the attention-to-detail. And the detail in this film was incredible.  Costumes, buildings (Main Street USA, anyone?), songs, automobiles and the town bazaar are just some of the things that were authentic.  Even the preacher's (Karl Malden) passionate flamed sermons were something not uncommon in this time period.This film really showed Walt's sentimental side.  During the screening of the film, Walt wiped tears from his eyes because it was so touching.  And how could anyone not do the same?  I certainly do when I see the end.  A perfect mix of cute moments for children and meaningful points for adults, Pollyanna (like Mary Poppins) is also practically perfect in every way. "},{"Title":"Playing The Glad Game For Keeps","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Filling the tiny, but oh so impressive feet of Mary Pickford in one of her most acclaimed silent screen classics was quite a chore for Walt Disney. But in an impressive American screen debut, Hayley Mills launched her career in a most impressive way as Pollyanna.Pollyanna, who is now an orphan, comes to live with her aunt Polly played by Jane Wyman who is one reserved New Englander. She's the richest woman in town and pretty much everyone kowtows to her. But when the eternally optimistic Hayley Mills comes to live in that town, her infectious spirit seems to effect everyone and everything around her.Pollyanna is one of Disney's best live action films, Mills and the rest of the cast make it believable without being maudlin. Disney gave Mills and Wyman an impressive roster of players in support that include, Donald Crisp, Leora Dana, Karl Malden, Nancy Olson, James Drury, Reta Shaw, Mary Grace Canfield, and Kevin Corcoran as Mills's partner in juvenile hijinks.Two people deserve special mention. One is Adolphe Menjou because this turned out to be his last film. He plays Mr. Prendergast the old miser who lives alone and miserable, but who softens at the warmth Pollyanna brings in his life. The second is my favorite here, Agnes Moorehead, who plays crotchety old Ms. Snow, one of those old folks who seem to enjoy being sick and miserable. Her scene at the end with Hayley Mills is the most touching of all in the film.Pollyanna like George Bailey in It's A Wonderful Life both never realizes all the good she's done in that town and like Jimmy Stewart's character faces a crisis. But all her friends rally to her in an It's A Wonderful Life type climax.Walt Disney does a wonderful job in recreating that era before World War I in small town America, very much like The Music Man. Pollyanna is what they mean by fine family entertainment, as good now as it was when I first saw it in theaters in 1960.In fact it might just make one curious enough to check out the Mary Pickford silent version. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous!!!","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" As Pollyanna would say, the movie is simply gorgeous! In my 57 years I've seen this movie more times than I should admit. Just watched it again on Hallmark and felt compelled to offer my first comments on IMDb.Everyone can feel down, lonely or put upon at one time or another. Pollyanna is just the right medicine for those ailments. I realize this is early Disney, but that is a positive attribute, not an indictment. Cheezy? How about touching instead? The cast, the performances, the setting, and most of all, the message are right on. The film makes me laugh and cry every time I view it. How could you possibly ask for more? Guess I'm just a soft touch. Highly recommended for all but the terminally cynical. "},{"Title":"DVD 2-disk set was prepared with care, love, and mastery. An example for ALL other studios and directors to follow!!!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  The DVD double-disk edition of this movie is a perfect example of just how GREAT DVDs can be! Ostensibly a big-kids' movie, Pollyanna is good enough to appeal to adults as well. I saw it when I was 10 years old, and fell in love with it then. I also had a crush on Haley Mills, as did most of the other boys I knew. Coming back now and finding the movie on DVD to be a treasure for myself--- nostalgia, childhood revisited, etc.--- came as no surprise. However, finding the high quality of bonus materials and extras on the two disks was amazing. Good for Disney Studios... Very well done!Contrast Pollyanna DVD extras with those found on the new Harry Potter DVD. Harry, an excellent movie, nonetheless has DVD extras that are mostly geared towards children. Harry's entire second DVD disk, the bonus disk, has high production values (that is, it was obviously expensive to produce), but most of it is so simplistic and slow that one can only imagine it was designed for the 8- to 12-year old crowd. Which is fine (note, however, that the Interviews selection on that disk is excellent and informative for adults, too).Pollyanna, however, gives us half a dozen bonus disk features that are ALL aimed at adults (yet might also be appealing to older, brighter, more inquisitive children). For example, Disney's film restorer guy gives a behind the scenes explanation and multiple demonstrations of how and why color film degrades, and how it can be brought back to life. Where are they now? type things give us modern day glimpses of the surviving stars of the movie. We get to hear them relate their experiences on the set, and experiences vis-a-vis the movie since that time. We see archival TV footage of Walt Disney commenting on the movie, what Haley Mills thought at the time, what she went through, what her dad (famed actor Sir John Mills) said, and what she thinks NOW, etc. The film's writer and director also makes in-depth appearances in various features on the bonus disk, AND, he and Haley Mills provide an interesting audio commentary as the feature itself is viewed (I read that the director, whose name I cannot recall this instant, died at the age of 80 or 81, just a few months ago. His death came just after the DVD bonus materials were prepared). The whole thing was as meaty and appropriate and entertaining as anything I've ever seen on The History Channel, or A&E or Bravo channels.Finally, the movie itself has been restored and lovingly presented (again, optional director and star commentary is available). It is still a good and solid entertainment! I gave this DVD edition of Pollyanna 10 out of 10. Seriously, I hope the other studios and DVD makers will study this disk religiously, and learn how it's done! I'd love to see ALL my DVDs prepared with this degree of detail, care, and mastery. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Pollyanna is one of the sweetest movies I've ever seen.  So what if it's cheesy at times?  Movies are still cheesy today, sometimes, but at least Pollyanna is wholesome.  Now don't get me wrong, I'm not an advocate for violence-free, nudity-free, perfectly goody-goody movies.  But I do think this is a beautiful movie that just happens to be OK for everyone.  Young children might be scared by the minister or by the ordeal Pollyanna faces, but the fun and happy scenes in the movie (the carnival is my favorite) will more than make up for the -- in the words of Pollyanna herself -- gloomy ones.  Hayley Mills is terrific.  Watch Pollyanna's expressions.  You can tell, at times, she thinks everyone in town is completely nuts, but she never says it out loud.  Instead, she keeps a happy and hopeful demeanor through most of the movie.  And while, at first, the townsfolk resent her attitude and even insult her, she doesn't lose it, and she is rewarded for it in the end.  This is a great message.   "},{"Title":"Nice work...","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This movie ,,Pollyanna'' is quite fascinating especially the leading actress makes a wonderful atmosphere while watching the actual film. A good adaptation but it would have been nice if they'd show the ending with Pollyanna on crutches. In some moments you could have seen a tear in my eye, which proves the fact of the movie being sad and realistic. Sweet Haylie Mills and the other actors make a great-standard presentation of their talent.Unfortunately their seems to be something missing and my vote goes for the ending. I also loved to see Agnes Moorehead and the lovely cooks.If you liked this movie you'd probably love ,,The parent trap'' with the same actress, or should I say actresses taking the lead. A good film for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Great FAMILY film","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a great family movie. I recommend this movie for children & their mothers. It might be a little cheesy for dads or men. It is very idealistic - Good values - good plot. It is not for everyone - especially if you are not young & pure at heart (or at least long to be). This Disney film is about a young girl and her joyous, Christian outlook on life. Her view & beliefs turn the town around. Hayley Mills was a wonderful young actress who also starred in Parent Trap (original), Summer Magic, That Darn Cat, etc. I have to make this review at least 10 lines - so I'll just end by saying that I hope this becomes a family favorite in your house, as it is in ours.  "}{"Title":"The best Film to treat depression that I know of. ( spoiler)","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  The hearts and flowers, enough to make you sick attitude of this film, is the best non drug remedy that I know of if you suffer from depression or your feeling down. Just try it, watch it three times back to back, and you well feel better, not well but more hopeful, then when you started. For those that want a nice children film this also fits the bill nicely. Even if you, dislike children skinny dipping, it is consistent with the 1800's times period. "},{"Title":"Introducing the first lady of Disney in the 60s...Hayley Mills!!!!!","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Disney continues its fine work into the 60s with the 1960 favorite Pollyanna. This would be one of many movies that had Hayley Mills taking the center stage in Disney fare.What's so good about her? She, like, ran the whole Disney thing throughout the 1960s, baby!!!!! I mean, even though she may be old now, she was good, she was cute, and she knew how to make a really great Disney movie!Now? Psh! We've got that mean-spirited girl Raven running Disney now!!!!! (Booooo!!!!!) I mean, every time she had a song in a Disney film today (even the child-safe ones on my list), we generally try to avoid touching such films with a 39 1/2 foot...how should I say this????? DVD loading tray!!!!! LOLSo, what would you rather hear? Let's Get Together, Yeah Yeah Yeah!!! by Hayley Mills in The Parent Trap, or Very Superstitious! by Raven in that bad, bad, un-Disney film The Haunted Mansion????? I'd pick Hayley over Raven any other day!!!!!This shows how good old movies like Pollyanna really are. Watch this and Hayley's other films; you'll be happy! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Shhhhhh!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Everyone has their secrets. Some are cross dressers in the safety of their own homes. Some sneer at Baywatch while recording it and watching it later with the sound off. Others even listen to 'Tales of Topographic oceans' by Yes twice in one week and that used to be an arrestable offence. My secret is (whispers) I like Hayley Mills. No, I LOVE Hayley Mills. She can do no wrong. She is the ninth wonder. She is sweetness personified. And she's blonde too, musn't forget that. Forgive me father, I had to tell them. Now I know what you're thinking. No, I'm not gay. No, I don't have a copy of 'little blue peep' stashed away behind the bookcase in a suspiciously blank video case. Besides, she's probably a hell of a lot older than she looks in those films. She's probably 22. I heard Judy Garland was 36 when she did 'The wizard of Oz.' Hayley Mills. My god, I'm getting goose bumps all over. Actually, the heater's bust but never mind. Did anyone ever see 'Parent trap'? It boasts perhaps the most astonishing two minutes ever. Hayley Mills sets up a dinner date for her parents and launches into a take no prisoners fifties be-bop number on guitar accompanied by herself on piano. It's...well, pretty much indescribable. They don't make films like that anymore. Not off drugs anyway.Pollyanna is a startling critique of modern mores and the moral compromises adults have to make in order to live everyday life. That is until they all get in touch with their inner Hayley. Did you know that Hayley Mills married that guy who played the serial killer in 'The boys next door', Maxwell Caulfield or something? Those two images put together are pretty disturbing. So I'll play the glad game to forget about it. I'm so glad Bill Clinton didn't get thrown out of office. It would have been a hell of a blow. Mind you, he's used to those. And I'm glad Karl Malden took the role of the Rev Ford in this film. It's worth seeing for his fire and brimstone sermon to his cowering paritioners alone. It's the ******* funniest five minutes of film ever. And just when you think he's finished, he gives 'em some more hell.So, I'm not worried tonight. I'm not fearing any man. Mine eeeeeeeyes have seen the glory of Hayley Mills. Hey, wasn't it Juliet Mills who married the guy who played the psycho in 'The boy's next door' and not Hayley Mills? Juliet Mills. Now, there was a babe. Wasn't she in 'Nanny and the professor'? The magical thing about nanny, is-in-luuuurve. They don't make programmes like that anymore. Not without Rabies shots anyway. "},{"Title":"Subtlety and Hayley rescue a sugary story","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" To really appreciate this film, imagine Shirley Temple as Pollyanna. Temple was extraordinarily talented, but her cherubic qualities guaranteed that her Rebecca (of Sunnybrook Farm) would be the cinematic equivalent of a Hallmark card. Rebecca and Pollyanna were similar characters in very different plots (though both were orphans), but Hayley Mills as Pollyanna never even tries to be adorable. In fact, quite the opposite. She's a lanky young girl with pigtails and knock-knees, and she never delivers a saccharine line or maudlin moment. In the course of the movie, she leads a variety of sour adults-- a recluse (Menjou), a crosspatch (Moorehead), a minister (Malden), a curmudgeon (Ian Wolfe), a maid (Mary Grace Canfield), and a spinster aunt (Wyman)-- toward a better humor. At no point is she a cheerleader; indeed, she mostly just asks them questions, showing interest in them, interest that they return, and her good humor gets them to reconsider their grim outlooks.It's simplistic, of course, and even ridiculous (the town seems to have more orphans than citizens). But that is where subtlety comes to the rescue, and craftsmanship. It's a well-made film, particularly in terms of art direction and costumes which were clearly designed with Technicolor in mind. The direction and photography are uninspired, but no great creativity was required because characters and story are the whole point, and the screenplay has elements sophisticated enough for any critic. The early anecdote about crutches foreshadow the climax in just the right way, for instance. Even better is a lovely metaphor about prisms, when Pollyanna enters the home of the recluse who has (don't ask) an endless quantity of lamp prisms in his cluttered mansion. Playing with the prisms, she charms Menjou and later Moorehead, and moviegoers, for whom the prisms are a colorful visual symbol of cheerier points of view. The real subtlety, though, is in the performances. Malden plays his fire-and-brimstone minister to the hilt, and Donald Crisp is a stoutly impassioned mayor. But most of Pollyanna's converts, particularly Wyman and Menjou, deliver quietly supportive, reflective performances. In spite of a story in which the adults are barely believable caricatures, this film was so solidly constructed and underplayed that the children's-book aspect is overwhelmed by the genuinely delightful message, and a marvelously realistic performance by Hayley Mills. "},{"Title":"A sweet and moving adaptation","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Many different movies have been made out of Eleanor Porter's novel throughout the years. The story of the young Pollyanna, adopted by her strict aunt after the death of her parents, bringing back a long lost joy to an entire village is rather well known. Still, this Walt Disney version is both very charming and moving. It is probably thanks to David Swift excellent craftsmanship as a director, portraying some interesting characters while alternating with success funny or lighter moments with deeply moving ones. It may be thanks to a beautiful cast of experienced actors such as Jane Wyman (as the strict aunt), Karl Malden (as the flaming priest), Adolphe Menjou (as the recluse Mr Pendergast) or Agnes Moorehead (as the hypochondriac Mrs Snow). It could also be related to the beautifully optimistic message of joy and friendship. Yet, it is certainly due the exceptional on-screen presence of young British actress Hayley Mills. Her performance, only surpassed, in my opinion, by the one she delivers in The Parent Trap, earned her an Academy Award and allows her to deliver the spontaneity, curiosity and joy of living characteristic of Pollyanna. With such a package of qualities, this movie may do more than bring the best out of its character by bringing the best out of ourselves thanks to a little bit more than two hours of happiness. "},{"Title":"A delight from start to finish","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  I can always judge a movie by the feeling it leaves me once it is over. POLLYANNA sends you away with a light heart full of optimism and cheer that is all too rare in today's world.  Yes, the ending is sad, but it is also hopeful.  Another comment accused the film as being another one of those Disney feel-good movies.  What's wrong with that?  We get enough reality with our everyday lives.  This movie just provided me with 2 hours of pure joy that life sometimes has in short supply.  Haley Mills' charming character unassumingly spreads some sunshine in a small town trapped under a cloud of gloom.  How many of you feel that way sometimes? Watching this movie is just a nice way to bring some of that sunshine to your corner.  Manufactured?  Perhaps.  But so what?  When you're in the dark, you don't wait around for the sun to come up--you turn on the electric light! "},{"Title":"A realistic, yet wonderful movie!","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  After reading all of the comments on this page, I am not surprised that the feelings about this movie are so mixed.  This movie can be interpreted in many ways by different people.  At times, some people may say that Pollyanna is almost a little bit too perfect and sweet;that is understandable.  But, the morals and values are something that people in todays world need a lot more of.  Plus, this movie is realistic, by proving that the worst of things can happen to even the best of people.  This is a wonderful movie for people of all ages, and if you haven't seen it, I highly recommend it, because it teaches us that anything can happen to anyone, no matter how much you may disagree. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Film that is refreshing","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  This film was like an oasis in a desert.  As most films today try to say all too often that only bad things happen, this movie gives one the hope that things can turn out for the better, all we need to do is try our best. This film should be viewed by all, to give a sense of hope. Yes the movie sometimes is childish, but it is a children's movie with a message of Faith, Hope, and Love for others.  It says that you can give material possessions all you want, but what will change the world is when you give yourself. This is a message that we need to spread more in the theaters.  Too many a time there are violent movies that glorify killing.  Well back in 1960, how many students went around killing their classmates.....??  This movie takes us back to a simpler time, and makes us long to be able to provide this life for our children and our children's children.  If you cannot find it in your heart to even sit through this movie, or relate with it, you are to be pitied, because our world stinks right now because of a lack of morals..This movie praises Morals, and rewards them diligently.  Why cant we see any movies that the ending is totally a happy one anymore?  Wouldn't you like to see that?  If not, then don't see a movie, just turn on the news. "},{"Title":"A family favorite.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  My wife and I love this film for so many reasons.  But, chief among them is the scene between Agnes Morehead and Hayley Mills when Pollyanna explains the reason for her outlook on life.  The other most striking moment occurs when Pollyanna speaks to the Reverend Ford (Karl Malden) about her father. My wife and I think that the film is really an early version of TOUCHED BY AN ANGEL.  This is a regular Friday night film for our family and it never ceases to arouse another question or stimulate a discussion about something. The film has an interesting paradox in it.  The image of a simple, happy, if not ideal, time in the history of our country yet so many folks unhappy and in need of someone to cheer them up.  Seems applicable even today. "},{"Title":"Good film with sweet and simple message.","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  This film is one of Disney's finest live action movies. Perhaps others feel that the British are being misrepresented by this honest, warm, and pleasant little girl. Who knows. In any case, the wit and charm of this movie is rarely seen today. With a great cast that includes Richard Egan, Carl Malden, and Hayley Mills, this is a great movie, particularly in the summer, for kids and adults.  "}{"Title":"Americana with an English twist.","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  I think that Pollyanna is a fine film.  Its humor and charm are broad and rough-hewn of the Mark Twain variety.  Thrown into this American mix, in the leading role, came a wonderfully subtle and natural, English actress named Hayley Mills.  In her American film debut, she captivated audiences to the extent that she received a special Oscar that year for outstanding performance by a child actor.  Hayley was unlike anything we (Americans) had ever seen.  Disney's adaptation of Pollyanna from Eleanor H. Porter's novel is good.  The supporting characters are uniformly fine.  Karl Malden's fire and brimstone sermon is still hilarious. "},{"Title":"Little girl brings joy and hope wherever she goes","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Wise beyond her years little girl, played to perfection by Hayley Mills, brings a breath of new life and happiness to a town long kept under the thumb of a haughty, unhappy, domineering and wealthy woman. Very good film for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Good '60s Disney movie, but not the best","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Disney was making many quality family movies during the '60s, including Pollyanna, which I found to be not as great as some other films from the studio. I enjoyed this movie, even though its been 42 years since it was made. Many of the actors give strong performances, and Mills shines as the title character. It was very interesting and entertaining to watch her bring happiness into the lives of everyone in the town. My only caution is that the pacing of the movie seems to be a bit slow. Other than that, this is another timeless Disney treasure that I think many families will be able to enjoy for a long time. "},{"Title":"Not so outdated, a valuable Disney output!","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" A Disney's vintage live action mounted with magnificent Technicolor treatment, running more than 2 hours, POLLYANNA is a life-affirming fairytale directed by old-hand writer David Swift as his feature debut, while accidental tragedy sweeps under its carpet.A young girl named Pollyanna (Mills), who has lost her parents and is adopted by her aunt Polly (Wyman) in Harrington's Town, where she is not just a prim wealthy matriarch, but also the mighty decision-maker of the whole town, yes, she is the sole heiress of Harrington family. So up from the mayor Karl (Crisp), the minister Paul Ford (Malden), down to her house staff, assistant Nancy (Olson), cook Tillie (Shaw) and maid Angelica (Canfield), everyone is either intimidated by her supremacy or surrendered to the vested interest involved.Therefore, Pollyanna's arrival is destined to break the unhealthy equilibrium and bring her ingenuously sanguine school of thought into the town by winning over everyone! It will hardly work in an authentically cynical world, but thankfully it is in Disneyland, the stranger- shunning recluse Mr. Pendergast (Menjou in his final silver screen presence) is actually a Mr. Nice Guy, and the cantankerous bed-ridden Mrs. Snow (Moorehead, shines in her scene-stealing bellyaching) is no more than a big baby just needs a little bit of motivation. Even Reverend Ford can be generously granted a thorough catharsis through Pollyanna's seemingly unintentional chit-chat. The point is in Harrington's Town, there is no evil, even for Aunt Polly, she is never malevolent, in fact she is just shackled by her self-appointed lofty duty to act as a role model for the townsfolk, as discreetly as possible. Her strong intention to maintain the ancient orphanage is more for the building's legacy other than her own sake, albeit a better solution is to build a new one. So, things can have been tread lightheartedly until DP Russell Harlan's ominous overlooking shots raise no less fear for agoraphobic than Hitchcock's VERTIGO (1958, 8/10), also amps up the suspense is Paul J. Smith's ferociously taut accompanying score which in most of time is as jolly as a bumblebee in the spring. For those who haven't read the novel from Eleanor H. Porter (me included), it is a shocking twist, and in one second, we may even believe we will lose her forever, only if it was true, the film would be worshiped for its groundbreaking bravura and gutsy dare to defy Disney's family-friendly quintessence. Although it turns out to be a bluff, the movie is excellent in at least tricking me into believe it even for a split second. Hayley Mills won a Juvenile Award in the Oscars, which in my opinion, the Academy should keep it aside from the usual acting branch (in that case we could have avoided the glaring category fraud cases such as Hailee Seinfeld and Tatum O'Neal), Mills is quite distinctive from other cherubic child sensations, she is neither a pretty doll nor a resplendent princess, she is plainly approachable, Mills illuminates the screen with her refined line-delivery and urgent sincerity without ever over-acting or dumbing down to memories by rote. Jane Wyman also establishes a powerhouse omnipresence in her absolute wheelhouse, never flaunts in the abysmally ambiguous villain categorization where she is, her aunt Polly is a victim of overpriced dignity, she enriches her with every bit of nuance which may not in the script. Most supporting characters are cartoon-ish, Richard Egan is quite a dull as Dr. Chilton and Nancy Olson is unprecedentedly harsh at the beginning, but Karl Malden's hectoring Sunday sermon is very amazing to watch and not to go deep into religion, people are either too devout or put-upon to hear it for three years, still is not long enough to brainwash their simpleton minds. "},{"Title":"Charming piece of Americana from Disney...","Date":"27 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Eleanor Porter's novel about a young orphaned girl who brightens the lives of a whole town with her sunny disposition makes for charming film entertainment. The film could easily have become sappy and saccharine, but is saved by the sincerity of the performances by an impressive cast- Jane Wyman, Richard Egan, Karl Malden (DEATH COMES UNEXPECTEDLY!), Agnes Moorehead, Donald Crisp, Adolphe Menjou, Nancy Olson, to name a few. And then, of course, is Hayley Mills in the title role. Mills is natural and unaffected in the role, and makes Pollyanna feel like a real girl. The film is a bit on the long side, but the running time is used well, allowing Pollyanna's relationships with the townsfolk to fully develop, and to allow the audience to see just how much her presence contributes to the town. The film also displays some immense and richly designed period sets and costumes. With a whimsical musical score by Paul Smith, this easily becomes one of the best Disney films ever produced and makes for some high-quality family entertainment. The film is sweet, but not overbearingly so. We could use a little more sweetness in films today. A feel-good film, if ever there was one. "},{"Title":"Contagious attitudes","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" It's a film that brings you into the setting with the players. It's fun being in the kitchen with the irascible cook, both before and after her transformation. Didn't you enjoy running around with Nancy as she sneaks her kisses with her handsome beau - James Drury (sigh). What a relief when Pollyanna relieves the tension (just by being a natural girl behind the palm, etc.) at the town meeting and other occasions when Auntie is being her typical unbendable stick in the mud. Pollyanna's eye popping reaction to the brimstone sermon helps out there as well. Now for something really different ... Somehow, thought of The Strange Love of Martha Ivers - the situation in reverse. In Ivers, the niece goes the other way with an arbitrary aunt - very much the other way. She makes the very worst of the situation. Pollyanna's way is much more powerful. Both positive and negative attitudes are contagious. There is a draw in both cases. In Pollyanna, you are drawn up, and people come back for that. "},{"Title":"Pleasant Comedy","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Pollyanna comes to live with her aunt, who practically owns the town because of her immense wealth, and spreads good cheer everywhere she goes. Pleasant Disney entry is good entertainment for the family. Mills is cute in the title role and she is surrounded by a fine cast of familiar faces, including Wyman as the domineering aunt, Egan as an earnest doctor, Malden as a fiery preacher, Olson as love-sick maid, Menjou as a disgruntled old man, and Moorehead as a cantankerous old woman. The change in tone towards the end is somewhat jarring and it becomes overly sentimental, but for the most part it is quite enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Monumental Hollywood Injustice","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This film was made during an era in which work by juvenile actors was treated with shameful condescension. Here, Haley Mills was given a special Juvenile Oscar for her performance as the title character. Watch this and see her hold her own against several outstanding adult actors. Better yet, watch this movie and Butterfield 8 back-to-back as I did a few years ago and see which leading lady did the better work. Elizabeth Taylor won the Oscar that year for Best Actress, but it is clear now that Mills deserved that Oscar. Back then, the Academy could toss a sop to a child actor with impunity. It's too bad that Oscars can't be re-awarded after 50 years to adjust obvious cases of injustice. The test of time and popular appeal have proved that Mills was in fact the most outstanding actress of 1960. The highest praise one can give Taylor for Butterfield 8 was that she obviously phoned in her performance because that's what the role demanded. Hogwash. Taylor's Oscar that year was a sympathy award for a glamorous queen of the box office who had had health problems. The little girl would just have wait. "},{"Title":"All you need is love.","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Pollyanna should appeal to adults who have kept their child's soul.Today's brats may find it slow-moving,overlong (2 hours +) and not exactly action-packed.But they would certainly be scared by Karl Malden's interminable sermon as we were when the movie was theatrically released .Anyway,which director (in a film aimed at the young audience) would devote five (you read well) minutes to a minister ranting about the perils of disbelief? David Swift succeeded in creating the atmosphere of a small town circa 1900.The setting are sumptuous ,particularly Jane Wyman's desirable mansion.The supporting cast (Agnes Moorehead,Adolphe Manjou,Malden)gives the story (full of finer felings) substance.With its sparkling colors,its cousin Fred,its America the Beautiful  sung by cute photogenic Hayley Mills wrapped in the flag ,its mini-rainbows,its large slices of cake,its attacks against bigotry and the power of money,its plea for tolerance,love and the pursuit of happiness for everyone,its all-my-friend-are-here finale and its joie de vivre ,Pollyanna remains a nice Disney production.Like this?try thisNell 1994 Michael Apted "},{"Title":"Overall Pollyanna is a big winner.","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Pollyanna is a winner. I loved it because it makes me happy every time I watch it. Anyone who can't laugh and cry with this movie has no emotion at all. Hayley Mills is adorable and so talented, and in the story, as Pollyanna, she is an old soul and wiser that the many snooty people in the town. She prevails over the negativity of her Aunt Polly and the grouchy neighbor in bed, Mrs. Snow, and gets everyone back on track and loving life. Some fall in love, some adopt orphans, some stand up to their spouses, some forgive others for their mistakes, after encountering the positive Pollyanna. When Polly falls out of a tree and gets paralyzed, she is the one who won't be glad. But when the town turns out to say goodbye, she gets it right back. Beautiful scenery, gorgeous vintage houses, and many humorous scenes, make this a family must. I had seen it many times before I had my own child, and when she was ready, we watched it over and over. Whenever I need to have a GLAD day, I put it on. "}{"Title":"Pollyanna","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Anyone who has ever felt loneliness, must know the feeling of an empty room. It is painfully obvious that we have created a society of lonely people. As the patterns of living become more complex, it becomes harder and harder to attain personal peace. Watch this film and I'm confident that you'll be twice times eternity the person you were before. "},{"Title":"Don't Be Fooled By Pre-teen Appearances","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  A period piece that boasts about The Glad Game?  Ready to tune out?  So was I, until I got what was happening.  This movie is profound, not only in its execution of story, but in the relevant, lovely message it naturally brings, as opposed to the message it sells.  I've viewed it 5 times and each time, I am newly informed as to how I can adjust my attitude for a better way of life.  I come from a school of thought where sunny is ridiculed and message movies are tedious, so the lead is an obvious target of disdain. Stay with Pollyanna awhile and watch her reform all the bitter, crusty malcontents on the planet into fans with a straightforward logic and uncanny point of view.  A true heroine.    "},{"Title":"I admit, one of my favorites!!!","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Might be SPOILERS!!!Yeah, yeah, we all associated the name of Pollyanna with annoying optimism, cheerfulness and gladness,  but really Disney's Pollyanna is a child who keeps her sadness and lonliness at bay with her Glad Game.  I can't blame her for striving so fervently to keep a brave smile on her face.  Her parents are dead, her clothes are too big for her, and everyone regards her with some kind of piteous scorn. Welcome to Harrington, a little New England town pretty much founded by Pollyanna's Great Uncle. The town is alive with a feud between Mayer Warren (Donald Crisp) and Aunt Polly (Jane Wyman, who NAILS the aura of prim propriety) about whether or not the ol' orphanage ought to be repaired or just torn down and rebuilt,  but Pollyanna, while trying to deal with her own inner problems, soon enough begins to help people in town with theirs.  She makes friends with the old town hypochondriac Mrs. Snow (Agnes Moorehead,)who is so convinced that she is dying that she actually picks out her coffin lining and handles!!!; a mischievious orphan boy named Jimmy Bean (Kevin Corcoran),  and Mr. Pendergrass, the old town recluse who(seemingly) hates little kids.  Aunt Polly's maids, who seemed at first to hate her, soon love her to death. Not to mention an old friend of Aunt Polly's Young Doctor Chilton (Richard Egan), and the passionately loudmouthed parish preacher, Reverend Ford (Good ol' Karl Malden!!!). The only person whose heart Pollyanna can't seem to win is, who else, prim, proper, politically correct Aunt Polly. What is the plot of Pollyanna??? Probably just a story about how a girl of unfortunate circumstances teaches a bickering town with petty rivalries what life is all about...just being glad you're alive, healthy and loved by your friends and family.   "},{"Title":"Cynics won't like it...but they should watch it!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Pollyanna has had a hard life she grew up in poverty overseas as a missionary kid, both parents have died, and she was then sent to live with an emotional amputee of an aunt who makes no secret of her dislike for the girl. I admire her pursuit of happiness in spite of these difficult circumstances. Her model of always looking for the bright side changes the nature of the town and is a refreshing change to recycled teen angst flicks. Some may charge it with being cheesy, nostalgic, or dated. I concede all of these in some measure, but I still like it! "},{"Title":"Adds new meaning to the phrase Good old-fashioned fun","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"      This is a film that is still after several years one of my favorites in the Disney canon. Hayley Mills gives the performance of her childhood as the optimistic twelve-year-old who charms her aunt's entire town and learns to be happy even when she runs into a tragedy of her own. The all-star supporting cast is first rate as well Oscar winner Jane Wyman (Johnny Belinda) is Pollyanna's stern Aunt Polly, Richard Egan (A Summer Place) is her former love interest, Oscar winner Karl Malden (A Streetcar Named Desire) is the town pastor, Nancy Olsen (Sunset Boulevard) is Nancy, Polly's housekeeper, Agnes Moorehead (tv's Bewitched) is hilarious as the crotchety invalid Mrs. Snow and Adolph Menjou (Golden Boy) is the reclusive Mr. Pendergast. The score by Paul Smith (a Disney regular in the score department) is brilliant and the sets and costumes are lavishly designed (shame on those Oscar fools for their snub). Anyway, this is a terrific film with no flaws of any kind and a treat for all ages! "},{"Title":"A great feel good movie","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  I love this movie.It always makes me happy every time I see it.  Hayley Mills is great as the glad girl who brightens up the town and the rest of the cast is also wonderful.They just don't make movies like this anymore, wholesome and perfect for the entire family.Try watching it when your down, you might be singing a different song by the end.  "},{"Title":"Pollyanna is a glad game I will play several times over!","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Pollyanna has become the descriptive word for the cynical who believe joy in life is nothing more than a ruse.  Pollyanna does come across as a picture painted with too rosy of a brush, but art is not always about looking at the ugliness of life.  Art, or film in this case, sometimes needs to inspire and transcend the real and point us to something better.  Or as said in Man of La Mancha, but maddest of all to see life as it is and not as it should be.  I love the picture because it does that for us.  It shows the incredible power of love to transform lives, to wake people up to the joys in life.  Who doesn't need a little more of that from time to time?  I highly recommend the film to the cynical and not so cynical.  Take a break from the ugly and visit life the way it could be lived. "},{"Title":"A deliciously subversive adult film for kids","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" It is well worth taking another look at POLLYANNA if you and your family have not seen it for a long time. You will be delighted to realize just how subversive this intelligent witty film is. In fact Pollyanna's surname IS Wittier. People who carp that this is a syrupy sweet film and moan about Disney saccharine movies are missing the point. POLLYANNA is a sly film about misuse of power, loneliness, bullying and meanness using a good natured teen to counterpoint a town of adults who have lost their way in their own lives. She has to be a strong opposite in order for each adult to have a revelation about their own unpleasant behavior. The key adult is her Aunt Polly who has not had sex for a long time, as a result she is bitter and bossy and all the town is afraid to stand up to her. Aunt Polly's sexual frustration is pointed out several times because, in a family film as sharp as this you can have very adult situations wrapped in gauze and acceptable as a character flaw. Pollyanna simply by being positive (and clever and funny) has a profound affect on everyone in need of re awakening. Pollyanna even takes on the hypocrisy of the church and the contents of the bible One astonishing and powerful scene is in an open field on a very hot day with the church Pastor (a terrific Karl Malden) is practicing his latest fire and brimstone scare campaign. Pollyanna visits him and by being her intelligent self politely demolishes his mindset. He is found later by his wife collapsed with a overwhelming awareness of where he has been wrong. He then becomes a catalyst for motivating the town to stand up to Aunt Polly's sabotage of all their lives. What is so deliciously refreshing about POLLYANNA is that is it simple courtesy and commonsense from the mouth of a confident blossoming 13 year old girl (as 'the future') ...the milk mustache scene is completely THERE in mid screen for any slow learners. The direction is terrific and hilarious and there are many big laughs in small moments scattered through the film; Jimmy and the fish, Pollyanna imitating a cow chewing, the granny playing the drums, Pollyanna being handed sandwiches while hiding in a bush in the conservatory.... loads of crowd pleasing moments for a big audience of families to relish. Particularly moving is the whole subplot about the prisms of light. Agnes Moorehead has a hilarious turn as a hypochondriac who comes good and helps find Pollyanna a doll. Many many matching emotional moments all through this film. Adolph Menjou also has a great spot as the town scary man supposedly with a cellar full of slaves and rats. So take my advice and look for the wickedly funny jokes at the expanse of the status quo and have a wonderful time laughing and wiping tears with your kids and you embrace every magnificently produced sly comedy moment of this utterly clever heartwarming film. POLLYANNA is a complete success. Even vintage car enthusiast are included in the delighted audience for this film. The very funny opening scene of the naked boy swinging on a rope will alert you to the fact this is a film with a very wicked agenda. The production values of antiques costumes and gorgeous visuals are as lavish as MY FAIR LADY. And thank your lucky stars that it wasn't remade with Lindsay Lohan as THE PARENT TRAP was. "},{"Title":"Sentimental family film is nostalgic and entertaining with some fine performances...","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" POLLYANNA succeeds as a wonderful vehicle for HAYLEY MILLS, who was rightly awarded a special juvenile Oscar for her role as the sunshine girl who spreads cheer and good will to a town that really needs some cheering. JANE WYMAN is fine as her stern and wealthy aunt and the rest of the cast is equally impressive in a variety of supporting roles.Disney has given the tale a wholesome flavor with sets and costumes entirely in keeping with the early 1900s era and spared no expense in hiring the best players for the interesting supporting characters.KARL MALDEN has a fine time with the role of a hellfire and brimstone preacher talking about unconverted souls. NANCY OLSON is Wyman's maid who is told not to carry on a relationship with a suitor while under her employ. RETA SHAW is a gruff scullery maid. KEVIN CORCORAN is a mischievous schoolboy with his own method of catching fish. RICHARD EGAN is a doctor friend from Wyman's past who still harbors feelings for Wyman (as Aunt Polly). ADOLPHE MENJOU is the misunderstood meanest man in the world, according to little Kevin Corcoran.And AGNES MOOREHEAD does her usual scene-stealing turn as a crotchety hypochondriac.Although the tale itself might be too syrupy and too commonplace for some folks, it moves along at a brisk pace under David Swift's direction but could have used some tighter editing, with a running time of 2 hours and 14 minutes. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming and entertaining","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" If you have not yet seen this classic Disney movie, do yourself a huge favour and see it immediately. It will remind you of exactly how much can be achieved in 2 hours, where every aspect of good movie-making is carefully crafted into a beautiful whole. Hayley Mills is the obvious standout and her line delivery, facial expressions, and interactions with others are simply exquisite. She embodies the innocence and clarity of youth, while also demonstrating a wicked and vibrant spirit, and a profound sense of wonder at the world around her. The film actually demonstrates how much *can* be achieved in terms of engaging the viewer in the limited time-frame this medium permits. Highly recommended! "}{"Title":"Is RECICLE just trying to be different?","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Maybe RECICLE just wanted to be sure that his/her opinion would be noticed. For the most part,this is a delightful movie about a time when you didn't have to lock your doors at anytime.If this movie was re-made currently,it probably would be rated R even though it is essentially a child's movie. Maybe we should have a rating CGChild Guidance? May I diverge and state my opinion of contemporary movies by saying that I haven't been to a movie theatre since 1974. Whenever I check the listings of movies being shown on television, I note the year of release and not the title.Thumbs down on anything after 1969 (usually).Incidentally,this title was first made in 1920 and featured Mary Pickford (Mrs.Douglas Fairbanks,Sr.) of Toronto,Canada at age twenty-eight.(Reference-  Forty Years Of Screen Credits,Vols.IandII by John T Weaver) published in 1970. "},{"Title":"Hayley Mills an all-American British girl-next-door","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Despite a curious penchant for licking her lips, young Hayley Mills (in only her second film) is a pleasant and lovely presence on the screen. Playing an optimistic orphan who comes to stay with her rigid aunt, Mills really is Pollyanna--a cheerful sprite not above getting into some mild mischief. She matches wits wonderfully with curmudgeons like Agnes Moorehead (in a sparkling performance) and Jane Wyman (who takes a little too long to come around, but when she does--opening up the front doors of her home--it's very rewarding). I tired soon of Karl Malden's early blustering as the town preacher, but the rest of the supporting players are engaging and colorful. Too bad the ending doesn't tell us if Pollyanna is going to be all right. Granted, it's already a lengthy movie, but I would've liked to have seen her on crutches or something. As for Hayley Mills, she works her big blue eyes and cherubic face to good advantage. The Disney magic is firmly in place, yet with the wrong actress in the leading role, the film might never have been this moving. *** from **** "},{"Title":"The Power That One Person Has to Change Those Around Them","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This is one of the movies I can watch again and again. There may be spoilers ahead, so if you have not seen the film, you may wish to watch it first--you won't be disappointed.This is the first of a number of films Hayley Mills did for Walt Disney, and probably the best of the lot. A powerful story, from the Eleanor Porter novel of the same name (which, by the was is a hoot to read), well acted with beautiful cinematography, sets and costuming.Pollyanna (Miss Mills), is the orphaned niece of Miss Polly Harrington (Jane Wyman), an old maid, who is the Grand Dame of the town bearing her family name. Pollyanna comes to live with Aunt Polly after the death of her missionary parents.Pollyanna's positive and hopeful attitude in each and every circumstance she meets confronts all the adults in town with an alternative that grates at their normal approach to life. One by one, each person begins to see that there is more to life than just their day-to-day existence and they begin to reach out to each other because of their genuine respect for each other than because of a feeling of duty or responsibility. The grand turn-around is best embodied in the character of Reverend Ford (Karl Malden), the pastor of the town's Community Church, when he literally has a come to Jesus moment when Pollyanna brings him a note from her Aunt. The change in the town is shown in their response to a great tragedy that occurs and how they come together to meet the need brought about by the tragedy.Many other faces you will see in the film are Kevin Corcoran as Jimmy Bean (another orphan), Adolphe Menjou as Mr. Pendergast (the town hermit), Edward Platt as Ben Tarbell (a prominent citizen), Agnes Moorehead as Mrs. Snow (a bed-ridden hypochondriac), Nancy Olsen, Reta Shaw and Mary Grace Canfield as household servants, James Drury and Richard Egan as a couple of heartthrobs, and the list could go on forever. It appears that the cast had a great time putting this one together.From the rope swing into the swimmin' hole to the sign change at the railroad station on the way out of town, this movie is a delight! "},{"Title":"A truly delightful family classic","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" The Disney Studios scored a bullseye with their 1960 classic Pollyanna, a lavishly mounted film adaptation of the famed novel by Eleanor H. Porter, about a young girl's arrival in a small turn of the century community, practically owned by her iron-fisted aunt, and her effect on her aunt and on the community as a whole.Hayley Mills is enchanting, as usual, as the glad girl, a child whose eternal optimism seems to rub off on everyone she comes in contact with, except with her own Aunt Polly and it is the slow burn of the relationship between these two and Pollyanna's eventual melting of her aunt's icy exterior, that makes this wholesome family film a worthwhile experience.Mills received surprisingly solid support from Jane Wyman, an actress who usually played good girls, as Polly's emotionally distant Aunt Polly, Richard Egan as the town doctor, who has always been attracted to Polly, but has always been kept at arm's length by the woman, Karl Malden as the Reverend, and Nancy Olson as Polly's housekeeper.David Swift's simple but direct screenplay, his spirited direction, and expensive production values are the final touches to a family classic that still holds up pretty well. "},{"Title":"A must see for all in the family","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Both Hollister & O'Toole agree that Pollyanna is timeless, filled with lessons that are relevant today (community is larger than any one individual). Then there is the Lincoln Quote about looking for the good in someone that turned out to not be from Lincoln at all.And, can we discuss the rich collection of actors brought together, each with an character trait that, when brought all together, make up all of us as individuals?Check out our podcast review.http//www.screenthoughts.net/pollyanna-review/ "},{"Title":"POLLYANNA (David Swift, 1960) ***","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I watched this as part of my ongoing Oscar marathon, since it landed child actress Hayley Mills in her U.S. debut (and only second official role) an Outstanding Juvenile Performance Honorary Award; incidentally, it was the last time such recognition was bestowed by the Academy and in all, there had been 11 such occasions and 12 recipients &#x96; oddly enough, in only a handful of cases (as here) were specific movies cited, namely Margaret O'Brien for MEET ME IN ST. LOUIS (1944), Ivan Jandl for THE SEARCH (1948) and the Jon Whiteley-Vincent Winter team in the recently-viewed THE KIDNAPPERS (1953)! Anyway, this is among the better regarded (getting a ***1/2 rating from Leonard Maltin!) and more prestigious of the Walt Disney live-action productions (based a much-filmed children's literary classic &#x96; including an anime series from the mid-1980s I recall being shown on Italian TV in my childhood days! &#x96; and featuring a splendid cast) and obviously made an international star of Sir John Mills' elder 14-year old daughter (who had already impressed audiences opposite her father in the acclaimed British thriller TIGER BAY 1959). The expected double dollops of Disney mawkishness and corny Americana are here, to be sure, but thankfully kept largely at bay by first-time writer/director Swift (whose own career was pretty short-lived!) for the overly generous 134-minute duration there is only one brief song interlude (sung by Mills, of course) and a lengthier dance number at an all-important bazaar sequence. The film has been issued as a 2-Disc Vault Edition DVD, but I only acquired the main feature from ulterior sources.All that remains for me now is to talk about the stellar cast Mills herself (a very pleasing and natural performance as the titular orphan girl who literally enlivens the fabric of the morose town she visits), Jane Wyman (her embittered matriarchal aunt), Richard Egan (the rebellious doctor and prodigal son of the community who is in love with the latter), Karl Malden (the hellfire-and-brimstone preacher who eventually softens his Bible-thumping grip on the townspeople), Nancy Olson (Wyman's liberal maid and Pollyanna's confidante), Adolphe Menjou (his last film role, as the proverbial hermetical town ogre with a heart of gold), Agnes Moorehead (an inveterate hypochondriac and the feminine counterpart of the latter), Donald Crisp (Egan's uncle and the ineffectual mayor), Kevin Corcoran (a freespirited orphan who befriends Pollyanna and is ultimately adopted by Menjou), Edward Platt (the typical henpecked husband who gradually finds his spine) and Ian Wolfe (an elderly citizen).It is worth noting that, apart from setting off Mills on a brief run of Disney movies &#x96; THE PARENT TRAP (1961; a dual role), IN SEARCH OF THE CASTAWAYS (1962; one of the studio's best efforts), SUMMER MAGIC (1963), THE MOON SPINNERS (1964) and THAT DARN CAT! (1965) &#x96; it also meant a follow-up for Corcoran to TOBY TYLER (1960; his most notable 'vehicle' among a handful of other Disney films). Apart from several members of the cast being themselves past Oscar winners (Wyman, Malden and Crisp) and nominees (Olson, Menjou and Moorehead), most also ended up doing stints in long-running TV series Mills in THE FLAME TREES OF THIKA (1981), Wyman in FALCON CREST (1981-90), Egan in CAPITOL (1983-87), Malden in THE STREETS OF SAN FRANCISCO (1972-77), Moorehead in BEWITCHED (1964-72), etc. "},{"Title":"Pollyanna (and young Hayley Mills) tame a Tough Town!","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This Disney movie charms me now as much as it did...when I watched it -- Sunday Nights (in two parts surely) on The Wonderful World of Disney - on TV years ago!Read the other reviews to get details. It's a fine family movie, but unless you need some gratuitous scenes, the story will reach anyone!Pollyanna is a fine adaptation of Pollyanna the novel, a huge 1913 bestseller. This film represents...Walt Disney at his best...with quality actors (wow...just put the top 10 actors' names into IMDb and see how IMPRESSIVE each actor is!!!) The story's essence is captured well in a quality script...and a believable young Pollyanna in Hayley Mills. (Note...her father was a great actor also - Sir John Mills.) Am GLAD that Hayley Mills got a special child's Oscar. She deserved it.So Pollyanna wins over her town...and young tween Hayley Mills tames Aunt Polly (Jane Wyman), as well as Karl Malden, Adolphe Menjou, Donald Crisp, and many, many other fine actors. "},{"Title":"Something about which to be glad","Date":"3 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" It's surprising how long this epic actually runs - almost two and a half hours - given it doesn't feel like an endurance to watch Hayley Mills as the blissfully naive Pollyanna, barely tolerated by her childless Aunt Polly (Wyman), going on to win the hearts of her adopted community after life-changing encounters and a terrible accident.Steve Corcoran is memorable as the rosy-cheeked little rascal whom Pollyanna befriends, as is Agnes Moorhead as the 'cantankerous' bed-bound spinster with an apparent heart of ice, slowly and surely melted by the unassuming youngster. Others may prefer Adolphe Menjou and his refracted light crystals, while Nancy Olson has a reasonable supporting role as the kindly housekeeper. Richard Egan plays Wyman's love interest, frustrated by her obstinate and negative attitude for which, Pollyanna is just the antidote she privately craves but publicly rejects.It's a typical feel good movie, although the climax is quite confronting if you're ten years old. Plenty of colourful characters of contrast and light-hearted child's play that should entertain the whole family. Not so sure about the patriotic national anthem solo at the film's finale, but otherwise, it's a substantial film that benefits from great performances by Wyman, Moorhead and Mills and consistently watchable. "},{"Title":"an absolute treat for the whole family","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" i can't say enough great things about this wonderful Disney vehicle that launched Hayley mills career in the sixties. based on the book of the same name, it stars mills as the effervescent Pollyanna as she brings joy and happiness to a small town ruled by her seemingly cold and indifferent aunt played by jane Wyman. with a-list stars such as Richard Egan, Karl malden, Nancy Olsen, Agnes moorehead and countless others, it's an excellently written and direct film from start to finish. while the film runs well over the two hour mark, one doesn't notice as it is well-paced. when the film was released, many male viewing audiences were not interested as they felt the story line was geared more towards women and young girls. there is a lot to like here as the films touches on the many different lives of the towns habitants and how Pollyanna changed them through her charm and presence. she is not one to be deterred or stopped in her tracks by someone who is a grouchy hermit such as Mr. pendergas or Agnes moorehead's character who is chronically ill and forever in her nightgown and bed. somehow, Pollyanna is able to add some sunshine and life into their dreary existence. i especially enjoyed the scenes where the town has a carnival and everyone participates and for once without the rule of aunt Polly, begin to experience the joy and happiness of the good things in life. over-all i suggest everyone see this film at least once. you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Shamelessly saccharine, but with several fine actors in supporting roles","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" A saccharine movie that is willing to turn all the screws in order to get an awww from the audience. The ending is a shameless attempt to tug heartstrings and offers no resolution. There are several entertaining scenes with a grumpy Agnes Moorehead, best known as the imperious mother from the TV show Bewitched, and Adolphe Menjou is also entertaining as another local curmudgeon. The cynical attitudes of these characters provide welcome relief from all the rainbows and sunshine that Pollyanna force-feeds people. Karl Malden, better known for any number of classic films from On the Waterfront (1954) to Patton (1970), does a fine job in the role of the town priest. "}{"Title":"Overlong and a little slow, with a jarring change of tone towards the end, but exquisitely filmed and well acted","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Considering that Pollyanna was his debut, writer and director David Swift does a very good job here. Pollyanna does have its faults, but it is a solid adaptation of a charming book.Where Pollyanna isn't so strong is in the length and the pacing. At over 2 hours, the film is a little too long, while the film does move fairly slowly. My final flaw is that twenty minutes or so before the end, the tone changes and this change was somewhat jarring.Nonetheless, Pollyanna is exquisitely filmed with stunning cinematography, costumes and scenery, and the music is lovely. The script is well written and the story still has its charm. The direction is as solid as the film itself, while the acting is very good. Hayley Mills gives a spirited performance in the title role, while Agnes Moorehead comes very close to stealing the film. Karl Malden, Jane Wyman and Adolphe Menjou also do great turns as the cheerless citizens whose lives are transformed by Pollyanna.Overall, has its faults but it is a solid and charming film. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Still a delight after almost 50 years...","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Hayley Mills stars as an orphaned little girl who brings warmth to the hearts of everyone she meets in a town that BADLY needs it.I remember seeing this movie years ago when I was in the firth grade, which would put me at about 10 or 11 years old. We saw it as a class, one of those special times when a film was watched for pure enjoyment and that's all it was, and it was already about 15 years old, itself at the time, and, already, considered a classic. Hayley Mills debut in film was overseen, personally, by Walt Disney, who also produced the film, himself and set forth another film that has stood the test of time that only Disney could do. I wish I could track down more titles like these that I saw as a kid.As far as the film, itself, Jane Wyman did a great job playing the rich old spinster and Karl Malden plays a rare role in which he's someone who always tries to show a smile on his face.8 out of 10 stars! "},{"Title":"Humanity through a child's eyes","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" My main motivation for seeing Pollyanna was the wonderful 'Hayley Mills'. She won a special Oscar for her performance in the film, and Mills made this right in between 'Tiger Bay' and 'Whistle Down the Wind', two films that boast extraordinary performances from her. There's no comparison in quality between those two performances and her acting Pollyanna, but she still does a fine job with the lead role. And it is a pleasant enough film overall, even if one dripping in sentimentality and even though it pushes its message a bit too hard. The film kept me interested most of the time, and I was moved at times by the story.The plot of the film is very slim - a girl moves to a town where she is able to cause some morose individuals to changes their ways - however it does have a lot to say about optimism and how simple the world is through the eyes of a child. I was particularly impressed with the music used in the film. It is hardly ever just incidental. Most of the time the music reflects what Pollyanna is thinking or feeling her curiosity, her longing for acceptance, her excitement, etc.Pollyanna does not understand a lot of what is going on in the minds of the townsfolk. Mills succeeds in making her look as if she is on the verge of expressing her confusion out loud, only covering it up at the last minute by trying to see how some good can come. It is a gradual thing too that she develops - compared to how she blurts out about her aunt's wealth near the beginning. The film is a reminder of life during childhood, and trying to have a good time in a world with so much that one does not understand.The Technicolor processing gives the material an appropriately vibrant feel with sharp, intense colours. One especially good sequence for colour is when the camera photographs a boy looking underwater at a fish. The whole lake/river below the surface comes alive. The art direction and costumes are generally really good too. I wasn't around in 1900 to be able to comment properly on the costumes, however the detailed interior and exterior decoration is excellent, providing a real sense of the time.The film has a lot going in its favour, and for that reason it makes fairly good entertainment. It is not marvellous entertainment - there are not really enough laughs for it to be a comedy, nor enough drama for it to be a good drama - nor is it particularly complex film-making, but it is just a film that is made well enough that it can be enjoyed as well as admired to a degree. The characters are not much, the storyline is not much, and the film hammers the message home, but most of what it has to say about being happy in life, looking on the bright side, the charm of children and the joy of experiencing childhood, does come across well. "},{"Title":"a Disney classic","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" 'Pollyanna' is a film about a young girl that goes around making people happy and finding happiness in life. It's an inspiring little Disney film, and I enjoyed it when I was a child; I have not seen it since then, so it may not be as good from an adult's eyes as it was from the eyes of a child. This film seems to have been forgotten by today's audience, and it's one of those lost Disney gems that needs to be dusted off and shown again to a new audience and to those of us who remember. I thoroughly enjoyed watching this as a child, and I thought it was a lot of fun. Can't say how adults would find it, however. I would give this film a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Brilliant in almost every way","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Pollyanna is one of the best films I have seen lately. As in The Parent Trap, Hayley Mills does an amazing job with her appealing role, for which she won a special Academy Award. Mills plays Pollyanna, an orphan child who comes to a small town to live with her Aunt Polly and ends up reforming and changing the lives of the people of the town. It may sound predictable, and to a point it is, but it is the way in which the story is presented that makes it so good. So many of the scenes in this film are so well done, including Pollyanna bringing joy to a crabby old woman dying in bed, causing the local reverend (Karl Malden) to look for the good in people, and changing the attitudes of the servants in her own household. Consider who these people are at the beginning of the film and who they are by the end and you're bound to find this movie very moving. I admit that I was worried about how this film would end. It looked like it was going to be depressing after all we had been hoping for. Nevertheless, the ending scene is one of the most brilliant I have ever seen, and without giving it away, I have to warn you that it will touch you and bring tears to your eyes no matter who you are. What a great film that touches and inspires. One of Disney's all-time best live action movies.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A tale told with an innocent eye.Overshadowed by tragedy...........","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Meredith Wilson's The Music Man is really Pollyanna with tunes. Professor Hill comes into a small town and changes the lives of the inhabitants for the better in much the same way as Pollyanna herself does.His preference for the Sadder but wiser girl would have been satisfied by Miss Nancy Olson and you can easily imagine the townswomen doing Pick a little-talk a little. About the time this movie was released, Mr Robert Preston was scoring a personal triumph in Wilson's show.By the same token,Pollyanna is a personal triumph for Miss Hayley Mills,as much a surprise choice for the part as Vivien Leigh had been for Scarlett O'Hara a generation earlier. Veteran Mr Adolphe Menjou runs her close with a performance that is the sum of everything he had learned in his distinguished career.I found it very moving,a last hurrah worthy of a fine,sensitive actor. Pollyanna is not a children's movie,it is however a movie about children told with an innocent eye. Whilst Hayley Mills went on to have a long and successful career - indeed she is still appearing on TV in 2009 - malign fate had a far different destiny waiting for another little girl of her age who was an extra in the movie. The tragic Stephanie Lynn Gorman who can be seen to Hayley's right on the bandstand when she sings America the beautiful,was raped and murdered at her home in L.A.aged 15.Her killer has never been caught. God rest her soul. "},{"Title":"Is Pollyanna a nuisance?","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  It is difficult to fathom why Pollyanna has received so many good ratings in the database. This is the so-called Disney magic at its most cheesy. Most of the grumpy people that Pollyanna is supposed to be cheering up seem to be better off. This leads to Pollyanna seeming to be a nuisance and little more than an annoyance. There are some touching moments and there are times when you genuinely feel sorry for the girl but Pollyanna is overlong and at times cringe making. "},{"Title":"Stupid, simplistic and way too sweet","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" A little orphan named Pollyanna (Hayley Mills with her English accent intact) goes to live with her strict (but sweet) Aunt Polly (Jane Wyman). She's so nauseatingly sweet that all the mean old people in the town find warmth, love and happiness through her. Yuck! Even for Disney this is syrupy.This is a typical live action Disney film. Everybody talks in a G rated way, all the mean (but secretly nice) adults end up being sweet and kind and all the kids are ridiculously cute and lovable. The story itself is just ridiculous--even for Disney. A little orphan spreading peace and love all around. Sheesh! The acting is pretty bad too. Talented actors like Wyman, Richard Egan and Karl Malden (as a priest!) can do little with the lousy dialogue. Mills is terrible also --but she was only 14 when she did this. Only Agnes Moorehead manages a performance. The film also moves VERY slow--it runs over 2 hours! Also the last 20 minutes are so unbelievably manipulative I actually felt like throwing something heavy at the TV! Too long, too sweet and too unbelievable. This gets a 2 for Moorehead alone. "},{"Title":"Very Depressing","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  I'm sorry to say this, but this film made me very depressed. Not only was I horribly terrified by the dominant minister shouting at everyone, but the conclusion was so sad it made me feel awful. It didn't have the warm twinkle Disney feeling I'm used to, and in fact I think the only nice part in the entire film is where Mrs. Snow requests the doll as a prize for Pollyanna, who didn't really deserve it.Disney can do much better than this. "},{"Title":"Saccharine","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Toothy Hayley Mills portrays an orphan girl who comes to stay with her stand-offish aunt (Jane Wyman) in a small 1912 town and manages to change almost everybody's life. This overlong film is technically competent, with good costumes, period flavor, etc., but is brought down by overly sweet and all-too-predictable situations. Richard Egan is brought in solely as a love interest for the never-married Wyman character, Karl Malden is annoying and over-acts as a pompous preacher, while Nancy Olson is pretty and charming as a maid (and on the DVD documentary has hardly aged at all). Wyman, an astonishingly good actress, deserves better than this drivel. The picture has an ending that has to be seen to be (dis)believed.  "}]