[{"Title":"Gut-wrenching performance by leads","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I acquired this movie quite a few years a go and only just had my first viewing and was frankly astonished at Sophia's performance.  It is a multi-layered rich performance her anger at men, her absolute devotion to her daughter, the sadness and acceptance at being a widow of a passionless marriage to a much older man, her confusion at awakening feelings of sensuality, her politicization. The last 30 minutes of this movie are heartbreaking, her horror, helplessness and numbness at what has happened to her daughter are some of the most powerful moments I have seen on film.  A well deserved Oscar and Sophia, you are right up there with the gifted actors of the past century! 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable performance","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Sophia loren, undoubtedly and unarguably has delivered the greatest performance in the history of movie. Her performance as the widowed mother of a teen age girl in this movie that depicted the horrors of the second great war was absolutely heart-felt and perfect. Rarely can one actor or actress possibly rise to such occasion to deliver a performance of such magnitude. It demands pure talent. Full credit to the directing great Mr. De sica for his creation. Should be watched in its original version to get the best of it.  "},{"Title":"A harrowing epic of wartime travail...","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Rosetta (Eleanora Brown) is in love with Michele, a student known as The Professor (Jean-Paul Belmondo)... but Michele is attracted by Cesira (Sophia Loren) mother of Rosetta...As the Allies were near, and the bombardment more intense, running and frightened German Soldiers compelled Michelle by the force of arms to show them the road in order to escape through the mountains...Cesira decides to return to Rome with Rosetta...On their way, completely tired and distressed, they took shelter in a bombed-out church... There, they looked for some protection... They didn't know what was expecting them inside the walls of the holly church, in the shadow, in the darkness...From a sex symbol to a talented actress, Sophia gave the tragic performance of her life&#151;a mother in despair... Her solemn, profound, significant face, her tears and hatred, reflected the horror of War... Her formidable dramatic performance won her an Oscar in 1962... She also won her critical Awards in Cannes, England and New York...La Ciociara (Two Women) is a tribute to a great filmmaker... Sica's description of the portrait of the misfortune widow and her daughter in 1943 wartime Italy is certainly effective and powerful... "},{"Title":"Great Italian Cinema","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Sophia Loren, aside from being one of the most sumptuously sexy women I have ever seen, proves herself here to be a tremendous actress. She has a melodramatic Italian flair that impassions her lovably aggressive character, a widowed shopkeeper in Rome during the Allied bombing in WWII, who flees with her beloved daughter to her impoverish mountainous native region. Throughout the story, she proves to be a strong woman, seasoned by pain and not having lost the fire and fight in her.Like many European films of its time, Two Women is all about the characters and the current on which they flow through the film, a realistic capsule of a time and place. Vittorio De Sica, who made the beautifully small-scale film The Bicycle Thief, which is about a relationship between father and son, forms a companion piece with Two Women, which is about a relationship between mother and daughter. He addresses strikingly the unbearable love between a parent and their child.Truly one of the greatest Italian films, this is an absorbing, emotional, modest journey with wonderful music; coarse, down-to-earth cinematography from the wonderful old days of gritty film prints and old school hands-on editing; incredible acting not only from Loren but from the young actress playing her daughter, who drastically transforms; and also from Jean- Paul Belmondo, who convincingly plays completely against type; and a beautifully emotional final shot. For those who feel detached from older foreign films, especially neo-realist, I have yet to see an Italian neo-realist film any more alive than this one! "},{"Title":"A Mark of Daring","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Sophia Loren became the first player to win an Acting Oscar for a foreign language film in Two Women or La Ciociara in her native Italy. She plays the title role here, the other woman being her daughter played in La Ciociara by Eleanora Brown.The story here is a relatively simple one, Sophia and Eleanora leave Rome due to the bombing of Rome just prior to the Allied invasion of Italy. The political situation is in one state of flux to put it mildly. In a matter of days, Benito Mussolini was overthrown and General Badoglio put in charge of the government. But the Nazis suspecting something was afoot sent in troops and met the Allies in a pitched 21 day battle at Salerno which like Waterloo was a close run thing.At one point Jean-Paul Belmondo asks a couple of stray British paratroopers who landed way up behind enemy lines why the Allies didn't land in Rome. In fact they almost did land an army there, but Eisenhower canceled the landing at the last moment and probably saved a lot of lives doing so.But this isn't about great battles, it's about Two Women just trying to survive the ravages of war in the best way they can. Sophia decides their best place is in her old village, south towards Naples. Before the film ends, she's given plenty of reason to rethink that decision.Sophia was the Best Actress in 1961 for this film and for reasons I don't understand it was not given any other Oscar nominations, including for Best Foreign Language Film and for Best Director for Vittorio DeSica. If La Ciociara has a fault it's that it's Sophia's show totally. The village characters and that of her one time lover Raf Vallone are left undeveloped. Only the daughter and young intellectual Belmondo who falls for the earthy Sophia seem to be on the verge of becoming three dimensional.The subject matter could never have been done in an American studio with the Code still firmly in place. I remember back in the day La Ciociara was shown at the art house circuit and many young juveniles considered it a mark of daring to get in and see Sophia Loren expose more than her American films had done up to that time.Sophia Loren deserved that Oscar, every bit of it. And you'll agree if you see La Ciociara. "},{"Title":"another great De Sica film","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  very sad film by vittorio de sica (famed director of the bicycle thief.) the first two thirds of the film move slowly, but it's still very engrossing. the final third of the film is pure cinematic tragedy. sophia loren won the oscar for best performance for a lead actress in this movie, and i beleive that she dearly deserved it. prior to seeing two women i had no idea what a terrific actress she was. her role as the mother desperately trying to shield her daughter from the horrors of the world is one of the finest that i have ever seen. this is a truly heartbreaking and beautiful film. "},{"Title":"A great movie about people damaged by war in their own country.","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  10/10I'm not sure how much I'm being influenced by my affinity for Isao Takahata's Hotaru no Haka--another great movie about non-soldiers hurt in their own country--but Two Women really sticks in my mind as a terrific example of normal characters dealing with extraordinary circumstances.(Possible Spoilers) Some have commented that the rape at the end seemed forced and that there wasn't enough time afterwards to deal with their emotions (after all, rape is a horrific, scarring event and there are entire movies devoted the the aftermath of rape), and at first I agreed.  However, this isn't a movie about rape or even about war, exactly.  What you have is the relationship between a mother and a daughter, and how the war almost broke them apart.  Sophia Loren's character is a fairly strong-willed widow who doesn't shy away from sex but doesn't seem to enjoy it, either.  She has a different opinion on how her daughter should act, and she tries to shelter her daughter from sex and men.  It's a classic case of Do as I say, not as I do, taken to an emotional peak not with the rape, but with the very last scene, when the two women fight about the silk stockings a young man gave the daughter after the dance.This is an incredible movie that should be available in a higher quality DVD than the Madacy version.  Anyway, see it and Hotaru no Haka back-to-back to see how WWII affected everyday people from enemy countries. "},{"Title":"Innocence lost in the fog of war","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Set in 1943 war torn Italy the movie Two Women is about a mother and daughter leaving Rome for the , what they think, safety of the countryside and going back to their little village in the hills and mountains in the Agro Pontino area just north of Rome. Sophia Loren in a somewhat non-glamorous role as Cesira a shop owner in the Italian capital who's estranged from her husband and is, at the time that we first meet her, having an affair with local food distributor Giovanni, Ralf Vallone. Taking care of her shy teenage daughter Rosetta, Eleanor Brown, Cesira has had enough of the almost daily and deadly bombing by the USAAF and RAF and leaves the city with her daughter by train for her home town. There's trouble almost as soon as the train leaves the city with it being derailed by an Allied air attack. Leaving the disabled train and on foot both Cesira and Rosetta make it to the village after they survive an air attack by a USAAF fighter that killed a farmer who was walking on the same road with them. After getting to the village things are more or less peaceful, with the war just an old and bitter memory, with Cesira meeting and falling in love with the local intellectual as well as socialist young collage student Michele,Jean-Paul Belmondo, who even young Rosetta takes a strong liking to. The almost forgotten war slowly catches up with Cesira and Rosetta and the people at the small village as the Allied forces break through the German lines and reach the outskirts of Rome. It soon becomes too dangerous for the village people to stay and they start to leave and go south to the Italian capital city which is now in US/Allied hands. Before this happened a squad of German soldiers entered the town and took Michele with them as a guide through the dangerous hills and valleys of the Argo Pontino.On their way to Rome the two women, Cesira & Rosetta, stop off at a bombed out church to get some rest and are later set upon by a group of French Colonial Moroccan troops. The Moroccans brutally beat and gang raped them leaving young Rosetta almost mute with fear and shame of what happened to her and her mother. Getting back on their way to the Italian capital Cesira & Rosetta are both picked up by a local truck driver Firindo, Renato Salvatore. Stoping off at a small town outside of Rome that night Rosetta who seemed to have completely lost her mind, since she and her mother were raped, sneaks out of the room that she sharing with Cesira and has an affair with the truck driver. This both sickened and outrages her already distraught mother. The movie ends with Cesira getting the terrible news that her lover Michele was shot and killed by the Germans as we later see both mother and daughter alone in their small room arm in arm crying and consoling each other as the movie slowly fades to black.Sophia Loren rightfully who got an Academy Award as best actress for 1961 in the role of Cesira was both feisty as well as touching as the long suffering Italian mom. The vicious rape scene in the bombed out church of Cesira and Rosetta was not only graphic and shocking. By having this outrage committed by the liberating allied troops instead of the occupying German soldiers it showed that there's nothing good that comes out of war on either side. "},{"Title":"A magnificent film about how human bonds redeem us from ourselves","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I gave this film 9/10 while understanding its weaknesses. First, as others note, the print is the worst I've ever encountered sometimes turning faces into gray pudding, but the problem was not so great to keep me from responding fully to the film's power, and I decided to evaluate the film rather than the print. I have more serious concerns about events at the film's climax which raise issues which are resolved too quickly. In fact these issues might be the subject of a whole new film, and if treated here they would require another hour of play time. The films hasty resolution of these issues makes important behaviors seem poorly motivated and unbelievable. However, the issues in question are not the central issues of the movie. When Cesira apologizes to her daughter (and at other points) I was left sobbing in spite of the film's failure to properly address the daughter's final trauma. This is not a about recovering from trauma. Rather, it is a film about human fallibility and self-deception or, as Michele puts it, You can't escape, not even from yourself. Cesira faults others while never examining her own behavior. Like those around her, she acts only to preserve her own immediate interests. At the other extreme. Michele's idealism prevents him from realizing his own humanity. Only Rosetta demonstrates the purity to see beyond self-interest, and the instinct to truly tell right from wrong. Her downfall is the tragedy of the film. Yet through all of this the film shows us how, when pushed to extremes, these people are capable of forging deep human bonds. Such bonds have the power to redeem all as they finally redeem Rosetta. I can't conclude without adding my own appreciation for Sophia Loren's extraordinary performance. "},{"Title":"Another great performance by Sophia Loren","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Very bad print (even on DVD), but very good movie. A war film that focuses more on the people who suffer, instead of telling the story of those fighting the battle. It's also a movie about love, relationship, bonding between a woman and her daughter. Sophia Loren's performance is stellar. Belmondo is also very good. Young Eleonora Brown's performance gets better during the film. The last 30 minutes of the movie are poignant. It's heartbreaking to listen to Cesira apologize to Rosetta. Watch it.Seen at home, in Toronto, on February 19th, 2006.81/100 (***) "}{"Title":"certainly not for those who aren't ready to shed some tears; the last half hour is vintage De Sica","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Two Women is powerful not just simply for its final half hour, even if that is, arguably (and I'd argue on the side of yes), some of the best drama Vittorio De Sica and his screenwriter Cesar Zavatinni created. It's a view into lives that, at least at the time, didn't get much time on cinema screens. We understand that this young mother, Cesira (VERY well deserved Academy Award winner Sophia Loren), has a kind of hard protective shell of the fiery, strong woman that today might seem to verge on being something to expect in an Italian or Spanish drama, but here is meant to be just that- a shell to guard off from the wretched horrors of a war which repeatedly she asks will it end soon? She also has to be strong for her thirteen year old daughter Rosetta (Eleonora Brown, excellent even if not considering it's a first performance), who still has a little innocence and admiration for those who are more good-hearted, if not as resourceful.This type as mentioned is in Michel (Jean Paul Belmondo, a curiously low-key performance considering his big hype as a suave star in France), who is a resistance fighter that Cesira and Rosetta come across while traveling away from Rome during bombing raids. We see them (Michel and Cesira) getting close, maybe too close, though she recognizes in him one of the only vestiges of common sense and decency, even if in a slightly shrewd (or just practical) manner that she can't totally grasp. She's been through the war, right along with her daughter, and there's layers that Loren grasps that pierce through the character; De Sica knows that she's capable of reaching these very real dimensions even before she has to go full tilt into the tragedy of the rape scene in the church. Loren's absolutely stunning in her gorgeous beauty, but in a way that works to make a comment on how her character has to keep guarded as well. Sometimes a look is just enough to suggest something. Other times, men might get a little more forceful. There's suggestion beneath some of the bigger scenes, and Loren is fantastic at grabbing them for all their worth.From the start, De Sica and Zavattini set the tone people walking on a street, suddenly the alarms sound, running, bombs drop. Should be business as usual, but it's still staggering for the mind to grasp. In a way, Cesira and Rosetta are in the midst of a kind of apocalyptic atmosphere, and we as the audience, even as we know where history will lead the characters, get wrapped up in the maelstrom of violence (one moment that's important is when the mother and daughter walk along a quiet road, a man on a bicycle passes, and a plane swoops down, shooting, the women duck, but the man is killed - the women look startled for just a moment, but hide it and go on their way) and with some political discourse thrown in from time to time as well (these might be the only weak spots of the film, but still very good scenes with a quick pace and sharp attention to mixing real actors and non actors, a slightly elevated neo-realism). And there are memorable scenes before that last half hour- just seeing the Germans appear up in front of the Italians, menacing in an almost surreal two-dimensional fashion, verbally abusive, taking bread. Scenes precede this, like a couple of brutes who threaten Cesira with a gun. But this one strikes it hard a state of mind in war cripples the mind.Finally, they come to the abandoned church, and the infamous scene occurs (filmed with a very effective zoom lens on Rosetta's eyes at a crucial moment, a kind of approximate exclamation point). It's a very careful study in the disintegration of the human spirit at this point, and more than once, De Sica and his writer, as in times before, pull sincerely and harshly at the heart strings. This time, however, is like seeing a Lifetime TV movie as done by the most sincere dramatist, ready to gage the emotions just by presenting the devastation straight on, and enhancing a theme the futility of escape in this environment. Rosetta can't stand that her mother didn't protect her more, she's almost shell-shocked, and after a tense scene riding back with an opera singing trucker (a small, great scene), she awakes at night to see she's run off with the trucker from before. She comes back, Cesira is furious, but not simply for that. A much greater tragedy has occurred, and it all comes crashing down. Even the most hardened and cynical moviegoer will be hard-pressed to hold back from crying as Loren brushes back her daughter's hair in the church, or tries to look away in the truck. And that final shot, however in sentiment as the final shots of Umberto D and Bicycle Thief, drive it on home like a dagger.One of the best films of 1960; a touching masterpiece in Italian cinema from one of the masters (if that's over-praising it much forgive me). "},{"Title":"magnificent and unusual film about war","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Before I tell about the movie, I must point out that the videotape I viewed was ALSO the most horrible quality print I have ever viewed--another reviewer also said pretty much the same about this. The Hollywood Classics brand should be ashamed to release such an ugly print and it desperately needs to be cleaned and restored. I know other companies have also released the film and I assume theirs MUST be better quality than this! AVOID IT LIKE THE PLAGUE!!! Now, on to the movie. This is an exceptionally well-acted and written story about a mother and her young daughter as they try to avoid the horrors of the closing months of WW2 in Italy. They must avoid the Allied bombs as well as the fleeing Fascist pigs who have destroyed the country.Starvation is always a concern, along with stray bombs. However, the movie concludes with their both being raped by some savage Moroccan troops (I had no idea they were involved in WW2--I learned something here). I mention this rape because it is important to the story but must be considered by parents who let their kids see the movie. I would allow my 15 year-old to see it, but it is just too much for my 10 year-old to deal with right now.Although the movie is depressing it is not overly so despite the subject matter. It is well executed and deserved the fame and recognition the movie received. DeSica (director) and Sophia Loren received many kudos for this project. A great film that hopefully will encourage you to seek out more DeSica films (I strongly recommend UMBERTO D. and especially THE CHILDREN ARE WATCHING US). "},{"Title":"Sophia Loren is excellent--but then, Sophia Loren is always excellent","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Italian shopkeeper Sophia Loren flees her war-ravaged city with her frail teenage daughter for a neighboring village to stay with relatives, but on the journey home, their lives are cruelly disrupted when the woman and her child are cornered by lusty soldiers. Loren's character is sensual and maybe loose, but she's never insensitive and one immediately feels a connection with her (and you can't take your eyes off her when she's on-screen). This is a perceptive drama, not so much a document on the horrors of war as it is a testament to the human condition, both good and bad, weak and strong. There are some lovely art-house flourishes and bits of humor dotting the script, but the film doesn't have a gripping, lasting impact, it doesn't stay with you or haunt you the way a timeless drama should. Loren passionately emotes and won a well-deserved Oscar, but the other performances are just serviceable; she dominates the proceedings. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Loren is amazing...","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I confess that this film was showing late one night on TCM and initially the idea of a war film was not an appealing prospect at one o'clock in the morning.That being said,I realized how much we lose by prejudging film, and actors by their more recent performances. As Sophia Loren was popular before my time, I remember her from fluff and spy movies such as Arabesque with Gregory Peck. A forgettable film, at most. Not so for Two Women.The performance of her innocent daughter Rosetta, is also marked and memorable. Refugees from the bombing of Rome during World War II, Sophia Loren as Cesira, and her daughter are fleeing the city, come across relatives in the country, and encounter a harrowing fate.The feel of the film is palpable and stark, the scene and the shadows of the men as they come across these two women in the effigy of a church, is ominous and effective. The expressions and body language of Loren are heart-rending and sorrowful, as we see her realize what has become of her daughter, what has become of their world. The scene I will remember most is where she is finally rescued, her daughter begins to sing, recovering from the attack. Cesira (Loren) turns her face outward, toward the window, ravaged and ruined, yet finding some strength to continue on. We see a multitude of emotions cross her face without uttering one word.Truly a film not to be missed for Sophia Loren's performance alone. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Gripping Story of Innocent Bystanders","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is Vittorio De Sica's last great movie. And it really is good.Sophia Loren and her angelic twelve-year-old daughter, Eleanora Brown, run a small shop in Rome during the German occupation. A nearby explosion from an Allied bomb turns the place into a shambles and Loren decides to take her daughter and live with distant relatives in a small country town.Life isn't a bed of roses there either, but it's better than Rome, with only the occasional handful of retreating German soldiers to deal with. The Germans are not shown as simply evil monsters. Earlier, before the deposing of Mussolini, a train load of soldiers is seen cheerfully whistling at Loren and chanting a song, just as any soldiers would do. Later, when the road is rougher, the Germans become more determined and forceful, again as most soldiers would, since their lives are at stake.Then the Allies liberate southern Italy and the pressure on the citizens if relieved. The refugees in the small town, bid one another good-bye and leave. Loren and Brown begin their trek back to Rome to rebuild the store, but it's not as easy as it seems. The Americans whistle at Loren too. Who wouldn't? She's stunningly beautiful. She has the large expressive eyes of a lovable but wary cow. And her big boobs wobble with every movement she makes. The Moroccans who are fighting alongside the Americans are even more demonstrative -- too much so. They trap Loren and her daughter in a wrecked, abandoned church and gang rape both of them in a scene that will chill any viewer down to the bone.As inured to harsh treatment as she is, Loren recovers consciousness and rushes to her daughter, sobbing and trying to wipe away the virginal blood from Brown's thighs. They continue trying to reach Rome, their pleas ignored by Americans who think Loren is crazy. It's impossible to know what is happening in Eleanora Brown's mind. She stares into space and barely speaks. Yet, when they're picked up by a loud and affable truck driver, Brown begins to flirt with him.During this scene, the camera is aimed through open the window on the passenger's side, where Loren is sitting, slumping with fatigue. Her head sags against the door in a close up and we can see every crack and wrinkle on her lips, and the tears forming behind her heavy lids. It's a tragic moment. Loren pulls it off and De Sica gets it on film. She gives a marvelous performance. She won an Oscar for it, not that it matters.What a splendid movie. When it was finished, after the necessary cathartic moment, I found myself thinking not only of Italian refugees but of all refugees of all wars. You're not likely to forget it quickly. "},{"Title":"Heart Breaking Film","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is a story about a mother and her daughter who are trying to keep alive during WW II and and meet up with one problem after another. The mother is Cesira, (Sophia Loren) and her daughter is Rosetta, (Eleonora Brown). Cesira lost her husband in the war and these two women have to manage on their own and face the everyday perils of war and men of war coming and going through their county side. Unfortunately, these two women are attacked by a group of men who gang rape them both which destroys their outlook on life and the fear of men in general. Cesira is very protective of her Rosetta as she is only thirteen years of age and was a virgin and horribly violated and had her first sex experience turn into a nightmare. It is not long after the rape that the mother and daughter are picked up by a truck driver who becomes friendly with the daughter and another serious matter develops. Great film, but very upsetting to view. "},{"Title":"Italian Realism at it's Best","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The credit for this film rests squarely on the shoulders of Vittorio De Sica one of Italy's great post war directors. De Sica like so many others of his era used realism as the force of his films. This is not his best work but his success is that he elevated Sophia Loren to an actress.Originally Anna Magnani was to play the mother in this story with Sophia playing the daughter. Magnani supposedly objected to the casting and De Sica determined to use Loren in this film convinced Loren to play the mother. Eleanora Bron was cast as the daughter.The story chronicles the life altering events of two women as they try to survive in war torn Italy. The Italian realist film directors of this period didn't rely on the glitz that is used to dress movies today, they relied on reality. Real places, real people, real stories. Magnani backing out was Loren's ticket to cinema history.Although now the film seems dated and in comparison to what we see on the screen today perhaps it is, but so rarely do we get to see the realistic reactions to any moment in time as we do in this film. Loren is outstanding as the mother and completely believable. It's her film from beginning to end. De Sica takes her quietly from the beginnings in the mountains, to the church, to the confrontation with the American soldiers in their jeep. He allows her to paint a portrait of a woman who learns that survival is not only physical but emotional and mental.Eleanor Bron as the daughter is not given much to do in this film but their is one shot of her after an encounter that makes your heart ache. The scene with Loren in tears on a dusty road clearly epitomizes what each and every human being must go through when they are in the midst of war. Jean Paul Belmondo is sexy and interesting.This was the first film I'd ever seen with Loren. I remember I was a teen ager when I saw it and I never forgot the depth of emotion that came from Loren. If you saw this film in the sixties it would have lived on in your mind forever.A great film. Dated perhaps. The message is still the same regardless of the time and place. Loren is amazing. De Sica created an excellent moment in cinema history. "},{"Title":"With a DVD this bad the movie has to be compelling --- and it is","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" We're suckers for this Italian realist style, which is another word for Communist film-making. We also love all the great films it has produced around the world in the last 60 years, although needless to say, not in the USA. La Ciociara is a novel written by the immortal Alberto Moravia, who was a Communist MEP for the last dozen years of his life.His story, as interpreted by pioneer film-maker Vittorio De Sica, is told from the point of view of Cesira, an uneducated widow (Sophia Loren, in her Oscar-winning role), who inherited a grocery from her older husband. She admits to her lover I did not marry my husband, I married Rome! The world war is happening and her shop is bombed out by the invading Allies (although it hardly matters by whom). She flees the city with her only child Rosetta, 12 (Eleanora Brown, really 12, who only made a couple more pictures before disappearing from film records). The pair have various adventures trying to reach the Signora's home village, during which the film-makers adroitly illustrate the civil war within the European war, within the world war.Communism is represented, a trifle improbably, by Jean-Paul Belmondo, but the Parisian lothario acquits himself quite well in the role, even acting out the wish-fulfilment of the public and piling on top of Cesira to get a load of that fabulous bust and those magnetic lips, for as long as she will allow, because Cesira is a very feisty lady.The film is suffused with a love of the people, and portrays their daily life in the country affectionately, along with the disruption and misery caused by war. In a memorable scene, a stunned young mother whose child has been killed, offers her nipple in public, saying Does anyone want my milk? This is a foreboding of what is to come, for as the third reel progresses disaster befalls both Cesira and Rosetta, a story feature that has been liberally revealed all over this board, but which I will refrain from blabbing about.This film obeys all the classic rules the heroine struggles against all odds, even total disaster, and somehow triumphs in the end, even if her victory looks pyrrhic. Ultimately, it is not, for we know that victory will ensue and even the awful sufferings of war will be alleviated, peace will heal the wounds, and Cesira and her lovely daughter will eventually thrive.Many things combine to make this a brilliant picture the profound political commitment of the film-makers, the genius of Moravia, the brio of Sophia Loren in her greatest part, the love of Italy and its inhabitants. Suffice it to say that when the film began we were horrified by the quality of the print, but even in semi-visible monochrome, the passion still came through. This is one for the classics shelf, to view again and again --- when they come up with a decent print! "},{"Title":"THE CUT ABOVE, WHICH ALL OTHERS MUST STRIVE TO OBTAIN!!","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I saw this film on its' release in an art-film house in San Francisco. In 1961-2. It has stayed with me all these years and I am glad to have seen it on release. Although I have forgotten some sequences, the over-all feeling I have is that it was a great film and the first to capture an Oscar for a leading foreign film! There were a few things u never let get by you in 'The city', one was a film by De Sica, and Carlo Ponti,(Sophias husband). Two, you never missed a film in which Sophia Loren,Jean Paul Belmondo, Jeanne Moreau or Marchello Mastroianni was starring. This could be said of all the foreign films coming out in the 60's. We were so used to subtitles that sometimes we were not sure if a film had them or not , once outside the theater. I digress. The film was very heart wrenching and I thought De Sica brilliant, the way he kept us wondering about the mother and daughter, and the lewd and leering smirks of the men and when the rape of these woemen would occur. by having it toward the end, was a master stroke.The heart-break of Cesira(Sophia) as her daughter Rosetta sits staring off into space dazed by what has just happened, Cesira trying to wash  the tradgedy away in the river. Rosettas', then hostility to her mother and the men she picks-up. And finally Cesiras' loss of temper which seems to bring Rosetta back to reality. They embrace and the tears flow. I gave this film a *10* As it is one of the best to date. ciao  PS I have looked for a copy of this film and have found all sorts of complaints  re its' remastering. Amazon is coming out with a DVD version, I heard that the other DVD version was really terrible. Does anyone have a clue on how to get a good copy? Thanks and ciao  "},{"Title":"Powerful acting from Sophie Loren","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It's WWII. Cesira (Sophia Loren) flees Rome away from the allied bombing for the sake of her 13 year old daughter Rosetta (Eleonora Brown). She's a widow of a loveless marriage and she's the object of everyman's desire. They go back to Cesira's home village. The idealistic anti-Fascist Michele Di Libero (Jean Paul Belmondo) falls for her. Mussolini is imprisoned and Michele is overjoyed. They even help a couple of English soldiers. The situation deteriorates as the war closes in and food becomes scarce. A group of Germans force Michele to lead them back to their lines. As the Americans approach, the villagers clear out. Cesira decides to go back to Rome on their own. They take shelter in a bombed out church where they are both raped by a large group of Arab soldiers.Sophie Loren is magnetic. She powers every scene. Eleonora Brown does a good job keeping up. The story meanders a little. There are a lot of unrelated things that pop up. All of a sudden, there's a Russian deserter. The randomness sometimes help the story. When the story moves to the German occupied town, it really starts to move. The tension gets ratcheted up higher and higher. "}{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" La Ciociara is an incredible film and an unforgettable cinema landmark, showcasing the brilliant direction of Vittorio De Sica, the dazzling talent of Sophia Loren, and the beautiful craftsmanship of Italian film. After hearing that this was the first foreign-language film to win an Academy Award in an acting category, I resolved to watch it and it exceeded my expectations. Sophia Loren, in her breakthrough dramatic role, was spectacular to watch, as was the film in general. Being of Italian descent, I purposely chose to watch the film without subtitles and quickly realized that the film wouldn't be the same in English. The dialogue, the acting, the set, the direction all come together to create an unforgettable atmosphere filled with moments of tender comedy juxtaposed with scenes of heart-wrenching poignancy. La Ciociara is a film for anyone interested in Sophia Loren and Italian cinema in general, but more importantly, it is a film that won't be soon forgotten. "},{"Title":"Everyone for himself.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  La ciociara,although it did give Sophia Loren one of her two best parts (the other being Scola's una giornata particolare),has undergone some reassessment;one thing for sure the neorealism was on the wane at the time,and DeSica 's best works were things of the past (so were Rosselini's).Like in France ,a new wave was rising in Italy,whose art was diametrically opposite to theirsFellini,Antonioni,Zurlini,Bolognini,Pasolini,et al were shaking the Italian cinema ;and although some of them -not to say all of them- began with neorealist works (la strada il grido) ,now they were inventing their own aestheticthe content took a back seat to the form(l'avventura la dolce vita ).And the classic Story did not seem to matter a little bit.DeSica's style -which was so inventive during the forties and early fifties- became here a bit academic and conventionalfor instance,he uses close-ups to excess;his actors,once neorealist to a fault (a non-professional in  Ladri di biciclette) , sometimes seem here a bit hamming it up.And Jean-Paul Belmondo is completely miscast in his part of idealist intellectual.There are good things thoughthe relationship Loren/daughter is moving and heartfelt;and the selfishness,the lack of solidarity of the refugees trying to save their dear life are impressive.Loren has great moments that make this work worth watching. "},{"Title":"A Frustrating Film","Date":"9 December 2010","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" When doing academic film studies there's certain cinematic movements that are essential study such as German Expressionism , Soviet montage and French New Wave cinema . Unfortunately Italian Neo- Realist features , . I say unfortunately because it's something I've always found as being uninvolving cinema . I do remember seeing Rome Open City at an art house cinema and failed to remember a thing about it by the time I got home which probably says a lot of its quality . I do recall Germany Year Zero but that's mainly down to its downbeat ending . In short Italian Neo-Realism is the artistic equivalent of watching paint dry . There might be nothing particularly bad about it but by the same yardstick there's nothing all that good either The director of TWO WOMEN is Vittorio De Sica who also wrote and directed the 1948 Italian neo-realist classic THE BICYCLE THIEVES a film that I haven't seen and have no intention of unless it appears on television , though it's considered a  classic  which is film studies speak for pretentious people pontificating about philosophical matters which have got very little to do with what's on screen .. It's interesting in so far that every plot synopsis says the film is about Cesira and her 13 year old daughter Rosetta being gang raped by Moroccan Goumier troops but this is infactual because the rapes happen about ten minutes from the end of the film I wouldn't say this is a bad film as such but it's a frustrating one and what makes it so frustrating is the way the two lead characters walk from one underdeveloped situation to another . They flee Rome to escape the allied bombing . More could have been made of the fact that more Italian civilians were killed by allied bombs than British civilians were killed by Lufftwaffe bombs during the war . They meet up up a communist sympathiser , played by Jean Paul Belmondo , who reads from the bible ! . Yes I also doubt that the bible was essential reading for communists anywhere , though this probably takes up the biggest chunk of the running time and no one seems to point out the contradictions between Marxism and Christanity . Then finally there comes the gang rapes and the aftermath but before we really get any true aftermath the end titles come up . Certainly much more could have been made about the conduct of French colonial troops during the Italian campaign So just to reiterate if you're unfamiliar with the concept of Italian Neo-Realism cinema and have heard great things about TWO WOMEN then you may very well be disappointed . Of course one of the obvious aspects of any type is realist cinema is the way story strands either disappear or come to a dead end . But this is not to excuse TWO WOMEN from being an extremely frustrating viewing experience "},{"Title":"The Best Scene In This Movie","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" When she goes to visit Carlo in his shop. To cut to the chase it is an exciting scene. By his words you can tell he is baiting her to sleep with him. He mentions her awful old husband and asks her when was the last time she had it. She gets very mad at him for making advances but eventually gives in. It is a perfect example of how a woman plays innocent but in reality she wants it so badly from him as she does give in. The only change I would make in this movie would be somewhere in the story line she gets pregnant from Carlo. Since he admitted he would kill his own wife and marry her. That was a very powerful scene without any nudity. Only one can imagine how the climax went between the two of them. "},{"Title":"Two Women endure the ordeals of life and war","Date":"21 September 2011","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" A moving and visually stunning film, Two Women is a story about the heartache and trials of war by director Vittorio De Sica. As with his other movies, this director deals with vulnerable human beings, to expose the injustice of a harsh world; in this case, a widow, performed by Sophia Loren, and her daughter, Eleanora Brown. These are the two women. The widow is an independent and determined shop-keeper and a loving mother. In the midst of war, she flees the bombing of Rome to return to the country. At first, she is revived by the change from city to country life, but soon realizes that no place can escape the ravages of war. While in the country, she becomes close to a scholarly young man (Jean Paul Belmondo) who reads the Bible and is respected by the people in his village for his sincerity and idealism. The black/white film emphasizes the characters and the movie is appreciated as a classic without any superficiality. We see village life disrupted by soldiers invading homes and planes disturbing the peaceful setting. This has a corrosive effect on the lives of the people, not to mention the lives lost or ruined. We get a sense of this in a pivotal scene involving the two women. Vittorio De Sica spent his career acting as well as directing. But he is one of the most accomplished of directors and made his mark as a champion of those afflicted by poverty and rejection. "},{"Title":"Intensely moving.","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I've been wanting to see this film ever since I read about it in Sophia Loren's autobiography back in 1979 when I was eighteen. I saw it recently on TCM for the first time during their tribute to Miss Loren, and I found this to be a very powerful film.I've seen my share of films about war in the past but watching this one really affected me. Having been born the year this movie was released, it gave me a real sense of what people were going through during World War II regardless of where you were at in Europe. I knew the outcome of the story because of having read Miss Loren's autobiography, and at times it was unnerving knowing what was to come.On a lighter side Hollywood should re-make this film with Kathy Griffin as the mother, and in a dual role, Kathy Griffin as the daughter. (Listen, after watching this film you gotta crack a joke).I highly recommend this movie "},{"Title":"Sweetness and bitterness","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Definitely I think a film where it helped to have some context before watching. After the battle of Monte Cassino in WWII, some Moroccan troops under French colonial command, went on a massive rape spree in the surrounding countryside of Ciociaria, you can read about the numbers involved, but really it's beyond understanding. But to an Italian audience watching a WWII movie called La Ciociara (literally the woman from Ciociaria) I guess they would have known what was going to be happening in the movie. I was not aware of the incident and it just seemed like a bizarre and affronting denouement to the movie, too weird to invent. It turns out that once again, the truth is stranger than fiction. In Italy the victims are known as the Marocchinate, literally those given the Moroccan treatment.The lead up to the outrage is always hinting at danger, but the movie is in fact quite sweet. It's about a lady and her daughter (Cesira and Rosetta) who return to the village of her humble origins from Rome whilst the Allies are bombing. They are both very lovely people, who meet Michele, a man in between their ages (played by Belmondo) who is an intellectual. There are some brilliant scenes for example when Cesira points out to Rosetta that Michele is a subversive, and when Rosetta asks what that means, Cesira says, a nice man who doesn't want to work. And there she has it in a nutshell, despite barely being able to write. It occurs to me that all liberal education is really there for is to make up for natural deficits, but Cesira doesn't actually have those deficits. The movie just seemed full of natural wisdom. Although the movie shows how abject and shocking life can be, it also makes you fall in love with love, the way Cesira, Rosetta and Michele love each other is just so perfect. I also liked a movie that understood that an intellectual is just another of the pilgrims on the way to Canterbury.Sophia Loren received the Best Actress Oscar here, the first time an Oscar had gone to a performance in a non-English language movie. Like Gillo Pontecorvo's Kapò, another Italian war movie from the same year it treads a dangerous ice by utilising formalism when depicting earth-shatteringly hideous events. "},{"Title":"I'm sure glad I only paid $7 for this DVD.","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  It's the WORST transfer from a crummy VHS tape that I have ever seen. It's in Italian with English sub titles. The people that distributed this DVD should be hung by the highest yardarm. I think they could have found a better print at one of the tv stations that syndicated it. I've seen better quality picture on a television with rabbit ears. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Great neo-realist telling of the myth of women which involves hardship in war and bonding.  Loren is more than adequate as a sexy woman who cares about her innocent child.  Most of the film centers around her interaction with the Italian country people who forge a bond with each other under fascist harassment.  The last scene in the film is powerful because it shows a mother and her daughter in close moments which center around forgiveness. "},{"Title":"Rather weak, considering its grave subject matter; 5/10","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Vittorio de Sica's _Two Women_ is mostly about the hardships of war (WWII) on normal people. Sophia Loren is a mother who takes her daughter away from the daily bombings in Rome to her childhood home. She is pretty good as the exasperated mother. Maybe not deserving of an award, but she is good. The other very famous actor in the cast is Jean-Paul Belmondo. Both of these actors could have done a lot better if the script were up to par. Both characters are quite superficially stereotypical, and their big scenes are all over the map. I think that is a good phrase for this film, all over the map. Themes are very weakly held throughout, so it feels meandering. By the end, nothing is accomplished. All I could think of were better films that dealt with similar subjects. This is incredibly unfortunate, seeing that de Sica and his screenwriter Zavattini concocted two of the best films of the 1940s, The Bicycle Thieves and Umberto D.SPOILERSThose who love the movie are probably wishing to crucify me right now, since I am criticizing a film in which the central episode is a rape. But really, I did not dislike the film before this scene. Although I felt it meandered, I liked it. But when Loren and her daughter are raped, the movie fell apart. Let me say this just because such a heavy subject is dealt with does not make the movie great. I felt this scene, this plot point, was handled extraordinarily poorly. Instead of seeming horrific, it seemed completely exploitative. After the deed, Loren, certainly a beautiful woman, walks around with her cleavage popping out for the rest of the film. I did not feel that she and her daughter have been destroyed by this incident. Instead, it feels more like an unfortunate thing that happens to them on their journey. The reason for this is that the film ends only about ten minutes later. Since everything before the rape scene had been dealt with more successfully in previous films, I believe the best choice would have been to open the story right before the rape, and have them deal with it afterwards. That way, the gravity of the situation would have hit better.Just randomly, I watched two films tonight that had to do with rape. This one, and right before it, Ingmar Bergman's The Virgin Spring. The Virgin Spring hit me like a sledgehammer, whereas Two Women left me squirming with disappointment. The major difference between the two is that The Virgin Spring had a theme, a point. It went somewhere with the horrible event. Two Women just believed it would be powerful because it happened.  I may sympathize, but I have little empathy, since I do not know what they felt. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Two Women Splendidly Good ***1/2","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Sophia Loren is truly memorable in her Oscar winning performance of 1961.She portrays a mother trying to help her child survive World War 11 in Italy.Unable to put up with the bombings in Rome, she decides to flee with her daughter to the countryside. There she will meet adventure after adventure.A widow, who had been married to a much older man, she had a lover whose only wish is that a bomb should fall on his wife so that he could be free to marry Loren.During her adventure, she meets Michele, solemnly played by Jean-Paul Belmondo. A man who had one time thought of becoming a priest, he lusts for her before tragedy ensues.The molestation scenes are adeptly depicted. This was also an unfortunate part of war.A memorable film made better by Loren's captivating performance. A gem of a film. "},{"Title":"First read the book then you'll laugh","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I guess that the film of De Sica is very little in common with the excellent novel of Moravia on which it's based. In a novel one can immensely enjoy the detailed depictions of situations and reflections of practical and obstinate but very good-hearted and sharp-minded Cesira. In the film the narration is very chaotic and many situations or characters are treated in not a very profound way. Loren seems too glossy for a simple rude countrywoman and sometimes her performance seems quite stiff (the most convincing only in the sequence of waiting for her daughter who had gone to the dancing with Florindo). Such important character as Michele Festa was absolutely mistreated. In film he's only ridiculous with his clumsy wooing of Cesira. Indeed Michele in book is a kind of new formation intellectual that was moulded under the pressure of fascist regime but had acquired  spontaneous but well-conscious anti-fascism. He's a gloomy reserved young man with the hidden tempests inside, outsider among the countrymen and his relatives, sometimes bursting into tantrums but with a gift of persuasion and imposing. You should have heard his powerful speech about the corpses who imagine that they are alive which is unfortunately much cut in film. And by the way he absolutely wasn't interested in women. So in general if you want to grasp all the tragedy of Ciociara you should first read a book and then it would be very ridiculous to compare it with the film where De Sica even in the most tragic moment didn't forget to set off Loren's semi-nude bust. Well if her husband is a producer it's quite acceptable.  "},{"Title":"disjointed mish mash---lousy over all especially dubbed version","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Sophia Loren and her daughter's survival during the closing days of WWII in Italy.This film has all the flaws of a movie made from a book...it tries to cover 500 pages in an hour and a half....inserting seemingly random isolated things simply because they occurred in the book.As some other reviewer noted this film doesn't flow well.. it is like it had a half dozen directors doing different segments.Combined with these flaws, I had to watch a dubbed English version since this was the only choice on Netflix streaming... this cuts out about three quarters of the actors talent and makes everything just that more artificial, stilted and jarring.The rape scene is incongruous and as another reviewer noted up to this point you wonder where is all the drama here?Over all the film is bad and the fact that Loren won an Oscar proves that gimmicks and the correct formula (lots of PC stuff) and who knows what hidden politics are what wins an Oscar not the quality of the film.DO NOT RECOMMEND "},{"Title":"miscast bizarre schizo production","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Vittorio de Sica= neo-realism director Sophia Loren=     sex symbol Alberto Moravia=  famous up-and-coming authorThe year is 1961, and it is 13 years after bicycle thief.  The 50's have gone by and Italy has been all consumed by its decade of Commedia all'Italiana.  Sophia Loren is an established sex symbol actress.  Moravia is a famous author whose novels are being scripted for movie production. De Sica is an established director.  The recipe is just perfect.  But the result is a terrible minestrone of different styles, tensions, trends, to produce a schizophrenic bizzare production.There are numerous neo-realistic scenes of peasants in the Agro Pontino, of living inside the capanne with hay roofs, of getting off trains in the middle of the countryside and carrying luggage on your head the way old peasant women used to do it.But then there are intruding snippets of comedy, like the old man eyeing the breasts of Sophia Loren and turning his head away when he realizes he's been caught watching (audience laughed), and a caricaturistic portrayal of a german officer that has studied phylosophy in the Universita' di Roma that lists the ambiguities and paradoxes of italians.What is one to make of this movie?  is it a comedy?  is it a mix comedy with serious peasant life portrayal?Towards the end of the movie, a terrible dramatic event makes it clear that the movie must be categorized as a Drama.  But then, why all those comedic overtures?  It is as if multiple assistant directors worked on the production at different times, each taking its turn.  Even the orchestration of the different caracters made no sense.  Giovanni, which we see at the beginning of the movie in a powerful entrance, is never to be seen again. Absurd.The biggest mistake was to cast Sophia Loren.  She was too fine to portray the character of a peasant.  She looked much more middle class than peasant class, and it simply didn't help at all on the credence of someone abandoning the conforts of city life for the hardships of living in the hills of the Agro Pontino.  She was probably cast because producers wanted her role, being it a cash flow for box office sucess.  She is too expressive, to volunteering for outbursts of gestures, verbal communication, for her role of a quiet peasant.  And she was too beautiful. "}]