[{"Title":"Affectionately crafted piece of art that is sadly under-appreciated by the typical modern soundbite moviegoer.","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"106 out of 129 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Wow - I used to think Guns Of Navarone was a try-hard, almost-there type of near-classic war film that had muffled sound, used a bad coloring process, was poorly lit, was limited by budget and the technology of the time. Boy, was I WRONG - I had seen this film several times, all on conventional/cable TV, VHS and even Laserdisc prior to the recent UCLA restoration now out on DVD. I never completely engaged in the reality/experience of this movie. It was as if I was listening to Beethoven's Ninth on an AM clock radio in an adjacent room. The newly-restored DVD in its original widescreen format showcased on a big screen TV in surround sound is the ONLY way to fully take in this piece of art, unless you perchance get lucky enough to see it in a cine complex.Unless you have viewed this film in its original condition in a theater or restored, letterboxed with proper-sized screen and sound, your previous/future comments have ZERO merit, as far as I'm concerned. So many people here have commented on this film lacking action and being a bore - I could not disagree more. Although I have not read the book (something I rarely do anymore due to an unfortunate accident years ago), this movie resembled a well-written novel. It was FULL of REAL character development, bringing you mixed emotions - at times you love, feel for, loathe or despise them - even the German army officer, during the interrogation/capture scene (which I will not spoil), had a warm, admirable quality about him. I will purchase/rent/borrow an audiobook of this, if at all possible, because Alistair MacLean has some of the best written adventure material ever brought to film. The action in this film was aplenty - maybe not a Schwarzeneger thrillride, but that would have made it completely unbelievable. The character development, internal conflict and subplots more than adequately fill the non-action lulls, if you want to call them that. One reviewer here commented on a shipwreck scene of 15 minutes that seemed like forever - the entire realistic shipwreck sequence was barely five minutes long, FYI. Without going into too much spoiling detail, there was constant suspense while the Germans were nipping at their heels all film long. It contained espionage, several hand-to-hand combat sequences, several shootings, knifings, cars/trucks being blown up, carjackings, explosions, dive bombings, mortar bombardments, strafings, assassinations, etc. With six men and two women against several dozen Germans, you can't justifiably get much more action packed into a script unless you would unnecessarily/unrealistically insert more just to intensify the film. The film did not really need intensifying as the plot was strong enough on its own merits - as were all the characters and the subplots surrounding them.The editing is top-notch. This film is lovingly woven into a tapestry with nice artistic dissolves/fades/graphics transitioning scenes (chapters) and furthering character development and story lines - the accompanying music only enhances those transitions like adding melted butter and/or salt to cooked vegetables enhancing their flavor. To me, this film is very warm and comfortable when it needs to be, but also cold and abrasive at times to make its social commentary. Carl Foreman scripted another great masterpiece with his usual pro/anti-war statements wrapped neatly in an entertaining adventure that makes one think. The end retrospective sequence with the Dimitri Tiomkin score is indelibly touching and unforgettable - a rather unorthodox approach for a war movie.The sweeping landscape photography and several cultural touches truly captured the beauty and flavor of Greece and its proud people. Ironically, when at Blockbuster, I coincidentally chose this film to view with my son - on the Opening Day of the XXVIII Olympiad, being held of course in Athens, Greece. I read somewhere that the people of Greece still hold this film in high esteem and were/are very proud of the way their nation was portrayed - they should be. Unlike many other movies made abroad, Guns Of Navarone affectionately honored its host country and its people. My 7 year-old film-making-wannabe son absolutely LOVED this movie, even better than his most recent film classic viewings... The Magnificent Seven and Bullitt. When I told him many here at IMDb said this film was boring and over-rated, he commented are they nuts? This coming from a kid who loves James Bond, Superman, Jaws, Jurassic Park, Star Wars, Star Trek, Power Rangers, Lost In Space and Jonny Quest as well as Classic Rock, film scores, Legos, Hot Wheels, plastic model kits, gymnastics and PS2. Guess there is hope for the future generation after all.Some of the very best action/adventure films ever made have very little constant action, FYI. I recently overheard a teen boy in a video store who said Raiders was a slow, boring film - of all things. No wonder the cumulative votes of classic films on IMDb do not entirely mirror or reflect what critics have historically said when they initially rated and/or reviewed them. I try to overlook the current technological advancements of today when compared with films of yesteryear in order to objectively critique a film. GUNS OF NAVARONE is no exception - made before traveling matte (blue screen) technology and CGI effects. Sure, the rear-screen projection photography and miniature work was not perfect, but no other film of its era was, either. Those factors aside, this film is EXTREMELY under-rated - this film is a stand-alone classic of its genre and amongst other all-time great films... a genuine piece of art.Ranking just under the ten-star rated Bridge On The River Kwai, Guns Of Navarone is an instant-classic and will always be so (on a LARGE SCREEN in its original widescreen format); due to its solid foundation of high production values, endearing score, good writing, strong plot/character development, the fine actors to play those characters and loving direction. Kudos to all who worked on this film. (9.5/10)  "},{"Title":"Every bit as good as you remembered...","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"80 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  For any boy growing up when I did, back in the late 1970s, it was well understood that Guns of Navarone was the sine qua non of adventure films, a movie you called friends about when you saw it listed in next week's TV Guide. It's hard to believe so much time has gone by, both since my boyhood and since the film was made, but Navarone still holds up very well, a character-driven film alive with nuance and subtlety. It moves at an assured clip, not rushed or forced, making the viewer follow its story through every agonizing twist and turn.What makes the film especially good is the crisp dialogue, lines that point up the moral and philosophical argument at the heart of the film and which resonate today as much as thenMallory The only way to win a war is to be just as nasty as the enemy. The one thing that worries me is we're liable to wake up one morning, and find we're even nastier than they are.Franklin I can't say that worries me!Mallory Well, you're lucky.Good performances abound, but the best by far is David Niven's Cpl. Miller, a complex character whose smooth front and witty banter conceals much of the conflict of the film. It's he who tangles most often with Gregory Peck's Mallory, and has at least three scenes in the film that are top-rate. We may like Miller because he keeps things humming and provides welcome comic relief, but he's no less the center of the film than Peck or Anthony Quinn, the two well-cast leads whose relationship is enriched, at least from our remove, by the unique vow Stavros has made to Mallory about the unsettled business between them.The plot is a thing of beauty, moving with all the synchronicity and clever precision of a diabolical cuckoo clock. The special effects have suffered more than a bit from the march of time (though one should remember that was the only part of the film that won an Oscar in 1962). Some process shots are cringe-inducing now. But the pace is still gripping and the payoff spectacular. Here's the film that was the template to every popcorn actioner that came after, its imprint recognizable on everything from the James Bond movies to Star Wars to Indiana Jones. That's impressive, but more so is that Guns remains as entertaining as any one of them, and more thrilling than most. "},{"Title":"Outstanding war drama","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"49 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Being a big Gregory Peck fan, I was expecting great things from The Guns of Navarone, and in one of those rare instances, I was not disappointed. Mr. Peck, David Niven, Anthony Quinn et al. are in top form, each of them bringing their respective characters to life and the story likewise. The action scenes are impressive even by today's standards but in my opinion they are only a secondary pleasure. The main pleasure is watching the divergent and forceful personalities cooperate, conflict, confound and finally triumph. Suspense is maintained throughout. I also liked the way complex moral issues were addressed. Another bonus is the portrayal of the Germans. Here they are not all depicted as impersonal inhuman cruel monsters. The full mosaic of human personalities is shown on their side too. But don't get me wrong, they are still a formidable enemy who keep the outcome in doubt. Strongly recommended, 8/10. "},{"Title":"This has everything that I'm looking for in a classic war movie...","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Ever since I was a little boy, I've watched several classic war movies with my father. He was an absolute fan of this kind of movies and I guess I've inherited that passion from him, because since then I try to watch and buy as many (classic) war movies as I can find. So far I already have several of them in my private DVD collection, but until now, The Guns of Navarone wasn't a part of it. The main reason for that is because I hadn't seen it before and therefor didn't know what to expect of it. But now that it was finally shown on television, I was able to tape it and to watch it.When in 1943 the Germans are attempting to bully neutral Turkey into joining the Axis, 2,000 British troops are trapped on the small and strategically unimportant Greek island Kiros. Something has to be done to save them and there is only one way to get there by boat. But it's impossible to come near to the island because the only sea route is defended by two gigantic German anti-ship batteries, deployed in a massive cliff side bunker on the island of Navarone. An air attack has been attempted before and proved to be useless and the only option that is left is sending a team of six Greek and English mountaineers to meet up with partisans to try and dynamite the guns. The team does not only face the almost impossible task to conquer the difficult terrain, they also have to try to get past a German garrison and to make things worse, there also appears to be a traitor among them...About one thing I'm already certain I'll buy this movie on DVD as soon as I can find it. This is one of the better classic war movies that I've seen lately and I really had a good time watching it. Not only does it give a more realistic view on the war, the characters are also a lot more realistic. They aren't as invincible as you sometimes see in other classic war movies (think for instance of Where Eagles Dare (1968)), in which the Americans or other allies seem to carry some kind of magic shield around them that can't be penetrated by German bullets, while they can kill hundreds of the enemy with only one bullet. In this movie they have to deal with all kinds of difficulties like difficult terrain, a traitor,... and yes, even the good guys can get killed or wounded.What I also liked was the fact that this movie was shot in Greece and therefor gave a realistic feeling to the setting, without feeling like a brochure for a romantic holiday (like Captain Corelli's Mandolin). I know, we all expect that and believe that it is normal when we see it, but I've already seen otherwise and it's something you didn't always get at the time. Think for instance of the movie The Battle of the Bulge (1965), which was supposed to be situated in the Belgian Ardennes, but which was shot with olive trees in the background and in a desert-like terrain. And trust me, I'm Belgian myself and I know the region all too well, so I know that there really isn't such a type of terrain to be found there.Next to the good story and the correct decor, this movie also offers some fine acting from a great classical cast. With Gregory Peck, David Niven, Anthony Quinn, Anthony Quayle,... you get some of the most famous actors at the time and they all did a very nice job in this movie. Add to this the fact that story was very good, that the action still looked nice, that everything was shot in the right country and that everybody spoke the correct language. Then you know that there is absolutely nothing more I could ask for in this movie. I give this movie a well deserved 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Solid, Man's WWII Movie","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"37 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" For a long (157 minutes) classic movie, this is paced well with a decent amount of action to keep things going. There are lulls, but just a few, and the cast is always worth watching with Gregory Peck, Anthony Quinn, David Niven, Richard Attenborough, Stanley Baker and Anthony Quale all quality actors. There are no irritating, annoying people, either, which is very refreshing. Everyone in this group is pretty much on the same page.It's just a straight World War II adventure, with no sappy romance subplots to take away from the story, either. In other words, this is man's movie, pure and simple, and a good one that still holds up today.Despite the good cast, the story takes center stage. The visuals or sound aren't anything to write home about, even with the latest super-duper DVD edition. I found this surprisingly interesting even on multiple viewings when I knew what was going to happen, so that's a testimony to how well this story was told on screen. "},{"Title":"A great WWII film","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"38 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Guns of Navarone is a classic WWII film. The movie is about a group of Allied soldiers (Gregory Peck, David Niven, Anthony Quinn, Stanley Baker, James Darren, and Anthony Quayle) whose mission is to destroy the Nazis most powerful weapon which is the guns on Navarone. Will they be able to make it without being caught? This movie is great. The acting by Peck, Niven, and Quinn is A+. The special effects were great and they still amazed me. I recommend this movie to all.10/10 "},{"Title":"Spiking Those Two Big Guns","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Greek part of the Mediterranean Theater of World War II was strictly a British show. They fought a pitched seesaw battle with the Germans until almost the end of the war. A great deal of debate about the feasibility of the whole operation has raged with military historians. The reason that the British Army and forces from their Commonwealth countries was to keep Turkey in the position of benevolent neutrality. At least this was one of Winston Churchill's stated aims and The Guns of Navarone makes the case for it.But specifically this film deals with a pair of menacing looking naval guns embedded in a cliff with a big rock overhang. The RAF can't get at the thing to destroy from air, so a commando team is put together under the charge of Anthony Quayle. A couple of native Greeks are along, Anthony Quinn and James Darren, an explosives man, David Niven, a tough anti-fascist resistance man whose service dates back to the Spanish Civil War, Stanley Baker, and a mountain climber, Gregory Peck.Peck has to get the team to climb a forbidding cliff which is the only area of the beach the Nazis don't guard because they think nobody can land over there. Peck gets the job done, but Quayle becomes injured and Peck gets the responsibility for the whole mission.The Guns of Navarone is filled with tension as the men keep getting into and out of one situation after another. The film crackles with excitement and really should be seen on the big screen, it's the only way you can appreciate the special effects which got The Guns of Navarone its Oscar.The film marked a screen partnership of Gregory Peck and director J. Lee Thompson, they did four films together. Thompson specialized in these action adventure films. Later on Thompson partnered with Charles Bronson in some of his best films of the seventies and eighties.To get the young into the theater, current teenage heart throb James Darren is in the cast. We even gets to hear him sing in Greek which is in fact Darren's own ancestry. Irene Papas is also in the cast as his older sister and Gia Scala is her silent friend.Despite setback and betrayal our team continues on. The climax of The Guns of Navarone is exciting and unforgettable and should not be missed. "},{"Title":"You may find me factitious at times, but if I didn't crack some very bad jokes now and then I'd go out of my mind.","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"27 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Corporal Miller's exclamation sums up what kind of mood this WWII action thriller is trying to set. Guns of Navarone is not full of flag-waving or patriotism, but wearied veterans who just want to get this job done. Spielberg's soldiers in Saving Private Ryan also conveyed this outlook. When we first see Captain Mallory, he is grim faced and upset that his leave has been canceled (as we later find out, he had a good reason for seeking leave!). There is not a lot of emotion expressed at seeing Major Lucky Roy Franklin, but the two men are glad to greet each other as comrades. But the movie's first emotional tailspin is when Squadron Leader Barnsby gives a report on his group's failure to attack Navarone. You can see the fatigue on Richard Harris' face as he tells the bloody truth about what is being asked of him and his men. A fine cameo by this late, great actor. The characters don't smile or joke too much, and when they do the viewer can plainly see that there's more to tell underneath the surface. This was a great job of acting by all concerned, and they are given wonderful dialog to accompany the stress and tension of the time. The top scenes are when insubordination looms among the characters, not because the person in charge is being sadistic or unfair, but because of the fatigue of everyone. The action and stunts are great, and this is the first movie I've seen that has both cliff climbing AND cliff diving!  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Judging by the overall score, this film is rated very highly and I must agree. This was one of the most innovative films of it's time. I recall that the theater had to be shut down for a couple of weeks prior to the film opening so that a totally new type of sound system (called Stereo) could be installed in order to properly enjoy this film (remember, this is the early 60's). When we saw it, I remember being simply awestruck by the sound of the German shells whistling overhead and landing behind me. It was probably quite primitive by todays standard, but very impressive for it's day and everyone loved it! The story was also quite good, although fictional, and the acting is top shelf. The film stars David Niven, Gregory Peck and Anthony Quinn, so how can you go wrong there? This is a top notch film with an award winning, innovative soundtrack. What's not to like? "},{"Title":"Most effective use of silence.","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I won't repeat what others have said. My short take It's one of the best action films and one of the best ensemble films ever made.What I noticed on first viewing was how quiet it is. Many scenes take place without dialog or score, merely background noises like wind, feet crunching gravel, and the like. Some of the tensest scenes are made more so by our hearing only what the characters would hear. For example, early on in the film, the lead characters undergo a storm at sea and approach a dangerous narrows, and until the scene's climax, all we hear are howling wind, driving rain, and slamming waves. A musical score tells viewers how they are supposed to feel and often telegraphs shifts in plot or mood. As used in this film, the absence of music heightens the drama and makes the action more immediate. What score there is is thus more effective, earning its composer an Academy Award. "}{"Title":"Still to be beaten for excitement and fine acting","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was part of the crew that worked on this movies, nothing great just a worker but I must say that it was a great experience to do so and in my opinion it turned out to be one of the best films ever produced about the war. It was a very friendly set indeed and all the stars were very profession. right from the start to the finish it was exciting with plenty of action. I'm not going to spoil it for anyone just to say that I give it a 10 and always enjoy seeing it over and over along with saying that I was part of making a excellent film. The party after the film had wrapped up shooting is another story for another time I assure you. Thank You. M J Wareham "},{"Title":"Excellent, atypical WWII film","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Guns of Navarone is an incredible movie.  It is not the action, the special effects, or the plot that make it so; what puts it above 99% of other movies of the similar genre is the simply amazing acting.  Everyone is just amazing in their own way.  Peck is perfect as the officer who takes charge of the mission once the CO is incapacitated, Quinn is humorous and intriguing as the Greek corporal who is set on revenge against the enemy and Peck, Niven is extremely entertaining as the extremely facetious, cynical explosives expert, and the rest give the performances of their lives, particularly Darren and Irene Papas.  You would be hard pressed to watch this movie and not identify with the vast array of personalities you witness.  I've never seen Anthony Quinn better.  10/10. "},{"Title":"We Have Three Choices In Classic WWII Drama","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The way I see it we have three choices - take him with us, leave him here, or kill him.This simplistically summarizes the moral dilemmas at the heart of Alistar MacLean's classic novel and the superb Carl Forman film from which followed.  The Guns Of Navarone at first looks like a basic mission - in 1943 a key channel in the Aegean Sea is commanded by two gigantic German siege batteries on the island of Navarone; these guns prevent the reinforcement of a British island garrison nearby, and if the garrison falls, it will persuade Turkey to join the Axis powers, an outcome Berlin is counting on as the war in Russia has turned against it with the defeat at Stalingrad. The guns cannot be bombed by air, despite heroic efforts by the RAF, and so is brought in a key Allied operative who has been working in occupied Crete since its fall to the Germans in 1941.  Captain Keith Mallory not only can speak the languages of the area with superb fluence, he is Keith Mallory, the Human Fly, the best mountaineer in the world.  He feels he cannot climb the 400 foot precipice atop which the German batteries sit, but he likes nothing better than a well-organized setup upon seeing that he has no choice.  With the help of his closest combat comrade Stavro (Anthony Quinn), Mallory is assigned with Major Roy Franklin to ferry British commandos - one of the a wise-cracking explosives expert, Corporal John Anthony Miller (David Niven)- on the perilous journey to the back door of Navarone.  But the infiltration is fraught with danger, and when Franklin is badly injured, the real crest of the story unfolds, the moral dilemmas of the team as they must complete the mission while deciding how to handle an injury they cannot treat.  And as if that were not enough, one of the Greek resistance operatives helping the team turns out to be a traitor after Miller finds his explosive equipment has been tampered with.  It leads to yet another of the several arguments that ensue through the film between Miller, the soldier who does not want the responsibilities involved, and Mallory, who is determined to finish the job.  While one of the arguments doesn't make much sense - Miller is horrified when Mallory admits lying to Roy Franklin so that upon eventual capture Franklin will give away inaccurate information; this is by far the most humane solution to the intolerable dilemma the team has faced - overall the clash between Mallory and Miller adds enormously to the film's tension, thanks in no small part to the excellent performances of Gregory Peck and David Niven.The sets and props of the film are superb, and overcome the comparative cheesiness of some of the special effects. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking War Drama !","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The stunning re-enactment of war footage depicted in this epic movie is a remarkable testament to the intrepid and bold mission superbly carried out by a team of British commandos during the peak of World War II.Gregory Peck as Captain Mallory has consummately performed the robust and mature role of a humane team leader whose exemplary kindness partook of the excruciating misery of a handicapped team member, in spite of the unbecoming and uncouth behavior of some of his colleagues. The calm and cool personality of Captain Mallory is beautifully and completely translated into a real life figure on the tinsel screen by Gregory Peck.The excellently crafted and terrifically directed thunderstorm sequel during initial landing of these death defying commandos on the rugged cliffs of the island of Navarone speaks volumes in the field of first-rate cinematography and choreography which was bound to manifestly imitate real life scenes, is definitely no small thing to accomplish.It should be a matter of concern for the film directors and producers of this IT age who endeavor to present craziness aided by computerized animated graphics with a fictional footing which is replete with immature and childish imagination. Whereas, the classic movies of the 50s and 60s carry a captivating and sublime moral based focus coupled with superbly crafted historical re-enactment of the events defining final moments during the many upheavals of mankind.As a matter of fact, the cinema has historically transformed from a more detailed and painstakingly directed moral based drama to a rather feverishly fictional depiction of immature ideas.Last but not the least, the great novel of Alistair Maclean is perfectly translated into real life sequence by the all time crafty skills of J.Lee Thomson and for posterity to admire. "},{"Title":"Guns of Navarone was a real blast","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Can honestly say it's one of the top five World War II movies I have even seen and also Gregory Peck's No. 2 film, behind To Kill A Mockingbird. It's not only the action that's fabulous, but the tension among the Allied commandos that keeps us on the edge of our seats. The best scene has Peck chewing out David Niven for giving him all this flak about leaving Anthony Quayle behind, and exhorting Peck to shoot Gia Scala after finding out she's the traitor among them. It's sad that only two main cast members are still alive -- Irene Papas and James Darren. But I don't doubt that Greg, David, Tony, Anthony Quayle, James Robertson Justice, Richard Harris, Stanley Baker and that German officer who later played Russian generals in James Bond movies (Walter Gotell) are putting on a remake in that great movie studio in the sky. Justice has a good bit part as Commander Jensen, the man who sent them on that suicidal mission and so deadpanly told Gregory Peck he'd have to put off his vacation. Justice, famous for looking like Henry VIII, looks like an old publisher I wrote for. Acted like him, too. This is a movie you can take the kids to; there's no foul language and no graphic violence. While I wouldn't like those qualities in a war movie that was made today -- highly unrealistic -- this movie is too good otherwise to be critical of that. A must-see.  "},{"Title":"Great Adaptation","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Alistair MacLean's The Guns Of Navarone is a very straight forward WW II adventure thriller that is given a more complex big screen rendition. I feel the book excels at presenting the grueling physical endeavor involved in blowing up the guns, as well as presenting plenty of obstacles for the saboteurs to overcome. In the novel only one character, Andy Stevens, has an internal problem to solve which is his fear of fear. This character does not make the transition to the big screen. The other characters, Mallory, Andrea, Miller, and Brown are all very professional at what they do and there is no philosophizing over the moral ambiguities involved in war. The characters played by Irene Papas and Gia Scala are male characters in the novel. Although it is tempting to think that the addition of the female characters is used strictly for the purpose of having someone for Gregory Peck to kiss, Foreman uses their inclusion to great dramatic effect. In the novel it is Miller who shoots the traitor named Panayis. To illustrate how different the novel is from the film thematically, this is how that scene is described in the book. Carefully, accurately, he shot Panayis through the heart, twice, blew out the candles, turned his back and was half-way towards the door before the man had crashed to the ground. I think it is the way Carl Foreman chose to adapt the novel, as well as many of the gripping visuals brought to the screen by director Thompson that have made this such a memorable film for many people over the years. "},{"Title":"Can't find a bad thing to say about it except that I wish everybody in the cast was still alive","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Action-adventure for the thinking person. Gregory Peck (the thinking man's John Wayne) gives one of his best performances. His clash with David Niven towards the end was one of the most memorable scenes. This movie shows not only the commandos' physical struggles but also their psychological struggles as circumstances put them at their wits' end. An exception to the rule that the book is better than the movie. I liked James Robertson Justice as Commander Jensen, the higher-up that sends the men on the suicidal mission. That burly, bearded man looks just like one of my old bosses; that mission would be just the sort of thing my boss would make people do. Really chilling. I hated the sequel, Force 10 from Navarone; it stank. They should have let the team go their merry way after the first mission.  "},{"Title":"Great War film","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Along with The Great Escape, The Dirty Dozen and Where Eagles Dare The Guns of Navarone is one of those 60's war films that regularly pops up on TV, but unlike the others I mentioned I could never recall sitting through the whole film. Well I did tonight when Channel 4 showed it here in the UK, and it was great. I love these men on a mission films, this is one of the best with fantastic performances by the stars especially Quinn and Niven. The ending was very similar to a few James Bond films, though I don't know who copied who. If you enjoyed this then try and catch the lesser shown sequel starring Harrison Ford no less. ***7.5/10*** "},{"Title":"Successful warlike  movie well acted and finely  directed by J. Lee Thompson","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This powerful,dramatic story from the Alistair McLean novel starts when the commanding staff(led by James Robertson Justice)prepares a multinational task force and is sent to Greece for a dangerous mission. It's commanded by a stiff-upper-lip climber captain(Gregory Peck)and a British major(Anthony Quayle) and formed by a misfit group a Greek colonel(Anthony Queen), an explosives expert(David Niven), a tough private nicknamed 'the Butcher'(Stanley Baker) and an American-Greek marksman(James Darren). Later are united two partisans(Gia Scala and Irene Papas) but are also hindered by a traitor. The outfit must to destroy a huge guns that threaten the Allied ships that attempt to help a group of besieged troops. The giant batteries are heavily fortified in a German fortress located in Navarone. To do so , they must sneak throughout the Nazis'(commanded by Walter Gotell)noses disguised as German soldiers.This interesting wartime picture contains high-powered action-packed, shootouts,explosions, mass slaughter and lots of fun. Fairly decent acting by the star-studded, a traditional all-cast, this Box office hit is a funny,exciting WWII actioner. Highlighted by a stirring and thrilling climax with overwhelming action scenes proceeded by Oscar-winning special effects .The picture is well set in island of Rhodes(Greece) and Shepperton Studios(England). Along with 'The great escape, Dirty Dozen and Where eagles dare' is one of the best WWII adventure yarn. Spectacular and evocative musical score by the master Dimitri Tiomkin. Colorful, luxurious cinematography by Oswald Morris and John Wilcox as assistant cameraman. This sweeping wartime movie epic from the director of 'Mckenna's gold' presents the historic events of hokey manner but it does so fascinatingly. All in all,it's a successful piece of warlike fluff. Although overlong ,has good battle footage ,solid acting , breathtaking scenes which help offset a sometimes far-fetched plot, but suffers on television, as the small screen damages its really spectacular images. This picture should please most action-war-adventure buffs.Followed by an inferior sequel also written and produced by Carl Foreman titled 'Force 10 Navarone(1978)' by Guy Hamilton with Robert Shaw,Harrison Ford and Edward Fox. "},{"Title":"A great WWII film","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Guns of Navarone is one great WWII film. The movie is about a group of soldiers (Gregory Peck, Anthony Quinn, Anthony Quayle, James Darren, David Niven, and Stanley Baker). Their mission is to destroy the German's most powerful guns located on the island of Navarone. As soon as they get there they soon learn there is a traitor within the ranks. Who could it be? This movie is a classic no doubt. It keeps you hooked and wondering what is going to happen next. Peck, Quinn, and Niven give A+ performances. I recommend this to all.10/10 "}{"Title":"Unmissable","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film is a must see!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!There are many famous actors, like Gregory Peck, David Niven, Anthony Quinn, Anthony Quayle and Sir Stanley Baker.  It is a very touching story.  A bit slow getting started, but plenty of shooting and very tensing towards the end when all the dynamites are being found and destroyed. "},{"Title":"An all-time-great","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Probably the best action/adventure film set in WW2, The Guns of Navarone is a magnificent movie; truly an all-time-great. Despite its long duration, the film progresses slickly and maintains its tensions all the way to the end. The characters are an equally important part of the story as the mission. I thought the special effects were surprisingly good, by no means badly dated. See this instead of Where Eagles Dare or the poor sequel Force 10 from Navarone. "},{"Title":"Never forgot it","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film with my father at an outdoor theater when it first appeared.Remember those?When those two German cannons stretched across the screen, they must have been at least eighty feet long.  The special effects of films in those days might have been primitive compared to now, but those days had a trick or two up their sleeve to make the most of them, that we can no longer experience.And outdoor theaters might as have well have been invented and built for this movie.  I can't remember a more suspenseful cinematic experience in my whole life-- or a more dramatic night out with Dad.  I was glad that he was there, just a reassuring foot or two away, in case the terror became unbearable.So it surprised me to learn here that Guns of Navarone appeared only in 1961.  That would make me twelve or thirteen years old, not eight. If I remember it so vividly, how could I be so wrong about the time?  Perhaps this is further testimony to its impact-- how small and vulnerable it can make one feel in its sweep of events. "},{"Title":"The original Commando team movie...","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Dirty Dozen may have updated the film's premise for the cynical late '60's, but as much as I love that old hard-boiled film, even I have to admit that it doesn't hold a candle to The Guns of Navarone. Though it may be hard to remember now that the premise has been used so much, the impossible mission theme was NOT a common staple in action films until this movie. The question of whether or not the team is going to pull it off is, for once, not as simple as many other simple-minded movies have made it. There are moments where the mission is endangered by just about everything imaginable the CO being critically wounded, suspicious enemies, personality conflicts, wrenching moral dillemas, a traitor in the ranks, being captured by the enemy. The storyline plays out like the most extreme manifestation of Murphy's Law everything that can go wrong DOES go wrong.The team put together here couldn't be more incongruent with each other. Gregory Peck's world-class mountain climber who becomes the team's reluctant CO, David Niven's hot-tempered, authority-defying sapper, Anthony Quinn's Greek ex-Colonel who has promised to kill Peck at war's end, Stanley Baker's weary soldier who's tired of the unending slaughter, a young Greek national who wants more and more of it...the real miracle is that they manage to get as far and as well as they do. For every step forward, they wind up paying for it. Be it in blood, moral anguish, or pain, no one comes out of this mission unchanged or unscathed. I honestly feel that it is this theme of sacrifice that is the key to the greatness of The Guns of Navarone. "},{"Title":"The best adaptation of an Alaistair Maclean novel","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A cracking adventure story with splendid action and dramatic scenes (though please watch the widescreen version to do the film justice).  The cast is exemplary with perhaps David Niven just a little better than the others. The story is really just an excuse for lots of exciting action, from the boat journey scenes right through to the finale.  The only thing that lets the film down is the use of American vehicles painted in German markings, though I actually owned one of the White Scout Cars used as German armoured cars up until 1998.  A great movie and despite popular opinion the 1978 sequel Force Ten From Navarone isn't bad either.  "},{"Title":"I'VE DECIDED TO REVIEW IT AGAIN","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The only time that Hollywood managed to improve on an Alistair Maclean novel. This has a nice message of self sacrifice and working with others. Anthony Quinn makes it exciting. The acting honours go to David Niven, Gregory Peck is experienced enough at playing military generals and this is his second best performance behind TO KILL A MOCKING BIRD. A lot different from modern adventures in that we are given Stanley Baker and David Niven as reluctant heroes and Peck and Darren as the practical, obedient soldiers, and Quinn as the vicious Andrea with a tragic background and the self confident Anthony Quayle. Unlike the modern home loving patriots. Major Franklin was a very good addition because it made it more interesting after the cliff scene. However they should have kept Andy Stevens instead of the quiet Spyros. Anna and Maria were a lot better than Louki and Pannayis and are both played to perfection. How THE HUSTLER and WESTSIDE STORY beat this at the Oscars I don't know. The characters were more original than on THE DIRTY DOZEN and more realistic than THE GREAT ESCAPE. Better than WHERE EAGLES DARE because of the emotion and drama and also better than its 1978 sequel FORCE TEN FROM NAVARONE.(Maclean is to blame for that). It doesn't have the neutrality of THE LONGEST DAY but has a general anti war message and sees the Nazis as humans. (The one who captured them is how I would picture a German officer.VERDICT 10 OUT OF 10 UP THERE WITH TO KILL A MOCKING BIRD, CITIZEN KANE, CASABLANCA, THE GODFATHER, THE WIZARD OF OZ, BEN HUR AND SPARTACUS. >   DON'T MISS BETTER THAN J LEE THOMPSON'S BRILLIANT ICE COLD IN ALEX, DUNKIRK, TWELVE O'CLOCK HIGH AND THE ALL TIME GREAT THE BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI.  "},{"Title":"Epic adventure, unbeatable","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I am only 15 yet I have seen many films old and new but they don't get any better than this. Many film makers have tried to match it with pathetic and absurd spy movies, but both the action and the drama take us through a whole range of emotions. A truly unmissable film. Five star all the way, memorable performances from David Niven, Anthony Quinn, Anthony Quayle and Stanley Baker. "},{"Title":"Terrific.","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A crack team of allied saboteurs are assigned to destroy two enormous long-range field guns on a Nazi-held island.An action/adventure classic offers that great performances & blazing excitement.Peck is simply great.Rating****1/2 (out of five)    "},{"Title":"Action-packed fun!!!","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well-made movie, with great performances by Gregory Peck, David Niven, and Anthony Quinn.  Although great, I tended to like its sequel (Force 10 From Navarone) better.  Nevertheless, an EXCELLENT movie, a must-see. "},{"Title":"My #1 favorite film.","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A beautiful Dmitri Tiomkin score resonates throughout this definitive allies-out-to-blow-up-the-enemy-stronghold film.  Top actors of their day, in strong performances, play second fiddle to the story itself, which moves the viewer inexorably along to the final assault against The Guns.I first saw this film in the theatre at age 11.  I've seen it dozens of times since.  It's not Ben-Hur, nor even Citizen Kane.  It's just my favorite film. "}{"Title":"Gregory Peck and Zorba The Greek dodge bullets and bombs to beat up all the bad guys.....SPOILERS","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  THE GUNS OF NAVARRONE was a great war movie....however, it became awkward when they had the singing scene with Bobby Darrin. However, we had the scene of Peck's long ardous climb up the side of a massive cliff and he yet has the energy to beat up a couple of Krauts.....what a action hero! If that had been me I would have been pooped a half a foot off of the ground.  Then there's the thrilling battle sequences and lots of daring do....then we have the scene where the good guys have to strip the girl to learn she's a traitor (a odd technique to say the least). Don't judge this movie on my post alone....see it with someone you love and if no one loves you see it with a bunch of guys in dark sun glasses. "},{"Title":"THE SCREEN PULSATES WITH ACTION","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  How anyone can say that this film has little in the way of action is quite beyond me.Any screen you watch this on, be it large or small, pulsates with action and in its day must have gripped audiences to their seats in a way that few films before it ever had. A big,bold and brash Boy's Own adventure the opening narration and fabulous main theme music set the pulses racing before an actor is even seen on the screen.And what actors they are.Gregory Peck as the sort of Commando leader that any soldier would follow into hell and back, David Niven playing himself but inimitably so,the normally over the top Anthony Quinn gave his best ever performance here and the rest of the cast (even James Darren) do not let the side down.Once the story has been quickly and effectively set action sequences take over from that point on,each more spectacular than the last and the whole 150 minutes of glorious gung ho escapism is superbly directed by the criminally under-rated J.Lee Thompson, as fine a director as Britain has ever produced and I doubt if any of the directorial talent in that country now could even begin to harness a movie such as this.Put NAVARONE on one channel and THE FULL MONTY on the other and I know what I would choose to watch (and it wouldn't be the strippers!)  "},{"Title":"Great adventure film","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Great adventure film, better acted than most, beautifully paced. "},{"Title":"The adventure film personified","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The story isn't believable, but who said it has to be? The assembly of a superb cast thrown up against impossible odds makes this one of the best adventure films ever made. Compared to today's action films there is no sex, no swearing, and surprisingly little screen violence. But the intensity of the story excels. I still get goose bumps when the ships at the end blow their whistles and the men aboard cheer. One of my favourite film lines (which I didn't type exactly) is delivered at the films conclusion Niven Frankly sir, I didn't think we could do it. Peck Frankly, neither did I. "},{"Title":"No explosions here","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A classic war movie!  Full of action and suspense.  Peck was perfect for the role of Mallory, the man who's job was just to get the squad there for the mission.  Eventually having to take over he found just how difficult it is to lead such a mission.  I love the scene where Anthony Quinn is trying to convince the Germans he is not who they think he is, Andrea Stavros, Colonel in the Greek army.Miller, the explosive expert played by David Niven found out just hoe easy it was not to be an officer.A movie to keep everyone happy! "},{"Title":"A visual and audio treat!","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Simply a magnificent war movie with a stellar cast and a brilliant musical score by the extremely gifted Dimitri Tiomkin, who, at the time was the most sought-after musical soundtrack composer in the industry. (High Noon, The High and The Mighty, Gunfight at the O.K. Corral, The Alamo, etc.)   The sheer entertainment impact is also largely due to the principal actors being in the prime of their lives and their careers. Experience this presented on a big-screen TV and a decent multi-channel sound system and you won't go wrong. "},{"Title":"Very powerful picture","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Guns of Navarone is a very powerful picture.  It's definitely not the cliche war picture I'm used to.  In a few long scenes, it uses action rather than dialogue to convey the story.  It's an excellent illustration of people who put their personal likes and dislikes aside to accomplish a mission. The action scenes are done well and look surprisingly realistic. Wonderful performances by all of the actors and actresses. "},{"Title":"An excellent example of its type","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One of the best examples of this type of film and the era that it was made in. A superb example of Carl Foreman's work, showing his recovery from his experiences during the Communist witch-hunting era in the USA. "},{"Title":"Classic Action-Adventure WW2 Movie","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This a great film with plenty of excitement and action. I have seen this movie a million times especially when I was a kid at my Grandfather's house and I for one never get tired of seeing it. Plus it boasts a great cast including Gregory Peck, David Niven,Anthony Quinn and Anthony Quayle. A true classic and I give it a 4 out of 4. "},{"Title":"Great Adventure","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  You can have a lot of fun watching this movie. A lot of action and blitz!! Gregory Peck and Anthony Quinn play a great role. Movie you should all see. "}{"Title":"Slam bang entertainment - a winner!!!","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  J. Lee Thompson's The Guns of Navarone is slam bang entertainment at its finest.  The story is set during World War II, and the Germans have created two huge guns that block allied passage to the Aegian Sea.  The story moves slow at times, but the action is first rate.  A team of professionals is hired to destroy the guns.  Gregory Peck, David Niven, and Anthony Quinn give great performances in this great war movie.  score 8 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Very good War adventure with some fine (but slightly miscasted) acting","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSThis early sixties war adventure has some great scenes and some fine acting combined with a solid story.That means good entertainment and it is just that.I would say that the movie is a bit overlong and some scenes drag on too long (the shipwreck scene is about 10 or 15 minutes long and gets tiresome) but that doesn't take away the strength of the film.The story is about a group of allied commando's,led by Gregory Peck,set to blow up a couple of really big guns on the Greek island of Navarone.Although the mission is considered impossible they manage of course at the end combined with the predictable bloodshed on both nazi and allied side. Still,one has to consider that this was one the first so called war adventure movies.The acting is fine,especially Gregory Peck and David Niven play well.I still think that the role of Gregory Peck is slightly miscasted,he plays the ruthless Captain Mallory.Seeing Peck play this cold hearted soldier made me laugh sometimes.Peck is to the warm house father,intellectual almost like he played in To Kill A Mockingbird.David Niven shows his comic talents as the king of bomb making Corporal Miller.There are also some good supporting roles from Anthony Quinn,RichardBloodyHarris and Stanley Baker.The direction is good.J. Lee Thompson made his best picture with The Guns of Navarone if you ask me.He would end up in the 80's making terrible right wing vigilante movies with Charles Bronson in the leading role,films like Death Wish 4 and 10 to Midnight. The music score is enjoyable but that's no surprise considering the fact that is in hands of Dimitri Tiomkin (High Noon).Everyone who has seen this film will concur with me that it would be the inspiration for the even better Where Eagles Dare with Clint Eastwood and Richard Burton.The climbing sequences were later more or less used in the James Bond movie For Your Eyes Only.By the way there is a small part in The Guns of Navarone for Walter Gotell who played in several James Bond movies,mostly playing General Gogol.This movie was more or less sequeled in 1978 with Force 10 from Navarone containing several of the same characters like Miller and Mallory but with other actors like Robert Shaw,Edward Fox and Harrison Ford.The sequel is lesser than the original but also enjoyable.Not a classic but very good entertainment.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Great action.Great actors.Great film!!!!!","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Gregory Peck Anthony Quinn and David Niven are allied saboteurs assigned an impossible missioninfiltrate an impregnable Nazi-heldisland and destroy the two enormous long-range field guns that prevent the rescue of 2,000 trapped soldiers.Very good performances and great action makes this film very exciting.RATING 4,5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Good war film","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Good war film. Good work from Peck, Quinn, and Papas. While the plot may seem a little formulaic, Hollywood had its rules then, just as it has its rules now. The effects were good for the times. All in all this one is worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"cracking good action flick","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was what the later film Where Eagles Dare aspired to be, and failed, viz. an intelligently engaging fictional war story. The cast, script, acting & direction are far superior in this earlier film. Good interplay between Peck/Mallory and Quinn/Stavros. James Darren is perhaps a bit out of his element. Look for an early bit part by Richard Harris as a bomber pilot at the start of the flick. "},{"Title":"Imaginative but historical nonsense","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Saw the guns dozens of times. Did read the book twice and in my youth rebuilt the island and the fortress in miniature. Playing with Airfix soldiers and tanks.... to recreate my own Guns of Navarone!!! The island is called Navarone, but the size and the place of the action, fall 1943 and the route to Leros (Kheros) it can only be Rhodes. Yes Rhodes did have a strong German garrison, yes on Rhodes were German Panzers (still not very logical on an island). But to line the panzers with guns along the coastal facing Turkey is stupid defensive measure, because invading ships supported by aircraft easily can shoot them to pieces!!! There were however no guns on Rhodes of the size showed in the movie (21 to 28 cm caliber), but on the north east coast is a rock which can be compared to the rock hiding the guns. The site were most was filmed is actually Lindos. The huge gates are of the big walls surrounding Rhodes town. The walled city of Navarone (showed very short) is a model in miniature. All other things studio artwork. Still the whole movie and their characters was full of action and beautiful pictures of the deep blue sea, the white Greek houses, the threatening and still powerful German Army. The later Force 10 from Navarone tries to do it all over again and has also many attractive scenes. Together with Were Eagles Dare the trio is complete. Americans consistently show their admiration for the German Army in all 3 movies they feel comfortable and proud wearing German uniforms (so far more sophisticated compared to their own uniforms devoid of anything of regalia and militarism). "},{"Title":"Decent, but not as great as I remembered it being","Date":"30 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The first question is whether or not it's worth upgrading from the DVD version to the Blu-Ray version. In my opinion, that's a firm no.I've long (well, I guess for over 50 years) felt this was one of the great war movies. I'm not so sure now, although to be fair, I'm rarely in the mood for a war movie. But I remembered this one fondly...but I guess absence makes the heart grow less fond. Nevertheless, it's a good story with a stellar cast.There were 2 places where the special effects were terrible. One was when Peck and Niven close the huge iron doors to lock the Germans out of their huge gun complex. The way their shadows fall, it is so very obvious they're in front of a painting, not in front of iron rails. And a few minutes later, looking out toward the sea from the guns...wow, how cheap looking.The big problem with this film, however, is the running length. There are times when things drag, and no wonder...the film lasts 2 hours and 38 minutes. It didn't need to. They could have easily cut 15-20 minutes. But my sense is that they kept it long to make it seem like it was a bigger movie than it really was.I have to admit that while Gregory Peck is not one of my very favorite actors, I also believe that Peck can do no wrong. I don't remember a film where he was any less than wonderful. Enough said.On the other hand we have David Niven. Over the years my like for Niven has declined considerably, and it seems to me that -- as in this film -- the main reason that he could be very pompous, and there were several scenes in this film where that was called for. But, looking at the film now, I feel he was more of a negative than a positive.Anthony Quinn was near the beginning of his period of true stardom when this film was made. Quinn always had an earthy quality about him, and that worked very well here.Anthony Quayle is excellent here, although we don't see much of him after about halfway through the film.I feel sorry for James Darren. Despite being in the film from the beginning until almost the very end, he had only a handful of sentences of dialog. I guess he was there because he was young and handsome.Irene Papas and Gia Scala...okay, but nothing special here.I guess I sound pretty negative here, but I do think this is a decent film. But not as great a film as I remember it being. Gia Scala as Anna "},{"Title":"Most Entertaining Film on World War Too","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Six men are sent on a special mission in Nazi occupied Greece during WW II. The target are two huge cannons settled in the island of Navarone that control a water passage in the Aegean sea and prevent the British fleet from delivering own trapped soldiers at Cyprus. Such is in a few words the plot of this most enjoyable movie. It certainly has many highlights that put it as a very entertaining one in the war adventure genre.Location in the Greek islands and its characteristic sea villages bring a beautiful background for the action along with an excellent photography and good color. There's a fine musical score too by Dimitri Tiomkin. J.Lee Thompson's direction is correct and keeps the movie up all along.David Niven as the explosives expert and Anthony Quinn as a Greek officer who joins the party are probably the best performances in a very adequate cast.Although the picture has its flaws -some spaghetti western like shootouts and not to bright German opponents that make things easier- if you enjoy pure action and adventure in movies this is a very good one to see. "},{"Title":"Deserving of the distinction Classic","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This war epic(part of the Columbia pictures film preservation series BTW)is mostly a tribute to the efforts of a small sub-command of British military in the Mediterranean sea at the near-end point of WWII. Gregory Peck,David Niven and Anthony Quinn,among others,shine brilliantly as Intelligence officers who have exactly seven days to breech a Nazi gun nest on the island of Navarrone to save a group of stranded English sailors(?) stranded on a neighboring island from certain annihilation and/or capture. The details of this movie are somewhat confusing,and the presence of Peck in this movie might give off the false impression that this is an American war movie(the majority of the cast is English),but otherwise this is a great blend of character study,action drama and thriller. A must-see for fans of Peck and Quinn in particular. "},{"Title":"Navarone DVD!!!","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" As a former reviewer said there is a cleaner version around, and now on DVD from UCLA! They are not yellow green anymore! On the DVD version I have Gregory Peck, Anthony Quinn, James Darren and J Lee-Thompson remembers back for 30 minutes! The version I seen was much much cleaner than versions I've seen before! Apparently a UCLA Project. Gregory Peck Around this time won Oscar for To Kill a Mockingbird Anthony Quinn had already won two Oscars by this time David Nivin had won with Separating Tables Gia Scala committed suicide in 1972 Stanley Baker was known as the tough guy of British cinema, soon making blockbuster Zulu, Rather's thankless role here though Irene Papas! Greek superstar! Not a beauty but a great actress Anthony Quayle! One of those Brits with a dry way of a line, even appeared in soap Lace Richard Harris! Long long before he became the rebel! And Finally James Robertson Justice!!!!! The Sir Lancelot Spratt of those who remembers the Doctor serial!!! LOL "}{"Title":"Brilliant movie with subtle messages","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was a classic which showcases several themes simultaneously. One is that for a mission to succeed the Leader has to have supreme authority. Two, heroism is in the mind. Three, most plans in a war succeed only when you keep them a secret. The movie is brilliantly crafted and stars some of the finest actors of its time. A combination of Gregory Peck, David Niven and Anthony Quinn was a feather in J Lee Thomson's cap. The photography was superb, the background score always apt and the suspense palpable throughout. I have seen it several times and never get bored. The beauty of Greece with its blue seas was also evident throughout the movie.  "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  this movie was very good and had a good story. however there was a mistake (AS WELL AS MY POSSIBLE SPELLING MISTAKES). when the wermacht officer was interrogating the group who were going to blow up the guns of navarone, about the explosives he asks the ss captain (sessler) a question. the mistake was when the wermacht officer asked the question he addressed the captain as HAUPTMANN sessler, which is the correct term for a captain in the German army. but he was in the ss, the correct term should have been HAUPTSTURMFUHRER sessler. besides this minor mistake the movie was very good and entertaining and this was the most obvious mistake about the movie.-although there could have been some more mistakes, but known that i was aware of.  "},{"Title":"One of the first films that I saw on my own certainly made an impression","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One of the first films that I saw on my own certainly made an impression  I was 10 or 11 and living in the Hague, the Netherlands. I had no difficulty in following the story, or in understanding the conflicts that arose and which threatened to split the team of saboteurs/commandos.  I don't imagine that I thought that war could ever be like what I saw on the big screen, but I became wrapped up in the epic qualities of Maclean's heroes overcoming a myriad of obstacles to achieve their goal.I had no idea of who the actors were, though I immediately began the careers of Peck, Quinn, Niven, Baker and Quayle (all of whom have passed on).   I also sought out the soundtrack, a wondrous work by DMITRI TIOMKIN  in fact I am playing the Columbia LP, a stereo edition, in the background.This film would be considered ponderous and pedestrian if made today, yet it was a perfect introduction to the world of make believe, that cinema is (the two other films I saw on my own that have stayed with me were JANE EYRE and EL CID, boasting scores by BERNARD HERRMANN and MIKLOS ROZSA).  On the basis of these films alone, I remain an avid soundtrack collector to this day. "},{"Title":"Engrossing war movie","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Action filled war movie, great story, great cast.  Concerns a commando team small enough to allow growth of character for most of the members, but large enough to have a few killed off, adding to the intrigue.  Plenty of unexpected turns to maintain the interest, even though the viewer assumes from the beginning that the objective will be attained.  Unexpected romance ads spice to the dish. The effects, great for 1961, are still sufficient to carry the story.Great performances by Gregory Peck, David Niven, and Anthony Quinn.  James Darren of music and surfer movie fame does an especially good job in an action role. "},{"Title":"A first-class adventure.","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Absorbing and effective adaptation of Alistair MacLean's novel where a small team of Allied commandoes is sent to an Greek island that's occupied by the Germans and destroy two massive batteries that cover a crucial area in the Aegean Sea.  The cast is pretty good all-around with Gregory Peck and David Niven are the standouts and the smooth direction of J. Lee Thompson make this movie an absolute gem that seems timeless.  A first-class adventure.  "},{"Title":"Vintage classic. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The big-screen adaptation of Alastair Maclean's WWII thriller is a slow-burning, but suspenseful movie that can teach some of today's film-makers a thing or two about pacing and character in an action movie.It was probably one of the last great big-screen epics of the 60's, an era which ended with the Oscar win of LAWRENCE OF ARABIA and the debacle of CLEOPATRA, abandoned at Pinewood and moved to Rome for completion.There are many good things to admire in the film, notably the banter between Peck's Mallory to Niven's Miller and the cliffface climb is one of the most suspenseful, atmospheric sequences of it's kind. Possibly the rockclimb to the monastery in FOR YOUR EYES ONLY has come close since this.Anthony Quinn and Anthony Quayle provide good support and the visual effects during the final assault on the two guns are impressive. "},{"Title":"One of the Better Ones","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One of the better World War Two adventure films, often imitated but not often surpassed.  Plenty of action, considerable suspense, excellent performances from Quayle and Quinn.  However the film is too long at nearly 2 hours and 40 minutes, Peck seems more like a professor than a mountaineer, and Niven's character's constant moralizing quickly becomes annoying.  More serious-minded than Where Eagles Dare and so not as much fun, but infinitely superior to the sequel Force 10 From Navarone.  Usually butchered on television (especially the sniping sequence), the film should be seen in a theater for the proper impact.					 Note  Anthony Quayle actually participated in behind the lines operations in the Balkans during the war. "},{"Title":"A boy's own adventure yarn - marvellous","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Although I believe from David Niven's own autobiography that for him this film was not the most pleasant of experiences to make it goes down in my book as a terrific wartime adventure yarn.  Niven is excellent as the cynical bomb expert with the often cutting one-liners, counter-balanced by Gregory Peck's heroic, yet at times reticent, Captain Mallory.  The cast is an assembly of highly talented actors; put together over 40 years ago now, and obviously Anthony Quinn must get a mention for his ruthless portrayal of the Greek resistance fighter Colonel Andrea Stavros.  He adds dynamism to every scene he is in and the viewer is attracted to the sinister edge to his character.I first saw this film as a boy at the cinema in the early 70s and several times more on the big screen throughout the ensuing years.  Recently I acquired the video and have also seen it screened on television.  (I'm sure though that when screened on television some butchery was carried out on some of the scenes, in particular the point where Quinn's character stays behind on the hillside to pick off pursuing German infantrymen.) Furthermore something that I missed as a pre-pubescent watching the film, but more evident to a man nearing 40, is the beauty of the actress Gia Scala (Anna)- what eyes!It's a film that seems to be part of my life for no other reason that it is a good story which appeals.  The climax is still thrilling although there are some similarities with Where Eagles Dare i.e heavy hammers against large metal doors - if you've seen both films you will know what I mean!  And for the real Film anoraks out there look out for the character actor Tutte Lemke who rarely gets mentioned in any credits. Anyway, the film is a perfect way to spend a couple of hours, sit back and enjoy the ride.  "},{"Title":"A fantastic war film","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  THE GUNS OF NAVARONE is action/war film entertainment at its best. A great story, good acting, thrills and genuinely exciting action sequences add up to make this a great movie. Well worth seeing by anyone- Gregory Peck and David Niven are great. "},{"Title":"Epic War Film","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I had not seen this film since I was approximately 10 years old.  It is as exciting now as it was over 30 years ago when I first saw it.  David Niven is wonderful as the cynical corporal who does not wish to get involved in the dirty work of war.  Gregory Peck is perfectly stiff in his role as the reluctant officer.  Irene Papas is strong in what normally would be an all male-dominated cast.  As noted in other reviews, Anthony Quinn is fabulous especially in a scene where he grovels ostensibly for his life.  This film has great tension, wonderful camera work and all without the high tech special effects of present day.  9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"An Entertaining Movie With All Guns Blazing!","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A superb war film with all the usual ingredients that you would expect from a film based on Alistair Maclean's novel.A crack anglo-American/Greek team are sent on a seemingly impossible mission to infiltrate and destroy huge German guns off the island of Navarone before 6 navy destroyers (that are due to pick up over 200 British Soldiers from nearby islands) are used for target practice.Led by top mountain climber & Captain, Gregory Peck, his cohorts includes David Niven as an explosives expert; the late Anthony Quinn as Colonel Stavros of a Greek infintary division and knows the islands well; Stanley Baker as the mechanic and knife expert. And finally Anthony Quayle, the instigator of the entire mission.A tremendous cast, therefore, along with able support, make this film an adventure as gripping & exciting as you'll ever find. It's not mindless violence in the Rambo mode though; there are lots of soul-searching, betrayals & self-doubts along with ultimate sacrifices too, which only helps to flesh out the film with believable and likeable characters.Its quite a long film at 150 odd minutes, but it doesn't feel like it. There is too much going on to make you drift for a second. It may look a little dated as it celebrates its 40th birthday this year, but again, don't let that put you off. For me this is far superior to a lot of modern day war films, with little or no political correctness or over indulgent flagwaving detracts from a fine film.My favourite character would have to be Niven's Corporal Miller. A happy-go-lucky soldier who refuses to become an officer because he likes what he does and wants to keep it that way; yet he has that typical English charismatic charm that makes Niven the perfect choice.Peck is also good, although he does seem just a little too stiff and 2 dimensional at times as if he doesn't know what to do in order to expand in his character and therefore plays it safe and just goes through the motions.Quinn & Quayle are always good value and Navarone is no exception. Quinn especially adds a certain Greek charm & emotion to the film that again makes the movie far more accessable and entertaining.Recommended, especially in Widescreen or DVD****/***** "},{"Title":"Perhaps the Finest Adventure Film Yet Devised; Very Well-Acted and intelligent","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film, made in 1959, remains the mark against which all adventure films are measured. Director J. Lee Thompson deserve the credit for having brought Carl Foreman's complex and literate adaptation of Alistair Maclean's rather spare narrative to glowing life. The film is about individual responsibility and how men approach that aspect of self assertion on Earth. Every man and woman in the film is measured according to this single yardstick of worth; this is true of the Germans and Greeks as well as the British and Americans involved. This is the chief source of the film's power. Mention needs to be made of the overlong but very fine music supplied by Dimitri Tiomkin and of Peter Yates' work with the action and second-unit scenes also. Basically, this film is so well acted that it stands out over all others also on the counts of its taut, contexted action-story events line and the professional work done by those who bring their roles to life. Minor roles such as those played by Walter Gotell, Tutte Lemkow, Alan Cuthbertson and James Robertson Justice are standouts; the main cast has only three less-than-perfect efforts, those given by Gia Scala, James Darren and David Niven who seems out-of-place at times but never stops trying. The others with major role-- including Gregory Peck, Anthony Quinn, Anthony Quayle, Stanley Baker and the great Irene Pappas--all are given unforgettable scenes to play, which they achieve exactly as conceived. The entire action as carried out under Keith Mallory, played by Peck, becomes a stunt mission as the detached unit play out aspects of their responsibility as humans in a dangerous combat situation. Scenes such as the sea approach and cliff climbing, the pursuit of the mission team across the island, the escape from German capture after that happens in the village of Mandrakos, and the final destruction of the guns are hard-to-forget. The climax of the film comes when Peck and Niven try to blow up those two great radar-controlled guns on Navarone, so thousands of allied soldiers can be rescued from the nearby island of Cheiros. The denouement and ending are universally found satisfying, and the resolution of character loose-ends is handled superbly. One could wish the characters and those who played most of them had been revived. The film seems as fresh to my mind, having seen it recently, as if it had been made yesterday. Incidentally, I have argued that the team involved was the model for the Star Trek ship's bridge crew about 5 years later. "},{"Title":"I wish they made them like this now.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film should be shown to all potential directors of action films. Why don't they make them like this any more? Steady paced, tension built throughout, well acted, no foul language needed, characters actually get hurt when they get shot or fall. The special effects are of course showing their age but still works well today.  "},{"Title":"Great Action PLUS a Real Script!!!","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The main reason modern day action flicks seem to fade from box-office glory into the dustbin of forgettable movies (i.e. US Marshals, anything by Stallone or Schwarzeneggar, etc) is their inherit unbelievability.This 1961 War/Action classic maintains it's glory because it actually has a SCRIPT!!!  Hurray! Yahoo! Whatever else you want to say!I was amazed at the high level of quality throughout, from the top notch cast (especially Sir Stanley Baker and Irene Papas who excel in smaller roles which are less showier than the bigger box office draws of Peck, Niven, and Quinn) to the terrific Oscar winning special effects. Now I realize that most people watching this film now will complain about the aforementioned effects, but they are the kind of people who rate movies based on today's technologies.  Face it, in a few years films like Gladiator and Titanic will look as hokey to moviegoers as some older films look to us!  We must suspend our disbelief and enjoy the production values of older films, only then can we truly appreciate their genius.Anyway, this war classic moves along at a brisk pace, never forgetting that there are characters involved behind the canvas of action.  It also manages to maintain a sense of humor about itself, what a rarity! Without resorting to the pandering humor of today's movies.The on location shots in and around Rhodes provide a great backdrop for this action classic.  This film was a huge success when it came out, even managing to snag Oscar nominations for Best Picture and Best Director.  (sadly, the director would never again match this critical success)The DVD contains wonderful extras, trailers and interviews with the surviving cast members, and of course it's main attraction is the restored print in widescreen!If you're in the mood for a great action flick that manages to combine terrific acting, direction, adventure and even humor, you could do no better than this 60's classic. "},{"Title":"superb adventure","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Guns of Navarone is an action film but it has elements that are lost in the modern action film.  The Guns... has superb actors, a believable plot line and truly spectacular visuals.  True the special effects leave a bit to be desired but this is to be expected from an older movie.  Guns makes up for this shortcoming by a long shot.  Nothing earth shaking but good entertainment. "},{"Title":"One of the best war/adventure movies ever.","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is just a superb movie with some big gun (pardon the pun) actors in an ensemble performance! The best one of the lot here is Anthony Quinn, who is practically stealing scenes left and right. David Niven is also quite delightful in a role for which he should have gotten some kind of an award. And of-course Gregory Peck, as usual, delivers! (Sorry, I am a big fan of Mr. Peck.) The Navarone saga is told with just the right amount of detail. There are no over-labored moments in this movie. To top it all off, the movie has an excellent theme music that is memorable and uniquely appropriate. All in all, this movie is truly one of those about which is said...They don't make 'em like that anymore! "},{"Title":"Biffo - Bammo - Boffo!","Date":"7 April 2015","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A team of army specialists are assembled with the task of infiltrating a German held Greek island. Then they have to destroy the mighty twin guns up in the hills that blight the British operations on the Aegean waters. Adapted from the Alistair MacLean novel, it's directed by J. Lee Thompson and stars Gregory Peck, David Niven, Anthony Quinn, Anthony Quayle, Stanley Baker and James Darren. Music is scored by Dimitri Tiomkin and cinematography by Oswald Morris. Watching it now it seems oh so very formulaic, but it was rarely the norm back than for war films to always follow this brand of high end adventure staples. The makers take a bunch of men from the various social spectrum and thrust them together for an impossible mission. We have the stiff backed guys with moral reasoning at their core, the rough and tumble men, all face fuzz and machismo seeping from every pore, and a young baby faced youngster blossoming into a man by the day. They will be put through the mangler at regular intervals, faced with scenarios to test their metal, all while the group view each other with suspicions of motives and reasonings. Here the character sub-plots, their hang-ups and frets, do not bog down the fun or the excitement, they enhance the narrative. We also get two ladies entering the group (Irene Papas/Gia Scala), and they too add some meat into an already beefy stew. Action is a plenty, suspense equally so. While of course there's twists and turns to input some mystery and pot boiling character dynamics. Elsewhere, Tiomkin provides a robust Golden Globe Winning score, and Bill Warrington & Chris Greenham's special effects won the Academy Award in that department; they look at times a bit weak now, but who cares right? The array of screen work, matte paintings and miniatures blend superbly with the outdoor location photography, which points us to a time when film makers worked their socks off to create the magic up there on the screen. Oh and the scripted dialogue, just wonderful and beating an intelligent heart. One of the quintessential boy's own - men on a mission movies, The Guns of Navarone, still a treat over 50 years since it was first shown in cinemas, and crucially, it's still influencing other film makers as well. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Audience dehumanising junk","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Guns of Navarone was part of a wave of war films released during the 1960s and early 70s (The Dirty Dozen, Kelly's Heroes, Where Eagles Dare, The Guns of Navarone, The Devil's Brigade, The Great Escape etc) which turned WW2 into a boy's own adventure. Featuring tough men on a mission against ridiculous odds, most of these films used war, not to express any moral or patriotic sentiment, but as vehicles for action, aimed primarily at the young modern audiences of the Vietnam era, and their aging WW2 era fathers.The Guns of Navarone is one of the worst films in this wave. Based on a novel by Alistair MacLean, it's a routine mission movie in which a rag tag bunch of guys join forces to bomb a German gun emplacement. The film ignores the politics of WW2, ignores the mindset of those taking part in the film's suicide mission and reduces Germans to sock puppets.Superficial and stupid, the film anticipates Steven Spielberg's boy's own adventures set against serious backdrops, and contains several scenes akin to Saving Private Ryan, most notably one in which our heroes wrestle over whether or not to kill an enemy officer.One can rationalise these films being made during WW2 (dehumanising the enemy is common in propaganda), but to make such a thing in 1961 (or 1998 as in Spielberg's case) is simply unconscionable. David Lean, and the moral probings of various other Brit directors during the 50s, had rendered this stuff obsolete by 1961, and yet the film was a huge success in the US, raking in piles of cash. No surprise that The Guns of Navarone was released just before the Vietnam War, just as Ryan was released before the second Gulf War, both films priming their nations for some down and dirty warmongering (cf historian Patrick McCormick).By the time the Vietnam war hit and was drawing to a close, The Guns of Navarone's imitators (Kelly's Heroes, The Dirty Dozen etc) had found a way to rationalise their unscrupulous subject matter by embracing and exploring their roots in junk, trash and exploitation cinema (hence Tarantino's fondness for these films, and his homage, Inglorious Basterds). Indeed, it's an understanding of their debased roots that make fare like Inglorious Basterds and The Dirty Dozen so interesting. Dozen, for example, is implicitly about both the perversion of cinematic justice and the impossibility of honour, and goes out of its way to show how evil exists, not mysteriously in the hearts of Nazis, but in complicit men, women and soldiers on both sides.But even if one switches off the brain, The Guns of Navarone fails as a mindless action movie. Actors Gregory Peck, David Niven, Anthony Quinn and James Darren turn in some wooden, stiff performances, and though director J. Lee Thompson's action scenes are sudden, violent and brutal, the film is ponderously slow when the bullets aren't flying.6.9/10 &#x96; This film needs some Lee Marvin, Charles Bronson, Clint Eastwood and Terry Savalas. "},{"Title":"Movie is one of the Top 10 World War 2 Movies","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If you haven't seen this movie then you have missed out on one of the top 10 World War 2 movies.Certainly there are lines in the movie that seem a bit camp (such as Richard Harris' debrief and some of Niven's lines) but overall the rest of the script is topnotch, the actors are some of the best in the business and the story keeps you wanting to watch it every three months.The beautiful music at the end of the movie (Voyage Home I think its called) is very soothing and fits in just right with the footage.As the past reviewer mentioned this movie is definitely underrated. I rank it right up there with 12 O'Clock High which is my favorite Gregory Peck movie. "},{"Title":"Good WW2 drama","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Good WW2 drama.Based on the Alastair MacLean novel, solid plot and good action sequences. On the negative side, maybe too speech-filled and preachy. Also overly long.Gregory Peck doesn't do bad performances, and this is no exception. David Niven is a bit irritating in his role though. Solid performances from a stellar supporting cast Anthony Quinn, Stanley Baker, James Robertson Justice, Anthony Quayle. Richard Harris, early in his career, also has a minor role. "}{"Title":"Absolutely one of the best war films ever...","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My twin brother and I saw this when we were nine and were totally convinced it was a) all true, and b) just the best war film ever.Every time I see it the memories come flooding back - Stavros, Lucky, Miller the lot - for my money one of the best films of its genre and head and shoulders above most. My brother and I could quote large sections, play act the lot, and just loved this more than the Great Escape, the Wooden Horse, or the DamBusters - it was just more human, more action, and more fun.Now, of course, it's easier when it is fiction like Navarone, but even still...Haven't really changed my opinion a crack team, an impossible target, all the actors of a generation in a fantastic plot - well filmed, well scored, and well, just fantastic.In my opinion 30 years on it is still a great story, with great performances that thoroughly deserves it's Oscar and its status. It is also quite simple a well-made film - riveting from start to finish.Very highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The Mother of all guys-on-a-mission-movie?","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" At least so it is considered by many, and has been for the last 40+ years. It sure has a well-constructed story and director J. Lee Thompson never looses sight of the characters amidst all the first-rate action-scenes. Personally however, I still rank it behind another Alistair MacLean-based film Where Eagles Dare.That said, The Guns of Navarone is and will always remain one of the greatest examples of it's genre. Surprisingly enough; when I saw it as a kid I thought of it only as an adventure movie, but when I see it as an adult it comes of more as a serious war-picture, because despite the light comedy of David Niven (in one of his most memorable roles) this is a brutal picture, at times almost hard to swallow.(MILD SPOILER, not regarding the ending)The Germans come of quite sympathetic, especially compared to the heroes after they assassinate the films true victim-of-war because the person (with a background as a school-teacher) buckled under torture. When you have seen the scene you might say there was no other way, I say they could have used the same way on this person as they did to some Germans they tied up and gagged earlier in the film. When the people we are supposed to root for executes this person in cold blood it puts a damper on the rest of the movie. Sure, war IS Hell, and tough choices like this works in a number of movies, but here it is almost too much, and hits you straight in the face like a wet towel, at least in the manner it is told.On top of this scene, Gregory Peck - the most sympathetic guy in Hollywood - even comes off as almost unsympathetic at times! At one key moment in the film Niven has had it and yells to hell with the job! I've been on a hundred jobs and not one of them has altered the course of the war! I don't care about the war anymore, I care about Roy! These feelings should hit close to home with most audience-members, as they have rarely been put in a life-or-death situation where you have to put all human emotions aside like Peck demands of his men. So when Niven later in the film actually apologizes to Peck for not being the cold-blooded killer he apparently wants him to be, it just feels entirely wrong! You should have told him to shove it where the sun don't shine, David.(END OF SPOILER)These points adds somewhat of a damper on an otherwise solid picture I really loved as a kid, but find harder to truly enjoy as I grow older. Go figure.This was supposed to be a user comment filled with praise, but given that this is one of the most praised-about and popular films from the 1960's I think it would have no problems withstanding my remarks, as it has stood the test of time and still is one of the greatest World War 2-movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Big old fashion action","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's 1943. 2000 British troops are trapped on the island of Keros in the Aegean Sea. The Nazis are about to launch a massive assault in six days. Any escape is blocked by two massive guns on the island of Navarone. Air attacks has been useless. The Allies send in mountaineer Captain Keith Mallory (Gregory Peck), defeated Greek Colonel Andrea Stavrou (Anthony Quinn), explosive expert Corporal Miller (David Niven), former Navaronite Greek-American Spyros Pappadimos (James Darren), and knife fighter/engineer Butcher Brown (Stanley Baker). They are led by Major Roy Franklin (Anthony Quayle). They have to take out the guns before 6 British destroyers make a run for Keros.The action is good but a bit old fashion. The action at sea in the storm does get a little confusing. It's not as exciting as I want. The cliff climbing is also very fake with obvious painting and interior sets. Even the shooting and battles are very static. The cameras don't seem to move. I also wish they stop throwing dummies over a big drop. It's obvious that those are mannequins. At least, they are putting a lot of men and equipment on the screen in some of the filler scenes. As for the story, it gets a little gritty for its time while it's also slow in some stretches. The actors are generally too old for the roles. However that gives the movie a world-weary feel. It's good because they are even more of an underdog group. "},{"Title":"Almost defines action adventure, and the story is pure heroics...high end WWII film!","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Guns of Navarone (1961)A story of heros and heroism, flat out. It's a war movie, yes, but with a very specific focus--the mission to destroy the big guns in Navarone.The film is necessarily impressive. It has physicality, it is willing to go dark at night, and broad in wide horizon landscapes, and yet the interiors have foreground and background and aren't just pretty. In color, it manages to keep a menacing tone, and yet is beautiful, a really nicely photographed job (by Oswald Morris, a British pro). Officially an American production, The Guns of Navarone is by and about a British war intervention. Director J. Lee Thompson (also British) is famous above all for one film, the original Cape Fear, but in terms of directorial management (and difficulty), this one is even more impressive. Gregory Peck (an American) plays a man who was, in real life, from New Zealand. He's a model of command and strength, in one of his best manly roles (easier said than done, being in charge of a bunch of tough guys and seeming legit, and not just theatrical.) David Niven is also in good form, playing a slightly prissy soldier, and he gives a smart, pointed speech near the end that's quotable stuff. Famously, Niven almost died from illness during the shooting (caused by some of the water scenes). Anthony Quinn as always is uncompromising.This is high stakes, high adventure stuff, masculine and hardened, but necessary in a brutal early part of the war. There are times when you think the Germans should have got them, as the good guys were too exposed, and the Germans too close, for escape. But most of the time it's gritty and realistic, and pretty amazing for how it creates the interlayering of civilian reality and war time heroics. It's set on a beautiful Greek island, luckily for the filmmakers, and for the film. And there are scenes of terrific storms, bucolic weddings, snowfall in the mountains, some serious night rock climbing (in the rain), on and on, in graphic widescreen photography, first rate stuff all around. The sets (in particular the gun installation) are big and impressive, just in themselves. I didn't expect to especially like the movie mostly because it sounded like another adventure war film, but it sucked me in by its sheer competence, by its earthy acting, and by the complex and involving plot. All of this is odd because I had read the book as a kid and was utterly enthralled at the time. It's good boy daydream stuff, and still is, for older boys in their fifties. "},{"Title":"Good but not great","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Under the command of Major Franklin a group of men is put together to infiltrate a German-held island and destroy a set of armoured guns that prevent a full naval assault on the island.  However when Franklin is injured early in the mission, Captain Mallory takes over and must deal with a mission that is in no way straight forward.A good old fashioned Alistair McClean wartime thriller in the mould of Where Eagles Dare etc.  This build itself well with a quality story and an all star cast of professionals.  However this weighty cast adds to the feeling or seriousness.  This is shouldn't be a major problem, but it is &#150; because the film doesn't feel like an adventure in the same way as Where Eagles dare did.  The film has too many slow bits and talking scenes on the unpleasant nature of war.This slows it all down &#150; and the action itself is nothing special.  There are the usual twist and tense moments as with all McClean stories.  However it all tries to be too epic and loses some of it's wonder and excitement.  That said &#150; this is still quite good, it is just that it should have been more exciting.The cast are solid in almost all areas.  The only weakness is maybe Niven who doesn't quite fit the role of Miller as he was in the book.  But Peck, Quinn, Quayle etc are all good &#150; the only downside being that it's all a bit heavy.Overall this is an enjoyable romp but it doesn't have the same type of boys own adventure that it should have.  Good but not on the level of Where Eagles Dare. "},{"Title":"Great Fiction Becomes Classic War Film","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Real Art of making a film is on display in this one. The war fiction novel by Allistair MacLean proved to be a very great source to fashion a first quality script. The filmmakers then opened the film by simulating an actual World War 2 Documentary about Navarone in black and white which gives the opening such a feel of reality that a viewer would have to know this is fiction in order to realize it is not a documentary about the war.The cast for this could not be crafted any better. Gregory Peck is very good here. This might be David Niven's best film role and this is one of the very few times Anthony Quinn and Anthony Quayle are together in one movie. Both of them did a lot of solid films but rarely are they any better than in this one. James Darren, later to become a teen idol during the 1960's is here. Irene Papas has an important role along with Gia Scala though the ladies are not the main characters. Gia is important because her being Greek in a story set in Greece helps get the feel of reality.This film was important because not only was there sequels launched by it, but the concept of this film was used in several other films as well in the 1960's. Never were any done better than this one here. This one with a mission that seems impossible, yet so real in it's goal to secure the straight by the island of Navarone so that many ships in the royal navy are not sunk by these huge guns feels right in every aspect to a first time viewer.This movie does present the Nazi's as a very intelligent and capable foe. Their spy network seems to be ahead of the team every step of the way until very late in the movie. There i a very credible storm sequence that nearly derails the mission which is sort of a mini event that later would be expanded into the disaster type films of the late 1960's and beyond. This film has everything you would expect in a real story. Nothing is made too easy for accomplishing this mission for the team. Later films trying to duplicate this effort come close but never quit achieve the quality of this film.J. Lee Thompson, the director would go on to direct Cape Fear, the now classic film with Peck and Robert Mitchum the very next year is at the height of his career as these 2 films are his best efforts by far. Because these 2 films are his best, he is not as well remembered as a director as other ones because he only really has thee 2 films as crown jewels in his career. What a jewel this one is. After doing these 2 films back to back, no others would quite reach this one.The mountain blasting sequence in this one is one of the better special effects sequences of war films. The story and the cast plus the locations used pull the viewer into this solid film. "},{"Title":"the Guns of Navarone must be silenced or a thousand men die !","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Guns of Navarone is one of the greatest war movies ever made. Its almost ironic that its intended as a anti war movie. but it doesn't serve well as one. Instead it shows us the brutal nasty side of war. the Plot is basic. There are a thousand men trapped on the island of Kheros. In order to get there they must pass by Navarone. The Germans have two large guns planted there hidden by the cave and mountain of Navarone. Each rescue attempt is shattered by these guns. Only one attempt is left. Captain Keith Mallory is recruited along with his old Partner from the resistance in Greece Colonal Andrea Stavros. a skilled fighter. Plus Dusty Miller a gifted man with explosives. And a few other skilled fighters. the plan Get as close to Navarone as possible hook up with the resistance and destroy the guns. not so easy when a traitor lurks among you.Guns was intended to be anti war but in the end became one of the greatest War and action movies of all times . Peck serves the film well with a dark brooding manner. Niven gives Miller a sarcastic edge but maintains a moral edge as well . All the other actors serve their roles well making this a solid memorable movie worthy of being called classic. "},{"Title":"An Unnecessary mission","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" An excellent and exciting 2nd world war film with a quality cast led by the wonderful Gregory Peck as Mallory. I am guessing that Mallory, a world famous climber was named in honour of George Mallory of Everest fame. A small team of experts are sent to totally destroy two massive guns built into the cliff top of a small Greek island. Time is important as they have to save the lives of 2,000 men trapped on another island who are about to be attacked by an overwhelming force. The only route for 5 destroyers is past the guns. I am now going to have to criticise the premise of this classic film. Why would the Germans put these massive guns in the middle of the Aegean sea just in case? Why couldn't the ships just pick another route which did not go past the guns ? The 2,000 men were not all going to die. If overwhelmed, they always had the option of surrender. "},{"Title":"Benchmark adventure film that's a favorite of many.","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A fairly tumultuous start (with the director being replaced after a short while) and other issues (including star Niven, who was himself a replacement for actor Kenneth More, being felled by illness during the shoot) could easily have sunken this ambitious, expensive adventure movie, but it proceeded to become a major (and enduring) hit. In WWII Greece, Peck plays a soldier recruited by Quayle to take part in a daring, nearly suicidal, mission to destroy a pair of massive guns that are cutting off rescue efforts of some 2000 men being cornered on a nearby island. Filling out the team are demolitions expert Niven, Greek resistance fighter Quinn, proved killer Baker and hotheaded Darren. They are later joined by two female, Greek, underground agents, Scala and Papas. Just getting to the area from which to mount the plan proves treacherous in itself, especially when Quayle is severely injured and has to be carried the rest of the way. There's a daunting mountain climb, a severe thunderstorm and shipwreck and a dangerous jaunt across a rocky valley as planes drop mortar from overhead. When the team is finally in place to begin the demolition, it seems that the problems they've encountered (including an arrest by the Nazis) have turned out to be more than just a coincidence. With the odds now even more extreme, they press on to destroy the title guns and allow the retrieval of the stranded men. Peck is stalwart and resourceful in his role, though there are occasions during which he is permitted to act far too over-emphatically, even coming off as foolish, such as when he tears into Niven during one of their respites. Niven is handed some of the rare pithy lines and manages to develop a rather three-dimensional character out of the situation. Quinn does a fine job, though he, too, hams it up every once in a while, though at least his turn seems intentional (as part of a scheme to fool the S.S.) Quayle is typically strong, adding texture and authenticity to his role. Baker and Darren play rather stock characters, each getting a moment or two to shine, with Baker probably getting the best of the deal. Notable actors Justice and Harris turn up briefly at the beginning to set the stage for the events to follow. If one were to insist on inserting two females into the story, as was done here, he could do much worse than Scala and Papas. Scala is a bit too made up for her part, but does an admirable job and Papas is extremely earthy and believable in her role. The ladies have one very memorable moment together about 's of the way through. Named by many as their favorite adventure or war film, it was never really intended to be the serious piece of cinema that it seems to have become in retrospect. The stars were merely out to make an impressive action flick. However, in light of how bubble-gum (and bubble-headed) and slap-dash subsequent adventure movies have become, it can't help but be thought of in a different light now. Still, even director Thompson wished, in retrospect, that he'd trimmed up a few of the longish scenes. The film comes close, at times, to wearing out its welcome as it clocks in at over 2-1/2 hours. Several sequences stand out as memorable including the shipwreck (in which the actors were tormented with thousands of gallons of water), the revelation of the hidden enemy and the demolition of the guns. A sequel (generally considered inferior) came out seventeen years later called Force 10 From Navarone. "},{"Title":"Someone's got to take responsibility if the job's going to get done.","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Excellent action/adventure war film, even if fictional; the set-up and follow through is generally believable and handled by a talented cast. I'm adding Gregory Peck to my list of favorite actors, having seen him now a number of times in To Kill A Mockingbird and as Johnny Ringo in The Gunfighter, along with a handful of other films. Peck's character, Captain Keith Mallory, becomes the nominal leader of a band of soldiers on a mission to take out a pair of radar controlled guns on a Greek island protecting access to the Aegean Sea. If they fail, two thousand British soldiers will die in a Nazi show of force intended to bring Turkey into the war on the side of the Axis Powers.This is the kind of movie made at a time when you just knew what the outcome would be, so the excitement had to be in the way you got to the finish line. The story here is a well crafted one, even if some elements defy credibility after the fact. Such as 'Butcher' Brown's (Stanley Baker) reluctance to use fatal force to reckon with an enemy, thereby casting some doubt as to his nickname. Or the motivation of the traitor Anna (Gia Scala) once she reunited with her friend Maria (Irene Pappas) and fell in league with the Navarone team. Those issues were glossed over rather quickly if not very convincingly, but they weren't enough to defuse the intensity of the story.The best scenes had to do with one on one confrontations presenting a moral dilemma, like the early scene when Major Franklin (Anthony Quayle) faced down another officer over the fate of the laundry boy. Even better and more intense was the showdown over Anna between Mallory and Corporal Miller (David Niven). The scene presented no other choice for Mallory than to do his duty, for which he was spared by the intervention of Maria Pappadimos, a clever twist inserted by the screenplay. The best ruse though had to do with Mallory's planting a false lead with the severely injured Franklin, a plot element virtually indispensable if the mission were to succeed.The other thing that kept one's interest aside from the Navarone mission was the unfinished business between Mallory and his former friend and ally Andrea Stavros (Anthony Quinn). Again, one has a sense that they'll settle their score favorably, but it's always in the back of the viewer's mind as to how that scenario will play out.For a film that doesn't have to rely on lighter moments, I got a kick out of David Niven's mid film Heil, everybody! But you have to admit, for all his misgivings about never learning to swim, he wasn't a very convincing drowner. "}{"Title":"Guns of Navarone","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am 46 years late in catching up with this famous film and, though it has its faults, which I won't bother listing, it's wonderful to watch Gregory Peck, Anthony Quinn, and David Niven at the height of their powers. Irene Papas and Anthony Quayle have secondary roles but they also acquit themselves well. This is a war-time suspense film, a squad of men dispatched to accomplish a near impossible mission in a very brief amount of time. Considering that the film is quite long, maintaining the suspense is no mean feat and it is accomplished extremely well though by means of a number of utterly implausible plot twists. The actors establish their characters early in the movie and maintain them to the very end -- though a deadly enmity between Peck's character and Quinn's is resolved a bit too conveniently at the conclusion of the film. Still, if you haven't ever seen it, you should. And it isn't difficult to find because it is justifiably regarded as a classic. "},{"Title":"The Guns of Navarone(1961)","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A memorably classic film with a deftly chosen star cast,breathtaking outdoor shooting,crisp screenplay,outstanding direction and most of all a story line to grip one to the end.The big three,Peck,Niven and Quinn stand out off course but i believe the British actors like Hawkins,Baker,Quayle etc are far more convincing.Irene Papas is superb.Gia Scala is the weak link in the story.As in many allied WW2 films the Germans are made to look fools,just like the Red Indians in western films!The film rolls out exceptionally well and keep the viewers in vice like suspense.The action is captured very realistically but i believe there was more to this great war feat then is shown here.I just can't accept that the Germans can be fooled so easily.Anyways this should not deter one from a fantastic war film in which the viewer sometimes feels is a part of the whole drama!Remotely unknown these days to find such clean-cut pure adventure films these days.A classic for eternity. "},{"Title":"Great movie, lousy sequel","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This was a great movie, but it inspired such a terrible sequel, FORCE 10 FROM NAVARONE. This is even more surprising, since the sequel had a decent cast, including Robert Shaw, Harrison Ford, and Barbara Bach (the hottest of the Bond girls). How does something like that happen? Well, it probably doesn't help that they send Miller to Yugoslavia with a valise, and end up taking Carl Weathers along for no reason whatsoever. This is always a bad sign of things to come. Perhaps the worst sequel ever, the sequel to THE DIRTY DOZEN, also used the implausible device of sending a black soldier behind German lines during WW II to complete a mission. In that movie in particular, where the plan was to infiltrate Germany dressed as German soldiers, one would think that a black operator would be a liability. While I think Carl Weathers is great, I just can't imagine his character thinking that going on a suicide mission to Yugoslavia would be an improvement over spending a couple of nights in the brig. This is, perhaps, why the quality of the original GUNS OF NAVARONE is even more impressive. "},{"Title":"Classic war adventure.","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My Take Although dated in some areas, this is an enjoyable old-fashioned war adventure. The Guns of Navarone was considered by many as a classic WWII adventure. Considering a strong amount of talent, special effects and timely subject, it is. But time has not been real kind to it. To be fair to its many admirers, GUNS OF NAVARONE is exactly as entertaining as I expected it to be. The action was fairly strong as are the stellar performances. Still, it is bogged down by a slow paced first hour. Several moments of drama are injected as well in several elements that fail to withstand the test of time. But as pure WWII adventure, GUNSD OF NAVARONE is a strong trinket of war movie cinema. Well-acted, well-directed and rather enjoyable and exciting if it could be. The performances were great, especially by the leads, Gregory Peck, David Niven and Anthony Quinn. The direction by J. Lee Thompson is crackling, a superior job before he hit became a hack in the 80's. The entire film is well-done, although pretty dated to some. The Oscar-winning special effects are still effective, especially during the time-ticking climax. A flawed movie, but has emerged as a genre classic nonetheless. Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Well made adventure","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 2000 British soldiers are trapped on an island in the Aegean Sea. A fleet of transports is set to arrive to pick them up, but there is one problem two huge cannons in a massive Nazi fortress control that part of the ocean. It is up to a team of Allied Commandos to land on the island and make their way to the fortress and blow the Guns of Navarone in time to clear the route for the rescue transports.The film has deservedly grown to classic status and remains a very fine adventure film. Good set of characters, good actors, good suspense/action, nice historical setting and some terrific locations. From the boat ride to the island of Navarone to the scaling of an unforgiving cliff, to the hiding from patrols to finally infiltrating the fortress the sense of sheer adventure never lets up. Even the acting and characterizations are strong and much more than you can expect from most action movies made today.However, this film does not manage to top the action/adventure film Where Eagles Dare to which it is quite similar - most notably the same original author and premise. The film is long and never truly boring, but there are moments where you feel it could a bit faster. That is probably more realistic, but it does take away from the factor of escapism that Where Eagles Dare nails right on. Secondly the score is a much less breathtaking than you'd expect from a film that has a certain epic quality to it - the fate of two thousand soldiers is at hand and a entire battle front in a great war.Though the strong characters make up for lack of a twisty plot and overall it remains an enjoyable and well made adventure. --- 8/10Rated PG for violence "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Wonderful one of my favourite films. When I saw it on release at a cinema in Birmingham called The Futurist, I was overwhelmed. The action, the photography, the sets and the music by Tiomkin! Even after 40 years, the theme is still in my head. I own it on DVD in widescreen, but how I wish I could see it one more time in the cinema, I'm 62 and I don't suppose I will ever get the chance. Will have to do with the DVD, still it's in widescreen and surround sound. I think that the film won an award for the sound, but I can't remember now, but the sound of the attacking steaks as they came from the back of the cinema and that of the guns firing. The shells really did sound like the sound of an express train, to misquote Maclean. On Maclean I did find it disappointing to find that the scrip had been changed from a Greek male traitor to that of a Greek female one. Probably because the producers wanted a love interest in the film, because in the book there wasn't one. It was all male action and I think the film would not have suffered if the Greek women characters had been dropped. Navarone is being shown on TV in England this afternoon, but I wont bother, I got the DVD in 70mm and surround sound and that will do for me. "},{"Title":"Adventures, spectacular and filled with a wonderful cast.","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sometimes I really miss adventurous WW II movies being made. Movies such as Where Eagles Dare, Kelly's Heroes and The Eagle Has Landed. They were always carefully made with lots of eye for entertainment and had a star-filled cast, with wonderful actors. This movie is right up there with the very best and most entertaining adventurous WW II movies. The sentence; 'they don't make them like this anymore', certainly applies here.The movie has a wonderful adventurous and heroic story about a small group of Allied soldiers who are send on a mission to destroy two enormous guns at a small Greek island, in order to make the evacuation by sea of 2000 fellow Allied soldiers at a nearby island succeed. Of course lots of things go wrong and lots of action occurs. They get into some serious situations but often also manage to get out of it, thanks to some often unlikely but always entertaining occurrence. Yes, the story is certainly one of the biggest reasons why this movie is a very great and especially memorable one. The story is based on the novel by Alistair MacLean, who of course knew how to write an entertaining, adventurous WW II story.But probably the main reason why this movie is regarded as being an absolute classic, is due to the cast. There are some impressive and much respected names out of the business present in this movie. Gregory Peck was one of the best actors who ever lived and further more the movie has Anthony Quinn and David Niven in the most significant roles. Every actor in the movie plays an interesting character. The story is mainly set around the small group of 6 Allied soldiers whose mission it is to destroy the guns of Navarone. Every character is deliciously stereotypical and has his very own specialty. The characters suit in perfectly with the adventurous and entertaining story. The actors that portray them make their characters even more enjoyable and great to watch. Gregory Peck is a great leading man and he has some great chemistry with especially Anthony Quinn. David Niven plays the sort of comic relief and his character has got some of the best lines of the movie.It's sort of too bad that the movie had two prominent female characters in it. Nothing wrong with female emancipation in war movies but the characters need to serve a significant purpose. The movie could had easily done without the female characters and to be honest it makes the movie perhaps drag a little on at points, due to some needless slow sequences. Basically this movie is one of those typical ultimate man movies, in which female characters should have no part in. It just didn't feel fitting. No offense ladies, I still love you!The movie is long but the pace is high, thanks to the nimble editing and lots of action filled sequences that are present in the movie. It makes The Guns of Navarone a delightful 158 minutes that provides almost non-stop entertainment and action.The movie has some great looking settings and the action sequences are well directed and brought to the screen. It gives the movie a sort of an epic feeling overall. The unforgettable musical score by Dimitri Tiomkin also certainly does add to the movie its epic and adventurous feeling.One of the earliest- and also best and most entertaining WW II movies.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Choice of Mallory is interesting.","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The movie, based on Alastair MacLean's book, I would assume uses the same names as the book (I have never read the book).  Gregory Peck's character, Keith Mallory, was picked for the mission to Navarone because he is one of the greatest mountain climbers of all time.  This is interesting because another Mallory, in real life George Leigh Mallory, was also one of the greatest mountain climbers of all time who lost his life along with Sandy Irvine during the British expedition to climb Mt. Everest in 1924.  George Mallory's body was found on Mt. Everest several years ago (1999 I think) by a team specifically on the mountain to try to find out what happened to Mallory and Irvine.  Still missing is a camera which the two climbers had with them which may have recorded their summit of Mt. Everest 29 years before Sir Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay.  Although, it is the feeling of many of the climbers in the 1999 expedition that Mallory and Irvine could not have made it to the summit with the limited resources that were available to them. "},{"Title":"This is my favourite war film...","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ...while my favourite anti-war film is the original All Quiet On The Western Front. I don't know enough about either World War 2 or the probable merits of seeing this motion picture in all it's original glory at a big cinema sneeringly recommended by a previous commenter, all I know for sure it's a damn fine film to watch on the TV at home. Which without intending to be snooty I've done many times over the decades; it's just some people actually prefer concentrating on a smaller screen with no one munching popcorn in their ear.An Allied mission comprising of six big strong men sets out to destroy the gargantuan Nazi guns entrenched in the cliffs at Navarone in Greece. This mission is to be by sea, mountain and land and faces many trials and tribulations along the way caused by the Nazis and internal frictions. The moral relativist dilemmas come thick and fast and are what help make this a special war film &#x96; at the other end of the decade there was no such moralising in Where Eagles Dare. Examples whether or not to kill or kill to order; the possibility of using up a man's life to further your own ends or orders; instead of holding doors open for them should men shoot women; how tough it is to make decisions which effect others; why the two not so intelligent working class men were doomed to die and the three intelligent upper class officers destined to survive; what bloody good does any of it do anyway; and surprisingly more. On the evidence presented it's even possible to debate whether the Nazis really did have a shocking taste in undies. My favourite bit is David Niven's dramatic unmasking of the traitor and what he expects from his commanding officer Gregory Peck in resolution &#x96; everyone's emotions are expertly played with, including ours.There's (generally) great acting, production and story &#x96; the special effects are sometimes a disappointment but aren't a problem as never central to the plot. It's doesn't have to be a true story or totally perfect in all departments, just suspend belief for 150 minutes and it's fantastic entertainment If War is Hell you probably wouldn't guess it from this film, watch it to decide. "},{"Title":"Old Fashioned War Epic That Tries To Be Too Epic","Date":"6 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In 1943 two thousand British soldiers are trapped on a Greek Island in the Aegean sea . Evacuating them will be an impossible task since the approach to the island is in the path of two massive German artillery pieces . An attempt to bomb the guns via an air raid fails so it's left to Captain Keith Mallory to lead a raid on the guns but very quickly the raid risks suffering compromise This is a good old fashioned epic war film that wouldn't need much marketing since the war would be fresh in everyones minds and dads could take their wives and families to the cinema and brag that ( Insert your favourite character from the film here ) was entirely based on them and Alistair MacLean promised not to use their real name . If that wasn't enough then the cast list of Peck , Niven and Quinn for an American audience and Robertson-Justice and Baker who between must have appeared in every single British film in the late 1950s would have appealed to the Brits . What could fail ? Not much admittedly but there's something old fashioned about this movie which tries a little bit too hard too be epic and this is reflected in the way the story is padded out . It seems it's too simplistic on the part of the film makers that a team of daring commandos have a dangerous mission and the film makers constantly have them facing danger every ten minutes . It's a similar problem that would plague the James Bond franchise where the title hero has to face impossible odds regardless whether the logic behind it makes any sense Actually there is a lack of if not logic then certainly explanation to much of the film . According to the narration at the beginning the fall of the Greek Island and the capture of two thousand British troops will lead to Turkey possibly entering the war on the side of the Nazis but never explains why this will come about ? By 1943 it was probably clear to any neutrals that the Axis powers were slowly losing so why join the losing side ? It's also never explained why if it's impossible to evacuate the Brits how they were ble to land on the Island in the first place . The film is spoiled by aspects like this . A spy in the camp is mute but feels the need to prove she's a traitor by confessing to something . Why confess and why pretend to be mute ?Regardless of all this you're not supposed to think too hard at the plot turns and just sit back and be entertained as a diverse bunch of allies defeat the Nazi menace . I will give the film some credit and that is it recognises the defeat of Nazi Germany was a coalition of allies . Nowadays if a film was financed with American money it'd feature American actors playing American characters with just a token nod to the other allies but not in this film which even has Richard Harris playing an Australian airman . Playing it very badly but at least it recognises the allied contribution "}{"Title":"Strong Effort from Niven and Quinn","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a very good war film that hopes to be more, and largely succeeds. It holds, in fact, an important place in movie lore as one of the more successful action flicks, helping to establish an audience for flicks such as The Dirty Dozen (1967) and Where Eagles Dare (1968). The tensions that exist between the characters are important to the effectiveness of the narrative, and there are plenty of moral questions that are posed and partially answered. However, the best part of this film remains the performances of David Niven and Anthony Quinn, as well as a fine turn by Irini Pappas. Watch for the central theme of kindness and its limits, as well as for the award-winning special effects in the storm scene. It helps to hear from the actors in the extra commentary just how realistic and frightening that storm was. What's also nice to know is that the director, J. Lee Thompson, worked with Quinn again in 1978 in The Greek Tycoon. And I do not think that the location information is correct at all - I doubt that Senegal's Ile de Goree, with an average elevation of 3 feet, provided the cliffs. Instead I would vote for the cliffs between Pefki and Lindos on the island of Rhodes, where the film was shot. I've seen them, and they're impressive. "},{"Title":"To be seen at age 12 first","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Why would a man with a broken leg, on the point of shooting himself, painfully drag himself out in the snow? Why would a treacherous girl fake being mute after torture? Why would she direct enemy fire to a party that includes herself, only to help them escape when they are finally surrounded? Why would a saboteur answer a checkup call without knowing any code words or even decently speaking the language, rather than not answering it, leaving the command post to believe that the guard had been accidentally blown off the cliff? These and other questions thou shalt not ask. Thou shalt also forget about the Wild West shoot-out, about the silly late-night romance between the beautiful mute traitress and the melancholic officer, and about Gregory Peck (unconvincing as ever, captain Mallory or captain Ahab alike) turning cynical old-timer David Niven into a dedicated obedient soldier. After that, you may enjoy this movie, as I invariably do. I was blown away by it when I was 12, that's why. (I preferred the novel, but didn't object to Gia Scala being thrown in, then.) "},{"Title":"Still exciting after all this time","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Guns of Navarone is one of those films that has clearly aged in a lot of aspects and still offers a lot of replay value even 50 years down the line. Directed by action/adventure expert J. Lee Thompson and written by High Noon scriptwriter Carl Foreman, this film is a peculiar example of the adventure genre done right.The film presents a straightforward goal WWII is raging on and two enormous German cannons are placed in a cave on the Greek island of Navarone, sinking all ships that enter its firing range. Rather than attempting a frontal assault, a small team of six Brits and Greeks are ordered to infiltrate the island by boat and blow up the cannons. We follow them as they narrowly survive mother nature and encounters with Germans and along the way their dispositions toward the mission and each other change.Like I said, this film has aged&#x85;mostly well. There are a lot of things that you can't really watch with a straight face. Peck's acting is a bit hammy at times and the way the tension between Peck and Quinn's characters is resolved is as symbolic as me shouting in your ear is subtle, but overall, this film manages to excel in terms of action without disregarding character development as so many modern-day action flicks tend to do.According to the trivia section on IMDb, Gregory Peck was disappointed by how many viewers failed to properly identify Navarone as anti-war and though I can understand his frustration, I think this has more to do with the style of the film than the intended message. When I think 'anti-war', I think of films like Kubrick's Paths of Glory with its clearly delineated anti-war morals. Navarone however, is first and foremost a bundle of (exciting) action set pieces. Of course there is drama, some of it still really effective, but the film's many action sequences are crucial as they define the film as just that &#x96; an action film &#x96; because these scenes tend to lack some sense of symbolism, underlying the futility of war, etc. In other words, there's anti-war stuff to be found here, but it's overshadowed by the amount of Hollywood spectacle.In the end, not every war film needs to be an in-your-face anti-war ad. The Guns of Navarone is first and foremost an exciting adventure film, excelling at many of the tropes that have made the genre popular. Even 50 years later, Navarone has a lot of replay value and (though occasionally campy) is still fun to watch and genuinely exciting. "},{"Title":"Near-classic wartime adventure drama","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A very, very good film, I'd go as far to say that its best parts- and there are a great many of them- are great. The Guns of Navarone does plod in the pace a tad at times and some of the camera work and special effects look under-budgeted and silly now compared to the rest of the production values(the script and score were in my view more deserving of an Oscar win, but were up against stiff competition that year). The Guns of Navarone does boast atmospheric scenery, expressive lighting that gives the film a haunting but not obvious look and mostly skilled photography, so while not a great-looking film regardless of some camera work and effects it's a good-looking one. Dmitri Tiomkin's justifiably Oscar-nominated and Golden Globe-winning music score is stirring in the very best of ways and sets the atmosphere and what the characters are thinking brilliantly. It is sometimes used sparingly but that really works here, considering what's going on. The film is very intelligently scripted in a way that's easy to understand and does a great job developing the characters, who are compellingly real, not black and white and are ones that we really get to know, especially David Niven's. It was nice to see the Germans as formidable yet human instead of being one-sided. The story is told with a great deal of tension, realism and suspense that are maintained throughout the long(two and a half hours) length, some of the many suspenseful scenes being without music or dialogue and just sound effects(nail-biting ones too), The Guns of Navarone really does have to have some of the best use of silence of any film. The story's tone shifts are done smoothly and not in a way that's awkward or bizarre, it has a strong message not done in a over-didactic way and the ending is gut-wrenching. The pace plods here and there but mostly is very efficient and actually with the characters and story being as engrossing as they were the film never to me became a bore. The direction is sympathetic to the action but manages to inject life into the storytelling and sustain the amount of tension and suspense there is, giving it all space to develop. The cast were great on paper and their acting is even greater, the acting honours going to David Niven in a smooth, witty and touching performance as the most interesting and well-developed character of the film. Gregory Peck can be wooden but he's anything but here, he may not pass for British but his command of the screen and his rapport with Niven more than compensates. And you cannot go wrong with Stanley Baker, Anthony Quayle, Anthony Quinn, Irene Papas, James Darren and James Robertson-Justice, all fine here especially a very humorous Quinn. Only Richard Harris disappointed, a little stiff and with a pretty appalling accent. On the whole, while not the greatest wartime drama(the granddaddy of them is still 1930's All Quiet on the Western Front) the Guns of Navarone is great stuff and a near-classic. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A tough-minded military espionage film","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Guns of Navarone places a group of hard-boiled Allied saboteurs into scenarios that require them to put their civilian instincts for compassion aside for the sake of the mission. Whole other, milder, happier lives seem implicit in these characters' sad glances and careful movements, and Gregory Peck and Anthony Quayle in particular convey with great subtlety that their characters would rather be comfortably behind desks&#x97;not to preserve their own safety, which they put unhesitatingly at risk, but to prevent them from having to make difficult decisions about the lives of other members of their top-secret team. The casting of well-known, likable actors such as David Niven, Gregory Peck, and Anthony Quinn is essential for the impact of the story's cloak-and-dagger twists, in which agonizing personal decisions and private anxieties are brought to the fore. The Nazis are of course fearful villains, especially in a tense interrogation scene, and their heavy gun emplacement targeted for sabotage makes for a great set piece backdrop, but in a departure from other war films of the period these elements are almost a sideshow here. At the heart of the film instead are the dynamics within the Allied infiltration team itself, and the team's efforts to navigate, in good faith, the situations that require them to regard as expendable anyone who threatens the success of the mission&#x97;including injured or untrustworthy members of their own team. These personalized stakes make Navarone among the most tense and uncompromising war movies I've seen. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate War Movie","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" THE GUNS OF NAVARONE is the prototype for all those small group of commandos pull off an impossible mission war movies; in its own way, you can even see its influence in STAR WARS. This is not a stretch since NAVARONE was a monster hit in 1961, snagged an Academy Award nomination for Best Picture, and has maintained a huge following among male moviegoers ever since.And until recently, NAVARONE was one of the few of the great epic war movies I had never seen all the way through from beginning to end. Watching NAVARONE today is to be transported back to a time when World War II was well within the living memory of every adult, including the youthful John F. Kennedy, who had just been inaugurated President; when that conflict still dominated the popular culture. The plot is quite simple a small group of commandos will infiltrate German occupied Greece and destroy the huge artillery weapons that prevent the rescue of two thousand stranded British troops on an island in the Aegean Sea. The mission has the be accomplished within a specific window of time or a Royal Naval relief force will be sunk before the British soldiers can be rescued.The men whose job it falls to take out the heavily fortified guns- Mallory, Miller, Stavros, Brown, Franklin-are hard bitten veterans; cynical pros who know how to get it done despite any and all roadblocks in the way. These men are the grandfathers of the characters Stallone, Willis and Statham would portray decades later. They're not patriots in the flag waving sense of the word, but men willing to get their hands dirty because they know that will save the lives of other men like themselves.The mission itself is a trek over sea through dangerous waters and up a sheer cliff; full of narrow escapes from the Germans and betrayal by a supposed ally. There is never a moment during the mission when you are not completely aware of the danger the commandos are in from the Nazis. The pacing is perfect, allowing the heroes (and the viewer) just enough time to catch their breath between narrow escapes and unforeseen obstacles. The climax has edge of your seat suspense as the cannons are readied to sink the British ships as the heroes race to blow them up with not a second to spare. NAVARONE is a great showcase for a style movie acting that has long passed. Gregory Peck, David Niven and Anthony Quinn were men who played men, not buffed up action stars; there is a maturity about the way they handle themselves that tells us their characters have been through a lot and done worse. All three men were at the peak of their very long careers when they made NAVARONE. Peck's Mallory is the epitome of resourceful competence, and his confrontation with Niven's Corporal Miller over the fate of Franklin, where both of these tough men reveal something of themselves, is the film's dramatic highlight. Great dialog and great movie star acting. Quinn's ruthless Stavros could easily be a cousin to his Zorba; both characters get to fall in love with Irene Papas.There are some great supporting performances by Stanley Baker and Anthony Quayle, two British actors who've been forgotten now that they've been gone from the scene for many years. Baker would go on to star in ZULU, another great war movie; while Quayle would join the other Anthony the next year in David Lean's LAWRENCE OF ARABIA, a classic that surpasses even NAVARONE. There is a connection between Bond and NAVARONE actor Walter Gotell, who would go on to play the head of the KGB in a slew of 007 films, has a significant role as a Nazi officer.One of the things that does date the film concerns the unmasking of the traitor in their ranks when the time comes to dole out rough justice, Irene Papas steps in and executes her at the last minute instead of Peck's Mallory. It seems that in a movie made in 1961, it just wouldn't do to have Gregory Peck shoot an unarmed woman in cold blood, even if she has sold him out to the Nazis. But things changed fast, only a few years later, American soldiers would slaughter German men and women without a second thought in THE DIRTY DOZEN. The era of the epic war movie, of which THE GUNS OF NAVARONE is a shinning example, began with the release of THE BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAII in 1957 and along the way we got such classics as THE GREAT ESCAPE, THE LONGEST DAY, THE DIRTY DOZEN, WHERE EAGLES DARE, and continued through PATTON in 1970, before the genre went out of fashion during the Vietnam era. I guess movies like NAVARONE, which even at its most cynical, still suggested that war could be an adventure, rang hollow in time of Kent State and My Lai. But the war movie has never really gone away despite whatever politics of the time; the end of the 70's would bring the Vietnam epics like THE DEER HUNTER and APOCALYPSE NOW, and later there would be SAVING PRIVATE RYAN, THREE KINGS, BLACK HAWK DOWN,and THE HURT LOCKER. But these would be conflicts with no place for Peck, Niven, or Quinn and the kind of professionals they portrayed. Yet the spirit of THE GUNS OF NAVARONE is alive and well in the 21st century; just watch INGLORIOUS BASTERDS and see what I mean. I'd bet Brad Pitt's Lieutenant Aldo Rane would enjoy having a drink with Captain Keith Mallory and Colonel Andrea Stavros. "},{"Title":"It is one of the top class war movie but am very surprised not to see this under. top 250 list","Date":"8 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It is one of the top class war time movie but am very surprised not to see this under IMDb top 250 list. It has everything one would ask for ..very good acting , photography, sound effects and moreover continuity of the film was great which makes you feel that you are part of the movie . The most exciting scene was mountain climbing . Photography in particular where peck , David were drinking on a boat was also good which makes you feel that you are watching them from nearby . Despite all the positive marks in the movie , one scene still puzzled me was the girl carrying the flowers towards the table where all the team consisting of Gregory peck, Irene papas , David , baker etc etc were seated . It does not reveal any point ?? Any how the movie is still remembered as a very good one. "},{"Title":"Rousing WWII-era action adventure","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Adapted from Alistair MacLean's novel by Carl Foreman (who also produced), The Guns of Navarone tells the story of an elite group of British soldiers tasked with a near impossible mission. They must infiltrate the heavily guarded Greek island of Navarone and destroy the pair of massive radar-guided cannons stationed there.Despite a relatively slow start the plot soon kicks into gear and from then on the action doesn't let up. Foreman's Oscar-nominated script features several twists and turns and successfully maintains the suspense throughout.The cast is well-assembled and includes headliners Gregory Peck, David Niven & Anthony Quinn. Their group is filled out with Stanley Baker, Anthony Quayle & James Darren, each of whom hold their own. Meanwhile, Irene Pappas & Gia Scala add a welcome female element to this predominantly 'guy' movie. Overall, the acting is uniformly solid, even if no single performance is truly exceptional.Director J. Lee Thompson does a good job of bringing the sprawling story to life but the Oscar-winning special effects may be the most striking visual feature. True, with the advances in the last fifty years some shots are less convincing than they could be but the ambitious special effects are nevertheless commendable. The editing, sound & direction all received Oscar nominations, as did Dimitri Tiomkin's mood-enhancing score.In the end, The Guns of Navarone belongs to a breed of films that they just don't make anymore. If you enjoy action adventure ensemble pieces like The Great Escape & The Bridge on the River Kwai this'll be right up your alley. "},{"Title":"The only way to win a war is to be as nasty as the enemy.","Date":"30 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In the age of splendiferous CGI and FX, we tend to forget there was a time when great actors performed in films.Gregory Peck, David Niven, and Anthony Quinn are all Oscar winners, and Richard Harris had two nominations. Sadly, they are no longer with us.Funny, it was FX that got this film an Oscar among it's eight nominations Navarone is fictional, of course, and the shots on Rhodes are a stand-in for the real island where the battle took place. The wedding scene was reminiscent of the wedding in The Godfather, with Greek music and singing. Andreas Markides and Dimitri Tiomkin provided great music in a war film that has a soundtrack available.We need to watch great films such as this to remind us not only of the great actors of the past, but the sacrifices made by men in women in the cause of freedom. "},{"Title":"Excellent war movie","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Guns of Navarone taken from an Alastair Maclean novel is about a special group of men who are recruited to 'spike' two massive guns on Navarone to save part of the British naval fleet during World War 11.This is without doubt one of the most entertaining and exciting adventure films ever made.We have first of all Gregory Peck playing Cpt Mallory being recruited by Jensen played by James Robertson Justice.The other men are recruited and all have their skills -- Stanley Baker the man with the knife who is weary from having been killing people since 1936, A brilliantly understated performance, Anthony Quinn as Major Stavrou who has a previous connection with Mallory ( A twist that adds even more tension to the film) Quinn has a brilliant moment where an SS Captain is about to torture a wounded member of their team -- he feigns a hysterical fit and uses it to turnaround their situation. Crprl Miller played by the great David Niven is an explosives expert is also the jester of the team, yet underneath this jokey exterior is a very loyal soldier who will do anything to support his friend Roy played by Anthony Quayle ( incidentally David Niven served as a Major in the British army during World War 11) there is also Papadimoss played by James Darren a young soldier who enjoys his work killing German soldiers . This film makes you care about every single character -- even spotlights an actor by the name of Richard Harris in a very effective cameo -- it is well photographed by Oswald Morris and has a wonderful score by Dimitri Tiomkin which is romantic and quietly heroic. "}{"Title":"Doesn't Add Up","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" During WW2, a commando force is sent on a seemingly impossible mission to destroy Nazi weapons on a Greek island. This is an exciting if long-winded adventure yarn featuring a stellar cast. Peck is the stoic leader of the group, Niven is the quick-witted demolitions expert, and Quinn the hot-headed major. There are some marvelous action sequences, such as the storm at sea, but it does not all come together into a compelling whole. Tighter editing would have helped, such as eliminating the superfluous prologue, as it rambles on far too long. Scala, who plays a Greek resistance fighter, sadly committed suicide at the age of 38. "},{"Title":"Definitive Alistair McClean Adventure","Date":"7 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Made in 1961, it is inevitable that some of the shine must have faded after 45 years. Modern action flicks tend to be so crammed with special effects and characters capable of super-human feats that 'The Guns Of Navarone' seems pedestrian by comparison. The good news is that although this movie entails a team of 'experts', we can still identify with them all. They're still ordinary, just good at their jobs in a way almost anyone might be.If you can overlook the preposterous crash-landing at the outset and the bombers hanging motionless above the airfield, then the rest is child's play. Gregory Peck is asked to lead a team through treacherous waters, to an equally treacherous cliff. As a mountaineer, his job is to get the rest of the team on top. After that, Anthony Quayle will lead the assault on two lethal guns mounted in a massive and impenetrable bunker on the Greek island of Navarone. It's impossible, of course. It's Alistair MacClean.Action comes thick and fast. From every quarter they're up against it. And they need to get a move on too. A couple of thousand British soldiers will be slaughtered if they fail. That, and a flotilla of destroyers sent to rescue them will be sunk by the guns. Although, as I say, the story moves at a pedestrian pace by modern action movie standards, it is skilfully timed for all that. There are sufficient quiet interludes too, enabling a more detailed character study to be offered. Still; a German E-boat vanishes in moments. A 'tidal' wave wrecks their fishing boat. They lose half their kit and Quayle's character gets a broken leg, leaving Peck to take charge. And of course; there's a traitor in their midst. they are harried by Stukas, and captured by the Gestapo.There's the usual wartime clichs of the period. Germans are as daft as brushes. They are slaughtered without mercy. What is different is that the Germans themselves are generally depicted as less brutal than the British team.There are one or two cheesy bits and plot inconsistencies. For example, Germans are killed by knife despite a silenced handgun providing a much quicker and risk-free solution. There are also one or two subtle, atmospheric moments. Most of the camera-work is excellent, as is the lighting. Darkness actually looks genuine. Sets are believable, with plenty of location work. The cliff looks bogus at times, and there are one or two evidently 'studio' takes in the mountains. Otherwise there is a genuine sense of place. Sound effects are also adequate for its age. A sub-woofer certainly pays dividends.A top-drawer cast of the period includes Gregory Peck, David Niven - uncharacteristically playing a cynic, Anthony Quayle, Anthony Quinn, Stanley Baker & James Robertson-Justice. They lend gravitas to what is otherwise a routine McClean script.The ending includes a reprise of all the characters to a romantic theme which is needless and cheesy, but otherwise this plot is Maclean's second-best actioner, surpassed only by 'Where Eagles Dare'. Even then it's a lot more straightforward and believable.Still highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Grecian Earner","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's perhaps inevitable that coming upon something that has been acclaimed some fifty-odd years later tends to dim the lustre. As I watched this film - in 2014 - after reading some of the comments here on IMDb, many of which spoke of it as the greatest action adventure ever plus lots of similar comments, I couldn't help asking what all the fuss was about whilst being able to think of several titles that easily eclipse it, such as The Dirty Dozen, Where Eagles Dare etc. It's difficult to fault the casting and, of course, Gregory Peck alone could have carried it - and while we're at it, Peck's Twelve O'Clock High, made for a fiftieth of the budget and shot in the Fox studio, leaves GON for dead - yet for me there was no sense of the festering bitterness Quinn allegedly felt toward Peck, which could have created far more tension; scenes like the boat going aground on the rocks were padded to three times the length they could support and after all that they failed to carry the story forward. In terms of actual action, a film like this demands a series of peaks and troughs so that once every ten or twelve minutes there should be something memorable action-wise but here it was something of a one-trick pony so that the feeling was the budget was being spent on the final (theoretical) spectacular explosion but in the event it proved to be something of a damp squib. Two and a half hours was a good hour too much for what it delivered but I guess it's worth a look. "},{"Title":"WW II Action Adventure.","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Based on Alistair MacLean's novel, film details a group of Allied soldiers on a secret mission to destroy two massive German guns outside the sea of a Greek Island, in order to make an Allied troop evacuation possible, and also freeing up those waters to further the Allied war effort. Gregory Peck, David Niven, Anthony Quinn, and James Darren among others round out the cast.Grand adventure film takes many interesting twists and turns, and also becomes philosophical at times(Peck has a memorable speech to Niven about responsibility, for one.) Director J. Lee Thompson stages the action scenes impressively, leading to an exciting climax in the gun's fortress. Pace occasionally slackens, but overall a solid and entertaining film. "},{"Title":"The Guns of Navarone (1961)","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Although there are half-hearted attempts at addressing a few ethical issues, this is really more an adventure film than a serious war film. But it's pretty solid adventure. The action scenes are very well crafted, and there's a nice ebb and flow of tension in the script. I'd say the highlight is a nearly wordless sequence in the first half of the picture, running for somewhere around 25-30 minutes. Peck is wooden as ever, but David Niven is a lot of fun and Anthony Quinn's got some chops too. I also have to applaud the Tiompkin score, appropriately epic-sounding without being too bombastic. To be honest, there's not a whole lot to criticize. The character moments feel very constructed, but it's of little concern. Good quality entertainment without much depth. "},{"Title":"To Suicide or not to Suicide","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a good, entertaining war movie. It is fine for a rainy afternoon. The one thing I never understood and that stood out at the beginning of the movie was why the suicide option was not implemented. Call for volunteers. When you consider 2,000 allied soldiers were supposedly facing certain death in a week, and the James Robertson Justice character was also going to send in 6 destroyers which he knew would be sunk, and 13 airmen had just lost their lives attacking the guns, strategic considerations and just simple mathematics dictated the suicide option. But then we would not have had the story. I have always like Gregory Peck and he does a fine job in this movie. "},{"Title":" Pity we can't employ the same methods in seeking peace, it would be so much cheaper for everyone","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" During the second world war a barrage of factual stories legends and special operations were conducted which later became the basis for books and movies. This film  The Guns of Navarone  which was written by prolific novelist Alistair MacLean, was not factual in any way. Nevertheless, Carl Forman the screen writer and J.Lee Thompson the director created this film and made it so lifelike, that for many including this reviewer, believed it was based on a true incident. Unfortunately that's the effect Hollywood has on many an audience member. The story involves a small group of saboteurs headed by Captain Keith Mallory (Gregory Peck) 'the human fly' to scale an unsurmountable mountain, during a rain driven storm and at night to attack a heavily guarded, recessed set of huge guns in a mountain cliff. To help him with this impossible task are other experts like Cpl. Miller (David Niven who's an expert with explosives. Mallory's close associate Col. Andrea Stavoros (Anthony Quinn), Pvt. Brown (Stanley Baker) an expert with a knife. Maj. Roy Franklin (Anthony Quayle) and James Darren as Pvt. Spyros Pappadimos, who's a born killer. James Robertson Justice is Commodore Jensen the boss of these specialists. Irene Papas and Gia Scala as Anna completes the entourage. Together they created a masterpiece of military entertainment which since the 1960's has become a staple of late-night TV and a dyed in the wool Classic. Excellent film. Highly recommended ****. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest war films","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" While this is not my favorite war film (that would be ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT), it is among my favorites. In fact, for the huge spectacle war films, it is my favorite--edging out WHERE EAGLES DARE and THE HEROES OF TELEMARK.So why is it so good? Well, first the acting is great--with an amazing ensemble cast of Gregory Peck, David Niven, Anthony Quinn, Anthony Quayle and others. Also, the story is so deep and complex that you like the fact that the movie is long--there just aren't the usual lulls with a longer film. Considering it was based on a story by Alister MacLean. And finally, the film is just spectacular--so much so that I really wish I could have seen it on the big screen.You just can't do much better than this--see it and see it soon! "},{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"22 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Enjoyed this film when it first came out but on re-watching recently was very disappointed. Jumps and gaps in story and plot flow, weak effects, including the obvious use of models with unrealistic movement for German strafing fighters, and rather preposterous plot ploys (for example, David Nevins character, the explosive expert announces that all is lost/fouled up (Somebody stepped on the cake.) only to later come up with a clever and supposedly spur-of-the-moment approach that results in destruction of the guns; the only approach that would have worked anyway - the clock timer would have been easily discovered by the Germans.). Having the team blow up the German patrol boat side-by-side to theirs, with no damage to their vessel, was preposterous. Likewise, it did not seem credible or believable that hordes of Germans, with plenty of motorized support and firepower could not overcome/capture the entire small team. Whatever did occur in reality, this film and script didn't capture it in a believable way. All in all, this was a big let down after so many years. Decent acting, but weak in many other areas. "},{"Title":"It is all about a great team","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Direction is great..story is real..acting is outstanding...more i see this movie more I understand about reality of ground...Leadership quality team work dedication towards results movie picturization is also a Top class. I have seen saving private ryan but this war movie is all about team play. Such type of movie comes after long time..such type of great events happens very rare..such real hero comes after long time...It is really a great movie to know about such heros...it is not sci fi movie it is movie which above then many standards...After seeing this movie there is no need of seeing another movie...searching such story making great movie to wonderful picturization is not that much easy the way happened in this movie..everything was great standard..... "}{"Title":"The Bridge on the River Kwai 2 The Guns in the mountain high","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" No, its not a sequel but it could have been. Like most sequels, its not better than the original (The Bridge on the River Kwai 10/10), but The Guns of Navarone is fortunately one of those decent ones. Gregory Peck has the lead inn one of the best high suspense films that has survived these 40 years or so, but along side of him is the great David Niven and I'm happy to say that Anthony Quinn also joins them, they are part of a platoon whose mission is too blow up two of some legendary canons on the island Navarone during the world war 2.Might be spoilers (but not big)The Goods Anthony Quinn has promised too kill Peck's character after WW2, but before that he has to be his loyal friend and sacrifice his life for Peck, I guess you've seen something like that before (In James Bond or something), but that was interesting.Guy will like it better than girls, but I'm a guy so maybe I'm wrong.The flaws (the not so good) is maybe the length, well I'm not a big fan of length, but as you can see by my rating, it didn't bother me too much. The fact that is old, is something you pretty much always can pick on, but that didn't bother me too much either. But the reason why I gave it 8 and not 9 or 10 is mainly because I don't want this film too make it higher than The Bridge on the River Kwai.All in all, give this movie a chance, its a classic. "},{"Title":"Best...shipwreck...ever! (and other good stuff, too)","Date":"23 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Was watching this for the first time last night, and the storm sequence's start, with that setting around the ship's wheel as a sort of quiet eye in the center of a hurricane of man and nature all around, really grabbed me. It's not often you see somebody try a lot of exposition in a scene like that and succeed. Then Gregory Peck went out to go down to the hold and saw rocks ahead.What follows is the most awesome man against nature and shipwreck sequence I have ever seen in a movie. Period. And nobody ever mentions it in reviews? Weird. They did win an Oscar for effects, though, so it didn't go totally unrecognized.That feeling we get for the men and the team during this storm keeps them at the center of our focus for the rest of the movie, and it keeps us moving forward with all the intricate plot twists, complications, and surprises that are to come. I really liked that.It wasn't worth a 10 because some major character shifts were a little unbelievable (Peck's sudden anger after a really buttoned down, almost wooden performance, especially, but also Darren's character's transformations from killer to brother to killer again were too abrupt and kind of took me out of the movie); also, they never showed the men carrying the supplies up the cliff, which was a little jarring after they had shown the men laboriously retrieving the supplies from the sinking ship.But that's all my complaint. There are many other good parts to the movie, including the pacing, the filming, and the plot, which is never lost. This is a war movie and an action movie, but what really keeps you at the edge of your seat is the human drama involved here. They're balanced wonderfully well, and that is rare, too.Also, this is David Niven as you might never have seen him before, gritty and yet superficial, with some sort of seething anger underneath it all that finally comes to the surface when somebody tampers with his beloved chemicals (though his character vents his anger elsewhere, in the process proving to everybody, first that there is a traitor among them, and then who it is). Peck forces him to get serious (perhaps for the first time in his life) and go all out to prove his genius. Then near the very end, the way Niven lets go of the rope to fall into the sea just expresses something profound and lovable about his character.Well worth seeing. As for the whole antiwar bit? I don't think so. The movie doesn't gloss over the tough decisions in no-win decisions or the incredible and seemingly meaningless (at the time) loss of life, but that's just honesty. Also, I particularly liked the way the German soldiers were portrayed as complex human beings, not cardboard bad guys. Nonetheless, as they have Peck point out, somebody's got to take responsibility, and there is a job that must be done, and that requires violence or the threat of violence more often than not in the movie. It's not glorified, and that was a change in the depiction of war on hit films back in the 1960s. That's not the same thing as antiwar, though. M*A*S*H was antiwar, not The Guns of Navarone. "},{"Title":"Taken on its own terms and divorced of the legend of its greatness this is a very good adventure film.","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Last night I watched this film for the first time in a long time. It was always held out to be THE great adventure film, a label that I always had real trouble with. Frankly until the screening last night on Turner Classic I've been avoiding the film for the better part of two decades. In all honesty I was only watching it because it was what my Dad was watching on a slow TV night. Seeing if for the first time with no expectations, I rather disliked the film until last night, I found that the film had some how improved in my eyes. For what ever reason stripped of the label The Best the film plays as a pretty good, rather solid little film. Is it the be all and end all, no. Is it an enjoyable film? Yes. to be certain this story of a special team going into Greece to blow up the title, hits all the right notes. the problem is that the film does so in a very Hollywood style. You have a big name cast of actors who are probably too old for their roles, and you have a look thats big and huge and cinematic. It also doesn't help that this was the pinnacle of the formula which was then copied ad infinitum by almost every other similar film that followed. However if you divorce it from any baggage the film is a really good really enjoyable film, who's probably sole real flaw is the fact that the film runs way too long at a bone rattling two hours and forty minutes. If you can get past the over length this is worth seeing. Recommended "},{"Title":"Professional Job.","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Churchill decided to put British troops into Greece and the islands around it to demonstrate to Roosevelt and his other allies, potential and kinetic, that he was able to fight the Germans in two areas at once. But he had to withdraw troops from the struggle against Rommel in North Africa and it left the British troops there behind the eight ball. The fight in the Balkans was hopeless from the beginning and the Brits had a heck of a time getting their troops evacuated. Many went into the bag.That's all true, but there was never a mission to take out guns at Navarone. Nevertheless, this is an entertaining and even gripping war film because it shows combat the way WE like to think of it. Lots of professionalism and self sacrifice on our part, but in the end we win. And that's that.Five men are chosen to make a nearly suicidal attempt to blow up a couple of huge Nazi cannons secreted away in the cliffs of the island of Navarone. They can't be bombed out. And they dominate the only route to the major British evacuation point, preventing destroyers and transports from reaching the beleaguered Brits.The men are all hand picked pros. Gregory Peck becomes the leader of the pack. Why? Because he speaks Greek like a Greek, German like a German, is a champion mountain climber, is handsome and sincere, is a major Hollywood star, and has memorized the Encyclopedia Brittanica from aardvark to zzemblya. Ex-professor David Niven is the explosives expert. Stanley Baker is a master with a knife. Anthony Quinn is a devoted Greek patriot. Anthony Quayle is the organizer who knows the ins and outs of the mission. James Darrin is there because he is a born killer from the streets of an American city and was a heart throb at the time. He gets to sing a song in Greek. He can't sing. There are two women thrown into the mix later -- the relentless Irene Papas with her Salma Hayeck eyebrows and her Parabellum MP 38, and green-eyed Gia Scala who brings a delicate carnality to the role.There isn't room enough here to describe all the travails of this expedition. Maybe even a book couldn't do a proper job. The expectable clichs are embedded in the plot. Leave me behind and save yourselves. This officer is the good German. Which one of us is a traitor? One of our guys can knock off a dozen of yours. And then, at the climax, an orgasmic explosion, the biggest, most stupendous, colossal, monumental, mastadonic, mountainous, volcanic, pythonic, macrocephalic, Brobdignagian explosion ever committed to celluloid.This thing is practically an icon of vernacular culture. There was never anything quite so BIG before, though there had been plenty of stories of small, heroic groups on near-suicidal altruistic missions in wartime.And some philosophical considerations of ethics and other issues are bootlegged in. Mad Magazine printed a parody of it. Peck and Niven are in the cave holding the guns, arguing about the pointlessness of war. They must plant the detonators that will blow up the guns. On the other side of the steel door, a hundred German soldiers are pounding and burning their way through the metal. Their drill bits are auguring inward. Seconds count. Niven exclaims, Do you REALLY think mankind is worth saving? Peck pauses thoughtfully and firmly replies, YES AND NO. The debate goes on as the Germans pour in.Well -- if you haven't yet seen it, you must, if only for Dmitri Tiompkin's score with its cowbells and triangles, almost matching the bombast of the images. The images, by the way, are evocative and quite pretty. And, to be honest, Tiompkin's score is subdued by his standards. "},{"Title":"Superb, old-school wartime romp","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Probably the best Alistair MacLean adaptation, paving the way ahead for Where Eagles Dare. It's a straightforward wartime mission, to disable a hitherto impregnable German gunning position on a Greek island. It's a great ensemble feature for the whole troupe, particularly memorable for the Mediterranean ferocity of James Darren and, above all, Anthony Quinn. Gregory Peck and David Niven are the Anglo-American double act, managing their contribution to the action capably despite their respective ages. The women are well-interpolated into the story and Irene Papas gives a bold performance as the red-blooded Maria. The score is also a celebrated character, contributed by It's A Wonderful Life composer Dimitri Tiomkin. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Fairy tale disguised as a war flick","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw GON when I was a kid and immediately declared it best war movie ever. Then I saw it again as an adult and I was surprised at how dumb the plot is, how unrealistic the action and how stupid the resident Germans are. It's still a fun movie to watch, mind you, but to fully enjoy it one have to, either be a complete ignorant in military matters or someone capable of making a giant effort of suspension of disbelief. If you can't fit in one of these two cases then don't waste your time.For starters, Old Winny would have never given the go-ahead to such hare-brained plan, as he knew well that a crucial part of winning wars is the optimum allocation of resources, which at times will go against humanitarian impulses. After losing a few Lancasters he would have simply told the threatened Tommies to give up and gingerly go marching to the POW camp where they would have been treated quit decently anyway as the brits, under Hitler's orders, were the only Allied POWs to be treated according to Geneva. He would have never risked six of his by then precious DDs, the best team in the business and a big chunk of the Greek Resistance just to get them out specially when he had a whole empire from where to draw all the needed cannon fodder. And if he had done so, after all, at the news the entire German High Command would have, first laughed their arses off and then devised a simple plan allowing the team to reach Navarone unencumbered, only to get them when it would be too late for the DDs to turn back. That's what the Germans would have done--as they did many times--instead of running all over the place like headless chickens. And how absurd is the idea that, to impress Turkey with a show of force Hitler would send the cream of his war machine to a place of no military value to roughen up 2000 exhausted and helpless brits, as JRJ says it in the intro? So, we're not talking Kursk here, or the Bulge.But not only the plot is fantasy, the day to day action is too. It's unbelievable that a German gunboat bristling with guns and crewed by well trained machine gunners could have gone down in seconds when faced with a dinghy with men armed with light weaponry. And even if that had happened, just minutes later these men would have had to deal with the Luftwaffe--remember, that ship wasn't alone there. German soldiers would have never come marching into that square like scouts in a parade, as one, or all, in the team could have decided to go kamikaze in case they were caught, and blow themselves up carrying with them a few enemies. Instead, they would have taken positions on the roofs, barricaded the streets, etc. And when the team was caught its members would have been promptly tied, blindfolded and thrown at the bottom of separate trucks to be handed to the Gestapo. The scene with the two German officers is laughable and so is Quinn's bit; Stavrou would have never had the chance to pull his act in real life (but what the heck, it's 1961, there's a Cold War going on, West Germany is now a friend, so let's include a good German here).As the plot unfolds the unlikely facts pile up. These Germans are not just stupid but helpful too&#x97;ex the guy who tells his mate to pull the curtains over the bunker's window just as Mallory, Miller, walk by. Or the fact that no one's standing guards in the fortress, inside or outside it; not even a lone armed guard. Even worse, that cave doesn't even have an emergency entry&#x97;-in case the steel doors are blocked in place by a RAF bomb for ex. The Germans have no plan B whatsoever in case they're denied for any reason access to the guns! Just bring in the blowtorches! And what about a fortress that got an alarm system to detect intruders but no system at all for stopping them?. The acting is decent but it's hard to sympathize with any of these characters. Peck et al do a good job, but Niven is pretty annoying when he plays out his drama queen number. I wonder if those who made GON intended to make any of these people likable, as no one is to me. And whatever sympathy I may have felt it was gone when they murdered the girl. That was pure cold blooded murder; there was no reason for it--they could have just left her there, tied up. From then on I couldn't care less if they all got killed. I kept watching just for the action. BTW, I don't know where Peck got the idea that this is an anti-war movie. Just because two guys keep b...ing about how tired they are of the killing..? Puh-leese.I should give it a 4, but I grant it 2 bonus points, 'cause it requires a lot of skill to get away with such a fairy tale disguised as a war flick. "},{"Title":"Excellent WWII adventure tale is rugged, exciting and yet somewhat predictable...","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There's no doubt that THE GUNS OF NAVARONE succeeds as an espionage thriller with a first rate cast of players including GREGORY PECK (in what is one of his favorite roles), ANTHONY QUINN, ANTHONY QUAYLE, David NIVEN, JAMES DARREN and several other skilled players. Director J. Lee Thompson has created a taut adventurous tale about a dangerous mission (almost dangerously impossible in my view) that is carried out despite several drawbacks along the way.It's these drawbacks that seem typically fictional in nature--and a strain on credibility in the way they are smoothed over by the rugged individuals who deal with every impossible situation with such precise action. Indeed, the final scenes where they reach their destination to blow up the enemy artillery, are enough to make anyone skeptical about their handling of all the details involved in carrying out their scheme and how perfectly each obstacle is overcome.But aside from that, this is a good WWII adventure tale about a mission impossible that keeps the viewer in suspense until the final explosive moments. All of the acting is credible enough to overcome any difficulty you might have with some of the plot situations.Peck is particularly interesting as the doubtful leader and David Niven is equally compelling as the explosives expert at odds with Peck's leadership.Summing up Taut, tense and exciting thriller which won an Oscar for its special effects. Brisk pacing despite its length of over 2 1/2 hours. "},{"Title":"The Guns of Navarone is a quintessentially exciting gem because it is not merely a war movie, but an adventure story as well","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Guns of Navarone is one of the most thoroughly enjoyable war epics ever made featuring a very strong all-star cast with middle-aged actors refreshingly cast in roles that would stereotypically go to actors ten to twenty years their junior. With these solid performances and terrific bursts of action as well as some very impressive 1960s special effects, audience members more than willingly allow credibility to go out the window and let the sheer entertainment value of the movie overwhelm them. It's about a (fictional) story of a group of World War II soldiers who are given the task to approach a cliff-sided town of Navarone, controlled by the Germans. The British navy cannot attack the coast on account of two very cliff-mounted large cannons, the titular guns of Navarone, that guard it. So it is up to this small group of men led by Gregory Peck to scale the cliff, invade the town, clear out any Germans that get in their way, and set charges that will destroy the cannons so that an approaching naval fleet can take over.Yes, if you are looking for a credible story, keep on the search, for The Guns of Navarone requires you to suspend your disbelief in the face of its plot. However, it is ten times as intelligent as half the action flicks I've seen come out in the past ten years and a hundred times as much fun. The movie sets up the plot right away and proceeds to become a quintessentially exciting WWII adventure. And that's the sheer fun of the movie. It's not simply a mission to blow up the guns. It's an adventure story, very much like a journey. The characters are very well-shaped and very well-acted and I was very pleased to see them portrayed by actors older than the conventional war movie leads. By casting older, more experienced actors, the filmmakers give us a sense of experienced soldiers, professionals on the job and they can be credible if the plot or circumstances they are placed in are not.And I cannot leave out the best thing in the movie &#x96; the action scenes. After a good setup and some exploitation across the sea, the movie introduces a very famous starting action moment that has been ripped-off, and parodied many times over the past forty-some years. And the energy of the action scenes only get better as the film progresses. The sound design, the cinematography, and the incredible special effects produce a tremendous level of excitement.The Guns of Navarone is a long movie. It stretches nearly three hours in length and I think it's maybe fifteen minutes too long, but that's hardly a detractor. Up to that point where I did check my watch out of curiosity, the movie sped along brilliantly as every good movie should. Now what makes The Guns of Navarone different from the mindless action flicks of today? They both lack credibility in terms of whether or not you can believe the plot. But the simple truth is The Guns of Navarone is fun, and most of today's flicks are not. "},{"Title":"A Blockbuster World War II Secret Mission Movie!","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Guns of Navarone ranks as an exciting, suspenseful, above-average, behind-enemy-lines, World War II secret mission thriller. Ostensibly, this $7-million plus action blockbuster represented one of the earliest examples of the blockbuster World War II movie trend that Hollywood launched in the 1960s. The Longest Day, The Battle of the Bulge, The Great Escape, The Dirty Dozen, and Where Eagles Dare followed in the wake of the success of this sprawling Columbia Picture's release. High Noon scenarist Carl Foreman penned the screenplay from Alistair MacLean's bestselling novel about a group of intrepid commandos who are thrown in at the last-minute to spike a battery of giant radar controlled guns anchored in the bowels of a mountain overlooking the sea that British ships must ply to save a stranded army of soldiers. Repeated bombing missions against the guns have failed to destroy them, so British officer James Robertson Justice dispatches Gregory Peck, Anthony Quinn, David Niven, James Darren, Anthony Quayle, and Stanley Baker to perform this incredible feat against suicidal odds. Essentially, World War II movies from the 1950s, such as The Bridge on the River Kwai and The Dam Busters inspired these big films as much as Hollywood's desire to lure audiences into the theaters with movies about big events to combat the advent of television. Director J. Lee Thompson, who later helmed Cape Fear and Kings of the Sun, keeps our heroes leaping through a series of flaming hoops with several twists and turns. No sooner have our heroes embarked on their mission than they are pursued by the enemy in a way that means somebody has sold them out from the source. Thompson emphasizes thrills and chills while Foreman moralizes about warfare and killing. There are some memorable lines of dialogue and every performance is letter perfect. The tense finale inside the gun emplacement is spine-tingling with suspense as the Germans are banging on the doors while the heroes place explosive charges on the guns. The atmospheric cinematography of Oswald Morris, the snappy editing of Alan Osbiston, the stirring orchestral soundtrack of Dimitri Tiomkin, and the impressive production designs by Geoffrey Drake all contribute to the outstanding artistry of this film. My sole quibble is for the poor special effects that open the film as a crippled British bomber crashes at an Allied airfield while another bomber in the background appears to be hanging stationary in the skies. Apart from this single flaw, The Guns of Navarone is a terrific tough guys actioneer. "},{"Title":"Gang of Geezers Gong Giant  German Guns in Greece.","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Wake up and smell the coffee, IMDb film school student reviewers. WW II kept Hollywood actors working in war movies like The Guns of Navarone for 25 years or so. Never mind what the MGM Lion says in his Latin platitude, Hollywood was and is about making money and veteran actors like Gregory Peck, David Niven and Anthony Quinn were a guarantee the audience would show.The classic war flicks Bridge on the River Kwai and Lawrence of Arabia were made around the same time as Guns, which is about a half star below them. If you really want to see old acting fish out of water, watch In Harm's Way.The Hollywood generational war movie torch was passed around the time Kelly's Heros was made, with Clint Eastwood and cast coming from the Korean War era. Other movies at the time, like M*A*S*H and Catch-22 continued the trend of younger actors taking over. However, that generation fell off the age wagon, too. See Eastwood in Heartbreak Ridge and Lee Marvin in The Big Red One. Perhaps the movie of the era that did the best job of trying to match the believable ages of the characters and actors was The Young Lions, with Dean Martin, Marlin Brando and Montgomery Clift.Thank you UCLA Film School for the excellent restoration of The Guns of Navarone. "}{"Title":"Love this movie, hate the killing of the young girl","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm watching this for the nth time, and still, still know I'll hate it when they shoot the young girl, and still find the whole idea of David Niven playing against type as a corporal as ridiculous. It simply doesn't make sense.But I love the thing between Irene Papas and you know who. It's so great 'I like you!' 'I like you, too!'And every time it comes on, I have to watch hard to figure out the nonsensical death sentence Gregory Peck is under from his comrade, and even though tonight I picked up the forty seconds or so that explains why, and I have already forgotten. "},{"Title":"Why do people say that it's action-packed  ?","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Unjustly famous WWII adventure. There are some interesting character conflicts and moral dilemmas, but most of the action sequences (especially the climbing one, near the beginning) are tedious. The film also runs way too long. After it's over, you feel that you've been watching for at least five hours. "},{"Title":"Terrible music","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I hated the score. The score by Tiomkin was simply ridiculous. With this music it turned out to be a mock-war film rather than a heroic one! It is true that in the 60s there was a zeal among film music composers for such kind of music (lots of percussion and almost melody-less scores), but this was supposed to be a war story! When the group starts setting off and they are loading the ship the music is so idiotic one imagines they are going on a picnic!Half the story is a lie. Such big guns did not exist in that part of Greece.Again, terrible music. I was infuriated when I heard the first sound.My three stars were only for the acting of Quinn and Niven, and a little bit Peck. "},{"Title":"Typical, macho and gung-ho adventure that tries and fails to convey an apparent anti-war message","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Based on the novel of the same name by Scottish thriller writer Alistair MacLean, who also wrote Where Eagles Dare, The Guns of Navarone is an over-the-top and macho adventure film that due to it's extensive running time is extremely boring and features action scenes that are brief and far between. The film is incredibly staged looking which gives it an uncanny cheap feeling that prevents it from being any bit more than being some mindless entertainment. Typical for it's time, the Commandos in the film are played by actors who were far too old to be convincing. Usually I don't pay much attention to this, as I'm a big fan of John Wayne and I like the war films that he starred in in the late forties and fifties, but seeing the cast here which included Gregory Peck, David Niven and Anthony Quinn, that resulted in this film remaining for almost a year on my DVD shelf before I finally took it down the other day to watch. I knew what I was in for, because this really is nothing new. It's typical for it's time when hordes upon hordes of war films suffocating with adventure elements and over-the-top gung-ho heroism were being produced.It's 1943, and after their defeat at Stalingrad, the German's attempt to bully neutral Turkey into the war on the Axis side to participate in the Dodecanese Campaign where the Allies are attempting to take control of the islands in the Aegean sea. On a small island called Keros, 2,000 British soldiers are trapped and surrounded, and the Allies can't reach them due to the guns on Navarone that are preventing any Allied destroyers or planes from coming anywhere near the island. They have a week before the German army arrives to wipe out the British soldiers. A plan has been made to send a team of saboteurs to the island to destroy the guns, and heading this squad will be Captain Keith Mallory who is an expert climber. They will travel to Navarone where some members of the Greek resistance will wait for them and give them aid, and then they will attempt to destroy the guns and save the men trapped on Keros.I wouldn't even categorise this as a war film. It has the feel and look almost of a swash buckle adventure film without the swords. While it's based on a campaign of WW2 that's never really been touched before, it's still a terribly boring film that never really gets going. One of the most expensive films ever made at the time, it hasn't got a lot to show for this by using the cheap indoor sets for the cliff scenes that just make it look extremely amateurish. So it definitely does not hold up well today. I could go on but I've other films to review... But on one last note, Gregory Peck is awful in this. His presence on the screen is extremely distracting from the word go, showing up at the regimental headquarters wearing a pristine white suit, and sporting his American accent. It would have worked better if maybe he had attempted a British accent to make him sound more like a real British Commando. Apparently Peck was disappointed when people missed the anti-war message in the film. I'm sorry but I did too, all I could make out was a bunch of little boys playing John Wayne... "},{"Title":"a gloriously exciting 'anti-war' film","Date":"6 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's difficult, unless if you're a mad-chicken-hawk like John Wayne, to really even try to attempt to make war look like something fun or something to aspire to. I mention this since the Guns of Navarone is not quite pro-war, but not anti-war as Gregory Peck thought it should be seen. It shows how people in an intense war-time engagement like the men on the mission in this film will have to do just about anything - even if it means the usual hero gets just close enough to the edge of being something else entirely (not quite, but you'll see the scene I'm talking about) - in order to carry out the end goal. It also shows what kind of man it might take to give up information easily to the enemy (or maybe not, as case turns out). And certainly watching your best buddies die is never something too satisfying. Hell, maybe the whole scope of the mission and its consequences are meant to teach a valuable lesson. Points taken... Then again, why is The Guns of Navarone so entertaining and invigorating that men from ages 5 to 95 want turn out and kick some ass after watching it? Well, it's probably because it falls into the camp of flicks like The Dirty Dozen and Kelly's Heroes (if not quite as funny) as a movie about Guys-on-a-Mission. In this case the mission is simple get behind enemy lines on the little island of Navarone, where damn giant guns (or rather cannons) are being used on allied warships and other targets, and destroy them to Hades. Of course, as one might expect, this is practically (if not just) a suicide mission, but the men- Gregory Peck, Anthony Quinn, David Nicen- all take up the cause to go and do it, along with their own few men who can just kill on a whim... that is, if they need to, such as with a knife or bare-hands.It could be called an anti-war film perhaps, but it's ultimately an action/adventure movie, and so in its own dimension, it does... make this look exciting and dangerous but the kind us in the audience who may have not gone to war can still get behind. It's realistic fantasy, if that makes sense, and while it's more for the guys I'm sure some women won't mind taking in the main stars (I mean, Anthony Quinn, come on). For all of the intense scenes, such as the cliff climbing during the storm or, of course, the tense climax, it takes a little while for the plot to really get going. It's this exposition one has to kind of just sit up and do the best to pay attention to, knowing full well the plot will take its inevitable twists and turns and we'll be informed on what's going on again anyway (sometimes by an actual maritime clock).Once it does, it keeps going as a relentless mission-flick, and there are two genuinely great scenes (maybe two of the best scenes in any war movie) one is when Anthony Quinn, in a line-up with his fellow British and Greek soldiers standing in front of irate Nazis, tries to get out of the lineup by saying he's just a poor fisherman. A trick, of course, though what's great about the scene (aside from Quinn's performance) is how you're not sure if he'll be taken outside for something and then find a way back in to save the others, or if (as what happens) they all fight back by his own distraction. The other scene is deeper, and perhaps the best serious scene in the film, when the group realizes just before they're about to blow up the guns that they have a traitor in their midst. It's impossible to give anything away, except to say that it has a quintessential use of a silencer in a movie. "},{"Title":"Too pat!","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw this film on Sept 1,1961 and had been in the army during the early 50s. I was struck by the Hollywood approach to combat. Too nicely presented and all the strings tied at the end of the film. Everything in the film goes well and after several episodic difficulties which are handled very well the subsequent ones provide little or no anxiety to this viewer about the outcome. It becomes obvious that the conclusion will result in the enemy being vanquished without too much sweat. I felt that the combat scenes were grossly non realistic although entertaining to the audience at large. I was not impressed. If I recall correctly one reviewer said, The only similarity that this film has with For Whom the Bell Tolls (Sam Wood's production of Hemingway's novel of the Spanish civil war) is that both deal with men entrusted with explosives. Well put. "},{"Title":"Fun war film, but not without plenty of silly moments.","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The film doesn't present itself as a Kelly's Heroes semi-farce, plus it supposedly covers a true event, therefore I was definitely in a mood to nit-pick when there was some hair-splitting to be done. The way the first half hour or so went, I thought that this would turn out to be a terrific war film. However, it's gradually downhill from there. Once we're in day 2 or 3 of the campaign, some oh, come on! and yeah, right... moments kick in.Irene Papas presents us with a soldier girl, played by a beautiful Gia Scala, and tells us what a brave, tough soldier she is - from experience. Yeah, right... Peck's Butcher of Barcelona soldier hesitates to kill a German because he is sick of the war and the knife-style killing. Oh, come on! In the finale he once again hesitates to kill, this time losing his life because of it. Oh, come on! Our motley crew get captured, about halfway through the film, and they manage to escape in an unlikely manner. Yeah, right... Papas's movie brother charges towards the Germans as if he were immune to bullets and finds himself face to face with a German who behaves like he's also immune to bullets; they look at each other for a couple of moments, and then start shooting. Oh, come on! Scala turns out to be a traitor; a bit shaky, but let's accept it. What I can't accept is that there is no explanation given as to who betrayed the group before she did; after all, the Germans had all of their photos. There would have been an absolutely humongous oh, come on! if they hadn't decided to kill Scala for betrayal which potentially could have lead to the death of thousands upon thousands of allied soldiers (not to mention further long-term war effects); they should have crucified her for what she did; instead, they start philosophizing about war and the universe! Oh, come on! There is one yeah, right... moment in that very good first half-hour when Peck is described as someone who speaks both Greek and German as well as a Greek and a German. Yeah, right...However, despite all this criticism, it is a very long movie which hardly has any boring moments, and in spite of the moralizing (mostly by Niven) there is plenty of action, plus the casting is solid. There is a very funny line by Niven Why don't we just throw him off a cliff and save a bullet?! "},{"Title":"Overlong, dated crapfest with a very elderly cast","Date":"31 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Gregory Peck, who dodged the draft in World War II, was far too old for this film and not at all believable as an English officer (complete with an American accent!). Anthony Quinn and Anthony Qualye were also too old, but David Niven was totally miscast as a 50-year-old corporal. It's a problem with many of the old war movies that the actors are usually far too old for their characters, and this is one of the worst examples. Written by blacklisted left-wing screenwriter Carl Foreman (High Noon, The Bridge on the River Kwai), the film is only notable today for its anti-war message which was fairly new for a Hollywood movie made in 1960. The film is far too long-drawn out and boring, with too many very fake studio sets (even for exteriors) and very dated special effects and action scenes. A much better movie could have been made with Stanley Baker as Mallory and young British actors like Peter O'Toole, Michael Caine and Robert Shaw playing the other parts.0/10. "},{"Title":"inconsequential truth","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" February is the cruelest cinematic month for me. It is then that TCM devotes its schedule to Oscar winners. I am immediately reminded that the Oscars are essentially a vote by union members, not to be confused with the sensibilities of auteurs or cineastes.The Guns of Navarone is a typical product of popularity rather than cultural contribution. Overlit, stilted, pseudo-heroic, and ultimately, somewhat nonsensical, the film tries to ignore its basic illogic.Gregory Peck is his usual wooden self, a most unlikely mountain climber and even more unlikely to pass undetected speaking midwest American German, while posing as a Nazi officer. I kept visualising my German son-in-law looking quizzically at Peck, wondering what language he was speaking.The climactic gun destruction scene is marred by the revelation that the triggering devices for the explosives have been destroyed. Peck then, ignoring this development, tells his crack team, Alright men, you know what you have to do! Monte Python might have responded, Run away! Run away!!! I found it difficult to grasp why Niven and Peck would not have smashed the telemetry equipment, rendering the guns unusable...but I'm just sayin'. Save us from such epics. "},{"Title":"Good story, poor directing and average acting","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie has two indispensable elements for a good war movie good story and good actors. But it just does not work. It is not convincing. Looks like they did not rehearse or think about the scenes for more than five minutes.Many scenes are incoherent, like when they are hiding from the Germans in Navarone but still are shouting at each other very loudly. Or when they find the traitor and are faced with the dilemma of what to do with her. They engage in a very dramatic discussion about the inevitability and the moral dilemma of killing her when they could have very easily tied her up for a couple of hours.One has to forgive the special effects for it was done many years ago, and some of them are actually not that bad, but some action shots and fights just look silly.This is not in my list of unmissable classics. "}{"Title":"Historically false","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's been a while since I saw this film but from what I remember it couldn't be historically true. According to the plot, Allied commandos blew up German guns which had been picking off ships attempting to supply Russia via Greek waters. But the Allies didn't attempt to send supply convoys past the Aegean, and Turkish straits. That would've been impossible. Their convoys either went around the Cape of Good Hope and entered the Persian Gulf, or reached Murmansk in the far north. The Germans held the European side of the Dardenelles and Bosporus, and Russia didn't have any ports left in the Black Sea since the Germans had taken Odessa and the Crimea. Still I thought the movie was good. Niven was great. In addition to the action, the movie was spiced up a bit by the scene of the traitorous young woman's shirt ripped off to reveal the phoniness of her claim to have been whipped by the Germans. Hr bare back was in quite pristine condition. "},{"Title":"Dark, damp, ham acting, a truly awful film","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A great story cannot compensate for awful direction. The screen play and attendant acting was truly dreadful. Everything seemed to take place in the dark.  I was reminded of the Commando comics I used to read as a child. The on-going suspicion of who was the traitor was I suppose intended to add a cerebral element but it just seemed childish.I thought Force 10 from Navarone was bad but the original was worse. "}]