[{"Title":"a bit of 60s-era trivia","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  IMBD refused to post this in the Trivia section, so I'll add it as a comment  note that throughout the film, the men are often shirtless; however their pants and shorts are always carefully tailored to cover their navels, like Barbara Eden's harem-pants in I Dream of Jeannie.If you have access to the DVD, it is very well worth it to watch the special-features documentaries and interviews on disc 2.  What the actors and crew went through to make this thing is incredible!  The many animals used are mostly nasty and potentially very dangerous.  That no one got disemboweled by a zebra or ostrich kick, or a tiger-claw, is a miracle; let alone the face-off scene with the hyenas!  Wrestling an anaconda chest-deep in a mosquito and leech-infested swamp is probably not a role most actors dream of.  James MacArthur was told by the snake's handler to just dunk the snake's head under water when it started to constrict him; apparently it worked, as he lived to tell the tale! "},{"Title":"Great Disney film!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is one of Disney's best efforts.  Beautiful scenery, great soundtrack music, and a hard-working cast add much to this compelling story of a shipwrecked family.  To me this film is an exception to the less-weighty fare that Disney was wont to produce over the years.  I like Disney flicks, but this is one I can go back and watch when I want to get lost in an idyllic setting (with beautiful soundtrack music to establish the mood).  You've gotta love those coconut bombs!   "},{"Title":"Swiss Family Robinson","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Pure Disney magic! What a movie....might just be the greatest Disney film of all, might throw in Pollyanna and Song of the South in there as close competition. What is there not to like? Beautiful photography and a perfect casting of Dorothy McGuire as the mother who is the glue that holds the family together along with the suave British actor John Mills (Hayley's father) as the dad of the family. Great opening scene of foundering ship nearly stuck on a reef during violent storm...family quickly recognizes they will be on the island for the long haul and makes it an island paradise complete with a tree house that the Hilton hotel chain could rent out for big bucks. Family makes use of every scrap of fabric, wood, powder, and weapons as they struggle to survive the hazards of the island they are stranded upon. How in the world did the Disney team transport all of the animals onto that small island for this wonderful film? Zebras, elephants, snakes, tigers, and throw in an ostrich too for a family fun filled ride picnic. Only thing I wondered about was how the entire crew of pirates seem to be madeup of asians....most pirates in films are usually caucasians. Tommy Kirk, Kevin Corcoran, who flew into Tobago days after finishing Pollyanna and James McArthur play splendid roles as the three sons who grow up physically and discover themselves as young men on the island. Love the scenes of the watering hole complete with a natural water slide and swinging vines to traipse back and forth on. Janet Munro plays the stranded girl, rescued by McArthur and Kirk, and becomes a tug of war for affection between the two. Just the scenery alone on the island and the lagoons makes me want to visit the filming sight. This is a timeless classic, watch it a couple of times a year and it is just as entertaining the second time as the first. Wish Disney would re-release this film to theatres so you could see it on a big wide screen, preferably Imax. Movies just do not get any better than this one. Perfect film for family viewing. "},{"Title":"A great adventure movie for the family","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  I loved this movie growing up, and had to get the recent DVD.  It's great! The extras are wonderful and the movie is even better.  I love Disney movies, but some of the older live-action movies get annoying to me after awhile.  This one doesn't.  I love to imagine myself on that island with all the animals and fighting pirates.  It's great.  I definitely recommend it! "},{"Title":"Get me to a tree house!!!...tremendous family fun...","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON is the ultimate family adventure film from Disney, photographed on the island of Tobago for some lush scenery and exotic settings. But that tree house rules!! Everyone's favorite fantasy is this sort of adventure whereby a shipwrecked family finds refuge on what appears to be a deserted island, only to find that they're not exactly alone.DOROTHY McGUIRE and JOHN MILLS play the parent roles (played originally by Thomas Mitchell and Edna Best in the B&W '40 version), and the kids are played with equal skill by Kevin Corcoran, Tommy Kirk and JAMES MacARTHUR, who excels as the oldest son.There's some rough going when the pirates invade, but it's all done in true Disney style and you know there's going to be a happy ending.Summing up The kind of film the whole family can enjoy. A lot more visually appealing than the old B&W version filmed on RKO sound stages. "},{"Title":"Exciting Family Fun!","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" This is a Disney adventure film at its best. Excitement, adventure, far off exotic places, shipwrecks, pirates - all the ingredients for a thrilling recipe of family ties that bind (love), and respect for a father who protects and leads his family to battle the hostile elements of the outside world in order to survive.Tigers in pits, wild animals domesticated, outside fresh air away from all civilization, this is a movie for the whole family to watch together, preferably on a big screen at a theatre, where the producers designed to have it seen in the first place.This movie is fun, exciting and scary with pirate ships and uphill battles that make this one worth owning.I remember my Dad took me to see this film when I was 7 years old and the nostalgia of security of family rooted in a firm grounding and foundation of family tradition, for me made this film a memorable one for all time. I hope you enjoy this one too for old time's sake. "},{"Title":"Elephants and Tigers and Pirates, Oh My!","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Swiss Family Robinson is one of the best family adventure films, and definitely one of Disney's finest family films. Based on the Johan Wyss novel is the story of a British family shipwrecked during a storm, interuppting their migration to New Guinea.Not sure of how long they will be stranded or the whereabouts of the remaining crew (Disney ambiguously glosses over the issue of whether the crew is dead, but given the presence of sharks in the ocean and the tenacity of the storm the caused the wreck, I think it's safe assume they're night), they make the new island their home. Any young kids would probably love this aspect of the movie, the thought of having the jungle where you get to play in the river and build one of the most gnarliest treehouses (oddly complete with many modern conveniences despite the lack of electricity, etc). I would imagine that the actors who played the three brothers (Disney regulars, of course) had a lot of fun filming this movie. (Note They recreated the treehouse for a walk-through tour at the Orlando Walt Disney World theme park).But, as Mother Robinson (Dorothy MacGuire) suggests, their jungle abode should only be considered temporary, because they can't forget that they are the only ones on the island. Being the typical maternal Disney character, she worries staying on the island provides no life and no opportunity for the three sons, Francis (MacArthur), Ernst (Kirk), and Francis (Corcoran), especially because there are no other girls there other than Mother. But the boys and their father (Sir John Mills) are also aware that they must also question whether it is a good idea to stay there because the pirate ship that they keep seeing. Pirates and treehouses? Oh, this is a good adventure story! The only way they can tell whether they're on a peninsuala (Enrst suggests there is or was a land bridge because of the presence of many different animal species in one area) or an island is if the two oldest brothers try sailing around it. And that's where they run into a gang of pirates who have taken a British diplomat and his kid hostage. Saving them would make the Robinson boys pirate targets for sure, and their family, too. But, it seems like the Robinsons are ready for anything. Who's scared of a little machette-weilding pirate, eh?This is a fantastic adventure film for younger children, though they may tend to get bored by some of the dreamy conversations between Mother and Father Robinson as they discuss their son's prospects and other concerns about the island. But, it is often non-stop adventure and looks like a lot of fun (like the Ostrich racing scene). Present, however, are some of the Disney stereotypical elements. The pirates, the villains, are Asian (I don't even think the pirate actors use a real language) and the good guys are the British. The female characters don't do any strong arm work and often engage in conversations limited to domestics (family life, nothing too intelligent). When Roberta is revealed to be a girl, all of a sudden anything she did that was macho while in disquise, vanishes and she becomes a helpless girl (it is Francis and Ernst who have to wrestle the snake and Roberta freaks at the sight of a lizard and so forth). Despite all of that, this is exemplary of what good old-fashioned adventure tales were made of, so younger boys would definitely be drawn to those elements, and hopefully, younger girls as well. Pirate chases, monster treehouses, snake wrestling. It's good times. And surprising for an older Disney film, has very little singing numbers. Skip on the remake of the 'The Swiss Family Robinson' and check this one out.  "},{"Title":"Classic family adventure film","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I first saw this during it's initial theatrical release when I was 6 years old and of course immediately loved it and have seen it several times over the years. It's one of those family classics that even though it's dated it seems to live on forever entertaining new generations. A great live-action film from the Disney studios. When many years after I first saw this movie, I first visited Disneyland in 1984, the first thing I wanted to see was the Swiss Family Treehouse exhibit. The attraction had lost it's luster and I was the inly one visiting it. They've since turned it into Tarzan's tree house from what I understand. The movie doesn't lose it's luster and the tree house is the film's central attraction. It does seem a little unbelievable that a family who could construct such a fantastic structure why couldn't they use those same skills to repair their ship wreck or build a new ship to take them away from the island? This is beautifully photographed by cinematographer Harry Waxman, John Howell is the production designer and Jack Stephens is the set decorator. Ken Annakin who directed several adventure films is the director. Lowell S. Hawley who was one of the writers on Disney's Zoro TV series wrote the screenplay in his adaptation of the Johann David Wyss novel. John Mills and Dorothy McGuire play the parents and James McArthur, Tommy Kirk and Kevin Corcoran are their sons in the story of a family shipwrecked on a remote island with dangerous animals and the threat of bloodthirsty pirates in the waters. Janet Munro, Sessue Hayakawa and Cecil Parker round out the cast. I would give this an 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Full-blown and entertaining adventures based on Johann Wyss   novel ,  being shot on location","Date":"8 October 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Gorgeous production with Disney all-star-cast , funny sequences , spectacular adventures and amusement . Amusing family fun in which a Swiss family formed by a father (John Mills) , mother (Dorothy McGuire) and children (James McArthur , Kevin Corcoran , Tommy Kirk) must survive being shipwrecked on a deserted tropical island . As a family seeking to getaway Napoleon's wars in Europe , set sail for New Guinea , but shipwrecks on an island . There they built an idyllic life , only to be confronted by a gang of pirates (led by Sessue Hayakawa). Furthermore , they battle anaconda , tiger , and finally dispatch a group of cutthroats . Meanwhile , they domesticate animals , as among the Robinson's pets are  Duke and Turk the dogs, Rocky the elephant, Lightning the donkey, Clementine the ostrich, Duchess the Zebr and an anaconda was actually pregnant during filming . The picture contains noisy adventures , humor , emotion , stirring action and sensational outdoors . The film displays some scenes have you on the edge of your seat as the amusing images when the protagonists fight an anaconda and against a band of pirates . Lots of adventure for family viewing , including an climatic as well as bemusing ending battle ; it was a direct influence on the final Ewok skirmish in ¨The return of the Jedi¨ , as George Lucas was a huge fan of the film . Excellent , powerful cast with sympathetic protagonists , many of them Disney ordinaries such as Janet Munro , James MacArthur ; in fact , Dorothy McGuire, Tommy Kirk and Kevin Corcoran had previously played a family in Disney's Old yeller . However , Tommy Kirk considered quitting at one point as he was so desperately homesick . Colorful cinematography reflecting marvelous landscapes by Harry Waxman , filmed on location in island of Tobago ; although set in a tropical paradise, the filming was considerably hampered by almost constant rain . Lively and evocative music by Willyam Alwyn , conducted by customary Muir Matheson . It has abundant special effects and some matte painting by Disney specialist Peter Ellenshaw ; being Walt Disney's first film in Panavision . In fact , this is one of Disney's rare widescreen films, shot with Panavision lenses , previous widescreen efforts from Disney had usually been in CinemaScope. It's a winning Disney effort made by its usual director Ken Annakin. At the box office, the film took roughly $40,000,000 , around $367,000,000 in today's money, making it one of the most successful family films ever made . It's a must for the Disney fans but is beautifully released , being recommendable for all family and especially for little boys public . Rating  Good , entertaining and with great lots of amusement .This fun picture was professionally directed by Ken Annakin , being enthusiastically funny though overlong . It was stunningly realized in splendidly amusing style , is all color , thrills and action . Ken was an expert on Adventure genre such as ¨The new adventures of Pippi Longstockings¨, ¨Pirate movie¨ , ¨Paper tiger¨, ¨The fifth Musketeer¨ , ¨Call of wild¨, ¨In search for the castaways¨, ¨Land of fury¨, ¨The Sword and the Rose¨, ¨The story of Robin Hood and his Merry Men¨, ¨Third man on the mountain¨ and Wartime genre as ¨Battle of the Bulge¨, and ¨The Longest day¨. "},{"Title":"An Action Packed Adventure For the Family","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  Filled with action, adventure and romance, this classic tale of a swiss family trying to escape the suppression of their native land and wind up ship wrecked on a tropical island, is nicely adapted on the big screen. The acting is nothing to go woof over but what it lacks in that department it surely makes up for in scenery. You get the impression that the cast was just to breath taken to perhaps concentrate on their lines, being surrounded in paradise. The entire movie was shot on location, in the lavish South Seas. Dorothy McGuire does a nice job playing the mother of three sons, struggling to raise them properly although they are in the middle-of-nowhere; while James MacArthur gets loads of screen time with just him and his bare chest. And yes, just as you think you were safe...that annoying kid who was in EVERY DISNEY MOVIE IMAGINABLE...pops up as the youngest (and whiniest) of the brood, Francis. Don't let his stupid remarks, ruin the movie for you. Disney compensated us with many slick plot twists involving pirates, wild animals and a love interest for Fritz (chest boy) and his punier brother, Ernest. This is a movie EVERYONE can watch munching on popcorn and having a few laughs. My score 6 "}{"Title":"Bizarrely encapsulating, for all the wrong reasons","Date":"10 March 2012","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" John Mills was a fine actor, but in this he's a bit like a rocket engine attached to hot-air balloon in this.I'm a fan of old movies, but found this example to be a pretty poor one and not recommended for anyone interested in giving old classics a shot.It's certainly not short of budget or adventure. Things are happening constantly. Including the most annoying soundtrack I can ever recall. With peculiar incidental music that accompanies absolutely every tiny thing that happens along the way. Constantly.What I found most disturbing, by today's standards, was the many examples of animal cruelty in the film. Including a tiger being harassed by 2 great dane dogs (potentially lethal for the dogs and distressing for the tiger), riding an ostrich and a zebra trapped in mud. All done with real performing animals.Couldn't be rated as a true old classic in my opinion. Probably only thought of fondly by people who saw it when they were young. "},{"Title":"Great-looking film, but too wholesome.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a dazzling Disney production, beautifully photographed and colorful, but the treatment of its subject (survival on a desert island) is overly wholesome and unrealistic. The family seems to be treating the whole situation like the perfect holiday. Even at the face of many hardships they all remain surprisingly cheerful! And the parents have an annoying habit of calling each other Mother and Father, even when they're alone. By far the most interesting element of the film is the antagonism between the two older brothers, each trying to win the affections of the teenage girl they take along in their adventures; it's the only part of the movie that provides some dramatic conflict.      (**1/2) "},{"Title":"My family and I love this movie.","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie shows a family as survivors of a ship wreck on a deserted island. And they are making the most of it. It doesn't bother me that the Mother doesn't have an input into the design of the house I assumed she was doing whatever mothers did back then nor was I concerned about all the the different animals on the island, where they came from, or that they were riding on the backs of these wild animals. I accepted this point as another ship wreck, the same way they did and the other girl (love interest).This is a great movie and lots of fun for the WHOLE family to watch. Since my wife purchased this movie we have shown it to guest in our house and since our children have grown up, married and have children of their own they borrow it from time to time. "},{"Title":"Memories unrecoverable","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" There are some films made for children (or, more correctly, featuring children) that have lasted and retain their appeal, such as 'Whistle Down the Wind' or 'The Railway Children'. The 1960 production 'Swiss Family Robinson' was pitched at eight year olds then but is unlikely to satisfy a modern-day eight-year-old. Certainly it should be avoided by any 1960-era eight year old (now 60 year old) tempted to believe the charm can be conjured a second time. In the hands of an imaginative director, the story has elements that might have been made into something lasting. Nothing about this production, however, suggests those involved felt conviction for what they are doing. It looks, sadly, like a cash register in celluloid. "},{"Title":"Animal cruelty","Date":"12 January 2015","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Per flagpants reviewWhat I found most disturbing, by today's standards, was the many examples of animal cruelty in the film. Including a tiger being harassed by 2 great dane dogs (potentially lethal for the dogs and distressing for the tiger), riding an ostrich and a zebra trapped in mud. All done with real performing animals.Me too. I was into this film as a kid in 1960 and was going to add it to my collection until we re-watched it and saw numerous examples (more than flag mentioned) of animals being mistreated for the various scenes in the film. I found myself rooting against the Robinson's after about 30 minutes and we cut our losses. Family film? No. Booo ..... "},{"Title":"Swiss Family Robinson?","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" The title makes one wonder are the Robinsons really a family from Switzerland? Yeah, Ernst and Fritz are German names, that's true. We don't know the parents's names but Robinson and Francis do not sound swiss at all, they do sound like americanos or even British.As for the movie, I admit that at first I was doubtful about it, but it's a watchable family movie. It's an okay adventure/family movie. I mean, of all the live-action Disney films, I wouldn't say this is my favorite or one of my favorites, but it remains faithful to the traditional ones in many ways, even if it isn't as good as the best.Many people say this movie looks very dated, but I disagree. Sure, looking at it we know immediately this is an old movie. What I'm trying to say is that, considering its age, it doesn't look that dated. It doesn't look as old as it is. For example, The Ugly Dachshund was made a few years after this and looks way more dated. Popeye is another perfect example of this it came out 20 years after this and looks much more dated than this.The story of this is a kind of story very familiar in numerous adventure films, taking place in a desert island after a ship sinking or getting stuck on rocks (in this case, it gets stuck on rocks). It's a humble yet sympathetic plot, with comedy and lots of adventure.One of the things that bug me in this movie is the pirates. Those pirates can be quite annoying. And yet, the final battle with them is one of the movie's most hilarious moments, especially when little Francis Robinson throws them coco-nut bombs.The cast features 3 familiar actors from Old Yeller Dorothy McGuire, Tommy Kirk and Kevin Corcoran. Like in Old Yeller, Dorothy McGuire plays the mom, while Tommy Kirk and Kevin Corcoran play brothers. It's amazing that they played brothers in 5 films. Extraordinary, isn't it? The main actors play well their roles. John Mills and Dorothy McGuire as the parents, James MacArthur as Fritz, Tommy Kirk as Ernst and Kevin Corcoran as Francis. Here both Tommy Kirk and Kevin Corcoran are as good as in Old Yeller. Tommy's voice, however, sounds a bit different here and he looks taller too (well, he was 3 years older, right?). Kevin Corcoran got a bit chubbier here, didn't he? (no complaints at all, just an observation)I've noticed that many people complain about the character Francis, they seem to consider him annoying and obnoxious. I don't think so I think he's a cute and smart kid. He also loves animals and he has some great ideas, such as the tiger's trap and the coco-nut bombs.One of the movie's best things is its exotic sceneries and landscapes. What we see is real, pure and beautiful nature trees, forests, green places, mountains, beaches, sea, lots of sun and some sunset moments, among other things. We also get to see some wild animals, such as a giant turtle, a tiger (magnificent animal), an elephant calf and others. Elephants are not really beautiful, but they are cute, magnificent and majestic creatures. I think exactly the same about hippos they're simply fantastic animals.Since this is a movie about Robinsons, maybe the song Mrs. Robinson (by Simon & Garfunkel) would be good for the movie's Mrs. Robinson - lol. Just kidding. It's a great song, but wouldn't fit well in this kind of movie. Besides, the song is from 1968 and the movie came out 8 years before. "},{"Title":"Dated Disney Family Lost","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Ahh so here we go. First we have to remember this is very much a movie of it's time which is a period movie so that makes it extra dated and even less pc than we are used to in the modern world. Does that make it a bad movie? Well no, but it does not make it a great movie either and I suspect it did not make it a great movie in 1960. This though boasting John Mills as the leading man is really a Disney family movie by numbers, directed by a jobbing director who to my knowledge directed nothing of note either before of after this movie. The story has the titular family washing up on a paradise island with the feel of this is what 'Lost' would be if Disney had made it in the 60's. It is strange to see how attitudes have changed about the portrayal of animals and ethnic minorities in movies but here that is a side issue.Plot wise we are pretty thin on the ground with the family quite amusingly managing to turn the shipwreck material into a full home. With really not much else going on till the boys find the captain of the shipwreck with his cabin boy (o more will be revealed!) with the pirates that wrecked their vessel, perform a little rescue of their own then watch and wait for the repercussions. John Mills does the honourable father thing in his sleep and the rest of the cast are just Disney jobbers and that really is that. Family movie fine but really if it is a family movie you are looking for you could do much better than this. "},{"Title":"A film imbued with a spirit of adventure but dated by its attitude to women and a strange mixture of animals","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  There are many things to love about this adaptation of the classic adventure novel.  The setting is idyllic and photographed beautifully.  The characters are optimistic and happy despite their predicament. No modern cynicism amongst these people! They are resourceful and manage to build an inventive and comfortable home among the trees. However there are parts of the film that reveals its age.  The men design and build the house and then present it to Mrs Robinson, whose job I imagine was then to clean it and keep it immaculate.  Generally, there is little depth to Mrs Robinson's character. She is not allowed to present any ideas to the men about the house or how to defend it.  She is only there to smile and scream.  Another problem with the film is its mixture of animals.  I am no expert but I cannot recall ever learning of a tropical island, somewhere between Europe and PNG that has Asian tigers and African zebras, hyeanas and vultures.  (There was a baby elephant, but I am not sure whether it was Asian or African.) I guess it does not matter, but accuracy often reveals a commitment to integrity and the intelligence of the audience.  Overall, I enjoyed the film.  It filled me with a spirit of adventure.  It makes the prospect of being shipwrecked quite attractive. "},{"Title":"A Definite 'MUST OWN'!","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"20 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  Anybody that votes or has voted less than a 5 on this has either lied about watching it or has gotten a little to caught up on political correctness, or has found poor taste in movies.  Basically, if you were orphaned at birth and nobody adopted you and became a neo-nazi, this MAY be something you won't find interesting.This is among the early Disney Classics & Greats.  A great cast put into a pirate tale that brings the whole family together.  Though the screenplay is a bit old and the music sounds as if its from 'Gone With The Wind', what else would you expect from the time this was made?  A family is shipwrecked on an uncharted island and they make do with the means and supplies they have.  They build an exotic home on what seems like an island paradise.  In an effort to get a better idea of where they are and what they have to deal with, the older two sons go out on an exploration of the island.  While around the other side, they meet up with pirates holding two hostages.  They take the youth hostage per the captive father's request and head on back to the camp to notify their parents and prepare if the pirates happen to come their way.  There is a wonderful action battle that brings classic excitement to all those young and old.  In the true form of a Disney Classic, the storyline and character development is done beautifully.This is one of those items you'd go to the theater to see on the BIG SCREEN multiple time if it were available again.  Definite add to the collection. "},{"Title":"Let the Voyage Begin.","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Swiss Family Robinson (1960) Dir Ken Annakin / Cast John Mills, Dorothy Maguire, James MacArthur, Tommy Kirk, Janet Munro Entertaining adventure about family and perseverance. What Swiss represents I'm not sure but they could have called it Swiss Cheese Family Robinson and it still would have made the millions it made. A violent storm reduces a ship to wreckage but the family on board survive and make the best of island life. After building a tree house in the jungle the two oldest boys go exploring and encounter a band of pirates. Plenty of adventure and beautiful photography but one must wonder about the credibility of one family overcoming such an enemy. Directed by Ken Annakin who heightens the action to appeal to families. He is known as a director of family adventures and he hits success here. What works against it is its huge climax that is well made but it goes for the happy ending as oppose to logic. Among the cast are John Mills and Dorothy Maguire as the parental figures and the brains of the operation. Also with James MacArthur, and Tommy Kirk as the two boys whose adventure is cut short. Janet Munro plays the young lady whom is thought to be male when she is rescued. Her performance is the best in the film. Entertaining Disney adventure for families with a strong theme regarding oneness and making the best out of a bad situation. Score 7 / 10 "}{"Title":"an enjoyable,fantastic blast!","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I enjoyed this Walt Disney film very much. It's pure fantasy but it takes you for a heck of a ride. The acting choices were OK. Best were Dorothy McGuire, James MacArthur and Tommy Kirk. I had read the book years ago and there are some rather big differences. In the book, there was a 4th son ( Jack)--who was 3rd in order of age. In the book, Fritz found a note attached to a bird's foot and that sent him out to search for the sender ( the girl). There were No pirates in the book and lastly, the family had built some structures (like a small tree house)--but eventually chose to live in a cave. I think Disney did just find in re working this material. "},{"Title":"A twee Disney adventure","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" The producers of SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON appear to have taken the original novel by Johann Wyss, copied across the characters and the basic premise, and then get rid of it entirely in favour of a typically twee Disney-fied adventure. That's the only explanation I can give for this extraordinarily dated would-be adventure yarn, which is colourful and exotic but a far cry from the contemporary Jules Verne adventure films like JOURNEY TO THE CENTRE OF THE EARTH or 20,000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA.The problem with SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON is that it's so kiddie-centric. Viewers are stuck watching an annoying little brat racing around and shouting all the while. Apparently the viewers think this kind of behaviour is cute, but it really isn't. Half of the running time seems to consist of wild animals being trapped and abused for human pleasure; they're treated as circus objects throughout and I this didn't sit well with me at all. What about that poor baby elephant, taken away from its family and sitting around tied to a tree for most of the running time, all on the whim of a bratty kid? Elsewhere, there are so many goofs and unbelievable things happening that this plays out as an unintentional comedy (the bit where they build a water wheel with a few basic tools is a highlight). There's some late stage fun to be had with some Oriental pirate villains, and John Mills can be relied upon to deliver a solid performance, but as a whole? SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON isn't very good. "},{"Title":"Not exactly true to the original, but pretty good...from when Disney didn't mess things up as much...","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I used to watch this movie as a child and I enjoyed it. As a school teacher I recently had the opportunity to use the novel in my classroom. As a culminating activity we are watching this movie. Anyway, seeing it from this perspective puts things a little different.First of all the family is not named Robinson...the title was given as a reference to Robinson Crusoe. People complain of the ludicrous compilation of animals and the unlikely events...well that is how the novel was written. In fact the novel goes much further in its extremism. My biggest complaints come from the way that the movie departs from the novel. Eliminating the son named Jack was an odd choice from the start. They accelerated the pace of necessity since it is a movie and cannot contain as much as the novel but reordering events or making the mother (who in the novel was quite capable and contributed just as much to the family as everyone else) into a 1960's movie era helpless female did not serve the plot well. Turning Francis into the whiny little boy on screen just makes me want to pull my hair out. The overall spirit of the film is in line with the novel however and it is not a horrible movie to watch, it is actually enjoyable to watch. The value of this movie increases when I use it in the classroom because it opens up a lot of dialog comparing it to the novel and it really gets the students back into the book and trying to read for further understanding. On the whole it is a good classic Disney movie...it hearkens back to a time when Disney didn't totally screw things up (can we say Pocahontas?)...I'd recommend it, especially for young boys. "},{"Title":"Entertaining romp","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" My grandmother took me to the cinema to see this when it first came out, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.I didn't see it again until I was an adult and it came up on TV, at which point I thoroughly enjoyed it.Then I looked out the book and read it - I had enjoyed Robinson Crusoe and The Coral Island in my youth, so I would clearly enjoy the third classic tropic island castaway book, wouldn't I? Oh dear.The book Swiss Family Robinson is preachy and dreary and (if my English translation was accurate) appallingly badly written. It was only after reading it that I realised how well Disney had done in taking the idea, dropping the unappetising preachiness, injecting a healthy dose of fun into what remained, and producing a cheerful, exciting, exotic, eye-popping family romp.As ever, Kevin Corcoran is on hand to provide an unwelcome note of whining irritation, but that is the single sour note in a film which provides two hours of good clean fun for families. "},{"Title":"A DEFINITE MUST FOR ANY 7 YEAR OLD BOY","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  Okay, here it is in a nutshell- If your 7 year old son doesn't want to go out in the backyard and energetically act out parts of this film after seeing it, your kid needs a doctor! James MacArthur is his usual early 60s insecure teen, Tommy Kirk is good as usual w/ an early beatle cut. John Mills seems a bit old for the part, but nonetheless does a good job, and Dorothy McGuire sits through most of the film(!) Great father/son film!! Kevin Corcoran is over-spunked as in most of the Disney films, but plays the part perfectly. I can see my little boy's admiration in his eyes when Corcoran's on the screen. I remember the 'Moochie parts he played when I was a kid and also felt he'd be a great playmate. Okay, that's my 10 lines. Rent it for your family! "},{"Title":"A truely magical adventure of beautiful Swiss people in a jungle","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This magical film about Swiss people is one of my all time favourites. I never miss it when it's featured on television. Everything about it enthralls me. The wonderful fantasy about life in the tree tops - hanging with monkeys etc. The interplay between Fritz and Ernst in astonishly stunning, i actually beleived they were real brothers until i saw the credits that sadly bought the film to an end. I found the scene where the dogs attacked a tiger particularly gripping and realistic with its animalistic brutality.I also adore the water scene where the cast slide and swing. They are clearly having a wonderful time and it shines out of this particular scene and it truely feels like a genuine family. Another favourite part is the revelation that Roberta- far from being the cheeky happy go lucky lad that we first thought is in fact a beautiful radiant young woman. The jealously experienced by the two young men in the picture are exquisitly crafted moments. The house is like a fairy tale fortress, it's my dream home! I love the part with the pirates. It is brilliant how they are both frightening and free form cliches at the same time. I have to say that i find the ending slightly unsatisfactory as i feel that Ernst is the superior candiate for the affections of Roberta. I am pleased however that the remains of the family stay on the island because it is paradise on Earth "},{"Title":"Happy adventure!!!!!","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Embark on a family voyage with the Swiss Family Robinson, the 1960 film from the happy mind of Walt Disney. Based on a book by Johann David Wyss (which I read and found terrific as well as this movie version), this family (Are they really Swiss?) gets shipwrecked on an island in the ocean. They do stuff like provide state-of-the-art survival (for the time), have fun, fight off pirates, and more!!!!!What I like about this film My family loves it. While they still have the 1997 VHS, I want to see this on DVD in the future. I've seen the end of it on the Old Disney Channel back in 1997. The family loves it; I love it!!!!!Swiss Family Robinson - enjoy!!!!!10/10 "},{"Title":"As Primitive As Can Be?","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" The novel of Johann David Wyss concerning a Swiss Family who become shipwrecked on an island on the way to New Guinea has been done on the big and small screen all the way back to 1903. There's even plans for yet another version in 2009. This Disney version holds up very well even with the sometimes annoying presence of Kevin Corcoran as the youngest son.The original novel had four sons and they weren't named Robinson as that is most definitely not a German name. As written in 1812 the only connection to Robinson was reference to another fictional hero who survived many years on a desert island, most of that alone, Robinson Crusoe. One thing I've got to say is that these people with what they could salvage off the ship when they were wrecked were living pretty good, not hardly as primitive as can be. Yet parents John Mills and Dorothy McGuire who are actually kind of liking their little paradise are concerned about inevitable problems for boys without female companionship. As delicately as Walt Disney could put it about the facts of life.Later on the two older boys James MacArthur and Tommy Kirk have occasion to rescue Janet Munro who is in drag as a boy from those same Malay pirates who who waylaid the Robinson ship in the first place. When they discover she's a girl those complications start rearing their ugly head.When the final battle comes with the Malay pirates led by Sessue Hayakawa, it starts off as an A-Team like fight, but later turns into quite a battle for the lives of the family. If I were John Mills I might have given Kevin Corcoran to the pirates. This kid who's been one royal pain in the butt from the start, actually whistles to get their dogs inside the compound when the pirates land and as they're going in the opposite direction attracts them to where the family is, setting off the events of the climax. But a lot of people back in the day thought young Moochie was cute.Other than Kevin Corcoran, the movie holds up very well, it's still a fun family film for families other than the Robinsons. "},{"Title":"Adventure, suspense, island paradise...","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  I wanted to live on this island with the Robinsons!  I love their house they built, I love the jungle and the animals, and the 3 sons, I love the 2 dogs they saved off the boat. I wish the Robinsons were my family...  As for the movie - I love it!  Great for the whole family. We own it on video.  I loved the book as a kid, and I try to get my kids to read it now.  (They've seem the movie, so it's hard to get them to read the book - if possible read the book 1'st.) Don't you wish you had a waterfall slide to play on?  Pirates, romance, and a shipwreck on a beautiful island - a classic. "},{"Title":"Swiss Family Robinson","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I like desert island and castaway films, and I certainly wanted to see this one. It is weird to see married characters not using first names, calling each other Father and Mother, but then again Mr. and Mrs. Tweedy referred to each other like that in Chicken Run, so you get used to it. Anyway, basically the Robinson family Father (John Mills), Mother (Dorothy McGuire), Fritz (James MacArthur), Ernst (Tommy Kirk) and Francis (Kevin Corcoran) were going to New Guinea, but are shipwrecked on a tropical desert island. They are forced to stay because of their ship's damage, and pirates lead by Kualan, the pirate chief (The Bridge on the River Kwai's Sessue Hayakawa) roaming the island. The family build a magnificent home for themselves, and have plenty of adventures exploring, including finding a baby elephant, encountering a tiger, riding ostriches, and eventually meeting young Bertie, who turns out to a girl (duh!) named Roberta (Janet Munro). Towards the end the family know they have to defend themselves against the pirates, so they set up many traps and make many weapons to make sure they can't catch them. In the end, Father, Mother and Kirk decide to stay, and everyone else leaves with Captain Moreland (Cecil Parker). It may be just a tiny bit long, but it is a great family film. It was number 89 on The Ultimate Film, and it was number 82 on The 100 Greatest Family Films. Very good! "}{"Title":"A Great Disney Classic!","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" This was one of the first movies I ever saw in a movie theater. It's a lot of fun, imaginative, optimistic, and entertaining. It's still a great family movie. That's all it presumes to be. It's a great vehicle to demonstrate ingenuity in the face of adversity. Classic Disney fare, naive, simple and demonstrating high ideals, morals, and ethics. As to those that think there was any cruelty to animals during the filming really? Come on. Do you really think the film crew would sic a pair of dogs on a tiger just to film it? This should be re-released to the public, even if only on TV. It's worth letting new generations enjoy it. It's a shame Disneyland has changed the Swiss Family Robinson Treehouse into the Tarzan tree-house... "},{"Title":"Book him, Fritz","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" The only thing this movie lacks is Haley Mills. Apparently she was hanging out at the location with her dad when it was being filmed. Too bad old Walt didn't have her do a cameo as a mermaid or something. Anyways, this movie is way better than the book it is based on. I just finished reading it and all the Swiss family do is kill wildlife every other page. If the movie stayed true to the book there would not be much drive in the narrative. The book has no love interest, no pirates, no savages, no Gilligan. I'm sure in the future they will keep making versions of it, but this one sets the gold coconut standard of tropical island fun. "},{"Title":"Disney Corn","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Disney adaptation of the famous novel has a family stranded on a lush, tropical island and fighting off evil pirates. No attempt is made to add even a bit of realism to the preposterous plot. There are corny scenes of the family having a wonderful time with all the comforts of home, with no sense of danger. The characters are all cardboard cutouts, including the pirates that speak some gibberish language and apparently are brainless. Hayakawa, so good in The Bridge on the River Kwai, looks appropriately embarrassed as the lead pirate. However, there is some nice scenery and it's entertaining enough for kids. The animals are cute. "},{"Title":"10 out of 10 - Swiss Family Robinson is a classic!","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Swiss Family Robinson is a classic! It's my all time favorite film by Walt Disney. I like the storyline and characters. It's a feel good adventure. One thing I always liked about this movie is the family was like a real family, no one perfectly got along. The boys had their own fights with each other. The rivalry between Fritz (James MacArthur) and Ernst (Tommy Kirk) who both want the girl, Roberta (Janet Munro)is funny and good. This is better than most Disney live action films. As a child this was my favorite film, and I still find it great today. Having been born way after the movie first came out, I'm still taken in by this timeless adventure. I think the whole cast did a great job and it's good to be able to sit down with a bowl of popcorn and enjoy this with family. The 2-Disc DVD is a must have for any fan of Swiss Family Robinson, It has all kind of features and making videos with the cast and crew. "},{"Title":"One of the few NON-BORING family films out there!!!","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" En route to New Guinea, a ship is chased into a hurricane and ends up deserted by its crew and wrecked against the rocks of an island in the Indian or Pacific Ocean. The only passengers remaining on board the crippled vessel are a Swiss family who have been fleeing from possible entanglement in war due to the dealings of Neopoleon.There are a father (Sir John Mills), a mother (Dorothy McGuire) and three boys, Fritz (James MacArthur), Ernst (Tommy Kirk) and little Francis (Kevin Corcoran). Although Mother believes a ship will come along any time and rescue them from the island, Father feels its best to avoid trying to use fire or any means of getting attention lest the pirates that attacked them before should return to finish the job.Slowly, the family begins to realize what a beautiful place God put them in, for whatever His reasons. There are lots of cool animals, beautiful waterfalls, lush greenery, plenty of food. Eventually, the men build a wonderous tree house, and anything they could need or wish for is right there. Should they bother going on to New Guinea??? Mother still thinks its practical compared with living on the island, and besides, with no other people living there, how will her sons ever know what it's like to be married and have families of their own??? The two eldest sons, Fritz and Ernst, talk their parents into letting them sail the coast of their island, to find out if there are any ports, towns or options that will speed their rescue and get them to New Guinea. They don't find anything except the same blasted pirate band who gave them problems before, and this time the cutthroats have taken an Englishman and his grandson Bertie for ransom. The Robinson boys manage to get the grandson out of danger, and soon find out that Bertie is not a boy, but a girl named Roberta, who fearing being victimized by the ruthless pirates, chopped off her red hair and wore boys clothing.Immediately, an often hilarious rivalry for the girl's affection begins between Fritz and Ernst. Ernst spouts off dorky quotes from famous authors while Fritz rolls his eyes and just does his thing. I had a HUGE crush on Fritz when I was a kid...I guess you could call him one of my retro-babes!!! On Christmas, the boys and Roberta reach the tree house and the family begins preparations for facing the pirates, who undoubtedly will come along looking for Roberta. The battle with the pirates is made ceaselessly entertaining by the tiger pits, the coconut bombs, the pirate bells, the snares, the rigged bridge, logpile and of course, the gun and sword fighting.Some family films, even ones I like, can be boring sometimes, or too full of Pollyanna-ism...but SWISS FAMILY is really action packed and entertaining. I never get bored. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic but entertaining adventure story for children.","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" When I saw this as a boy, I wanted to go there and do that buld a tree house, fight pirates, have a pet elephant. As an adult I can see the flaws. For one, hyenas would have made their lives a lot more miserable than what happened in the story. While you watch this with your children, though, you may find the pirate captain, accomplished actor Sessue Hayakawa, to be most entertaining as he looks very menacing and reels off line after line in what sounds like some kind of strange language (ad lib perhaps). He was the best part! You will also see some familiar actors, both adults and children. The story has many background subplots which are not really explored. These include fleeing military oppression and the colonial ideology of the day. Since it's for children, Disney was probably right to minimize them. "},{"Title":"Almost a great Disney film","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" A family is shipwrecked on a deserted island after being chased by pirates. They learn to adapt to life on the island and start enjoying it...then the pirates return.John Mills and Dorothy McGuire are good and strong as the parents. Their three boys are portrayed by two very annoying actors as the youngest but James McArthur plays the oldest (Fritz) pretty well. Being a Disney film they all look perfect, they all get along, McGuire always has perfect makeup on and they build the most elaborate tree house I've ever seen. I realize this is a fantasy but come on! Still, it's generally a heck of a lot of fun--until the middle section.They then throw in a female castaway Roberta (Janet Munro) and the two oldest brothers start fighting over her. This leads to some truly annoying fights between the boys and some of the most hysterically bad lovey-dovey dialogue between Fritz and Roberta. It doesn't help that Munro is a lousy actress and McArthur looks VERY uncomfortable with these scenes. This really bogs the movie down until a fantastic climatic battle with the pirates. Another problem. I realize this is in all Disney films but McGuire and Munro are always portrayed as being helpless, silly, screaming at EVERYTHING and depending on the men constantly. I realize it's a sign of its time but it doesn't date well.Still, it's beautifully filmed in the West Indies, has gorgeous scenery and a rousing music score by William Alwyn. It is perfect family entertainment.So--my complaints aside--I really enjoyed this. I give it a good solid 8. "},{"Title":"The best Disney film ever made! A classic!","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie was truly great. I am not a fan of family-films, or non-animated Disney films either, but this was excellent. It is about a family who is traveling in the sea to Europe but is shipwrecked on an island and they are able to build a paradise there but are continuously faced with new challenges. There are plenty of dangerous wild animals, lack of food, and pirates come and a fantastic gun & sword battle erupts near the end of the film which is not too violent for a Disney film but is very exciting. This whole movie is great, it has great scenery, excitement and great color film for a 1960 movie. You must see this! Feel free to email me with any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"Pleasant and mostly entertaining Disney movie.","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Even though I was a teenager in 1960 I don't recall seeing this movie back then. We didn't go to the movies often and when I did, it was usually a western with Roy Rogers or Gene Autry. Anyway now it is available as a Netflix streaming movie and that is how I viewed it. The picture and sound are just fine for such an old movie.The basic story is a husband and wife want to get away from the rat race and are traveling by ship from their home in Switzerland to New Guinea to start a new life. But before they arrive they are caught in a bad storm and are shipwrecked on a deserted tropical island. The captain and crew must have seen it coming and deserted early, leaving the family, with three sons, to fend for themselves.They do the best they can to salvage useful items and supplies from the wrecked ship and set about building their new home. It ends up being a quite elaborate 3-cottage cluster in a very large tree with nicely spread limbs. The family finds a number of animals, a Tiger, a small elephant, and several others that lead them to think it might be a land bridge, so they build a small boat and set sail to try to go around the island. Another shipwreck and an encounter with a band of pirates results in their rescuing a teenage girl as her grandpa is captured. In the end the pirates return, the Family Robinson work hard with improvised defenses to hold off the pirates and, when it seems the pirates will prevail a ship arrives and starts shooting at the pirates and their ship to save the day.When it was all over the parents decided they wanted to stay in this New Switzerland with the prospects of additional settlers, but the two older boys would likely return to Europe, one of them with the girl, for an education and a new start. "},{"Title":"Just a Harmless and Fun Family Film,","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Swiss Family Robinson is a good movie with a well written storyline and a good cast.The film has certainly aged but it still holds up pretty well as a family film,it has a lot of fun adventure,however there is little to no humour in this.My biggest problem with this movie was for a long period they started focusing on Fritz and Ernst Robinson,which I didn't like because they just weren't very professional actors and I didn't find their characters as likable as Father and Mother Robinson,although it was of course a good decision to go beyond the island.Its not an outstanding piece of filmmaking,but Swiss Family Robinson is enjoyable and I would recommend it as an easy to watch family film.After a family get shipwrecked on a tropical island they begin to live an idyllic life,until a group of pirates show up.Best Performance John Mills Worst Performance Tommy Kirk "}{"Title":"the swiss family robinsons","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I just downloaded this movie the other day, and really enjoyed this movie, it was good to see James Macarther(Hawaii 5-0 fame) I saw this once back in the 80s and only seen parts of it, but yesterday I got to see it all the way through, it is an awesome movie, the only spot I thought was a little cheesy was James Macarther and Tommy Kirk found the kid under the headband was a girl!!!!!1lololol I was dumb founded, I found myself talking to the t.v Hey guys you mean to tell me you just now figured that out?!!!!! I figured it out when her James& Tommy were running away from the Chinese pirates, going up the hill, I mean come on guys you cant see a woman when you see one???!!!!!!!!! and even THAT was hillariouse! I highly recommend Swiss family Robinson,Michael Smith "},{"Title":"Happy memories","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I still love this movie with all its faults. I first saw it around the time of its original release and just loved it. I have seen it countless times and it always entertains me. It is not great art but it does what it does well. John Mills is his usual dependable self as the father and Tommy Kirk and Kevin Corcoran reprise their brother double act that we saw in Old Yeller et al. (a shame that Kirk's career was blighted by his sexuality-shame on you Disney!). I notice a lot of reviewers are concerned about the animals in this film but being Disney I am sure none was harmed.... etc. It is an enjoyable, improbable adventure story that appeals to all ages, so suspend your disbelief and just go with it. "},{"Title":"Great Disney Adventure Movie!","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" ... With a super cast, led by British Actor John Mills, Swiss Family Robinson (SFR) remains a solid, entertaining film for all ages! And, of course, that famous Tree House is-a-star all-by-itself! Seeing it at Disneyland in Anaheim, CA. was a thrill every time. A believable script, the movie is well-paced and the musical score fits perfectly. Suitable for even younger children, it's not boring for adults! This was the Golden Years for Disney movie-making, starting in the 1950's. Even effective on TV, it's best viewed on the full-screen at your neighborhood theater. It's worth having SFR in your permanent collection-at-home. Tahnk-you for TCM in just airing it. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Disney just telling a straight out adventure story.","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" The family Robinson are sailing their way to New Guinea, but as a storm rages and they are attacked by pirates, they wind up shipwrecked on a deserted tropical island. Having no means of escaping the island they set about making a new life in the hope that help will one day come sailing past. However, as adventurous as it at first seems to be, peril and pirates are never too far away!Full of Disney's live action touches, Swiss Family Robinson triumphs as an entertaining adventure because it avoids heavy leanings towards sentiment. With a story of this type, sourced from the popular novel by Johann Wyss, it would have been an easy mistake to make, but with one tiny moment of treacle aside, it's funny, intelligent and up there for all the family to enjoy. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Moochie Must Go","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is an excellent adventure movie depicting an ideal world.  The only problem I have with it is the horrible acting of child star Kevin Corchoran known as Moochie in Mickey Mouse Club serials.  Every time I see a movie with him in it, I wonder how they could have kept using him when he is so bad.  He was in almost everything Disney made in that era and he is annoying and overacts. "},{"Title":"The worst Disney movie","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" An absolutely stupid, corny story with terrible bad acting and the most annoying movie character ever (played by Kevin Cocoran). John Mills, a mediocre actor at best, was OK here as the father but that awful third-rate actress Dorothy Macguire was just terrible as his wife. Like most Disney crap, the whole thing is too Americanized. The acting by James Macarthur and Tommy Kirk is absolutely awful. Kirk was later fired from the Disney company for sexually abusing an underage boy. How he did not serve time in jail I do not know. Janet Munro sticks out like a sore thumb and the idea of this twenty-something woman with large breasts being mistaken for a young boy is absolutely stupid beyond belief. Thankfully this crap could never be made today, not least because of the way the animals are treated.0/10. "},{"Title":"James MacArthur and Tommy Kirk Get Hot for Janet Munro","Date":"21 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Walt Disney's Swiss Family Robinson - resourceful father John Mills, seamstress mother Dorothy McGuire, cute Tommy Kirk (as Ernst), dreamy James MacArthur (as Fritz), and irritable Kevin Corcoran (as Francis) - are shipwrecked after a pirate attack. They take up residence on an idyllic island paradise, but encounter some dangerous animals. The heart of the story has the older sons leaving the homestead to rescue pretty Janet Munro (as Roberta), disguised as a boy, from pirate Sessue Hayakawa (as Kuala).Director of photography Harry Waxman, production designer John Howell, and their crew are award-worthy.Mr. Kirk and Mr. MacArthur play their arousal well, going from brothers discussing girls, to rivals for Ms. Munro's attentions. In a fun scene, they strip to their waists (Disney wasn't able airbrush out male nipples or navels, apparently) and encourage Munro to do the same; when her hat falls off, they realize she's a girl! The most ludicrous scene involves Ms. McGuire being introduced to the extraordinary tree house architected by Mr. Mills; acting like she hadn't noticed it before, she complains about the curtains.******* Swiss Family Robinson (12/10/60) Ken Annakin ~ James MacArthur, Tommy Kirk, John Mills, Janet Munro "},{"Title":"A delightful film for the entire family","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" First things off, I absolutely loved the book when I was a kid, but haven't read it for a long time. But I have always loved this film, and at 17 years old I still think it is an absolutely delightful Disney film and perfect for the whole family. Is it the best Disney film ever? Personally, I think not, then again I love Disney so much I cannot choose though I will say Beauty and the Beast especially has been the one that has always captivated me.Swiss Family Robinson is nothing short of excellent. It has wonder, adventure and suspense, with all these elements all of which are crucial for a family film what more can you ask for. The direction from Ken Annakin is rock solid, and the music from William Alwyn is especially stirring. The cinematography is lush, the sets are imaginative and striking and the costumes are lavish. While perhaps slow to begin with, the film has lots of action, pirates and wild animals. The story while not especially faithful to the book, is compelling holds a certain nostalgic value and the screenplay is fun enough.The acting is very good. John Mills was a fine actor, and he is excellent as Father Robinson, and Dorothy McGuire in perfect makeup is even better as Mother Robinson. Appealing performances from James McArthur, Tommy Kirk and Kevin Cocoran help too and Sessue Hayakawa makes an imposing and menacing Pirate Chief, in fact while very attractive Janet Munro is the only one who doesn't quite convince as Roberta, but everything else is so good I am willing to overlook. Other than that, this film is delightful, and teaches some nice family values including bravery, loyalty, honour, creativity and resourcefulness. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Robinson doesn't sound like a Swiss name.","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Sorry, but I'm tempted to compare any stranded-on-island story to Gilligan's Island (and maybe Swept Away). In that respect, Swiss Family Robinson seems pretty routine. And the title doesn't even make sense Robinson is an Irish name, if I remember right. If they come from Switzerland, they should probably have a German, French, or Italian name. In fact, if they're from that country, shouldn't they be watchmakers or chocolate-makers? Of course, they could just as easily be diplomats; after all, what's Switzerland known for? Oh well, I guess that the pirate invasion is the coolest scene. But either way, Mystery Science Theater 3000 would have had a great time with this movie. Starring John Mills, Dorothy McGuire and Tommy Kirk. "},{"Title":"wut i think","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  i think the movie wuz well put 2gether the cast wuz amazing and the script wuz fascinatingly well presented in the characters themselves. i think u shud make a new movie like this one or at least a sequel to this movie, because then people will be able to make the action alot better with this new technology, not like it wuzn't good or anything, i love the action scenes, especially when the family is fighting the pirates with all of the homemade traps.  "}{"Title":"Hardly A Disney Classic","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  Seeing as it`s Easter the Tv companies in Britain have been showing several Disney films of which SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON is one . To be honest this far from being a Disney classic , yeah it`s a family adventure ( Literally ) but doesn`t have the impact of 20,000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA . This down mainly to two reasons 1 ) The episodic nature . There`s the threat of pirates throughout the movie but they don`t appear towards the end so we`re treated to superflous scenes of the family building tree houses etc . What this movie needed more than anything is danger rather than wish fufillment 2 ) Francis the irritating kid with the whining American accent . Oh dear lord actors should never appear with animals or children and audiences shouldn`t have to suffer them either . It`s not often that I see a film where a child is in danger from a tiger and I found myself cheering for the tiger It`s not the worst Disney movie I`ve ever seen , it does star John Mills who always give a good performance and it probably done pretty well at the box office at least compared to recent Disney mega-flops like THE LADYKILLERS  and THE ALAMO  "}]