[{"Title":"Splendor all around!","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"66 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a beautiful and powerful film - flawlessly acted, directed and written.  It is easily the best of the sexual awakening movies that were so popular in the late fifties, early sixties.  And why wouldn't it be - with Kazan at the helm and an original screenplay by William Inge.The film begins with a similar theme to Rebel Without a Cause - that is why won't parents treat their children like human beings and really help them come to terms with becoming adults?  But halfway through Inge does a clever turn-around and allows the kids to discover that their parents are human beings too, with all the weaknesses and frailties that go with being human. At the same time Inge portrays the coming of age of America as the joy of the roaring twenties moves into the gloom of the Depression.The story is about how prejudice and blind morality destroys a great love - sex shouldn't be such a huge issue between two people who love each other, but the enormous pressures from outside to either do it or refrain from doing it cause confusion, pain and hurt.  Who will ever forget Natalie Wood leaping naked from a bath screaming at her mother that she is not spoiled?  Wood gives the performance of her life here, convincingly portraying adolescent love, a nervous breakdown, and the blossoming into woman-hood.  Beatty too is splendid as the confused Bud.  And both are so achingly beautiful!The supporting cast is superb down to the smallest role.  Barbara Loden is particularly memorable as Beatty's wild flapper sister, but Pat Hingle as his father, and Audrey Christie and Fred Stewart as Wood's parents are also unforgettable.This is a resonant film that I believe will be more and more appreciated with the passing of time. "},{"Title":"Heartbreakingly beautiful performance by Natalie Wood...","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"43 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For me, the greatest moments in Splendor in the Grass come with the emotional wallop you feel during the last ten minutes when Natalie Wood pays an unexpected visit to her old love (Warren Beatty) and finds that time has changed everything.She has those enormously expressive eyes--and wearing that wide-brimmed straw hat and lovely costume she looks so picture-book perfect you want to melt. And, of course, during the film she practically tears your heart out with a passionate portrayal of a girl awakening to love--only to have it all dissolve in the bittersweet ending.Touching, sensitive and beautifully played. William Inge's perceptive screen play is an exceptional piece of writing and has the same haunting mood as his Picnic in addition to being a slice of real Americana. He has a real feel for defining all of the minor characters as well.Pat Hingle is, as always, excellent as the father from hell, and others in the cast give earnest, realistic performances. Elia Kazan proves that he's one of the most brilliant directors we have. I'm not a Warren Beatty fan but he gives an exceptionally good performance here as the uncertain football hero. As for Natalie, it's the most tender and touching performance of her career. She was rightfully nominated for an Oscar as Best Actress but lost the award to Sophia Loren for Two Women. Whatever, 1961 was quite a year for Natalie Wood. West Side Story was voted Best Picture and she made quite a good impression as Maria too. "},{"Title":"Get The Kleenex Ready","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"48 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" So poignant, it hurts. And I'm a heterosexual male who enjoys football and grunge. Though some of the attitudes toward sex have been tempered in the intervening years, the turmoils and pressures of being a teen ring just as true today 42 years after this film's release. Kazan is a master at capturing those wrenching angsty adolescent and post-adolescent moments of emotional vulnerability and doubt, especially concerning the love/hate between children and their parents, and this is among his best work. A reminder that wistful remembrances of the seeming innocence and happiness of youth are probably wishful thinking, and also an ironic prodding that there is seemingly something idealistic lost or compromised when we enter adulthood. Kudos to the entire cast but in particular, Natalie Wood is scintillating, perfectly encapsulating the joys and horrors of someone caught up in the dizzying power and raging hormones of teen love. Beatty is solid, too, if a bit overly earnest.All of the twists and turns of the plot work, though ultimately Bud's family's economic setbacks and deaths and Didi's family's successes are mere soap operatic window dressing to the A plot line, which is the heart tugging reality of nothing bringing back the hour of the Splendor In The Grass for Bud and Didi, though both obviously still share the feeling. This is the kind of movie that doesn't get made in America now because of the non-commercial (but accurate) ending. Okay, they broached it in the less psychologically challenging CASTAWAY, but slapped on a happy ending afterwards.SPLENDOR is not perfect; Bud's father (Pat Hingle) is a little overwrought and stereotypically drawn as the socioeconomic snob with castratingly ambitious designs on Bud's future. Bud's sister (Barbara Loden) is similarly too pat as the troubled, neglected child who does all she can to get daddy's disapproval. Still, any of the soapy aspects of the plot just fall away when the Beatty / Wood romance plot line gets cooking. They got the meat of this movie just right and the result is one of the most memorable and vivid examples of young romance ever set down on celluloid. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Whatever you think of Elia Kazan, he still is one of the greatest directors who ever lived.","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"41 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not a fan of the politics of Mr. Kazan, nor do I have the least amount of respect for his conduct during the McCarthy era, however I cannot help but acknowledge that he is simply one of the finest movie directors who ever lived. Splendor In The Grass is yet another brilliantly acted film, one which is so engrossing, so riveting, that by the time it is finished one literally feels out of breath. Now perhaps one could say, well Mr. Kazan has been blessed with a continuing succession of extremely talented actors and actresses. This is true, Gentleman's Agreement, A Streetcar Named Desire, On The Waterfront, Splendor In The Grass each possess legendary performers. However! How did they perform at their best? Mr. Kazan. And if you ever hear them interviewed, those who are still alive, they all pay tribute to his superior ability to demand and acquire the best an actor has to offer. Natalie Wood in particular proves this in the film, so does the nascent Warren Beatty, both whom deliver poise far beyond their respective ages at that time. Mr. Kazan also is a superior story teller and this film maneuvers with lyrical facility and poetic grace. I did not find one moment unnecessary, every image told a story and aided my descent into the minds of the characters. And you certainly empathize with them! You are drawn in and engrossed by their experiences. All of this is the result of a master technician and artistic visionary who had both the aesthetic genius and technical know-how to conduct one of a series of top-notch pieces in the American film landscape. A must see!  "},{"Title":"BITTERSWEET LOVE GONE AWRY!!!","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"37 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  How poignant this movie is....showing us young love between Deanie and Bud. All the time, you just know that the parents are setting them up for disaster.  I first saw this film when I was a young woman of 12 in 1967 and it impressed me so much how two people could be in love, but it could never be. I cried and cried, thinking how sad this was.  Now, as a grown woman, watching it, I still felt the same. I still cried after watching it the other night.  I always loved Natalie Wood and felt that there was a real chemistry between she and Warren Beatty. (I think their real-life affair during this film contributed to the sparks that fly in this movies).  Also, the time period added alot symbolically to the film The care-free Roaring Twenties which eventually led to the harsh reality of the Depression. Brilliant work of Elia Kazan!!!  "},{"Title":"Powerful Movie With A Timeless Message","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched Splendor In The Grass today in its entirety for the first time.  I had seen bits and pieces of it on late night TV before, and had planned to try and see the whole movie for many years.  I must say that I strongly disagree with the notion that this movie is dated and has lost its power over the last 40 years.  This movie is not about un-requited love, but rather about two people who are deeply in love with each other.  Unfortunately, due to various external forces such as their parents, their peers, the pressure to fit in with the rest of normal society, their fears, their innocent lack of understanding of how special their feelings are for each other, etc. all lead to one screwed up attempt after another to open up to each other and try to act on what they feel in their hearts.  While some of the dialogue may be dated, these two people struggling with love together is in my opinion as timeless as love itself.This is one of those rare movies that while brilliant in its day, is somehow enhanced further by its age (it was filed 40 years ago in 1961).  The age of the movie seems to make its message even more powerful.  Lost love, time marching on, people trying to leave the past in the past and move forward, these messages are somehow made more realistic and more moving by the knowledge of the passage of time that has occurred since this film was made.  Am I making any sense here?My gosh, Natalie Wood was a flower in full bloom when she appeared in this film.  What a beautiful young woman she was and she gave a wonderful performance as Deannie.  Warren Beatty was good too as Bud, her high school sweetheart, but Natalie Wood stole the show.  What a lucky guy Robert Wagner was for being married twice to this beautiful and talented woman.  What is it about this film, that in spite of the fact that I never knew Natalie Wood in real life, just watching her in this film and realizing she is gone from this world brings me deep feelings of sadness.  She would be 63 years old now, the same age as my mother, had she not been tragically killed in a drowning accident in California.I am not educated in the art of film making or acting.  However, I am a lover of good movies.  This film makes we wish I had studied acting or directing or film or whatever, so that I could be involved in the production of movies like Splendor in The Grass.I am babbling and jumping around all over the place here but I want to add a couple more thoughts.  I disagree with the notion that this movie tries to sell the message that one must forget about the past and move on.  To the contrary, I think the true message delivered by this film is that you only have one life on this planet, one chance, and if you are lucky enough to find someone that makes you feel the way Deannie and Bud felt for each other, you should do your best to explore it for what it is and not throw it away, because you are young.  The future may not always bring someone else along that makes you feel the same way again.  Also, parent's may think they know what is best for their children at all times, especially about who they should go out with or become involved with.  But parent's have to let their children live their own lives, or their meddling may do way more harm and none of the good they intended. "},{"Title":"Splendor In The Grass, Glory In The Flower, Nothing Can Bring Back The Hour","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Opening on a glorious shot of a waterfall and a passionate lip-lock between raven-haired beauty Natalie Wood and boyishly handsome Warren Beatty in an old-fashioned car, the ambivalent need to succumb to temptation but wanting to be good - Don't Bud - no! Elia Kazan's masterpiece of adolescent longing, self-discovery and suppression is a fabulous experience. The hypocritical society that stifles young Deanie Loomis (Wood), drilling that no nice girl indulges or thinks about natural sexual desires and impulses, while young men are free to pursue their lust, but not with any virtuous girls. Deanie, daughter of a working-class family, is madly in love with Bud Stamper (Beatty, in his debut), the son of the wealthiest clan in town, and star of the school's athletic teams. Their romance is doomed by their parents' interference and control. Bud can't continue the relationship with all the pressure placed on him by his domineering father, Ace (Pat Hingle), not to mention the presence of his nymphomaniac, flapper sister, Ginny (Barbara Loden, who, at this time, was Mrs. Elia Kazan). Deanie's mother (Audrey Christie) constantly shadows her daughter, discouraging her from any impure thoughts or actions. After their breakup, Bud gets his release from the most promiscuous girl in school, and this devastates Deanie, who feels that she has to go bad to regain his love and attention. At a school dance, she copies Ginny's seductive style, and attempts to seduce Bud to get him back. He turns her down, leading Deanie to the reservoir where her nervous breakdown explodes, and she is sent to a sanitarium to recuperate. Bud then has to find himself, while Deanie must heal to regain her sanity and sense of self-worth.Each of their journeys are poignant, as is the revelation that Ginny, on a self-destructive path, dies in an automobile crash. She obviously desperately wanted her father's unconditional love and attention, which he refused to give her, never ceasing to remind her that she was an embarrassment and a disappointment. Her drunken argument with Bud says it all - If you weren't my brother, you wouldn't even come near me! You're a nice boy, you're nice, I know what you nice boys are like - you only talk to me in the dark! Bud's meeting with his future wife, Angelina (Zohra Lampert) and Deanie's relationship with fellow patient Johnny, beautifully presents the inner peace and healing that each of the protagonists have sought. The climax is a wonderfully touching end - a reunion of sorts, to make peace with the past.Though nothing can bring back the hour of splendor in the grass, glory in the flower, we will grieve not, rather find strength in what remains behind. Wood was Oscar-nominated for Best Actress, and she certainly was deserving of that accolade. She and Beatty began an affair after shooting was completed that was sadly short-lived, kind of a painful echo of their on-screen relationship. Another sad parallel is Deanie's breakdown as she swims in the reservoir, since Wood's tragic demise would be as a result of the element that she feared most - water.The film also features the debuts of Gary Lockwood, Sandy Dennis and Phyllis Diller, as well as Splendor's playwright author, William Inge, in a cameo as the church reverend.A beautiful piece of movie-making, deserving of its status as a classic. "},{"Title":"It will break your heart","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Warren Beatty made his screen debut in Hollywood with this treasure of a film. One of the best ever made. For me, I can barely make it through without shedding a tear. It's probably the most emotionally devastating film I've seen and somehow struck a chord with me like few other films have. The Shootist and The Bridges of Madison County are two other movies that bring out the Kleenex, but not the way Kazan's film can. The setting is a dim rural Kansas farming community in the days just prior to the Great Depression. Yet things are good in the beginning. The Stamper family is making a fortune off their stocks and the Loomis family has recently invested and stands to make money as well. Warren Beatty and Natalie Wood play two of the children of the families who go together in high school and are desperately in love. Beatty is Bud Stamper and Wood is Deannie Loomis. Both are in their teenage years and their hormones are raging. Sexual repression and it's consequences are examined in the film and why such conservatism and restraint exists. Bud and Deannie do not have sex, though both feel extremely uncomfortable from the tension that arises when they mutually suppress their instincts. Deannie is told by her mother that good girls don't do things like that, nor should they enjoy it. Bud on the otherhand is told by his freewheeling father, played excellently by Pat Hingle, that there's two kinds of girls in the world. Those that put out and those that don't. His only advice for his son is to not get into trouble, by which he means get a girl pregnant. Bud knows all too well about the other kind of girl, as his sister has become one of them. Bud fights pressures on all sides of his life including sports, his relationship with Deannie, finding a college, and sexual repression. Yet he is emotionally stable enough to take it. Deannie on the otherhand makes an altar to Bud and her entire existence seems to revolve around him. What makes the film so compelling is watching these wonderful characters who are not cliché' even if their problems sometimes are. Warren Beatty plays his role naturally sensitive but conflicted with his father and peer's advice that he man-up. Deannie is quiet, shy, beautiful, and sensitive. When Bud's need can no longer remain in check he sleeps with another girl. This news sends Deannie into complete shock. Natalie Wood brings so much depth to the character. I can vision a thousand places where her scenes could have gone wrong, but somehow it works. Even the most difficult and infamous scene in the movie where Wood is soaking in the tub and then stands up screaming at her mother before running out of the bathroom. Deannie's mother only wants the best for her, but it's the old fashioned values, restraint, and the pain of Bud with another girl, which eventually snowball into Deannie being sent to a mental institution after a nervous breakdown and suicide attempt (ironically Wood attempts suicide by drowning in the movie, years later the real life Wood died from drowning. She carried a fear of water with her through her entire life). From this point in the movie the stock market crashes and Bud moves past Deannie but fails college before continuing his personal dream of becoming a farmer. William Wordsworth wrote the poem from which the film takes its name. The film deals with first love in a way few other films have. Certainly a movie of today examining the issue would not be so foreboding. One might think the film is unrealistic because of the outbursts and almost too fragile teens. It is easy to laugh and say how stupid and ignorant love is at that age, but for those who've lived and felt it, I think it'd be difficult to see this movie as far fetched in anyway. Or even scoff at the characters and their desperate behavior. Afterall, we're dealing with an age and time where suicide is among the leading causes of death for teenagers and 20-year olds and one of the major factors are breakups with first loves. Natalie Wood gives one of the finest, most powerful performances in all of cinema. She'll break your heart and make you feel as much for her character as possible with the medium. Warren Beatty is also good as Bud, the confused and repressed young man who just wants things to make sense. There are few films as fine as Elia Kazan's 1961 picture that tackles these subjects and can deal with them in such a sincere and emotional way. "},{"Title":"Technically and emotionally beautiful","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a most beautiful film in all senses ; picture quality and colors which they don't seem capable of making any more in spite of all the modern technology, beautiful scenery, and above all two beautiful actors. I also loved the clothes Nathalie Wood wore during the film. Pat Hingle plays a character almost unbelievable today. Although this  frustrated love  is sad and brings tears to my eyes, I still cannot help watching the film quite regularly even though I know the end will leave me frustrated. There is a lot if implied rather than visible passion in this film ( its French title is -  la fièvre dans le sang  or fever in the blood ). This hidden, repressed passion is more gripping than if we had seen the couple simply lie down and get on with it !!  But perhaps the passion is a little too stifled and a few short scences with more passionate physical contact might have satisfied the spectator ! But that's a very subjective matter. But I end as I started by reiterating the total beauty of the film at all levels. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece a film to never forget.","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This one of the greatest movies i ever seen.Everything is perfect. Based on a play by William Inge,Natalie Wood  shines in every scene and also  marks the movie debut of Warren Beatty. The Movie is a true classic directed by master Elia Kazan,set in Kansas during depression era a love story between a rich boy (Beatty) and poor girl (Wood),the families are against the romance. The supporting players also giving good performances including Pat Hingle and Audrey Christie. I watched this movie many times and when is released in DVD in Brazil,i want to buy. Natalie carries the movie with dignity and how great actress she was,a tour de force she gives and unfortunately,she didnt receive the academy award she really deserves.Her performance have academy award caliber and she never get the recognition she really deserves. But for all fans she did marvelous movies,many of them classics like Splendor in the Grass. "}{"Title":"Heartbreaking but incredibly good","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  *Splendor in the Grass*I've sen Splendor in the Grass a few times now, and with each time my heart breaks a little more.  Incredible directing, magnificent acting, and traumatizing events that will leave you breathless and maybe in tears.  I don't think any movie has made me feel true pain like this one did.  I don't know what it was, but it was amazing.  I feel the desire Bud has and the torture Deadie is going through, and I think it's because of either the impeccable acting from the leads and supporting cast (Bud's sister was great in her role) or the flawless directing of Elia Kazan.The opening scene begins with Bud(Beatty) and Deadie(Wood) necking (got to get that old-timey vibe) in Bud's car.  Deadie has been told time and time again by her mother that you must never go all they way before marriage.  Deadie's parents are so unaware of what teens were doing at the time.  So she refuses to do it with him.  This angers Bud in a way that's easy to tell, he loves her but he wants more then just that.  But they're relationship is more then just sex.  They really are crazy about each other.  Bud's father suggests he dates another kind of woman.  And I'll leave it at that.Natalie Wood really shows here that she can act.  Not that she hadn't shown in in West Side Story and Rebel Without a Cause, but in this one she just shines.  Her transformation from clean and virginal to almost insane is genius.  Bravo, Natalie.  Warren Beatty is pretty good, well actually he is very good, considering it was pretty much his first movie.  And despite Bonnie and Clyde he really hasn't been too good in anything since.  Like I said before, the rest of the cast delivers perfectly too.  Elia Kazan always knows how to bring out the best in a cast.  Marlon Brando gave the performance of a lifetime in On The Waterfront and Natalie Wood does the same with this.This is a sad and heartbreaking tale that can't be missed.  The end gets me every time.*9.5/10* "},{"Title":"Pure emotion, pure electricity. See it if you dare!","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" We saw Splendor in the Grass at an advance preview at the Warner in Washington, DC in 1961; and it was the most emotional and most physically draining pictures I'd ever seen.Audiences generally like their love stories fast and easy, but in Splendor we get a dose of the real thing. Serious love is almost too hot to handle, and in some cases it can wreck or destroy your life. It's no big secret today that the author was a man who told his own story except he reversed the sexes of the two characters and re-set the story into his parents' era. And he was a suicide victim.The emotional surge permeates the entire movie but reaches its peak in the infamous bathtub scene, where the Natalie Wood character simply cracks to pieces. This is where shallow people ought take a break for the rest room or popcorn and leave the movie for the grown-ups.I can't say enough good about this film. Another powerhouse from Elia Kazan. The movie changed my life. "},{"Title":"a masterpiece about youth's pain and what you learn from it","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There are movies, and then there are sensorial experiences like SPLENDOR IN THE GRASS. The sound of the water in the first scene, the color of Natalie Wood skin, the absolutely black of Warren Beaty's hair, the smell of champagne in the crazy party... SPLENDOR IN THE GRASS is not only a movie, it's an experience that anyone that was once young can understand and feel. The characters go through love, sexual arousing, separation, and pain... not because of a villain, but because of life, and ultimately, because of themselves. The splendor of the title is that rare moment in life where everything clicks, the moment that you will remember forever from your youth. See it. You won't forget. "},{"Title":"Exceptionally well-drawn characters in a heartbreaking story","Date":"7 October 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In the beginning I found it average and unexciting. But around the time when Warren Beatty's character Bud doesn't see Natalie Wood's Deanie anymore because Bud's father has bigger plans for him, plus he doesn't get to sex Wilma because her mother tells her it is evil, I very much became involved. It's funny that I thought those two actors also played together in 'West Side Story' considering the similarities in story. The big difference is that their parents in this film aren't sworn enemies and that smaller and much more real obstacles (aka bad parenting) stood in the way of love and possible happiness.I was mildly impressed by how fast it was told in parts. There are scenes that only have a handful of dialogue (~20 seconds long) and then it moves on to the next one. But those scenes never seemed ill-timed or useless. You understood what they were driving at. Overall the character's motivations were tremendously well-drawn. I saw why character's did what they did, why they didn't do what they didn't do and I knew what they felt. This I consider essential to be deeply involved in the movie. Here the credit goes to the screenplay and in smaller parts also to the cast. It has been a long time since a film did get to me as much as this one.And there is one scene that made me laugh like I haven't laughed in a long time. When Bud's sister brings her boyfriend for lunch (this time it's a gas station attendant) her mother talks to him and asks him some questions that shouldn't be too hard to answer. The guy just looks at her with a blank face and then turns to his girlfriend and says Huh?. Half a minute later it happens again, he turns to his girlfriend and says What?. I laughed for two minutes.I'm not sure I know why I found this so hilarious, but I can try to explain it. It is an absurd reaction, so it is contrary to reason. But what makes it so funny is that at the same time I find it believable and it shows a total lack of respect for the mother. Not only that, but the mother obviously can live with this lack of respect, as she keeps speaking to him. There is just so much going on in these few seconds and something made click in my head.Also, the ending (but not exclusively the ending) reminded me a lot on 'Lolita' ('90s version). There is also this scene towards the end when the two ex-lovers meet again after some years. The viewer has to realize that their love is a thing of the past, that it just can't be like it used to be and that this is an unchangeable part of life. Nobody is really happy how things turned out but we can just assume that they are still better off this way. "},{"Title":"camping in the grass","Date":"15 June 2010","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Following along with TCM's excellent survey of Natalie Wood's career I was struck by this go-round by just how absurd a movie her most acclaimed film Splendor in The Grass actually is. I mean the people in this movie are all NUTS. Picture is usually lumped with Ms. Wood's other famous crazy mixed up kids epic Rebel Without A Cause but movie buff please take note of the difference. Jim Stark, played by James Dean, in Rebel is reacting to the madness threatening to engulf him, only looking for a sanctuary of peace and normality so he can build a life for himself - and he discovers it for some brief flickering moments in the nighttime scene near the planetarium with Natalie and Sal Mineo which precedes the picture's tragic climax.Nicholas Ray was a great director of violence and heartbreak because he took them as obscene violations in his characters' quest to find an oasis from the tumult. But Kazan, on the other hand,(and he showed the same proclivity in East of Eden) pumps hysteria in practically every scene in the attempt to hammer home William Inge's one-note dubious point; namely, that if kids aren't permitted to have sex, madness is bound to occur (it seems to me that the aftermath of the sexual revolution gives the lie to this simplistic proposition). As a result, because this thesis has been imposed on the drama, good actors and (in the case of Ms. Wood) game ones - are made to suffer (and we too watching them struggle) Ironically, one exception to this in the over-the-top department is Kazan's girlfriend at the time Barbara Loden who really does seem to be possessed by personal demons and capture the nymphomaniacal flapper spirit. And of yes, there is one touching moment at the end, when Fred Steward(t?), who plays Deanie's father, breaks ranks and tells her daughter where Bud is staying. Still, this is one well judged moment in a film that is over two hours long.If anybody reading this wants to see a really great picture on the same subject, I heartily recommend Maurice Pialat's film featuring Sandrine Bonnaire called A Nos Amours.Was the above review of use to you? "},{"Title":"RE Splendor in the Grass (1961)","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie Splendor in the Grass (1961), is one of the best movies I have seen so far. I am a male in my early thirties and the film has touched me in such a way that I have never been touched by an old movie before. Even though I have not lived in that time era the film portrays. However, I have seen many old films that are from the older version, and I have yet to see a film that projects human feeling as much as this film has done it for me. Genuine love between two youngsters who have yet to experience the world's bad side, a side that affects plenty of flowers from blossoming; went astray. Discrimination on the basis of wealth is the main cause for Deanie's bad end, which is no different than other forms of discrimination that Bud's family put on the not-so well to do young lady, Deannie. It is unfortunate that Bud ended up having a normal traditional life that rich and well to do young ladies longed for at the time. The character played as Deanie longed for basic love from Bud to which he was unable to deliver due to his family's constant intervention on his son's personal life; it is his father that denied him pleasure of having 'happiness' with his high school sweetheart. Happiness, which he would have preferred over controlling his family's business could bring him. Unfortunately, not all people have the same lens of view of seeing life from different angle. In the opinion of the writer of this comment, wealth is not only gained from money, wealth is gained from all the riches of satisfying life, life that is fulfilled with little achievements. In this particular film, the young man's family translated wealth as a source of pride and happiness. Despite, in the eye of a capitalist's vision of happiness, his father did what he thought was best for his son. After all, who wouldn't wish the best for his or her child? It was also sad to see Deannies' father unable to do anything to counter the rejection of his daughter, except resent his inablity to supply his family with the riches other men do.The writer/director played Deanie's character in a very exposed emotion laid for the audience to smash it open and be ashamed of it to its end. I was close to tears at times, especially at the end when she discovered that her Bud was married with a toddler and pregnant wife. It made his new wife cry with envy, as to who he gave up to be with her. It is visible to see from Deanie's eyes the disappointments, it just reminds me of my other favorite movie seen, Carlito's Way, the character played by Al Pacino, when he was attempting to convince his love interest played as Gail. In that seen, he meets her at a place of her work and very disturbed by what she does for living, strip joint dancer. He tries to hide his feeling of disappointment, but she learns his judgment when her fans came to express their joy for having to see her dance. Right at that moment, when she mentioned something he has been dodging to avoid, his eyes tell it all. In my view the seen captured is by far the best of all movies I have seen capturing the emotional disappointment visually being captured. Splendor In The Grass, has captured that sort of emotion from a female perspective, the writer/director added dignity to the expression of disappointment. That was heartbreaking to have to witness such devastating reality Deanie has to swallow. Her eyes tell it all, as they were hungry to see her own life find that very end, an end she would have been very pleased to see.It teaches the audience that time is a river, unlike a lake (pond) it travels, Bud did what was normal for him to do, find another girl and fall in love with. It also shows that no two loves are equal, the love Deanie and Bud had for each other was not at equilibrium. If it was, he would have married her after discovering of his father's death. At the end when she came out of her madness to remember him as he was, while he has forgotten all about her and moved on. I find the film very soothing to the soul, and took me back to reminisce my own past life. "},{"Title":"Transcends time and culture; a great love story.","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Elia Kazan's wonderful and tearful story about two young lovers fighting their own urges and everyone around them is certainly a film that is hard to watch at times. The simple reason for that is the writing is so spot-on and the direction flawless it becomes more than a movie in the traditional sense but more of a inner look into the intertwining of a relationship on the ends of its life. This can only be accomplished with two wonderful actors capable of carrying the material farther than it could be on paper alone. Natalie Wood was one of the finest young actresses of her generation and this showcases her talent better than perhaps any other film she did. She conveys such incredibly strong feelings of remorse, desperation and sadness as the fragile Deanie, it takes the audience into the world of this character and we can feel nothing but sympathy for her. The same is true with Bud, played here by a very young Warren Beatty.Perhaps the one true problem I saw with this film is that the story doesn't go far enough. I understand they were already under fire from the censors for their portrayal of young people trying to repress sexual urges, but I'm sure Kazan could have come up with a way to show not just how Bud and Deanie felt about each other but to better examine the relationship with their respective parents. There are several scenes I thought and hoped would go even further in-depth to the problems being faced here, but instead it pulls back and we are left to wonder. If there is one thing that saves the movie it is the final sequence, showing what happens to the two lovers and what this means for them now. This is absolutely touching and beautiful and a great ending to an other wise uncomfortable story.Still, to think of the film in retrospect is to take it seriously and understand that this is not just a story about two people in love at a time when everybody was telling them to not be. It is in fact, a symbol of the restraints that pull on any of us that have ever been involved seriously with somebody. It speaks to us not just as lovers but also as human beings desiring companionship and the great pains we will go through to make that happen. "},{"Title":"RE Splendor in the grass","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The director (Elian Kazan) has presented a cinema that is worse investing two hours of one's life. The style of the film was directed in such a way that it left no human emotion unturned. I am surprised when it comes to love people still react so violently as they did way back when. I give the movie the highest grade there is, when it comes to ranking. Nowdays there is no movie of such values, I am impressed with the directors ability to simplify human emotion laid bare naked yet depict the time in which the characters lived in. It was a movie that broke all barriers and exposed it to the forefront. Today, we live in a society where divorce level is so high, the troubles remain no different. Thank you Mr. Kazan, thank you!Cheers James "},{"Title":"1929 Never looked Sexier","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Splendor in the Grass is jammed packed with 2 hours of eye candy. Warren Beatty and Natalie Wood are not only fun to look at, they both give amazing performances as 2 youths growing up under their parent's ideals. Pat Hingle, who plays Bud's father is the true star of the film. Is crude, yet true performance as the 'big headed' as a strong willed parent is the backbone of the movie. The eye candy of beautiful people and outrageous 20's behavior is the film's setting. The overall moral, let kids grow up and do what they want to do. As parents control too much of their children's lives, the end result is a breakdown. Many find it hard to accept Natalie Woods nervous breakdown over having her heart broke and her pride lost. Still, if you look at how many American teenagers are on medication for depression today, it's easier to accept Wood's situation. The movie is filled with sexual tones that keep the audience interested in this romantic drama that builds and builds until the final scene. Said to have had the first french kiss shown on 'the big screen', Splendor in the Grass begins with the make-out scene with Beatty and Wood. Before we see what year it is, we are present to a universal truth among the ages. Young kids experiencing with sex. Before we know it is 1928, the scene could be happening anytime between 1880-2005! The truth of relationships and peer pressure are true throughout the years.  "},{"Title":"Love can drive you really crazy.","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It must have been so easy and tempting to turn this movie into something overblown and melodramatic but the reason why Splendor in the Grass works out is because it doesn't fall for any of that and manages to be an original and effective movie within its genre, without actually featuring an original story.It's fair to say that it's being thanks to Elia Kazan's directing and storytelling technique that this movie works out as something so effective and powerful. He slowly lays everything out and develops the story and all of its characters and their (love) relationships with each other. It makes all of its build up work out, as well as the pay off, at the end of it all. It besides is being a movie that really give all of its actors the room to really shine and tell the story, at times without using any words.Natalie Wood and Warren Beatty were such a great young screen couple within this movie. You could really feel their love and all of their emotions within this movie. But the movie has many more other great characters and actors in it, such as Pat Hingle, in perhaps his very best role. Such a shame that as an actor he never really received the recognition he deserved because he was a really capable one, who had a wide range as well.The movie doesn't ever get overblown or sappy, despite of all of its heavy handed subjects in it. I mean, lots of stuff and drama is happening in this movie but yet it really manages to remain a really down to Earth one. Really no matter how unlikely the story ever gets, the movie manages to make everything come across as something realistic. You can feel all of the emotions the characters have to suffer through, which is of course about the biggest compliment you can ever give any drama.Really a must-see if you're into old fashioned, big, family-drama's.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"heart breaking Nathalie","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Wonnderful movie. The first time I saw it I did not know it at all... this film shows us the way life works. Oner day you are young and see all behind you... and a moment after you don't know where you have come into, nor what way you can follow. Life is beautiful.. but if you don't make your decisions, it makes it for you!! Moreover, I must underline here the astonishing performance of Nathalie Wood. Whether she had not acted as Deanie, surely the film would have lost in credibility. Warren Beatty is not bad, but actually... Natahlie - and Elia Kazan, I suppose - builds up the character of Deanie as the main pillar of the film. Appearing at the beginning to be weak, in my opinion she grows up during the film to become a stronger person than Bud, and ready - and here is the difference with Bud, so poor in character - for take its own decisions and drive her life.I strongly recommend you this movie "},{"Title":"Natalie at her Splendid Best","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Natalie Wood had an uneven movie career, but her Oscar-nominated performance as Deanie in Splendor in the Grass showed that, under the guidance of a great director (Elia Kazan), she could really deliver the goods.  She is equally believable as a completely lovestruck teen and later as an elegant, sadder-but-wiser-far-beyond-her-years young adult.  I think Wood always achieved greatness as an actress in her quieter moments, when conveying emotions with her remarkably expressive eyes (see, e.g., West Side Story -- last scene), and with subtle gestures and shifts in expression and tone of voice.  Highlights in Splendor  the classroom scene, and the entire last act, which is so devastating precisely because Wood and Warren Beatty (as Bud Stamper) play it as if there were no movie cameras within a thousand miles.Kazan's direction and William Inge's Oscar-winning screenplay notwithstanding, the film as a whole is not as successful as the two lead performances.  Pat Hingle's Ace Stamper is the main problem; this pivotal role is, at times, overacted to the point of absurdity.  Or was it written that way?  No matter.  Less is more, even when portraying a cruel, bullying, heartless oil tycoon character that came from the same artless forge later used by James Cameron to write and direct Billy Zane's Cal Hockley in Titanic (1997).But back to Natalie.  Her work here ranks with her equally unforgettable performances as Judy in Rebel Without A Cause, Maria in West Side Story, and Angie in Love with the Proper Stranger.  If you are a Natalie Wood fan at all, don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"Too long, simplistic and just plain dull!","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1928 Kansas a poor girl named Wilma (Natalie Wood) is in love with rich Bud Stemper (Warren Beatty). He loves her and plans to marry her but his loud, overbearing father (Pat Hingle) puts a stop to that. Wilma has a nervous breakdown and is put in an institution...but Bud can't forget her.OK--I'm a guy that loves sappy, romantic movies. Hell I cry at ANYTHING and I love Natalie Wood...but this left me cold. I found it incredibly simplistic in blaming the parents for all the kids troubles. Another annoyance was, because of the Production Code, they couldn't talk openly about sex. They got it through but in long lingering looks and dialogues that were just bewildering. Also Beatty (in his film debut) was pretty terrible. He was exceptionally good-looking and muscular...but a total blank in his role. His love for Wood never rang true to me. The film goes on far too long. Everything is done so slowly it just gets irritating. Pat Hingle's character also has got to be the most overbearing character in cinema history. On the plus side Wood is excellent. Her love for Beatty comes through loud and clear and her breakdown in the tub is just frightening. She's just incredible (that's why this gets 5 stars) but she can't save such a long, leisurely movie by herself. I know this affects lots of people (at a revival theatre where I first saw it years ago one woman behind me was sobbing openly by the end) but I just didn't care. Film debuts of Beatty, Sandy Dennis and (believe it or not) Phyllis Diller! "},{"Title":"A celebration of romantic love, sex included","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a fine movie, with a great screenplay by William Inge, director Elia Kazan's ability to convey powerful emotions, and a marvelous performance by Natalie Wood.Typically relegated to the second ranks among playwrights, Inge deserves more critical respect than he receives. Here, as in Picnic, he celebrates romantic love, shows how inseparable it is from sex, and portrays the damage done by a conventional world that insists on separating them.We belittle the small-town characters in the film, who see the world in terms of good girls and bad girls, but many reviewers have shown a similarly reductionist outlook on a more sophisticated level. They have seen this movie as Freudian, showing love to be a sublimation of sex. Or they have belittled it as just another rebellious youth film of the type that was so popular in the 1950s and early 1960s. Pauline Kael wrote about Natalie Wood's apparently too active behind, and on TCM, Robert Osborne introduced the movie as one in which the young couple is motivated by hormones. In the movie, it is plain that the young couple truly love each other, and it is also plain that they desire each other sexually. So it always will be with young people in love. This is the glory of romance. People frequently love without a sexual involvement, and people frequently have sex without love. But romantic love is a matter of both body and soul acting as one. "},{"Title":"Natalie wood at her best!","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" this is not a moving story. this is not awfully romantic or sentimental. but what this is, its a wonderful expression of indecision and mental stigma that you go through adolescence - not just in 60s even now I would imagine.one of the most recognizable starts in the film history. its worth watching just for this opening sequence.Beatty's first film. great find. scenes with his dad are wonderfully done.Natalie wood - perfect. superb actress.awesome end! Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Last Scene","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this movie as a girl of about 12 and never forgot it, and every time it comes on, I have to watch it again and always see new details. This is one of the finest movies ever made. It truly captures the feel of the time and location. Natalie Wood was at her most beautiful during this film and I actually felt the love and pain in my gut in the last gut-wrenching scene where she says goodbye to him, and in the car ride away from the farm, her eyes say it all. No actress could portray so much with only her eyes the way Natalie could. They don't make actresses or movies like this anymore. To this day, seeing a white dress will take me back to the last scene in this movie. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was very young when I seen this movie,I can't even remember the year.I want to see it again.I thought Natalie was so very perfectly beautiful.She was a wonderful actress in every movie she was in.Sometimes I have felt my life was like this movie that is why I loved it so much.I have had loves in my life that just seemed not meet to be.And there were times I was so very depressed.This movie express love very well.Life is a lot like this movie. Her death was a tragedy to me,Very sad and heartbreaking.Could someone please tell me the year she died,I can't remember.I would like to find out more about her life.Could you tell me a web site to go to on stories of her life. "},{"Title":"It would be a simpler life, if we could pick our parents.","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In this classic, Natalie Wood, 22, stars as pretty and popular Wilma Dean 'Deanie' Loomis who is dating Bud Stamper (Warren Beatty, 23, in his first film role), handsome high school star athlete and son of a rich oil man. Pat Hingle has perhaps the best performance here as Bud's controlling dad, 'Ace' Stamper. Ace has definite ideas about what Bud should do, who he should date, and where he should go to college (Yale). At one point he tells Bud, There's nothing I wouldn't do for you, son, IF you do right. Which translates to if you do what I think you should do. Ace Stamper is responsible for the direction the lives of these two young sweethearts take, and not all turns out as they would like for it. Heavily melodramatic, it probably accurately reflects attitudes and roles in the late 1920s and early 1930s. Good movie, spans about 4 years of the characters' lives. The title is taken from a Wordsworth poem, which relates to splendor in the grass as a child which cannot be retrieved when we are grown, but instead we must make a life with what we have left.SPOILERS FOLLOW. The movie opens in S.E. Kansas in 1928, the sweethearts are necking in the convertible near the local water fall, we hear her say Don't Bud, you mustn't, as he begins to get fresh. I better take you home, and as she enters her home, we see no colors inside, only browns and some white, certainly reflecting what was going on inside her emotions. She has been brought up by a very old-fashioned mother who explained her own sex outlook, I just gave in because I had to. A wife doesn't enjoy those things like a man does. She lets the husband get close just to have children. Mom says, That's a relief, after Deanie assures her she hasn't gone too far with Bud. Deanie was unlucky in the mother she had.On the other side, Bud's dad cautions him, If anything happens, you'd have to marry her. Ace has already alienated Bud's older sister, and had to work out an abortion and annul a marriage of hers. He has strong opinions, never truly listens to anyone else, and needs to control everything. It is he who talks Bud into quitting seeing Deanie, who ends up being sent to the state mental health hospital after she is fished out of the reservoir apparently trying to go over the falls. She ends up staying there about 2 and one half years.Bud ends up going to Yale but his heart isn't in it, he basically is flunking everything when his dad comes for a visit. Then Ace gets a call, the stock market crash is beginning. Ace hears about some men in New York jumping out of windows and comments, Things have got to get back to normal in a couple of days. However they don't, Ace loses his fortune too, and become one of the jumpers. When Deanie is released from the hospital and goes home, she wonders where Bud is. her dad tells her that he is back at the old place, she goes to him, finds that he is married, with a young son and another on the way. He married Angelina, the pizza waitress from college, and he was doing what he wanted to do all along, ranching. The splendor in the grass of their youth had passed, now they must make lives of what remains and make happiness in it. They were not able to choose who their parents were. "},{"Title":"the music","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie probably 10 times.  It is, for me, one of the all-time greats.  I guess it is especially interesting for psychologists, since it is based on a sophisticated Freudian theme, not caricatured, so that it still makes sense even though Freud is now out of fashion.But probably what others have not mentioned is the music, by David Amram.  It is based on a couple of Copland-esque themes, endlessly varied.  The music is beutiful on its own, and fits the movie perfectly.  It sticks with me longer than the scenes from the movie itself.  "},{"Title":"Making a Silk Purse From a Sow's Ear--Or Trying To","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When theater critic Robert Brustein reviewed Elia Kazan's Broadway production of William Inge's THE DARK AT THE TOP OF THE STAIRS, he talked about how Kazan's direction wildly goosed-up what was essentially a rather quiet play. Apparently, Inge vowed not to fall behind next time (although nothing here could equal the hysteria of Inge's NATURAL AFFECTIONS). The resulting screenplay, about small-town teenagers and sexual tensions isn't just overcooked, it's all but boiled away with excess. Deanie Loomis (Natalie Wood) isn't just deeply hurt when Bud Stamper (Warren Beatty) dumps her for The Easiest Girl in Town (besides his sister--who's very serious competition)--she literally goes off the deep end. But in a movie with alcoholism, hysterical, hypocritical repression, and gang-rape at the family New Year's party, this is rather mild stuff. And the actors, particularly Pat Hingle, yowl and screech and generally carry on in a thoroughly embarrassing manner.There are exceptions. One is Natalie Wood, who is utterly heartbreaking as a young woman caught between her own desires, pressures from the young man she loves, and the standards of her time and place. She makes you feel how these conflicting pressures literally begin to tear her to pieces and transforms a flash part into a deeply affecting performance--her eyes seem genuinely foggy with yearning, and when she cracks, the force of the breakdown is truly frightening.Another exception is Warren Beatty--he gives no performance at all, delivering almost all of his lines to his third shirt button and squinting indifferently at almost everything. This was the performance that launched him on his way, and rarely has a serious film career been built on so indifferent a performance. Fortunately, Beatty played pick-up fairly rapidly as the gigolo in THE ROMAN SPRING OF MRS. STONE and the pimp in ALL FALL DOWN. Otherwise, it would have been straight to a TV cop show for Our Warren--which might have been better for film history, to be honest. Finally, special mention should be made of Zohra Lampert, who plays the woman that Beatty marries when his father loses all of his money--she does so much with so little and is so appealing while doing it that when the film ends you find yourself caring about someone besides Wood--because of Lampert's character, you almost find yourself worrying about Beatty's character, in spite of his best efforts.The director was Elia Kazan, who made a number of good decisions here (hiring Wood and Lampert, Boris Kauffman as cinematographer and Anna Hill Johnstone as costume designer) and a small raft of bad ones (Beatty, Hingle, Inge's script, and the yowling hysteria of Barbara Loden--then Mrs. Kazan and a much better actress than this film would lead you to think--she was good in her husband's earlier film WILD RIVER and quite brilliant as the numb center of her only film as a director, 1970's WANDA). As was often the case, his direction was a mixture of both the intelligent and the slickly overdone--there are strong performances and intelligent use of the camera and editing--and there is screeching hysteria and flashy, pointless angles and edits. Kazan's work as a movie-maker, particularly from the 50's on, was always pretty much this way, and one had to take the defects with the often-considerable virtues. More than once, he almost succeeded in making a silk purse from a sow's ear--it was just a little tougher on this occasion. "}{"Title":"A moving and evocative exploration of young love","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have a heavy bias regarding Splendor in the Grass--quite simply, it is my favorite film of all time. It's not the best film I've ever seen, but it packs an emotional wallop that tears me apart every time I see it. Starring Natalie Wood and Warren Beatty (in his first major film role), Splendor in the Grass centers on the conflicts inherent in young love, particularly regarding the choice between following one's feelings vs. adhering to familial and societal expectations. Wood's Oscar-nominated performance as Deanie Loomis, which requires her to radiate the bloom of love as well as the emotional torrents of heartache and despair, is nothing short of remarkable, and she is ably supported by a strong cast that includes Pat Hingle, Audrey Christie, and Barbara Loden. Seeing Splendor in the Grass, it is easy to understand why actors were so eager to work with its director, Elia Kazan (politics notwithstanding). Kazan draws out the emotional truths in William Inge's screenplay in ways that resonate long after the film ends. In so doing, Kazan has made a film that, while not aesthetically perfect, is capable of deeply touching the heart. And isn't that really what great art is all about? "},{"Title":"1929 time period etched sadly","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ***Minor Spoilers***Another one of those movies that needs to be dusted off and inspected every few years. Natalie, was never lovelier than as Deanie, a girl with hot blood, lusting for a wimpy Warren Beatty who plays Bud. Warren for all his bally-hood good looks, has never been one of my favourites. I wonder what the excitement is about. Was there a movie he was in, that he played anyone else but Warren Beatty ? Here he is subdued but handsome, well under the thumb of his father, terrified of going all the way with his more than ready and actually begging for it girlfriend. Pat Hingle as Bud's father, steals every scene he is in, conniving, manipulative always talking over and through his son. Bud's sister, Barbara Loden playing Ginny, portrays the mad flapper of the era, short marriaged, post abortion, into gang banging and desperately unhappy, she becomes Deanie's heroine. Of course Deanie falls apart and is committed to an insane asylum and falls for another patient, finally giving up on her passion for Bud. the last scene is heart wrenching. My spin on it is that Deanie sees the way her life would have been and is relieved that it hasn't turned out that way. Unrequited love is always the love we look back on, to bring it to the kitchen sink and snotty nosed brats is to yank away the wonderful splendor and make of it the mundane. 8 out of 10 for the use of colour and Natalie and Pat Hingle. "},{"Title":"Natalie Wood is timeless.","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Natalie Wood delivered a timeless performance that transcends all genres. She drew me into every joy and the many gut wrenching sorrows that the character went through. I have a new favorite actress. She was brilliant. This is a picture that stays with you and makes you take a closer look at what is really valuable in your own life. I'll be thinking about this movie for many years to come. Thanks Natalie, Warren, Elia Kazan. "},{"Title":"Splendor on the screen.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is really the golden age of American cinema.They don't do movies like that anymore.This Kazan work is close to perfect,as are most of the movies of this director.Warren Beatty and Natalie Wood portray young people confronted with a society that has yet to free itself from a puritan moral.Passion is allowed only in lit they study in high school ,and sport is shown as a repression way.In the book Kazan par Kazan (Michel Ciment,1985),the director insists on the fact,that,if a young man doesn't practice a sport,he'll be an outcast all his life.Relationship between Wood and Beatty is intense,and it will remain unfulfilled,because the boy thinks that sex would spoil his love 's purity(in the book,Ciment points out to Kazan that he uses the picture of water again and again the director agrees and sayspurity,sexuality,death,menace).Besides,Beatty has at home the sister figure,a slut who sleeps with the first to comeshe's played by Barbara Loden,Kazan's wife who will make Wanda ,her only movie,in 1970.A visual splendor, a desperate love poem,with an apparently peaceful conclusion.But actually a harrowing one,because both of them will leave their life in the past conditional.Jackie De Shannon wrote a marvelous eponymous song after watching it.Listen to it! "},{"Title":"Good picture exploring the power of love, very well acted.","Date":"12 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It seems difficult, almost anachronistic, to review a picture released in 1961, there appears to be such a gap between our times and those times, mainly concerning the theme. It's a movie dealing with sexual awakening, as well as frustration, in young people, living in a small Kansas town in the late 20's, and in a way I think it is a daring movie for the times it was released. Eliza Kazan, one the greatest Hollywood director ever, gives a very sharp stamp to the whole story the moralistic oppression exerted by parents on their children, both on Bud, and Deanie, are here displayed through cutting dialogues, sharp shooting and a very careful attempt at getting the most precise facial expression. The result is a movie capable of exploring the emotional intensity that young (probably only young) love can reach, without denying the painful reality that often brings more mature people to revise one's conception of love and go on living with a new consciousness about it that's also the positive note of the movie. Tha cast is superb. Natalie Wood seems to be cut for her complex role, wonderful when interpreting her folly, her beautiful face is captured in such intense and vivid expressions, Warren Beatty has the perfect appearance of the young appealing young man. As I said before, there seems to be such a difference between the teen trouble of today, as compared to the problems of those days, however, there remains untouched, now like fifty years ago, the same teen belief that love is the only reason for living, the only thing that makes your life worth living, and that remains probably one of the few signs of hope also in today's teen world. "},{"Title":"Splendor in Grass- The Valley Was Really Green Here ***1/2","Date":"12 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Love at the dawn of the Great Depression is the major theme in this very good 1961 film based on the writing of William Inge, who played the town pastor in it.It is a story of the gaiety of the 1920s as the depression was looming. We view the carefree life style of the period in Deenie, played by Oscar nominee Natalie Wood. Warren Beatty certain made a favorable impression as the scion of a Midwest family.Wood totally captures the emotionally wrought Deenie and Beatty, as the pre-depression teen, is in a world of his own. If he weren't such a good student as he admitted, how was he admitted to Yale? Too much parental pressure is the possible culprit and that's administered by a grand performance by veteran pro Pat Hingle, totally delusional when it came to his son and unable to realize that things will not get better once the stock market crashed. Evidently he did in his literal tragic descend.Audrey Christie is magnificent as Deenie's mother; unable to cope with her daughter's emotional breakdown, she etched an unforgettable performance as the mother who comes to realize that she may have well been part of the problem.This is a well done piece of Midwestern Americana. Kansas gave us much this time than they did of Dorothy and her band of characters. "},{"Title":"Sex in the country...","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" And introducing Warren Beatty....Okay, so Splendor in the Grass is a vintage film. But does it ever stand the test of time....YES. Here's a keeper for you.It's America. It's in the late 20s. Prosperity is in the here and now of a stock bubble, soon to be the current economic slump of Black Tuesday, 1929. Even the country folk are getting into the act. Bud doesn't much care about that. Neither does Wilma. They're star struck, star-crossed lovers, trying to make their own ends meet in a time before THE PILL.Made in the early sixties, Splendor .. addresses the coming storms of that decade with the tip of the iceberg of sex, drugs and rock 'n roll. Natalie Wood plays a pretty, sexy Wilma caught in a web of puritanical culture and the desire to make her American Dream of a man come true. Beatty is Bud, the local high school football hero, testosterone oozing, frustrated lover. Put the couple in a car and the free highway and wait for things to happen when it comes time to park.Inner bombs, ticking, waiting, only to end in inner explosions. Wilma just says, No and Bud's despondent response move the couple on to mutually assured destruction of their relationship.Parents, only looking after the welfare of their children, grown to adulthood under their watch, gasp as their son and daughter implode and explode before their eyes.William Inge captured the mood of a time gone by and modernised it in a new time gone by, 1961. Kazan directed yet another masterpiece. In all, a top American movie. See it. "},{"Title":"The White Dress!","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Kazan's bio he mentions the respect he had for William Inge, this film screenwriter. Inge was a tortured person but there was poetry and longing in his screenplay.Kazan also talks about the great' What if that most folks engage in after a certain age is attained. For Deany loomis that is one of the questions not totally answered in the final reel of this film.Mr. Loomis finally relents and tells his daughter where Bud is so she can visit him one last time. Deany dons a white dress and a white hat to meet her lost love.This is a very effecting scene and lets the viewer know that there is no real finale or no reel finale so it seemsBoth Beatty and Wood made a big impression with the performances along with Pat Hingle.A period piece that speaks in its own universal language of love lost!C Pope  "},{"Title":"Wonderful film","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Surprisingly, this film still seems very fresh today.  I saw it for the first time, and I thought it was very good.  Natalie Wood was at her peak, and Warren Beatty is terrific in his film debut, before he became cocky and smirky in all of his films.  Anyway, this is a terrfic 60's film, with great acting, and a tearjerking story.  I was surprised a liked it so much. 9/10. "},{"Title":"More Than A Touch of Class Two Class Acts!  (major spoilers)","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though nothing can bring back The Hour of Splendor in the grass, Glory in the FlowerWe will grieve not, Rather find strength in what remains behind.Some people assume that every line we hear in a movie was written and put down in a script ahead of time.  Actually, that's not the case.  There are actors who are scripted and non-scripted.For example, the scene in which Natalie Wood asks a priest for advice on how to get back together with her lover, Warren Beaty may have simply been totally ad-libbed.  She may have been given 10 minutes to decide what to say.  Natalie, perhaps not being a Catholic, may not have known what to say in her scene with the priest -- but she did her best.  Likewise, the scene with Warren Beaty with the doctor may have been the same  An actual doctor examining him, with him having to do his best to explain his illness and love for Natalie -- with just 10 minutes or so to think of what to say.While the film leaves us with the impression that love is some complex puzzle we can never solve, in real life, if two lovers ask advice of a priest or other clergy, their doctor, or other authorities, if there really is some obstacle they're not imagining, if they really love each other with proper respect, they will help you out and offer good advice -- rather than this illusion the film conveys as if love is some great mystery we will never understand.We can identify with the actors, as we've all been in situations like that.  My critique is that the film makes us assume that the priest or the doctor are cold-hearted about their love, when that's not the way it goes in real life.Of course it's okay for a wealthy young man to marry a girl from a poor family.  It happens all the time.  I've been in a movie, and if Natalie Wood and Warren Beaty really were lovers when this was filmed -- they were exploited.  If the lines were scripted, well, what message was the writer trying to send to the young lovers who identified with their characters?  Some people will obviously decide it won't make any difference to confide in your doctor or clergy when you're really in love.Usually, when they want to catch the expression of an actor in a panic, it's in a loving manner.  For example, if the actor is really in a hurry to see the actress on the set, they might say, That bus she's in is pulling away right now -- so you better run!  It's not cruel and heartless, it's just little surprises they like to catch on film.Natalie Wood and Warren Beaty give excellent performances.  Given the situations they were in, they really did their best.  Sometimes, when they are casting a role, maybe they don't want someone who would be perfectly at ease confessing their love.  Perhaps the Casting people want to put someone in a situation they've never encountered before simply to catch those live magic moments.The actors in Hollywood who have careers that span decades like Natalie Wood and Warren Beaty really do have their hearts in the right place.  When you meet them in person, they are truly quite loving and down to earth.  Being invited to be in someone's film is just like being invited into their own home.  Films by Natalie Wood and Warren Beaty will alway be welcome in my home. "}{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Splender In The Grass is one of the most timeless movies you're ever going to see. It really is the best classic movie. Warren Beatty is quite handsome too! The storyline is very original. I like how its not how you would expect it to turn out. I highly recommend this to be on your list the next time you rent movies! "},{"Title":"a wonderful and melodramatic movie!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Splendor in Grass is again a boxoffice hit for Elia Kazan. The leading characters Bud & Deanie are so good. I never cried whilst watching the film but he is melodramatic, but the end isn't so bad at all I think. the cast is also good, warren beatty let see that he is a great actor! Also the wonderful performance of Nathalie Wood is worth to see. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Three strokes of genius","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warren Beatty, Natalie Wood, Elia Kazan.  How can you go wrong?  An intricate domestic tale of young love gone awry.  You think you have problems with your girlfriend?Bravo, Natalie, if you can hear us down here! "},{"Title":"No Past Regrets and The Hot-Blooded Facts Of Life","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Released in 1961 - Splendor In The Grass is a heart-wrenching, emotionally-charged, teen, tear-jerker starring Natalie Wood and introducing Warren Beatty (24 at the time) in his first starring role.This is a very effective and almost flawlessly acted story of the intense sexual awakening of two very-much-in-love young adults living in a small-minded, straight-laced, Kansas town in the late 1920s.Believing whole-heartedly in the saying Honor Thy Mother and Thy Father, Deanie Loomis follows her mother's advice to resist desire for sex with her boyfriend, Bud Stamper, the handsome son of one of the most prosperous families in town.Bud, in turn, reluctantly follows the advice of his father, Ace, who openly suggests that he find himself another kind of woman to satisfy his desires.This whole traumatic episode of denial triggers a profound emotional breakdown for both of these 2 young people, especially for the fragile Deanie, who, driven close to madness, is eventually institutionalized.Splendor In The Grass is a highly-recommended picture. Its compelling story, as well as its well-drawn characters and superb direction are all nothing short of first-rate, from start to finish.Filmed in lush Technicolor, Splendor In The Grass was directed by Elia Kazan whose other notable films include - A Streetcar Named Desire, On The Waterfront, and East Of Eden. At the 34th Academy Awards presentations a well-deserved Oscar for Best Screenplay went to William Inge. "},{"Title":"one of the TOP lovestories of our time!","Date":"13 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Beatty & Wood, doesn't get better than THAT! First watched this film at age 11, immediately falling in love with Beatty (who can blame me!) but upon many repeated viewings, I see it holds up well. Some may find it dated, but it tackles some very prescient & telling--even incendiary-- issues for its time & I say Kazan was a bit of a trailblazer. In addition to being a fantastically soapy & riveting drama, it has some dark & overriding themes such as mental illness, class, family, sexual mores & repression. One can even argue possible incest (father/daughter. Think of how overtly dysfunctional she was for a second). It packs a wallop. But ultimately what's riveting most is the story, it's ultimately as heartbreaking as it comes (and has been repeated FAR too many times, not done well). The tragic loss of love. A story of shattered dreams & persons (and as I see it, life fully unfulfilled). It never fails to bring tears into my eyes; transports me in their journey. "},{"Title":"Joanne In The Grass","Date":"4 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a fine film which I watched on TCM earlier today. I wanted to review it because I made an 'interesting(?)' error (methinks). I thought the Virginia character (Joanne Woodward) stole the show, only to go to the film's Wikipedia site and find that the actress playing Bud's (Warren Beatty) wild sister was Barbara Loden and not Joanne Woodward.Of any Natalie Wood film I feel that this was her best performance and she was more beautiful than in any of her other movies.The entire cast was great, from Pat Hingle to Sandy Dennis. The screenplay was exceptional and the film (probably restored) had terrific definition. I watched it on a flat screen LG plasma, 50 and kept it on zoom to get a full screen.Beatty was a bit flat but it was his debut film. Overall, he was fine.I hope today's teens watch this film and wish they were still virgins, if they are not presently. "},{"Title":"What a great, refreshing movie","Date":"24 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I usually don't watch movies on the Turner Classic Movies channel, but after reading about this movie on the guide, it caught my attention right away, and I am so glad I tuned in.Not only does it keep you interested, but the story is so subtle yet powerful relaying the ups and downs of Bud and Deanie's relationship.It wasn't boring in the least, the actors' performances were great, and the ending was realistic, which I truly appreciate because it just goes to show not everything you dream of comes true. It was bittersweet yet tied the movie together wonderfully.This is just one of many great movies made in the 1960's. Cliché as it sounds, it's actually a classy movie and doesn't show anything inappropriate to get a point across. If only movies today showed Splendor in the Grass discretion, I would watch a lot more. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I try to watch this movie whenever it's aired. It's a tremendous love story that stands the test of time. Such emotion and depth with stellar performances by Warren Beatty and Natalie Wood. It also had historical value with the depiction of the Wall Street Crash of the 1920s. Not sure if a remake would do it justice but it's definitely worth a try to gain a younger following. In my youth this movie made me appreciate poetry--especially Henry Wordsworth Longfellow. For nothing can bring back the hour of splendor in the grass--glory in the flower. We will grieve not, rather find strength in what remains behind. THREE thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Striking tale of young love ruined by sexual taboos","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Kazan's excellent SPLENDOR IN THE GRASS is one of the definitive coming-of-age films in Hollywood history. Natalie Wood gives an especially good performance in this striking tale of young love ruined by sexual taboos, family pressure and the inevitability of encroaching adulthood set in a late 1920's Kansas soon to be in the depths of the Great Depression.Natalie Wood and Warren Beatty star as the young couple, Bud and Deanie, who are torn apart and tear themselves apart with sexual longing yet fear. Deanie is the nice, wholesome, All-American girl from a poor, yet decent family, and Bud is the football hero from the town's wealthiest family. Their love seems strong, yet the forces of sexual repression and temptation break it down. Deanie mustn't get into trouble, or feel what a man feels from sex. Bud is told he needs to go to Yale and find himself a different type of girl, but all he wants is Deanie. All this confusion and angst is set against the shaky backdrop of the soon-to-be-doomed Roaring 20's.Wood is excellent as Deanie, and her famous bathtub breakdown scene is justifiably classic. She conveys her character's fear, desire, uncertainty and eventual madness very well. It is heartbreaking to watch the lovely Wood, faithful as the day is long, get thrown off by a confused Beatty for a flapper tart, Juanita, who, in today's language puts out. Her reading of the Wordsworth poem is extremely moving. Beatty, in his first role, seems to be trying to be too earnest, and he struggles in the big emotional scenes, yet he is well-cast as the high-school dream boat who just really wants to ranch. Barbara Loden threatens to steal the film as Bud's flapper sister Ginny. Her wild supporting performance as sexually-charged flapper brat is unforgettable.Even if it is too long, the film is extremely poignant for young people going through the first joys and agonies of love, and works just as well for mature audiences looking back and reminiscing on their younger years. Who can forget the final scene, when Bud and Deanie meet again years later. He is married to a nice, yet slovenly wife, and is working the ranch, poor, after his family lost everything in the Stock Market crash of 1929. Deanie is just starting out in the adult world after spending over two years in a mental institution. It is a quiet scene, not ruined no incredible protestations of love. Instead, both Beatty and Wood seem to know the splendor of the past, of young love, cannot be recaptured, yet should be cherished as a fond memory. "},{"Title":"Who Was The Real Nut?","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The theme of this great film is that life is what happens while we are making other plans (John Lennon quote) and that both characters felt a wish for a happier ending, but so many other incidental elements had built a wall, one that became so high between them, that they were unable to take it over the top together. If you just think about the friends and lovers from high school in nearly all of our lives, where are they now? The characters within our lives come and go, often beyond the control of the individuals, things just happen, and are rarely what we expect. Best friends, profoundly meaningful loves, those who alter who we are and how we think and interact with others; who thinks we will know them forever? Every kid. Who knows better? Everyone who has been out of school for ten years or more. Of course, I would add that anyone letting a beautiful being like Deanie, well, okay, Natalie Wood, slip out of their life has to be the real nut in the story; Bud, you dumb jock, you should be stuck in poverty with some pregnant, slovenly and undeserving woman with kids running around dirty and loud...oops, I guess he was...way to sucker punch the creep, Inge, with that terrifically haunting, unhappy and unfulfilled ending...let's see how THOSE lambs bound as to the tabors sound, ye that pipe and ye that play.And, oh yeah, always drink plenty of milk. "}{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a film that will definitely leave something with you. Beautifully acted by Beatty and Wood. One of Kazan's best work. I've seen this movie more times than I can count, but still cry every time. The love story is timeless. The ending to this film is one of the best in cinematic history. I always thought of it as a sad ending, when watching it with a friend, he thought it was a happy ending. They both had found another love, but no love could be as true as the one Deanie and Bud shared. Watch this movie with the one you love. This movie is a shining example that love knows no bounds and will never die.  "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can appreciate this film because just like the narrator says on the trailer, everyone can relate to this at some time in their life. I really recommend this movie to young girls who think it would be the end of the world if they don't have sex with their boyfriends. Bottom line is that if Bud really loved Deanie he would have waited for her instead of taking his father's advice. The sad part is that after all that has happened, they never got together anyway. My favorite part is when she got the courage to put some closure to her life and move on, in spite of the feelings she still may have had for him. It was a great example to us all in letting go. "},{"Title":"the best sort of heartbreak","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I was in High School,on Valentine's Day, and I was a single girl. The intensity of the relationship in this film, the plot twists, and the pure heartbreaking despair left me weeping. Of course, in High School, this intense dramatic sort of love is the very best kind, and the more it plays with your emotions the better. To have your heart broken so completely was the height of romance. This film definitely has a place among the top romantic films of all time, and not just for High School girls. I venture to say that many people's memories of their first true love have at least a touch of the obsessive passion portrayed in Splendor in the Grass. "},{"Title":"Beatty in the flower!","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is such a powerful movie.   Warren Beatty's debut opposite the amazing Natalie Wood is just stunning.   You could scarcely pick a better Bud Stamper.   Beatty plays the confused high-school athlete like none other, and you want to tear your heart out everytime he gives in to his father's demands for him to go to Yale.   Ginny Stamper is expertly portrayed, as are Ace Stamper and Mrs. Loomis.   Easily a 10. "},{"Title":"Splendor in the Wood","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Simply put, Natalie Wood provides one of the most poignant depictions of tortured adolescence ever put to film. Wood is utterly mesmerizing as Deanie, a beautiful but insecure young girl who carefully constructs her entire existence around the love of her life--a brooding young high school hero named Bud--only to have her mental and emotional worlds simultaneously come crashing down when Bud suddenly pulls himself out of her life.Looking back, it was apt that Wood first came to stardom playing opposite James Dean in Rebel Without a Cause, for her performance in this film equals Dean's in terms of sheer emotional ferocity and raw vulnerability. While Splendor in the Grass is by no means one of director Elia Kazan's masterpieces, it is very much worth watching if only as a showcase for the heartbreaking Natalie Wood. "},{"Title":"A bit overwrought and heavy, but with sensitive handling and performances...","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Young lovers in 1928 Kansas break up, with wrenching consequences for the girl. Troubled teens vehicle garnered an Academy Award nomination for Natalie Wood, also introducing Warren Beatty as her fading beau (he seems encumbered a bit by his pretty masculinity but otherwise does solid work). Wood is also attractive, though her voice hasn't much range--she stays on the same sweetly-dazed monotone throughout--and even when she's freaking out in the bathtub, crying I'm a good girl, mama!, Wood's delivery is dreamy-flat. The plot strays on occasion, and we never learn exactly why Beatty breaks it off with Nat (we get the impression his wanton sister embarrasses him, and the stronghold on Wood's virginity frustrates him, but it's awfully quick and cold). The 1920s scenario wasn't really necessary except to shoehorn in the business dealings of Beatty's family (and the Stock Market crash), yet the writing by William Inge and Elia Kazan's direction are both sincere. A few terrific moments Natalie trying to drown herself in the river; Natalie breaking down in the classroom (both scenes utilize Wood's vulnerability to her advantage); Sandy Dennis popping up in a supporting bit; and Zohra Lampert's brief but intriguing work as a new lady in Warren's life. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Teenaged Sexual Repression Captured Vividly by Kazan's Sure Hand and Wood's Best On screen Work","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In the same way he was able to extract a searing performance from Andy Griffith in 1957's A Face in the Crowd, master director Elia Kazan gets similarly stellar results from Natalie Wood in this classic 1961 melodrama about youthful sexual repression in rural 1920's Kansas. In the same year as her Maria in West Side Story, she has never been more affecting then she is here as Deanie Loomis, the local butcher's daughter deeply in love with Bud Stamper, the son of an oil scion and the high school football hero. They are the senior sweethearts everyone expects to marry, but both have to battle constantly with their sexual longing and their grasping parents.The ruling moral code restricts Deanie more than Bud who ends up cavorting with a good-time girl named Juanita. The indiscretion overwhelms Deanie who attempts suicide and ends up in a sanitarium for her fragile mental state. A few years later with their lives on divergent paths, they meet again to come to terms with each other. While the whole film is beautifully executed thanks to Kazan's sure hand and William Inge's screenplay (his first directly for the screen), it's the last fifteen minutes that really resonate with the characters expressing their emotions with a minimum of dialogue. Otherwise, there are plenty of heated moments of melodrama along with soap opera elements familiar to anyone who has seen 1955's Picnic based on Inge's successful Broadway play.At her most beautiful, Wood is wondrous as she moves fluidly from innocently infatuated to obsessive to resigned. As the none-too-bright Bud, Warren Beatty is charismatic in his film debut and makes Deanie's powerful fixation completely understandable. There are several standout performances among the supporting cast with Audrey Christie pitch-perfect as Deanie's unsympathetic mother, Pat Hingle in blowhard mode as Bud's power-hungry father, and Zohra Lampert as Angie, the self-effacing waitress Bud meets at Yale. The classic Wordsworth poem from which the film's title is derived makes a fitting coda for this movie, and I still feel the intractable sense of longing in the two lead characters every time I see this movie. The 2001 DVD unfortunately has no extras. "},{"Title":"Wonderful early sketch of dysfunctional families and relations.","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A beautiful movie about the clash between generations, set in a period (the 1920's and early 1930's) when a woman's reputation was still a much valued thing and children still listened to their parents, as they were supposed to. And the parents in this movie, unfortunately, prove to be a big part of the problems that plague the teenage couple Deanie and Bud. Deanie is forced to remain a good little girl by her domineering mother, who is concerned about her daughter's honor and reputation, as much as she is unwilling to let her little girl become independent of her and move away (conversation at the end of the movie). Bud, Warren Beatty in his stunningly moving debut, can't even have a decent conversation with his father. Ace Stamper, a self made oil millionaire, is like a force of nature everything about him is loud and overbearing, so much so, that nobody in his family - perhaps with the exception of his rebellious daughter Ginny - can get a word in.While their parents try to dictate the way they should behave and what their futures should be like, Bud and Deanie are overcome with teenage, hormonal lusts and desires. However, they are too brainwashed and threatened, blackmailed and coerced by mother Loomis and father Stamper, to find the courage to free themselves. Bud's sister Ginny has escaped from the claws of her father, but indeed proves a bad example for the young couple, as she hops from one disastrous, short-lived relationship to another, drinking too much and craving the attention her father solely lavishes on his beautiful son, who is his hope for the future of his oil company. Their inner torment has dire consequences for Deanie, who suffers a severe mental breakdown, and Bud, who gets physically ill (pneumonia) and results in the slow erosion of their relationship. The cast is very strong, and peculiar to say the least, most amazingly noticeable in the Stamper family. Pat Hingle, then 37(!), is incredibly convincing as the overbearing, domineering father. Joanna Roos, then 60(!), is wonderful as the timid, mousy, mother. Barbara Loden, then 29(!) is right on target as the rebellious, yet tragic, Ginny - older sister to her teenage brother Bud, an outstanding debut performance by Warren Beatty, then 24. Though Beatty and Wood were respectively 24 and 23 when the movie was made, they are convincing as the shy, confused teenagers, they'd long ceased to be in real life. Wood's small frame and youthful appearance make her believable as the longing Deanie. Beatty's unusual, almost delicately beautiful and innocent features, combined with the inability of his character to articulate his feelings to, especially, his father - or to even let them be heard, make him equally realistic as Bud. Beatty's performance especially is very touching and clearly inspired by the great director Elia Kazan, whom Beatty still to this day, credits for having taught him the most about the art of making movies. "},{"Title":"the splendor in the grass","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely loved Splendor in the Grass!! Splendor in the Grass is my all time favorite movie. Natalie Wood was such a great actress, I loved the way she acted in this movie! The writer of this movie did such a great job in writing it, they put so very much detail into it. I could watch this movie over and over and over again! I definitely give this movie a 10! Warren Beatty is also such a great actor. Him and Natalie Wood were very much in love in this movie. I don't understand why they didn't get married, I mean I understand the movie and everything, but they should have got married. They were very much in love, very much in love. "},{"Title":"Overwrought Melodrama","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  contains mild spoilersThis film may be set in the late 1920s and early 1930s, but it says much more about the sexual angst of 1950s America. (Is it ironic that Warren Beatty went on to make Shampoo?) Frankly though, when it comes to 1950s sexual repression, I prefer the coolness of A Place in the Sun or the honest directness of Far from Heaven.It is true that Natalie Wood wears wonderful dresses and she's innocently believable uttering the line But I want to be a bad girl, Bud. And Warren Beatty had yet to show his manic side. This movie kept my attention.I found intriguing the reversal of fortunes of the families of the two leads - and the odd morality this implies. Beatty's father is portrayed as a domineering buffoon. But he's also an ambitious, self-made oil man. By the final reel, the family is impoverished. Wood's family on the other hand, presented as honest, ordinary folk, become wealthy purely by chance.  "}{"Title":"Natalie Wood as a youngster in clinch with the reality of growing up.","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The amazing thing about each and every film directed by Elia Kazan is what he gets out of his actors to make them perform better than in almost any film by any other director. He must have been the most knowledgeable person instructor ever in films. Here it is worth while concentrating on watching the performance of Natalie Wood especially in the first crisis scenes. There is nothing like it in film history - the extreme sensitivity, the close-up following of her mind, how he lets the camera wander as she gropes her way through a reality that has become her enemy, her questioning looks, her invisible but extreme terror - he catches all this on film, and no wonder she was after this film given the role of Maria in West Side Story. The film is all hers, he has given it to her almost like a personal offering, while Warren Beatty in his first major appearance is no more than what he is intended to be - almost a helpless dummy. When Natalie gets affected he is at a total loss and can't handle any emotionalism at all, while all he can do is to escape into the arms of another as an abject coward, which is what he does, leaving Natalie stranded in her emotional psychosis, like watching a drowning victim out there in the storm from the shore and doing nothing. His father, on the other hand, is another extremely remarkable performance, he overacts from the beginning and keeps overacting and even worsening it until the end, and he is the real tragedy of the story - like his son, he doesn't understand anything and least of all what is right. It's a simple story about the first love of youths and how it must burn you, it always does, but Elia Kazan's treatment of it turns it into a tremendous heart-breaker. And it's the same with every film by him - he turns his actors into more than just living, burning, and self-consuming people but toweringly passionate, and more alive, convincing and sympathetic persons than if they were real. "},{"Title":"Rebel without a cause","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 1928 Kansas. Wilma 'Deanie' Loomis (Natalie Wood) tries to resist her amorous boyfriend Bud Stamper (Warren Beatty). He is the son of a powerful oilman Ace (Pat Hingle). His older sister Ginny (Barbara Loden) is a wild party girl angry at his father who returns from Chicago under a cloud of rumors. Bud is the star jock but not a very good student. He doesn't want to go to Yale but marry Deanie. His father tells him to take out the steam with another kind of girl. Juanita Howard (Jan Norris) is the rumored sexually promiscuous girl in school. Bud breaks up with Deanie under the pressure and has a fling with Juanita. Deanie breaks down and tries to act up.The bathtub scene is terrific. It reminds me of James Dean in 'Rebel Without a Cause (55)'. It is basically the female version with Natalie Wood trying to break out of the social conventions appealing to parents who just don't understand. It is as effective 6 years later with the theme of sexual liberation. Natalie Wood is amazing with great work from Beatty and Hingle. The movie does keep going with the story and it ends poetically. "},{"Title":"Proof of that old adage, When I Was Your Age!","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In West Side Story, released the same year as this, the character of Doc says that to the troubled Jets, to which one responds, You Was Never My Age!. That may be true in the case of Doc (some people are never anybody else's age) but for Natalie Wood's Wilma Dean Loomis, she is someone who will be able to identify with a teenage crisis even when she is in her 80's. You see, Wilma Dean is completely in love, painfully devoted to her High School boyfriend Bud Stamper (Warren Beatty in his film debut). You can see why. Bud is extremely handsome, the class jock, the son of the richest man in their Kansas town, and devoted to Wilma. Bud's powerful father (Pat Hingle) likes her, but wants him to go to Yale, follow in his footsteps and marry a girl from a better family. Like most teens, however, Wilma and Bud are finding their sexuality. Unlike the earlier teen potboiler, A Summer Place, Wilma is intent on remaining untouched, causing the blooming Bud much frustration. This too frustrates Wilma as she experiences her oncoming womanhood. A mental breakdown follows, as does a change in the financial climate that will impact Bud's future.Normally I find Natalie Wood a frustrating actress to watch in the extremely dramatically emotional roles she takes on. She has a tendency to bray a bit, and this makes her character's emotional outbursts rather annoying. But in the case of Wilma, Wood gives a multi-layered performance so when things do explode for her, she handles it all with a believable plummet into the depths of potential madness that makes the outcome all the more tragic for her and Beatty. This is why in the same years' West Side Story, her emotional outrage at the end wasn't entirely believable. Obviously there was a different chemistry between Wood and Beatty than there was with Wood and Richard Beymer in the otherwise excellent Oscar Winning Best Picture.Beatty successfully underplays the role of the ambitionless Bud who knows he will end up being a failure in his father's eyes. Hingle gives an outstanding performance as the Big Daddy of their Kansas community who totally dominates his Big Mama (Joanna Roos). Roos has little to say but her eyes speak so much with her character's sadness that her performance comes off as very successful, too. As Wood's parents, Audrey Christie and Fred Stewart give multi-dimensional layering's that in other hands might have tedious. Christie shows an understanding of Wood that increases in frustration in her inability to prevent the obvious downfall, and Stewart gets in a line of dialog at the end that makes him the champion of all dads. As Beatty's sister, Barbara Loden takes the typical young floozie and gives her much dimension that makes you want to understand her and sympathize a little more.Another nice touch are the classroom scenes with Martine Bartlett as the plane-jane teacher discussing King Arthur as well as future Oscar Winner Sandy Dennis and future soap actress Marla Adams as the gossipy teen girls. A nice touch is thrown in with rising comic Phyllis Diller in a cameo as Texas Guinan. Excellent direction by Elia Kazan (quite a different type of film for him than normal!) and outstanding music and photography also add to the atmosphere of this film that is so much more than just another coming of age story. The ending may rip your heart out. "},{"Title":"Splendid, But Not Original","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Splendor In The Grass is based on a flop William Inge play called A Loss Of Roses that had a very short run on Broadway during the 1959 season. Playing the young lead in that production was Warren Beatty who would make his screen debut in this film.It's a fine film, but I seriously have to question William Inge winning an Oscar for the category Best Original Screenplay. I have to say that he seriously expanded it quite a bit with a lot more characters than the eight that are in the play. But it's not quite original, good though it is.Warren Beatty is the serious All American big man on campus who's not quite the achiever that father Pat Hingle is. He'd like just to go to a small agricultural college and be a rancher like his father was before oil was found on the property. Now Hingle is obsessed with money and what it can buy, especially a Yale education for Beatty something undreamed of in his family. His hopes are with Beatty because his daughter Barbara Loden is a wild child of the flapper era. And I mean wild in Dorothy Malone like wild from Written On The Wind.Natalie Wood is crushing out on Beatty big time, but Hingle doesn't find her a suitable daughter-in-law for him, let alone wife for his son. Truth be told Wood does have issues and tries a spectacular suicide attempt to gain some attention. Her performance earned her an Academy Award nomination for Best Actress in her career year which also included her being in West Side Story the Best Picture Of 1961. But Wood's bid for Best Actress fell short as Sophia Loren copped the big prize for Two Women. One of the most remarkable things about Splendor In The Grass is that it is shot in and around New York City for this Kansas based drama. The players at the time were all New York based though we know several did go to Hollywood later on. That would include at this Warren Beatty and also actresses Sandy Dennis and Phyllis Diller who also made their big screen debuts in Splendor In The Grass. Diller has a marvelous bit as real life Roaring Twenties legend Texas Guinan.Watching Beatty I could not help feel he was somehow channeling James Dean in his performance. This was just the kind of role that James Dean would have played had he lived. Splendor In The Grass while not original is a great example of an author improving on his work the second time around. The film did so much for the careers of so many in the cast. "},{"Title":"A Truly Splendid Thing","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" On the surface, SPLENDOR IN THE GRASS, screenplay by William Inge (COME BACK LITTLE SHEBA, PICNIC), is a powerfully explicit depiction of adolescent concupiscence. Straining against the limits of 1961 censors, this Elia Kazan directed tale of two passionate 1920's teens--Deane Lloomis (Natalie Wood) and Bud Stamper (Warren Beatty)--should never be mistaken for a Mid-West, jazz age period piece. It is one of INGE'S most powerful offerings and if it were possible, might even be considered required viewing for just about every young person.The story is a poignant exploration of the destructive idealism of young love that tangles with the corruption of Victorian sexual repression. The deception and pain that unfolds in the lives of the two main characters serve as the path for the growth and wisdom that ultimately rewards us all and renders this an unforgettable cinematic experience.Deanie and Bud are the quintessentially envied teen couple living in middle class Kansas. Passion engulfs their relationship and is held in check by Deanie's struggle to be a 'good girl' and Bud's war against his own libido. As Deane obsesses more and more upon Bud and drowns in the relationship, Bud's frustration drives him to find answers from his obtuse father and his equally obtuse family physician, too embarrassed about the topic of sex to even discuss Bud's concerns.The parents on both sides twist the heads of their children in the same way they themselves had been twisted as youths. Mr. Stamper (Pat Hingle) turns in a yeoman's performance as Bud's block-headed, domineering father choking off his son's future with Deanie. He convinces Bud she's a tramp and pushes him toward university life which he neither wants nor is capable of handling. Deanie's mother (Andrey Christie) drills Victorian hogwash into her daughter's head convincing her that women must submit to men for procreation only. In the background resides Mr. Loomis (Del Stewart), a non-entity turning a blind eye to the clap-trap his wife feeds his daughter. And Mrs. Stamper (Joanna Roos) is nothing more than a cardboard cut-out taking up space as Bud's mother.It is only Bud's reckless sister Ginny (Barbara Loden) who provides the script's singular rebellion against the fear and destructive lies of Mr. Stamper. But she is only capable of finding her freedom through promiscuity shaming the father whose love she desperately craves on her way toward oblivion.Long after the couple have gone their separate paths, Deanie decides to see Bud one last time. When Mrs. Loomis lies to her about his whereabouts, it is Mr. Loomis who finally sheds his empty persona and steps up to the plate providing one of the film's most touching moments.It is Deanie's closure with Bud that strikes the film's mightiest blow. For it encapsulates a great deal of what we all experience in youth and later come to realize about first love. Yet the path that INGE wisely chose to get us there leads to the final Wordsorth allusion and crowns the entire experience with pain and beauty. For the lines that Deanie had ignored in high school English class now resound powerfully as her epiphany unfolds. What Deanie Loomis learns in the end is what we all learn.SPLENDOR has not aged one bit at all after nearly 50 years. It is as poignant as the day it hit the screens in October, 1961. And that is because Inge's script is not stifled by the era's simplistic values or character stereotypes; for the tale told is universal. And universality, as William Inge knew so very well, is the paramount trait of all superior literature, isn't it?TRIVIA William Inge was born in Independence, Kansas in 1913...Inge's mother ran a boarding house and Inge watched 3 lonely spinsters which later inspired him when he wrote PICNIC IN 1953...INGE'S other best plays are COME BACK LITTLE SHEBA (1950), BUS STOP (1955), THE DARK AT THE TOP OF THE STAIRS (1957)--all of which were made into movies...PICNIC won the Pulitzer Prize in 1953. It was also the Broadway debut of Paul Newman...SPLENDOR IN THE GRASS debuted on Oct. 10, 1961. It was Warren Beatty's first film....Beatty is the younger brother of actress Shirley McLaine...SPLENDOR was filmed mostly in New York...William Inge taught playwriting at the University of California Irvine campus in the early 1970's...Believing he could no longer write well, William Inge committed suicide in 1973 from carbon monoxide poisoning.Dennis Caracciolo "},{"Title":"Natalie is tops","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Natalie Wood was a better actress than I remember. She showed a lot of maturity, sensitivity in this film. Even Warren Beatty was believable, was was Pat Hingle. The kids were too old for high school. But the play itself was a true depiction of the human condition. The desires of young people can be volcanic even though there is no external eruption. This film was all about the effects of that desire and how it can affect the lives of people when they have nowhere to go and can't get good advice from their elders. The homes/parties were too Hollywood for southeast Kansas, but that's the producers. The basic story was great and the acting was great to go along with it. "},{"Title":"Reduced me to tears!","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had always heard that this movie was awesome, but didn't see it until I accidentally came upon it on a movie channel. What a lesson the poetic phrase Splendor in the Grass teaches. I have always felt a huge lump in my throat whenever two people love each other and get split apart by forces bigger than themselves. The lesson is basically this You must move on and not wallow in the past. It is very sad and the antithesis to Peter Pan.That said, it was very interesting to see how the early 1960's attitudes toward young love and sex gets projected to a story based in the late 1920's. If that movie was made today it would be portrayed in a much different light. Natalie Wood and Warren Beatty were wonderful. The woman that played Bud's wife I recognized from a movie I liked in the 70's called Let's Scare Jessica to Death. "},{"Title":"The Grass Always Seems Greener on the Other Side.","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Volatile and explosive tale from film-maker supreme Elia Kazan about two high schoolers (Oscar-nominee Natalie Wood and Warren Beatty) struggling with their futures in 1928 Kansas. Both love each other, but Wood avoids intimacy with Beatty (to his dismay and frustration). The very wealthy Beatty is about to go off to Yale and the hope is that he will come back in four years and the duo can get married and have a life together. Nothing goes as planned though as Beatty's wild older sister (Barbara Loden) comes back from Chicago as little more than a prostitute. Loden's antics are magnetic to the men around town and Wood starts to wonder if it wouldn't be better if she were more like Beatty's older sister. Beatty's father (Pat Hingle) runs the small town because of his wealth, but what happens when the Stock Market Crash of 1929 hits him? The movie follows Beatty and Wood over the four-year period and both go through constant mental and emotional dilemmas while they are apart. Splendor in the Grass is all about unfulfilled sexual desire which ultimately leads to love and compassion issues for its two leads. Very risque back in 1961, but Kazan was never one to shy away from early controversy. Wood, in her greatest performance, is a complete revelation. She is beautiful, sensual and totally perfect for the part of an individual who seems stuck between her childhood and becoming an adult. Beatty is nearly as good in the role that ended up being his big break in the cinema. The rest of the cast is impressive and the amazing Oscar-winning original script by William Inge continues to be one of the blueprints for many screenwriters even today. Definitely one of the finer pictures ever produced. 5 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"very touching movie","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie several times and it always make me cry. What makes this movie so special and outstanding is the great play of Wood and Beatty.It's also interesting from psychological as well as historical point of view. I highly recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"A very moving love story","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Most audiences cannot resist a couple made up of attractive people so immediately they will pine for what they hope will be the pair's eventual happiness together. Thankfully noted actor's director Kazan delicately and skillfully realizes Inge's poignant tale of romantic love clashing with maturity and ambition so that this is not the only criteria on which the audience wants to see a happy ending for Bud and Wilma. Besides their looks, Beatty and especially Wood, are very talented actors and both deliver the nuances that make the audience sympathize with their heartache all the more. Pat Hingle (Commissioner Gordon in the Batman movies) is also memorable as Bud's gung-ho dad. Splendor is a rare movie that works on different emotional levels depending on whether you're young or not as young. The ending is so moving and truly unforgettable. This is a film that will undoubtedly move audiences for generations to come. Highly recommended, 10/10. "}{"Title":"TENDER KAZAN FILM WITH LOVELY NATALIE!","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Impressive Kazan film with wonderful performance by Ms. Wood. Warren Beatty's debut (equally impressive) tells a tale of young love bound to hit some bumps along the road. Barbara Loden (one of Kazan's wives and director of WANDA) is hard-core party girl as Beatty's sister. Pat Hingle (Beatty's dad) is frightening and all too human. Small role for Sandy Dennis and a great script by William Inge.A 9 out of 10. Best performance = Natalie Wood (one of her best). One of the best of '61 and still holds up today. Kazan was really an actor's director and great storyteller with real humanity. Great cinematography and music as well. "},{"Title":"Seems Run-of-the-Mill at first, but soon blossoms into something very beautiful","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Three of the greatest talents in filmmaking history, Elia Kazan, Warren Beatty, and especially Natalie Wood, make this film great. I've seen three of Kazan's films, and I would say that this one may not be quite as good as On the Waterfront, but I think it is better than A Streetcar Named Desire. It doesn't get the same respect, but it should.As this movie progresses, I thought I knew where it was going. It was just a regular romance. Oh, was I wrong! I was expecting something really conservative because of Kazan's relationship with HUAAC. Instead, it is a criticism of the facile beliefs of Christian morality. It becomes extremely emotionally complex. See it if you get the chance. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Natalie Wood's finest performance","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Splendor in the Grass is the 1961 classic of forbidden love, mental illness, and family manipulation that features the finest performance of Natalie Wood's career and marked the film debut of Warren Beatty.Set in a small town in 1920's Kansas, this is the story of a mentally fragile high school student named Deenie Loomis (Wood) who enters a doomed romance with school stud Bud Stamper (Beatty), an aimless young man who allows his life to be quietly manipulated by his wealthy father (Pat Hingle), who is grooming Bud to take over the family business but in the meantime has decided that Deenie is not good enough for his son and forces him to end the romance, which sends Deenie on a slow descent into insanity, which actually climaxes with her being institutionalized.In the tradition of cinematic couples like Scarlett and Rhett, George Eastman and Angela Findlay, and Katie Morofsky and Hubbell Gardner, screenwriter William Inge has created star-crossed lovers who we immediately empathize with but also know that they are doomed.Elia Kazan's vivid direction and his respect for Inge's story is evident, and there is effective support from Hingle and from Audrey Christie as Deenie's harridan of a mother, but the real selling point here is Wood, who turns in a blistering and evocative performance as the fragile Deenie, a performance that earned Wood her first Oscar nomination for Outstanding Lead Actress, an award I think she should have won. There is an underlying sadness to the performance as we watch Wood do two particularly moving scenes involving water, one in a bathtub and one in a river, which Wood completely invests in, despite her lifelong fear of water and the way the actress eventually died. A film classic that should not be missed. Remade as a TV movie by NBC with Melissa Gilbert as Deenie. "},{"Title":"touching","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" after so many years, it remains touching proof of a director art, Nathalie Wood science to give to her role force and tenderness, realistic love story, sensitivity of a period and for the emotion aura of a good script. it is a special film without be really great. but enough for remember the slices of fascination front to new old - new story about two young people en loved. than, the virtue of movie is beauty of few scenes. and the atmosphere a mixture between Great Crisis time and the 1960. the key - Elia Kazan precise science to present best picture of fight against yourself as way to happiness. this war has , in this case, admirable nuances. so, more than a classic, Splendor in grass represent a state of soul. "},{"Title":"SPLENDOR is Splendid","Date":"13 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Does SPLENDOR IN THE GRASS really take place in the Twenties? It doesn't. Everything looks like the Twenties. There's no booze. Decadence has overrun the town. The people are indulgent, waiting for the next big paycheck. They have oil. Its pumping. Pumping. Pumping. Pumping. Pumping... Problem is -- so are the kids. The opening shot of Warren Beatty and Natalie Wood getting hot in the car right next to the waterfall is trademark Kazan. Sometimes the kissing is interrupted by a shot of the giant swell of water falling off the cliff. It is a metaphor for their passion, if you didn't take the hint. Not only is the water pumping, but the oil, too. It is a part of the story. The adults are obsessed with pumping oil (it's a sexual relationship), and making money (which harnesses obvious sexual power). Natalie Wood goes crazy from jealousy. Understandable. She is an infatuated young girl. Will virginity make you crazy? Is that what Kazan is saying? No. But she is deprived of a primal physical need by her parents. This repression cultivates hatred and impatience in every area of the brain. Her parents are telling her to reserve her reckless desires for marriage. Apparently this isn't possible in Wood, and she goes bananas. She can't stack up to the wealth of her family and her family will not allow her to have sex with Bud. The older generation traps her into madness. It is their fault. With Bud, in a thrilling and exact performance from Warren Beatty, we see some of the same thing, but met with a strength able to overcome the foolishness of his elders. Here lies the genius of Kazan. The story is set in 1929ish. He distances himself from the present. However, the ideas are burning with contemporary relevance. Baby Boomers start asking questions in their teens. They start looking around for some sex. Their parents try to stop the behavior. They fail. Revolution is born. The youth revolution comes from this. It begins at the home, rejecting the merit of parental guidance. In fact, I assert that Elia Kazan's films, specifically, embody the shift from Code to Rating. He might be the crux. He makes movies without fear, encourages wild, uninhibited behavior, and domestic violence that may one day turn into the knife that sinks into Marion Crane. His energy revitalizes an otherwise bland 50's cinema. But it is important to remember that Kazan isn't commenting on the 1920's. He's commenting on the 1960's. THIS is where the youth movement begins. In these attitudes. Some brilliant qualities of the film are in its' sound and composition. The sound is aggravating at times. It buzzes during silence. It makes noise. But it acts as the prototype for a style Altman would eventually use regularly. Background noise played an integral part in the narrative. We heard gossip. We heard secrets. No one was safe from discovery. It was a fascinating way to create dramatic irony and suspense. As far as composition goes, SPLENDOR was perhaps the best of all Kazan's efforts. His primal and animalistic acting style was contained. The spaces were beautiful. The sets were full and bright. They were right without attracting attention. Inside of these neat spaces, Kazan's animal acting created controlled and precise pandemonium. No space is safe. Hospitals, schools, hallways, everything becomes an insane asylum. Here, we see the madness in human behavior. Kazan shows us how primitive we are. How love is such a private and animalistic game. Really, it creates a SPLENDOR IN THE GRASS. A brilliant and wild film. It's sloppy, it's gritty, and it's great. It demands multiple viewings. It may be the apex of a magnificent career. 96.7 "},{"Title":"Convincing testimony that humans must have been an experiment gone awry.....","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie on TCM, The Essentials, and Robert Osborne expressed a poignant comment on the sadness and devastation in this movie, and how it was difficult for him to watch because of memories it brought back.....That was a stunning and moving statement by a great man, and it was a bullseye declaration soundly echoing for anyone who has gone through the hurricane of a first love affair. Splendor in the Grass is discomforting, and does not leave one with any catharsis whatsoever--the look on Natalie Wood's face as she turns away from Bud in his kitchen, starting to head back to the car to leave, was exactly as Mr. Osborne described it--devastating. Deanie and Bud would never be out of love--the ache in their hearts would always be there. For them, staying together was not their destiny, and a more infuriating case of nonsense and chaos will never hit them like that again.Love and sex between a man and a woman is the greatest gift given to humans, and it is the most lethal. Humans were created with the massive chemical drive toward procreation that the animal kingdom has. Animals simply do the deed when the pheromones explode. They have minuscule logic circuits, and no conscience or morals to douse the fires of sex. Humans unravel, sicken, and die in situations like Deanie and Bud's.....they have nervous breakdowns that they must live with the rest of their lives, all because uncontrollable physical desire fights and dies against social, financial and moral restraints. In the throes of a love affair, it is hard to believe that the same loving God who gave us sex, also supplied us with many antidotes. For my money, there is a loving God, but he had no control over whatever race of advanced, otherworldy beings landed on this planet and started playing games with the gene pool.....God can only watch the results, and hear the prayers, and teach humans how to live after the storm.If we are lucky the storm hits when we are young, and time has a chance to erode the scars....if we are profoundly unlucky, the storm hits later, devastating entire families.Splendor in the Grass has to be the greatest portrayal of this phenomenon ever created, and it owes this to William Inge, director Elia Kazan, and Natalie Wood, whose aching, profoundly haunting beauty in front of a movie camera is pretty much unmatched in history. "},{"Title":"It's the music that matters","Date":"8 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't watch this movie for any other reason than I heard the theme tune on a Percy Faith album back in the early 1960s and fell in love with it at first hearing. I found that the score for the film was written by the much-respected although relatively unknown composer David Amram, who also composed the music for one of my very favorite movies, The Manchurian Candidate (1962).The music stuck in my mind (and has done for years), so when I had an opportunity to watch the film on TCM I did so. I can't say it stayed with me as the music did. I'm a person who can watch and enjoy a movie repeatedly (I have seen the original Manchurian Candidate, for example, countless times) and I am a great Natalie Wood fan and I think her performance was excellent &#x96; but this movie made little impression on me. I'm not saying it's a bad movie by any means, but in this case I have to be subjective and say that as it's not my bag, I decline to give it a rating and probably won't be taking another look at it.Regrettably no album of the film score was ever issued.The only other reviewer to even mention the music was Jonathan Baron and I tip my hat to him. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I was eleven, a movie-mad neighbor girl and I sneaked all the way to downtown Pittsburgh one Saturday afternoon to see a movie that was supposedly so bad it was only going to be shown for three days! Since it was Natalie Wood's follow up to West Side Story, and since we both still tingled in the cinematic, musical and social afterglow of that blockbuster, and since the movie magazines reported that her costar--Shirley MacLaine's brother--was breaking up her marriage to Robert Wagner, we had to get there before it was yanked by some unidentified, unchallenged censor. In 1961 we believed even more Hollywood hype than we do now. It must have had a great first weekend. What a title! It might as well have been Screwing in the Grass! No one knew it was a quote from Wordsworth's ode.I loved this movie then and still do, but for different reasons. I grew up to become an actor, and when I think of screen performances that set the standard of acting excellence for me, Pat Hingle's, as Beatty's oil millionaire father, is one of them. Improvisational, over the top, every moment--every word--wrung dry of possibilities for bold colors and brave choices, he nearly shoves the inexperienced Beatty out of frame in all their scenes. This is the 1950's Actors Studio, Stanislasky style of acting, for anyone who wants to see method acting in action. Director Elia Kazan's future wife, Barbara Loden, as Beatty's shimmying, bathtub gin swilling, nymphomaniac sister, who had had one of those awful operations, is still a shocking and pathetic prototype of a 1920's Fitzgerald-esque Lost Generation flapper, complete with powdered armpits, garters, a head band and cigarette holder.This movie is full of poetry--thematic, verbal and cinematic. Watching it, I experienced my first of those increasingly rare but memorable moments that I came to live for in Art when the artist reaches out, and transcending Time and Space, gently taps the viewer on the shoulder and says, Boo! At the 1929 New Year's Eve party a drunken Loden is being warmed up by the pack of groping, brilliantined, tuxedo clad wolves she is about to gang bang in the back seat of a car. Joe, she calls to her favorite, I want Joe. Someone lurking in the shadows steps forward. And it is a ghost, a doppelganger--whoever this young actor was--an absolute dead ringer for the late James Dean Dean the unknown who had been made an instant star by Kazan in East of Eden; who was Natalie's co-star in Rebel Without a Cause; who had played another wildcatter, Jett Rink, in Giant, who had probably known Hingle and Loden from the Actor's Studio, and, like the Loden character, had died in a car accident. It was a movie moment that mysteriously, artfully and teasingly mirrored the movie's theme of the mythic loss of a not-so-innocent Flaming Youth with our own real, shared loss of a not-so-talented 50's Badboy cultural icon. It was a moment--very showbiz, very shocking, yet wistful, mournful and melancholy--when every gasping young American in that 1961 audience was united for a fleeting second of hope, before remembering that, like Deanie and Bud, who would learn they could never bring back the Past, we would never know another day in our young lives when James Dean wasn't dead. It was Kazan saying, Yes, he is dead, but I've found a replacement not some look alike, but newcomer Beatty.Screen writer William Inge (Come Back, Little Sheba; Picnic; Bus Stop; The Dark At the Top of the Stairs) a sad, closeted gay man and ultimately a suicide, makes a cameo appearance as a sympathetic minister. A beautiful movie made just at the brink where sexual explicitness usurped our imaginations.  "},{"Title":"a beautiful movie, what else could i say.","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Deanie was so fragile, I was very moved. I was in French when I saw the movie in 1967. The French title was fievre dans le sang (= fever in the blood). In 1998 I saw the movie again, but the magic was broken. Still I think it is worth seeing this movie .Gerard Bongers   "},{"Title":"The splendor of William Inge","Date":"14 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first saw this movie during the 1960's, I thought it was something special; more than fifty years later, I still do.The intensity of Deanie Loomis' emotions for Bud Stamper, clashes with the strictures and inhibitions of her emotionally burnt-out parents. Natalie Wood as Deanie was never more luminous than in this film and never better. Warren Beatty in his first film plays Bud with a hesitant intensity that became his trademark. His character yearns for something he can't define and this brings him into conflict with his father, Ace (Pat Hingle), who only seems to want a replica of himself. All this is played out in Kansas in the late 1920's where youthful passion, hormones and zest for life seem thwarted at every turn. And what an ending this film has; one that leaves you sitting in your theater seat long after the curtains close.The critics weren't too kind to Splendor when first released. It occasioned much sarcasm. The New Republican's Stanley Kaufman thought it, &#x85;an Andy Hardy story with glands. He also added, &#x85;a Martian who saw this film might infer that all adolescents deprived of sexual intercourse go crazy. Well maybe not, but doesn't unrequited love and unfulfilled passion drive people a little crazy, or at the least make them very unhappy? The power of William Inge's screenplay, and Elia Kazan's direction, expresses those feelings through the heightened actions of the characters &#x96; Inge rarely resorts to narration or voice-over to reveal their thoughts, it all plays out in their interactions with one another. Anyway, the public certainly got it; the film was a huge success. This film made me want to know more about William Inge. He's in the movie and plays the thoughtful, sad-looking minister. However, he was a troubled man, after early success Picnic, Come Back Little Sheba etc., there was a slow decline complicated by alcoholism and depression. Finally, he went to his garage, closed the door, got in his car and turned on the ignition. But he wasn't going anywhere &#x96; or maybe he was taking the greatest journey of all &#x96; for William Inge had finished with this life. You often read that the screenplay for Splendor in the Grass was written for the most part by director Elia Kazan, based on a novella by William Inge, Kazan states as much in his autobiography. However he also reveals that the key themes and that powerful ending are indeed William Inge's. What I liked about this ending, he says, is its bittersweet ambivalence, full of what Bill had learned from his own life that you have to accept limited happiness, because all happiness is limited, and to expect perfection is the most neurotic thing of all; you must live with the sadness as well as the joy. Kazan also said, It is not my favorite of my films, but the last reel is my favorite last reel, at once the saddest and the happiest.The performances of Natalie Wood, Warren Beatty and all the others, are locked forever in this moving film. Like many movies that are set decades before they were made, Splendor in the Grass is rather timeless &#x96; it will probably stay that way now. "}{"Title":"Love lost and growing up in the mid-20th century","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Many of the reviewers of this movie on IMDb found it heart-breaking or sad. I can understand the disappointment when something I've fantasized or dreamed about doesn't turn out as I would have hoped. Perhaps that explains the let-down of this film for many. There is no doubt that Splendor in the Grass is an authentic love story. It is about a very deeply held love by a young couple. And, I think Natalie Wood and Warren Beatty play their parts exceptionally well. So, this is not a story about the vast majority of teenage loves &#x96; those first romantic inclinations most of us have when young. And, whether they were infatuations, hormonal reactions, or other attractions, the vast majority of us got over the vast majority of those encounters. Indeed, such has been the plight of men and women from the beginning. But this film is much more than one couple's intense love story. It is a coming-of-age story. It is a story about family. It is a morality story about life in the early to mid-20th century. It is a story about human frailties, parental love, parental mistakes, abuse, obedience, trust and rebellion. All those elements are in the movie. And they are masterfully crafted into a story by William Inge, with superb direction by Elia Kazan. Some reviews criticize the parents as stern, intolerant, hypocrites who stymied true love. But that misses some very important points of the film. Mrs. Loomis (played by Audrey Christie) tells her daughter, Deannie (Natalie Wood) that she tried to raise her well. Just as her mother had done, and her grandmother before her. Struggles between teens and parents have been a big part of Western society and culture for a long time &#x96; at least since the industrial revolution. And that's not likely to change. And some things are as true now as they were then. Even though there are pushes from some sources that challenge the traditional mores, including respect for women, many quarters of our society still hold these values. Mrs. Loomis tells Deannie, Boys don't respect a girl they can go all the way with. Boys want a nice girl for a wife. The converse of that is that a girl doesn't want to marry a boy that doesn't respect her.A couple of reviews suggested that young love was ruined by sexual taboos. By young love, I suppose they mean teen or early infatuations or flings. Sexual gratification is one thing, but it's not love. It should be part of love, but love is much bigger, much more, much greater and more meaningful and lasting than that. I remember a scene from the 2001 movie, Captain Corelli's Mandolin that describes real love perfectly. Dr. Iannis (John Hurt) is talking to his daughter, Pelagia (Penélope Cruz). He says, Love is not breathlessness. It is not excitement. It is not the desire to mate every second of the day. It is not lying awake at night imagining that he is kissing every part of your body. No. Don't blush. I'm telling you some truths. That is just being in love, which any of us can convince ourselves we are. Love itself is what is left over, when being in love has burned away. Doesn't sound very exciting, does it? But it is.In Splendor in the Grass, Dr. Judd tells Deannie that it's popular to blame parents for everything these days. Remember &#x96; this is in the early to mid-20th century. But, you can't change them, he tells her. She can only change herself. A line by Deannie's mother sums up the conclusion of the film nicely. Mrs. Loomis is talking to Deannie, and says You know, it would be nice if children could be born into this world with an absolute guarantee that they are going to have just the right kind of bringing up and all lead happy, normal lives. But, well, I guess when we get born, we just all have to take our chances.The end of the film is not a downer to me. Deannie loves another man and plans to marry him. Bud Stamper (Beatty) quit college after one year and married another girl he fell in love with. They have one child and she is pregnant with their second. They are living on his father's old ranch &#x96; something he always had wanted. The love that Deannie and Bud had in the past was special. It was their first and genuine. They are both happy now, and will be in their respective futures. Deannie now just needs to let go of her past and live for the present. "},{"Title":"The dilemma of a time before important knowledge available","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has at its heart the problem of young people desperately in need of medical knowledge that neither the family doctor nor the parents will provide. It was not considered appropriate. Deanie's mother says, after the stresses of the girl's situation has caused a nervous breakdown, Deanie, I told you what my mother told me. Bud's family doctor refuses to help him. In Dreiser's An American Tragedy (which became the film A Place in the Sun) the hero, Clive,is similarly not helped by the doctor he consults. His girlfriend becomes pregnant and she then dies in a boating accident. The older generation sees the whole subject as Trouble, and doesn't see medical information as important to impart. "},{"Title":"Splendor in the Grass","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" From director Elia Kazan (A Streetcar Named Desire, On the Waterfront, East of Eden), I recognised the title of this film from hearing it a few times in the past, and then I found it in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, so it was something to look forward to. Basically, set in southeast Kansas in 1928, teenage girl Wilma Dean 'Deanie' Loomis (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Natalie Wood) has been following her mother's advice to resist sexual desire with her boyfriend Bud Stamper (introducing Golden Globe nominated Warren Beatty), he is the son of Ace Stamper (Pat Hingle), head of a most prosperous family in the town. Bud is also following advice from his father to find another girl who can satisfy his desires that he cannot fulfil, while his parents are disappointed and ashamed of his party girl older sister Ginny (Barbara Loden) who is smokes, drinks, due to sexual promiscuity gets pregnant and has an abortion, and has a marriage annulled. Bud is pressured into attending Yale University, and he does find another girl more willing with sexual desires, while following an attempted rape by another boy Deanie is driven to near madness and put in an institution, her parents are forced to selling stocks to pay for this, and just before the Crash of '29 leading to the Great Depression. Bud's family because of the crash lose their fortune, Ace commits suicide, Ginny is killed in a car accident, his mother leaves the town, and Bud himself had his opportunity for ranching cut short because of his father's aspirations for him, he was obeying reluctantly, but on his return he takes it up. Deanie returns home from the asylum two years and six months later and goes to meet Bud, he is now married to Italian immigrant wife Angelina (Zohra Lampert), they met while attending Yale University, they have a child and are expecting another, Deanie says she is going to marry a doctor she met in the institution in Cincinnati, in their reunion they realise living separate lives has made them both happier. Also starring Audrey Christie as Mrs. Loomis, Fred Stewart as Del Loomis, Joanna Roos as Mrs. Stamper, Jan Norris as Juanita Howard, Gary Lockwood as Allen 'Toots' Tuttle and Sandy Dennis as Kay. Wood is terrific being emotionally unstable and psychologically fragile, and Beatty indeed makes his first screen appearance a memorable one as the young man sexually frustrated and trying to get organised, supporting cast members like Hingle are good, the story I will agree for its time is simplistic in its delivery of then very controversial subjects, .e.g sexuality, abortion, young love, but the story has enough engaging scenes to keep you gripped, an interesting period drama. It won the Oscar for Best Writing, Story and Screenplay - Written Directly for the Screen, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"The movie that spawned a genre - Contains Spoilers","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before Love Story, before a Walk to Remember, before Endless Love, there was Splendor in the Grass - the original teen-romance drama. In its day (1961), Splendor in the Grass was THE hot movie. Unfortunately, its once radical themes, such as teen sexuality, seem quaint now in contrast to the likes of Cruel Intentions and American Pie. Nevertheless, forty years later, the film holds up surprisingly well. Splendor in the Grass centers on the quintessential 'rich boy falls in love with poor girl' plot line, but it has the benefit of being far more sophisticated and believable than its fellow sappy teen flicks. The film first introduces you to a sleepy town in Kansas, in 1928. From there it follows the heartfelt, and ultimately heart-wrenching romance between Natalie Wood and Warren Beatty. One would not rank this among Elia Kazan's finer works, a la On the Waterfront, Streetcar Named Desire, or East of Eden, but the film does offer that restrained, almost haunting quality that Kazan is so genius at. Wood and Beatty are young and beautiful, and their love for each other is vivid and palpable on screen. You'll find yourself pulled into their emotions, and eventually falling in love with either Beatty or Wood yourself. However, this is perhaps why Splendor leaves you so very disappointed in the end, the movie's one downside. For all the intensity of their love, the saga closes with each party going their separate ways. There is an implied message in this, which links to the title of the film. But message or not, one cannot escape the bittersweet sadness of Splendor's conclusion. And, if you are like me, you will find yourself in tears, screaming at the script writers to change the ending. I won't kid you; if you're looking for a fun Saturday night movie, look elsewhere. The movie's rather melancholy feel and often tedious pace will not leave you in an energized or upbeat mood. But if a good, classic tear-jerker about life and love is what you want, you've come to the right place. And if you're really going all out, Splendor in the Grass would make an interesting double bill with Giant or Bonnie and Clyde. "},{"Title":"Always drink plenty of milk, Deenie","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  By the time I was 13, I had already seen this movie at least five times. It was one of the movies that made me love movies.  The movie breaks my heart at the pain and suffering Bud and Deenie experience.  The two actors are perfection and so is Pat Hingle.   "},{"Title":"Splendor in the Grass","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Pure soap on a rope, ala A Summer Place with Troy Donahue and Sandra Dee..this time roles are reversed with Warren Beatty and Natalie Wood as the distraught young lovers. Wonder if director Elia Kazan considered using Donahue for this film. This film however reaches a much higher emotional plane for Wood and Beatty over a Summer Place. Hollywood was making soap on a rope regularly in the late 50s and early 60s, with such stuff as Summer Place, Imitation of Life Parrish (with Donahue again) and Splendor in the Grass. You have got to admire how much emotion Wood put into her character as Deanie Loomis, a distraught, young in love teenager in this film. Warren Beatty in his first film seems to be on less of an emotional plane as Bud Stamper, Wood's love interest. You could see Kazan stretched Beatty to the limit to get the most out of his acting abilities. Story lines are about the same....young lovers fighting meddling parents, teachers, doctors, authorities, you name it to nail down a life for themselves. Supporting cast is top notch...Pat Hingle as the father from hell, ala Constance Ford in Summer Place..putting near impossible demands on his beloved son as a loud, arrogant, meddling parent. The young couple's sexuality is stretched to the limit...don't have sex - do anything possible to avoid it..you might embarrass your parents....ugh! No time was a good time for anything for the young lovers Wood and Beatty. Gotta wonder too what going to a mental institution in the 1930s would be like...got a feeling it was not all peaches and cream like the movie mostly portrays. Natalie Wood is at her best as an actress in this film...her not getting an Oscar for this role is a crime. Zora Lampert as Beatty's eventual wife is a gem...you gotta feel for her - pregnant and barefooted when Wood comes calling on her former boyfriend Beatty at the end of the film......both Wood and Lampert try to keep their composure as the former lover and jilted wife living on a farm. Ask any teenage girl in the early 60s about what they liked better. A Summer Place or Splendor and you might get a long discussion. Definitely Kleenex material for the girls at the time. Outstanding film though. "},{"Title":"Gut-wrenching. Natalie Wood is flawless.","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Natalie Wood delivers one of cinema's defining performances in a film about sexual awakening and the emotional/mental anguish that comes as a result of sexual repression. The story itself is one that any teenager can relate to. A struggle of morality against the sexual urges and desires that come so rapidly and pulsate on your mind every second of every day. Splendor in the Grass centers around the relationship between Deanie Loomis (Wood) and Bud Stamper (Warren Beatty, who's debut performance also happens to be his career best) and the roller coaster this couple takes in what eventually leads to Bud's severe depression and a psychotic break for Deanie.The two battle a constant struggle of morality against their sexual awakening, surrounded by the pressures of both of their parents (Deanie to keep her cherry until she's married, Bud to pop off a seed in order to relax) and the promiscuity of those around them. This struggle ultimately takes huge tolls on both of them. Bud suffers from extreme physical trauma, and eventually decides to let out his sexual urges with the loosest girl in town, Juanita Howard. News of this sexual awakening enrages Deanie and her undying love for Bud results in the aforementioned psychotic break that only gets worse and worse as her parents try to place her back into society. Her parents eventually place her in an institution where she finally does get better, but it's too late for her relationship to be salvaged.She visits Bud's home and, in one of the most painfully realistic anti-Hollywood endings, finds that he is married with a child. He moved on without her, and Deanie finally realizes that she has to move on also. I started this writeup discussing Wood's performance and I will end the same way. Her work is a revelation. Watching this transformation from the pure, innocent and curious girl at the start of the film through all of the emotional trauma and unimaginable heartache into the distinguished woman at the end is utterly heartbreaking and uniquely uplifting. A glorious performance in a wonder of a film. "},{"Title":"Once a masterpiece, now just an historical curiosity","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched Splendor in the Grass for the fourth time last night. I saw it when it first came out and thought it was a masterpiece. I saw in ten year later at a college film festival and it was already starting to show signs of age, largely because of the social changes between 1961 and 1971. Even then the audience was starting to make fun of the movie. What looked bold in 1961 looked dated and repressed in 1971. I saw it perhaps a decade later and it left no memorable impression. Last night I could barely make it through. The characters felt intense to me when I was young. Now it seems to me that they seemed intense only because there was a lack of any real substance to dilute their one emotion. Each character has one defining emotion &#150; Deanie is fragile, all the boys are sexually obsessed, Bud's father in a blow-hard who never stops talking, etc. The characters are so lacking in nuance. Bud is laughable and pathetic in his longing and frustration. The silliness of the high-school girls, squealing and jumping whenever they met was a ridiculous stereotype. These were one dimensional stereotypes not real people. The only black characters are shown learning, wide-eyed at the prospect of witnessing Ginny Stamper's gang rape. I found myself wondering if this could really have been done by Elia Kazan. I even cringed at the things Natalie Wood did to convey youth. It had all the subtly of vaudeville melodrama. On the plus side, I enjoyed Deanie's mother's obsession with the stock market. I understand that this was typical of the 1920's when average people played the market naively, believing they could be come rich, fooled by the market into thinking they were smart when they were only lucky. The portrayal of this aspect of society was more interesting last night than fifty years ago. I also enjoyed Bud's introduction to pizza. We take pizza for granted, forgetting that it did not become common in the US until the 1950s. Bud learns of pizza as a college student when he's living in New Haven. Fifty years ago someone's hearing of pizza for the first time would not have seemed surprising, but it was bit of a treat. Overall, the movie is still interesting because of the time it portrays, but the characters are crudely drawn by current standards, the better movies of its era, or even Kazan's body of work. "},{"Title":"I've Tried to Like This Movie, but I Just Can't  (CONTAINS A SPOILER)","Date":"11 April 2011","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've watched this movie dozens of times over the years, each time expecting to find something redeeming about it. I've narrowed it down to a few things 1) There is NOTHING likable about ANY of the characters.2) Beatty and Wood were a couple in real life at the time, so where's all the passion? There scenes together seem contrived; the dialog is ridiculous in a lot places.3) Warren Beatty has the emotional range of a tree stump. The only film of his I care for is Heaven Can Wait. 4) Natalie Wood's voice always sounds as if she's on the edge of a huge crying jag...even when she's happy (this is true of her performances as a child as well). "},{"Title":"A Closer Look at Family Values, 1920's Style","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An innocent young couple (Wood & Beatty) experience a painful break-up because of repressive norms and insensitive parents in 1920's Kansas, after which the girl goes mad.After about an hour of Pat Hingel shouting his lines, plus heavy emotions spread on like a dump truck, I was ready to chuck the movie. But then when Deanie (Wood) starts to go a little haywire, Wood's extraordinary talents come to the fore, so I stuck around. I'm glad I did. The movie is really a Wood showcase. Catch her subtle and not so subtle facial expressions, certainly one of the most expressive actresses in the business. I just wish Beatty (Bud) could register something besides a deadpan. I know he's supposed to be over-awed by his tyrannical father (Hingle), still it's hard to know what he's thinking at any point.Playwright Inge clearly bore a lifetime stamp of his Mid-West upbringing. And judging from some of his works, his regard for the period is not very favorable. Here the problem, for Deanie especially, is sexual repression, a not unknown factor for that time (1920's) and place (Kansas). The conflicted Deanie reacts to the stifling norm in one way; Bud's sister (Loden) reacts in another by becoming a loud and uncaring tramp. Either way, they're both reacting, but in different ways, to the same social norm. Then there's the young man, Bud (Beatty), who reacts by becoming a good obedient son, likely because of his scandalous sister's shenanigans. Trouble is he's not sensitive enough to Deanie to realize the effect their heated make-out sessions are having on her. After all, if he were to do what he wants instead of what Dad wants, they would marry and settle down on Dad's neglected farm. But he only gets a will of his own once he's freed of his family's influence, (and so much for Mid-Western family values among the Stampers). Dad Stamper (Hingle) is quite a case. He acts like he's god and everybody else is hard of hearing. But his quick riches from oil have given him power that his unrefined ways haven't prepared him for. So he rides roughshod over everyone else, including his son. But like many newly rich he wants his son to rise on the social scale. So he insists that Bud go to Yale and meet the right people. Naturally, that means dropping Deanie who's just a local girl from an ordinary Kansas family. Dad's advice to Bud is that if his hormones are acting up, there's a type woman who'll take care of that. Dad really doesn't care what Bud wants. After all, Dad's newly-found riches prove he's a man of superior judgment.In Deanie's case, it's not a tyrannical father that plagues her; instead, it's a foolish mother who can't seem to get past her own need for a little girl and realize that her daughter has her own needs and feelings. Mom's just too consumed by her own needs to recognize Deanie's, who cares nothing about social climbing and only wants to marry her true love, Bud. So what if they have a little premarital sex; they are going to marry, she thinks. Dad Loomis recognizes the problem, but is too passive to challenge his insensitive wife. So a difficult situation for Deanie goes from bad to worse, also because of a selfish family.To me, the ending is one of the more challenging on record. Is the story finally a tragedy or simply an expression of splendor in the grass. It's hard to tell which, since both can be argued from what appears on screen. Either way, it's one of the more wrenching closings of that period or any period. Class and sex, two of America's most consuming factors, enter crucially into the outcome, showing that Inge was indeed a master of his Mid-Western background. Anyway, if you can put up with a sometimes dawdling pace and Hingle's egregious over-acting, the payoff is an unusually thoughtful one, and a showcase for the fabulous but ill-fated Natalie Wood. "}{"Title":"Carnal Knowledge","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Natalie Wood starred in a number of films which were unconsciously about a then brewing sexual revolution. Marjorie Morningstar and Splendour in the Grass, for example, see her playing young girls who attempt to reconcile promiscuity with more conservative, social mores. Love With The Proper Stranger, meanwhile, saw Wood playing a woman who struggles with sex and abortion out of wedlock, This Property is Condemned finds her playing a young woman who is essentially used as a prostitute by her mother, whilst Wood's Bob and Carol and Ted and Alice sees Wood playing a upper class woman who embraces sexual orgies and the free love, hippie ethos.One of the silliest of these films, Eli Kazan's Splendour in the Grass stars Wood as Deanie Loomis, a teenage girl who is madly in love with Bud Stamper (Warren Beatty), the son of a wealthy land owner. The duo want to get married, Deanie because she's madly in love with Bud, Bud because he's a raging cauldron of hormones. Unfortunately this is 1920s Kansas, a period in time when it was apparently unacceptable for good people like Deanie and Bud to either have sex out of wedlock or get married before going to university.What's silly about the film, though, is this because he and Deanie are unable to have sex, Bud hooks up with another girl, has sex with her, then abandons Deanie. Deanie, meanwhile, goes crazy and suffers from sexual hysteria. We're expected to believe that being denied intimacy with her man is sufficient cause for hysterical behaviour and institutional confinement, an antiquated notion even when the film was released.Still, the film has a number of interesting moments and subplots. It is hinted that Deanie's hysteria is partially due to a kind of psychological rape. She's trapped in a double bind, various characters and forces demanding celibacy, whilst other forces demand the opposite. Such oppositional, contradictory and absolutist positions thus lead to Deanie going crazy (a quite rational response!). Indeed, it is even implied that Deanie is herself not ready to have sex with Bud, and is acting only out of unconditional love or a kind of culturally engendered submissiveness.This is all mirrored to a character called Ginny, who becomes sexually promiscuous, smokes, drinks and has an abortion. We think Ginny's reacting against puritanical parents and a conservative culture, until we learn that her promiscuity was caused by being scarred by men. The implication is that women, victims of patriarchal conditioning and control, are driven to either hysteria, conservatism or uninhibitedness, by outside, masculinist forces. Complicating matters, the largest constricting force on Deanie is her mother, a subtly manipulative woman.Splendour in the Grass was based on a play by William Inge. It is well shot, entertaining and well acted by Beatty and Wood, but perhaps has little to offer modern, sexually savvy, Western audiences.7.5/10 - An interesting time capsule. "},{"Title":"A Case for the Federal Trade Commission?","Date":"16 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" WE CAN WELL remember when this picture was playing at the neighborhood movie houses. It was during the Summer of 1962 that the movie, particularly the somewhat enigmatic title, caught our fancy.GEE, NOW, WHAT could this mean? We knew that it was about 'younguns', teens that is, sorta like us. Costarring Natalie Wood and Warren Beatty, it appeared to be aimed at the youth set. Surely there'd be lots of hugging, kissing and all of that stuff! WELL, THE PROBLEM was that we (that is I) never did get to see It while it was still playing at the local show. For some reason, the film and this writer stayed strangers until just recently; when Turner Classic Movies had it on one evening.FINALLY WE GOT together and what a surprise there was; for instead of the title's being a reference to heavy kissing, hugging and other things, it was some sort of egghead's quotation about the wonders of life! OH, WELL, YOU can't win 'em all! THE PICTURE IS, however, a sort of epic family story that covers the lives of several characters in a rural community over the years. It goes from one generation to the next, passing the torch of life and the mantle of family leadership from father to son, kind of like BAMBI. It is well made and definitely an A Picture; as are all of those directed by Elia Kazan.THE STORY IS constructed in a fashion that resembles one of those life journey things done by Blankety Blank. It also, perhaps, could have been something written by Edna Ferber; while she was watching DANCING WITH THE STARS.IN THE END, we enjoyed the story-if only for having seen it for the first time and after all of these years/decades have passed. It will never be a favourite of ours (like DESTINATION TOKYO and DONDI); but then, few are. "},{"Title":"Love is a Splendored Thing","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An emotional high school student is devastated when family and society force an end to her romance with a rich boy. Wood is effective as the fragile young woman, playing a variation of her West Side Story character of the same year. In his film debut, Beatty establishes the bland persona that he would hardly stray from throughout his career. However, the blandness is well suited to the role of the hunky son of an oil family. Hingle is all bluster as Beatty's father. Faring better are Christie as Wood's mother and Loden as Beatty's lush of a sister. The story is set in the 1920s but feels like the 1950s. It also comes across too much like a soap opera. Kazan's direction is surprisingly restrained. "},{"Title":"Tear Jerker","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie will really make you cry. Warren Beatty and Natalie Wood are wonderful as the two doomed young lovers. It is very textured and layered. Beautiful direction by Eliza Kasan. I highly reccomend it. "},{"Title":"a minority opinion, it would seem","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I got impatient with this film. It and Rebel without a Cause, which does not bore me, should be twinned as Parents without a Clue. At one point, Bud's dad tells Bud that if he knocks Deanie up, he'll have to marry her, which is what he wants to do, so why not do it? They both want it.Also, I thought it played much more 1961 than 1929, and the actors were just toooooo old to play high school students. Perhaps I should have seen it at 15 instead of 50. I will grant that it was beautifully done.  "},{"Title":"Really is a splendid film","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Splendor in the Grass is my fourth Elia Kazan film, the other three being A Streetcar Named Desire, On the Waterfront and East of Eden. All three of those are wonderful films, On the Waterfront even being one of the best films of the 50s, and-apart from it being a little too long and psychologically simplistic in places-so is Splendor in the Grass. It looks absolutely beautiful and is technically accomplished, with the 20s setting actually looking like the 20s, and David Amram's score is romantic, lyrical and emotionally searing while allowing the drama to speak for itself. The script rightly won an Oscar, it is a very intelligently written film with no padding, it's both thought-provoking and poignant and it draws and develops the characters remarkably- bringing humanity and flesh-and-blood-quality to potential stereotypes- the most interesting being Deanie. The story takes its time to unfold but it's all worth it, it is done so gracefully, the romantic elements are sweet without being cloyingly so and it is also one of the most moving films I've seen. Especially the ending which is heart-breaking. Kazan's direction is remarkably sensitive, more so than his occasionally heavy-handed direction in East of Eden. The powerful performances in Splendor in the Grass also help, the standouts being Pat Hingle and especially Natalie Wood. Hingle is quite terrifying as the formidable father figure and Wood has never been more tender and it is a contender for her best performance(the bath-tub breakdown was another truly moving moment in the film, and the emotion felt genuine and not forced). Warren Beatty makes a most credible feature debut, acting with understated poise, while Audrey Christie dominates the screen while giving her maternal character depth and Barbara Lodon relishes her role too. All in all, a splendid film that is beautifully made and really tugging at the heart-strings. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Wood's Performance is the Highlight","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Splendor in the Grass (1961) *** (out of 4) A poor Kansas girl (Natalie Wood) is dating the good-looking, rich kid (Warren Beatty) in town but both of their parents find something wrong with the other. With their whole lives ahead of them the boy breaks things off, which sends their lives down different paths as he follows a life he doesn't want while she slowly loses her mind. This isn't the greatest film ever made but it's certainly worthy of watching for a number of reasons including the marvelous performance by Wood and of course the screen debut of Beatty. I was a little surprised to see that William Inge won an Oscar for his screenplay because I honestly thought this was one of the things that held the film back. I think it's safe to say that the film wanted to shine the light on mental illness and it also might have wanted to tell teens that their parents aren't always right. The problem I had with the screenplay is that Wood's mental illness seems to come out of no where. One day she's happy and normal and then the boy breaks up with her and right off the bat she falls off the deep end. At first you'd think that she was just going through a heartache but there's nothing here to show why or how she ended up in an asylum for over two years. There was nothing early on to warn us that she might have some sort of problem so when she falls so far it's somewhat hard to swallow. I think the screenplay also goes on a tad bit too long but other than these issues this here is a pretty solid picture. The main reason to watch this is for the performance of Wood who has never been better in her career. She does a remarkable job playing the girl and this is especially true during the pre-asylum scenes where she comes off like a fresh rose. I thought Wood did a terrific job playing the sweet girl and when we see her struggling over her sexual feelings the actress nailed this perfectly. When the breakdown happens the actress handles this extremely well too. Beatty is pretty good as well, although I thought he struggle with a few of the more dramatic moments with his father. Beatty certainly had the looks for the part and you can't help but feel he's trying to give a James Dean type performance. Pat Hingle is terrific as Beatty's father and Sandy Dennis, Phyllis Diller and Eugene Roche have small roles as well. Kazan handles the material quite well but there were a few times where I was questioning if he was the right person for this type of melodrama. I thought he let a few scenes go on a tad bit too long but it turned out he was perfect for the ending at least. I won't ruin the ending for anyone but it was incredibly powerful and touching without going for any of the melodrama. Instead, we're given a fairly quiet little scene that packs a terrific punch by saying very little. "},{"Title":"Histrionics in the grass","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think this might be one of the most overrated films I've ever seen. To begin with, thank goodness nobody hurt themselves trying to make 1961 look like 1929--I think all they did was borrow some old cars.This hypersexualized and ridiculous movie falls into the _Romeo and Juliet_ trap of confusing hormone- and boredom-driven teenaged lust with love. Bud and Deanie aren't loves-of-a-lifetime They're first infatuations. Bud is handsome but there is nothing in Beatty's portrayal that suggests he actually loves Deanie instead of just being afraid that he might lose his adorable possession to some other dead-eyed high school boy. His adult love for Angelina, who took him in when he was depressed, displaced, and lonely, seems far more believable even though the movie makes it clear we're supposed to think he settled and gave up his true love for something practical.There is nothing emotionally gripping or even interesting in any of the acting, either. Warren Beatty is wooden and expressionless. Natalie wood swings from dim-witted, overwrought, childishness to overwrought hysterics, but after awhile you just want her to be quiet and go away. I suppose this had its place in 1961 but it hasn't aged very well. "},{"Title":"The Nice and the Bad","Date":"14 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Splendor in the Grass is a romantic drama with certain similarities to A Place in the Sun from ten years earlier. Both deal with a similar poor girl loves rich boy storyline which ends tragically, although the nature of the tragedy is different in the two films. As one might expect, the later film is more sexually explicit, although not as explicit as it might have been had it been made later in the decade. In 1961 the Production Code was still in effect, so although there is a lot of talk about sex, there are no actual sex scenes.The film is set in the Kansas of the late 1920s. The main characters are two teenage lovers, Deanie Loomis and Bud Stamper. Bud is the son of the wealthiest family in the area, his father having made a fortune from the oil business, whereas Deanie is from a lower-middle-class background. The story can be seen as a study of the sexual attitudes of the period. The older generation divides women into two types, nice girls and bad girls. The essential characteristic of a nice girl seems to be total asexuality; she has no desire for sex before marriage and even after marriage only gives in to her husband's desires in order to produce children. Young men wishing to engage in pre-marital sex are advised to find a bad girl for the purpose. Men, however, will never marry a bad girl because in their hearts they do not respect sexually active women; only nice girls have any chance of getting married. The scriptwriter William Inge seems to have regarded these attitudes as being those of an unenlightened older generation, but they probably still persisted in some quarters in the early sixties. Indeed, despite the so-called sexual revolution they, in some quarters, persisted during my own teenage years in the seventies and eighties.Deanie is desperately in love with Bud, and wants to have sex with him, but reluctantly follows her mother's advice that the only way to win his heart is to remain a virgin and thereby ensure his continued respect for her. Bud's father, Ace, does not want him to marry Deanie, whose family he regards as insufficiently elevated, but is cunning enough not to say so directly. He consents to Bud becoming engaged to Deanie, but warns him that marriage will have to wait until Bud has completed his studies at Yale University. In the meantime, he can find a bad girl with whom he can satisfy his sexual desires. Bud does not really want to go to university- he has set his heart on a career in farming- but reluctantly accedes to his father's wishes. His relationship with Deanie breaks down, and after further misadventures she is hospitalised with depression. Another theme in the film is the Crash of '29 and the subsequent Great Depression.Inge's title is taken from Wordsworth's Immortality Ode, a poem which plays an important role in the drama. Deanie is asked to explain Wordsworth's lines at school and explains that the poem is about the way in which youthful idealism dies and is replaced by a more mature but harder adult realism, and this is what we see happening to Deanie and Bud; their youthful dreams die and they end the film disillusioned and yet perhaps wiser.The leading characters are played by a sweetly innocent Natalie Wood and the young Warren Beatty in his screen debut. Both acquit themselves well, especially Wood, and although they were in their early twenties rather than their teens they do not, unlike many twenty-something actors called upon to play high school students, appear too old for their roles.And yet this was not a film which I greatly enjoyed. None of the other actors were as impressive; Pat Hingle as Ace, in particular, seemed to be overacting. Inge may have intended his script as an indictment of unenlightened attitudes towards sexuality, but a whiff of fifties moralism still hangs in the air. An example is in the treatment of Bud's sister Ginny (played by Barbara Loden, wife of the director Elia Kazan). Ginny is what in the twenties would have been called a flapper or modern girl; she smokes, drinks, is sexually promiscuous and has even had an abortion. Had this film been made a few years later, Ginny would probably have been a major character, an early example of sexual liberation, but as things are she is treated less as a character in her won right than as a symbol, the ultimate bad girl and an awful warning to Deanie of the dire fate that awaits her should she give in to her sexual desires. Ginny plays a relatively large part in the first half of the film, but then fades out.In its sexual themes Splendor in the Grass has something in common with the cycle of films based on the plays of Tennessee Williams which were so popular with film-makers in the fifties and sixties. (One of the best of these, A Streetcar Named Desire, was also directed by Kazan). Yet Williams' plays, although often overwrought and hysterical, at least have a vigour which is largely lacking from Inge's gloomy rural melodrama. Kazan is never able to bring the story to life in the way he brought Streetcar to life. The film is only just over two hours in length, but seems longer, and the storyline, at first compelling, breaks down and becomes muddled and confusing about halfway through. The second half, especially in the scenes of Deanie in the hospital, becomes dull and lacking in vitality. That Inge won an Oscar for Best Original Screenplay ahead of the writers of the masterly Ballad of a Soldier can only be explained by a Cold War reluctance on the part of the Academy to hand out Oscars to Soviet citizens. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Let's not talk about it","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Intrusive, oppressive parents who live vicariously through their children and in terror of what the gossips and neighbors will think...Such are the good, upstanding citizens in this sad story about soul murder and hypocrisy in small-town Kansas.This moving 1961 film, whose title comes from a line from Wordsworth, has strong performances all around, not only from Natalie Wood and Warren Beatty, but also from the woman who plays Beatty's seriously self-destructive sister.The film paints a devastating portrait of the consequences of not talking about problems and acting them out instead. "}{"Title":"decent drama despite the overdramatics","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is too long, and too self-important (as all Kazan movies are) but enough of it is striking that it's easily worth renting. The characters are beside themselves with adolescent horniness. Wood is slated to end up with Beatty, though they're from opposite sides of the tracks. It fails both as a sexual cautionary tale and as Kazan's usual controversial sexual provocation, but it withholds just enough that it becomes something else, that I can't put my finger on. The final visit to Bud's farm in which fates have changed and characters have become more knowing is sublime and enigmatic. Wood is pretty good. Beatty is only adequate or weak in all his scenes.Unfortunately the effort to tie it all to the problems of the twenties is unnecessary and time-consuming. The '20s never looked more like the '60s. And every single scene with Bud's family is unwelcome and unsubtle. Pat Hingle is horrible as the too-Freudian cause of Bud's troubles. In case you missed that Hingle is a repulsive human being (it's not possible, it's a grotesque performance) his big scene features him with egg-salad hanging off his lip. The schoolgirl on schoolgirl nastiness will reappear in Carrie. "},{"Title":"Chick soap","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A later entry, a more respected and over-rated soap opera about young people's sex urges than similar films like Peyton Place, but clichéd and melodramatic as well, in spite of William Inge's Award-winning screenplay. Interesting for seeing young performers giving their best in their mainstream break Warren Beatty, Sandy Dennis, Gary Lockwood, Zohra Lampert, Sean Garrison, Barbara Loden (Kazan's wife and also a filmmaker) and handsome Charles Robinson as Natalie Wood's future husband. Surprisingly flat color cinematography by Boris Kaufman.  "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie in school. It was part of the health course. It tells the story of Bud and Deanie. Bud is a rich jock and scholar. He even has a great girl. You would think he had it all, but he doesn't. He has a flapper for a sister that drinks like a fish. He has a father that won't give him the time of day. He wants to go to an agricultural school and marry his girl, but his father wants him to go to Yale. Deanie doesn't have it bad really. She's floating on a cloud of love. She's pouring her heart out over Bud. That's until Bud leaves her. Warren Beatty left her in real life too when they had an affair. What a jerk he was on and off screen. Natalie Wood is stunning, absolutely stunning. I've seen pretty actresses before, but Natalie is beautiful. In West Side Story she is Maria. She says to Tony in one part while she's crying, Hold me. Tighter. I would have held her and never let go. This Bud character is a real dope. He leaves her and he doesn't just upset her, he gives her a nervous breakdown. She can't think in school, she can't eat, she can't sleep. In the movie as you watch things start out happy things just get bad later until the worst comes. The Great Depression. You can't make a movie about the roaring twenties without including that. Deanie just gets worse. I felt terrible seeing such a pretty girl like that lose it. I think Bud deserved to get belted.As soon as I saw the credits to this movie come on I saw two names that caught my eye. Elia Kazan and Natalie Wood. Elia Kazan I knew for great movies like Streetcar Named Desire, East of Eden, On The Waterfront, Baby Doll, and Viva Zapata. Natalie Wood I knew from Rebel Without A Cause and West Side Story. Rebel Without A Cause and West Side Story are also favorites of mine. Well this is a movie you could add to their lists of their best. Kazan always has a sure fire hit. He is a great director and he uses my favorite actors, Marlon Brando and James Dean. Karl Malden is another actor he uses that I like. Kazan also made a movie that is my favorite and one of the greatest movies ever made, On The Waterfront. He made East of Eden which is one of my favorite movies with my favorite actor Jimmy Dean. Natalie Wood really was something. I think she makes this movie for me. Beatty really doesn't impress me though. He does a descent job, but I just don't think he was that good. See this movie. It is a classic. I also think youths should see this movie. Very well made movie. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love watching old movies that I have heard about and wanted to see this movie. After watching it, I thought it was just average. Not sure what made it so popular. The only redeeming quality I found in the movie was the struggle that teens have to do the Right Thing. I think teens still have values that they struggle with. I did think the plot line was a little goofy. I thought Deenie really had some mental issues and thought it was smart that Bud's dad saw this character flaw in Deenie and discouraged his son from continuing seeing her. I think it would have been nice to develop the other characters a bit more also, which never happens. I think in the overall it was worth watching, just not as good as I was expecting. "},{"Title":"Okay, but not great","Date":"24 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An okay, but not great, drama. While it tackles a few interesting themes - love, insanity (and how they're related...), domineering parents, independence - it just feels choppy in its storytelling. The pacing just feels uneven, and some of the themes not fully developed. The movie also seems to run out of steam at a point.This is in part rescued by the great performance by Natalie Wood (which got her an Oscar nomination) and the solid performance by Warren Beatty, in the lead roles. This was Beatty's big screen debut.Support is a bit hit-and-miss. Pat Hingle is incredibly irritating as the overbearing father. One could blame the writer or director for that, but he seemed way over-the-top. "},{"Title":"Elia Kazan is a genius.","Date":"23 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The master of geniuses, I would say. He managed to make this 2 hours 3 minutes long picture about dumb characters repeating the same lines over and over with variations a success, gaining thousands of teenage fans all over the world, fascinated with the winning theme of true love, that magically turns any stinker like this into something beautiful, transcendental, the best movie of all time. Well, this is not my kind of movie, I'm just a guy that was practically forced to watch this turkey, so I want to have fun now reviewing it and making you upset. Now, here's basically how these characters act or what are able to say for 2 hours . Deanie I love Bud. Oh, how I love Bud. I'd do anything for Bud. Except having sex with him. I miss Bud. Oh, by the way, did I mention I love Bud? Well, here I go again!! I love Bud!!. For 2 hours. Yeah, I get it girl. . Bud (or Warren Beatty)I wanna get laid. Should I call a hooker? Deanie doesn't let me. Dad, I don't wanna go to Yale. I just wanna have sex. Is it so hard to understand? Oh the hell with it, I'M WARREN MACHO BEATTY AND I DEMAND TO HAVE SEX IN THIS MOVIE!!!. Sure you do. . Deanie's mother Puritan warp level 10, Mister Sulu.. Deanie's father He doesn't say much. I was supposed to love him at the end. I was too busy rolling my eyes. . Bud's father I love money. Oh, how I love money. I'm gonna make a millionaire out of you, son. SHE LOOKS JUST THE SAME, SHE LOOKS JUST THE SAME!!! Go to Yale. Call a hooker. Eat your breakfast. Win your football. Alright, shut up man. . Bud's mother I don't remember. She loved everybody, I think.. Bud's sister Drunk, rebel, slutty girl stereotype. Meh.. Bud's dog He didn't have any. But thinking about it, Bud is more like a dog's name actually. Here Bud, catch the ball, Bud. Oh, yeah, definitely. Anyway, I thought for a picture to be the best movie of all time at least Bette Davis, Orson Welles, or even Brando had to be on it. But no, it seems like these guys beat them all. OK, to each his own. "},{"Title":"Dated","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not one of these people only aware of the films made after he was born.  I like old movies.  I *love* old movies.  I think in a lot of ways older films are 100 percent better than what's being made today.  Part of the fun of watching older movies for me is seeing them in their proper context.  When I watch the original Psycho for instance, I put what I know about Friday the 13th or even the remake of the film out of my head.  Being a member of a 1960 audience who's never seen anything like Psycho keeps me from making unfair comparisons to more modern films.  This is why so many younger audiences have so much trouble with Citizen Kane.  I don't get it, what's the big deal? they might complain.  Well, that's because they're not taking into consideration that *nobody* was making *anything* like that back in 1941.Having written that, Splendor in the Grass feels pretty creaky.  I'm sure the subject matter and the dialogue was pretty groundbreaking in 1961, but it doesn't pack much of a wallop in 2002.  I did like the characters and especially liked Natalie Wood's performance.  I felt sorry for them because their lives weren't what they could have been simply because neither one of them felt they were able to just stand up for what they wanted  each other.It's not a bad movie, but I don't think I'd recommend it. "},{"Title":"Kazan Stoops to Schlock","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This turgid melodrama is not worthy of Elia Kazan, who abandons completely his restrained, disciplined directorial style to deliver this Rebel Without a Cause wannabe.Natalie Wood does what she did best in this film -- look gorgeous. But her performance, lauded in its day, is nearly embarrassing now, as she overacts her way through one emotional freak out after another as a hot and bothered teen trying to deal with raging hormones. Warren Beatty appears in an early film role, but doesn't do much more beyond giving the ladies something to look at.The teen angst films that dominated in the mid-1950s blow this film out of the water.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Why do we love?","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Why do we love? That's the question I asked myself when Splendor in the Grass finished.The story is just beautiful. A girl falls in love with a boy. They start dating together, but the most obvious and sexist thing appears the sex. He wants sex, she wants not. So What Does He Do? He searchs for another girl. Then, she goes mad.To keep our virginity was an important thing in the past, but no nowadays. No one's considerated good people if he's virgin or if he's not. Just if you're happy... That's why the end shocked me so much.At the end, everybody has a secret (and eternal) love... who stay with us until our death... "},{"Title":"Pat Hingle's scenes went on too long","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film reminded me of Kazan's East of Eden in some respects.Apparently he liked to direct young actors.In East of Eden it was James Dean and his brother and his brother's girlfriend vs his father Raymond Massey.Here it is Natalie Wood and Warren Beatty versus their parents.I think Kazan miscalculated somewhat in the earlier Pat Hingle scenes, letting them go on too long after the point was already made.Natalie Wood was definitely beautiful.At the end she sees Bud living in squalor, with his Bud Jr. an urchin playing with a barnyard animal inside the house under the kitchen table.Pat Hingle drove Bud nuts and Natalie's mother did the same for her.I really thought at times the scenes for each could have been cut a bit.In addition the scenes involving Bud's sister went on much too long after they had already made their point.Toots looked liked he was about 37 years old rather than the high school kid he was supposed to be.It appeared that when Deanie (Natalie) returned home from the mental hospital she was very calm and adult.She treated her mess of a mother at that point like she (Deanie) was the adult.And in the scene where her father spoke up and told her where Bud was living, she went over to him and treated him like she was the adult there as she thanked him.Overall I think the obnoxious parents (Hingle and Deanie's mother) were laid on a little too thick.The overall result of the movie is definitely in a depressing direction.Natalie Wood looked terrific and was terrific as an actress here. "}{"Title":"a film with serious consequences","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't really know where to begin - this film is so full with lies! Judging from other reviews I've seen of this movie I will have to start from the beginning, so to speak. In a society where there is no difference amongst people, no rich and poor, no powerful and exploited, no perpetrators and no victims - in such a society, a powerless society, this film would be, to say the least, obsolete unless in order to show what deceit power-society was able to induce amongst people. In a truly powerless society, sexuality would be truly free and as natural as a handshake - but to understand this you will have to imagine, and I mean truly imagine, such a thing as a powerless society. Enough said about that. We do not live in a powerless society. Now to the basics Deception is so widespread today, that many people think, that sex is on equal terms for women and men. If a man, however, is not turned on, there is no sex. The turning on puts the woman at a disadvantage. She has to follow the dance, either by being enough attractive in order to be raped (in which case she does nothing but being just attractive), seduced (in which case she is lured to do some more or matrimonial (in which case she tries to follow her man in the dance with, hopefully, loving affection). She may even seem to lead the dance if that is what makes her man be turned on. But she is always a follower in some way - the necessary turning on, regretfully does not allow her to be something else. If all men, without any exception whatsoever, couldn't help to be turned on through certain stimulation, then things would be different. Some young men, bursting with hormones, may think so but if that was so, then very unattractive women would have no problem finding a partner, which is only true now, if there are no more attractive women around.If not consciously, then at least biologically, we all know this and in the men's world there are therefore shamed women. In the men's world it is hard to trust a woman, who has given herself to other men. Only if a man is unattractive enough or bursting with morality, more than he 2can handle in the long run, will he accept to marry and take care of everybody's baby ('...but mine', quoting Jerry Lee Lewis).Now for some more necessary biology in order to understand this Men can give rise to innumerable off-spring, women to just a few. According to the selfish-gene theory of biology (and I have found no reason to doubt it, since it's logical, even if I doubt most everything else that the author of that theory has contrived) every individual of a species has a biological urge to reproduce its own genes as much as possible. Because of the above difference between men and women, their strategy to achieve this is different. A man's strategy is easy get as many off-spring as possible in the next generation. A woman's strategy is much more complex. She thinks vertically where the man thinks horizontally. She must give rise to generations upon generations and for that the off-spring must be able to survive to a reproductive age and be attractive enough to, in their turn, give rise to offspring and so forth so that, in the end, there will be as many grandchildren as, for instance, the man has already in one generation (which, if he doesn't take care of them and the women he's with do not either, will maybe not all survive to a reproductive age). And now comes something especially important In order to have her children arrive to a reproductive age, the woman must have good relations to the herd, because if the herd is against her she and her children will perish. Therefore, a woman, once she has children, is biologically less revolutionary inclined against society, as men (sometimes) are. So, now we are finally somewhat prepared for dealing with this film. In order to ensure their biological privilege (see Mozart's Figaro's marriage) old masters had reserved the right to deflower all, not noble, virgins before they were married. This was not very popular with the population and as these got more informed, this practice had to go. A rich and powerful man is however always biologically attractive to women, since he can provide for her children and many masters soon found that what they couldn't get by force, they could very well get by seduction with false promises. And that is where this film starts, one could say. Now, and this is where this film is at least a little truthful, the young rich women did not have it as comfortable as rich young men. They could not lead the dance, since biology wouldn't have it, and so they could not have as much fun. Their money would always assure them a marriage but the more they allowed themselves sexuality before that, the less attractive was their final objective and still is. So what does this movie want? Well, now that you know what I know about these things, the answer is not hard to find a freeway for the rich amongst the poor girls. And now we come to Elia Kazan. In Sweden there was a name for his kind the red-wine lefties, that is men of some power, seemingly engaged in the cause of the poor man (and some films he has made are quite decent in that respect) but when the going gets tough, then comes the sell-out and in this early film you get proof for the ambivalence to come. "}]