[{"Title":"Vive la Vie","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" While waiting for the result of a biopsy, the French singer Florence Cleo (Corinne Marchand) visits the Tarot fortune-teller Irma (Loye Payen); drinks a coffee and buys a new hat with her maid Angèle (Dominique Davray); is visited by her lover (José Luix de Villalonga) and her composers Bob (Michel Legrand) and Plumitif (Serge Kober); visits her model friend Dorothée (Dorothée Blank); and meets and has a brief affair with the military Antoine (Antoinne Bourseiller). Finally she meets Dr. Valineau (Robert Postec), who gives her diagnosis.This is the first movie I see of the Belgium director Agnès Varda, who is considered the grandmother of the French movement Nouvelle Vague. This wonderful original movie actually has the style of the Nouvelle Vague, with the camera following the characters on the streets and common people looking to the camera. I liked the story, developed in real time, a lot, and I believe it is an ode to life, showing along one hour and half, how life is so important although composed by little fragments and feelings. Along this period, you can meet a lover, friends, work or find a new love, be futile or thoughtful, but you are living. This is the message of this great movie enjoy life, as if it were the last two hours you have. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Cleo das 5 às 7 (Cleo from 5 to 7) "},{"Title":"Artifice Unmasks Itself","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Cleo. The woman who is in practically every scene, whether in front of the camera, nervous and flighty, or behind it as it seems to follow her and allow us to know how the world affects her internally.Agnes Varda is the woman behind Cleo, the one who brings us a unique vision of a woman in suspended animation waiting for her medical diagnosis (and subsequent fate). In 90 minutes of real time, she introduces us, first in color (to specify an incident which will preside over all that follows), then in smooth black and white, to the world of this young woman (played by Corinne Marchand) who by the threat of possible death in the future slowly begins a road to a certain self-discovery which will leave her changed at the end.As a matter of fact, Death, one of the cards in the Tarot, features largely throughout without actually coming forth menacingly, but staying quietly, unnoticed, in the background. While everything surrounding Cleo teems of life -- her own apartment, the streets and cafés of Paris -- she in turn seems to be living under the shadow of her own death and superstitions (fed by Angele) and goes from emotional to emotion as if she were to cease to exist at any moment. It is only once she leaves her own confining place and takes to the street that she begins to evolve, and Death seems less and less the threat and more the Thing to conquer. Characters like Dorothee and Antoine only reinforce this in their appearances -- Dorothee by telling her she doesn't believe in superstitions (therefore disproving the psychic's dire predictions at the beginning of the story), Antoine by reinforcing Cleo that since her actual name is Florence, she is Summer, and therefore, Life. "},{"Title":"Why I love French Film","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is a perfect example of why I love French film. In a word, realism. In many words, the desire to capture life's most important, daring, fanciful, yet haphazard moments with the faith that by doing so you are illustrating a timeless notion. Cleo from 5 to 7 plucks a single string from a singer's life and by pulling at it, illustrates the fabric of the beautiful and unique, but predetermined world that it is woven into. What illustrates this best is the third scene of the movie when the heroine flits about a local shop browsing hats. The camera shows her shopping but also captures many reflections that expose the larger world around her. The window pane showcases soldiers marching by, foreshadowing the war in Algiers. The mirrors take snapshots of Cleo with different head-dresses all be-speaking a future she won't choose. In the background, her maid sits disapprovingly. Small details like these, that are often neglected in other movies, are the backbone of this work of art. Cleo from 5 to 7 is a movie about much more than two hours in the lead character's life. It is about the character's whole life as illustrated by two hours. Like Joyce's Uylsses, it finds parallels between the struggles of a day with the struggles of a life.  "},{"Title":"Life and Movement in the shadow of Death","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Cleo from 5 to 7 tells the story of a young French singer, who fears that she may be seriously ill. What could have been maudlin movie of the week soap opera, is transformed by Agnes Varda into a unique movie experience.The film contrasts Cleo's fear of death with the teeming life of the Paris streets, where street entertainers swallow live frogs and puncture their biceps; and the more normal members of the crowd busy themselves with the usual affairs of business and the heart. A large amount of the film takes place outdoors, with Cleo and the people in her life always walking, running or driving. There is a wonderful scene of Cleo-Distraught over an ominous tarot reading by the fortune teller- descending a circular staircase, her shoe heels clicking out a counterpoint to Michel Legrand's pensive music.Sometimes just watching the way someone moves is very revealing. Director Varda has a fluid camera style which enlivens every scene. As often happens in European art films the story unfolds in a slow undramatic fashion, but their is so much going on in the image and the text, that you don't mind. Essential viewing. "},{"Title":"One of cinema's greatest forgotten treasures (possible spoiler)","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  One of the most remarkable documents from cinema's Renaissance, the French New Wave, criminally unsung, probably because it's by a woman.  On paper the film seems schematic - in the first half a popular singer fears she has cancer, but tries to continue her flippant lifestyle; in the second, she realises the shallowness of her life, rejects frippery, and begins to look at the world properly.  But as a viewing experience, we are given unprecedented access into the emotional workings of a heroine's mind.  The film is a mixture of the spontaneous (the lingering wading through the Paris streets, its cafes, crowds, cinemas, street theatres etc.), formal elegance (the extraordinarily complex Ophulsian camerawork, best seen when Cleo visits the hat shop; the play with mirrors and frames) and an Expressionist sensibility (much of what Cleo sees is not 'realistic' observation, but highly coloured by her experiences.  The ending is surprisingly bracing considering its open-ended shadow of death. "},{"Title":"An existential film about looking on the bright side (ironically).","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  To me, this is a movie about looking on the bright side of life... from the point of view of someone who isn't.  We follow Cleo, a beautiful singer, through a day of her life (from 500 to 700) as she waits to find out if she has cancer.  It's a very simple plot, and I think this simplicity is what allows the film to show Cleo's inner turmoil so well.  This movie has strong existential undertones.  In the beginning of the film, Cleo believes her fate is just that fate.  She is superstitious to the point of paranoia. Through the course of the film, she discovers that she is in control of her own life, and even in something that seems out of her control -- like cancer -- she has the freedom to decide how she will look at it and whether or not she will let it ruin her life. "},{"Title":"From ignorance to enlightenment.","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" First scene (shot in color)Cleo visits the fortune-tellerignorance,confusion.Last sceneCleo is a responsible woman now,she's ready to cope with a not-so-rose futureenlightenment. Between the scenes ,one hour and a half (the title is a misnomer).Historically,it's not the first film whose story unfolds in real time (see Robert Wisethe set up).But the concept is here totally mastered. At the beginning of the movie,Cleo is a precious,soft ,selfish young girl.The fortune-teller epitomizes naïvete,a non-scientific attitude.And however,the lady says something important when Cleo draws a skeleton from the tarot packdo not panic,the arms and the legs are still covered with flesh.Your own being is about to change deeply. The fortune tells that to comfort Cleo -later she'll tell her husband cards say death!,and as for me I've seen cancer-and the end would prove she was right though. After leaving the fortune-teller,Cleo meets some people ,most of them indifferent,she cannot communicate her anguish to any of them.Everybody' s busy about himself.They listen to her,but they can't hear her. Then she takes her black glasses off!It's a symbol,now she's ready to see the world as it is.She meets Antoine ,he's a soldier about to return to Algeria to fight in a dirty war.Both are afraid,both have found the comfort they needed so!Now Cleo has opened up,she can face the terrible illness.I'm not afraid anymore,she says,I think that I'm happy "},{"Title":"Waiting to exhale","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Cleo, a young singer in Paris, visits a woman who reads Taro cards. It's clear to the seer that Cleo's future is an enigma, at best, judging by the cards she has picked. When Cleo goes, she even tells her husband she has just seen death, and what's more, cancer, being the cause of it, which is what the young woman fears the most.What follows is Cleo trying to make sense of her life before she hears the inevitable fate she fears. Cleo runs into friends and goes all over Paris at a feverish pace, not knowing what will her doctor tell her is the cause that brought her to see him in the first place. At the same time, Cleo never appears to really be concerned, or evidently has made up her mind about the worst case scenario of her medical condition.It is not until almost the end of the film that Cleo runs into the kind soldier, Antoine, in the park. He is concerned about the conflict in Algeria. Antoine too, must face an uncertain future because he will be sent to fight. Antoine turns out one of the best things that happen to Cleo because of his positive outlook at a time when she feels despondent because of what appears it will be a death sentence.Agnes Varda, a director with a large trajectory in the French cinema, was at her best when she undertook this project. Ms. Varda, a feminist, never received her due by the same people that went to praise her male contemporaries. The film shows the contrast between a Cleo that is expecting such dire news and the life of the city around her. Ms. Varda employed three men to capture the magnificence of the city of Paris as Cleo goes through different parts of the city. This is a Paris that is not the sort of touristy version one is accustomed to seeing in some other glossy pictures. Thus, the black and white cinematography of Paul Bonis, Alain Levent and Jean Rabier show in vivid detail a city alive and in all its splendor while the main character is having doubts about what life has for her in store.Corinne Marchand is perfect as the young Cleo. Ms. Marchand is about the best thing in the film. She is always at the center of almost every frame in the picture. Antoine Bourseiller who appears as Antoine makes a tremendous contribution even when he is only seen at the last moments of the movie. Dominique Davray, Dorothee Blank, have good moments. Michel Legrand shows up as a pianist, as well as the composer of the musical score.Cleo de 5 a 7 is also a fun film where to watch such French film stars as Anna Karina, Yves Robert, Jean-Claude Brially, Danielle Delorme, Sami Frey, the excellent Eddie Constantine, and even Jean-Luc Goddard appear in cameos. In a way, Agnes Varda pays tribute to Mr. Godard by imitating his style in the way she conceives the film.This 1960 film shows the talented Agnes Varda on her own merits in a film that is a tribute to life itself. "},{"Title":"A fabulous film, totally engrossing","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I loved this film.  I wasn't expecting to, but from the very beginning you are drawn into Cleo's world.  You understand a woman whom nobody understands, something that is extremely hard to do but Agnes Varda carries it off beautifully.  Her coworkers don't care for her, her lover isn't really in-tune with her life, and her best friend likes her, but is busy with her own life.  It isn't until she meets the someone new, someone who like herself is about to face a real danger, that she not only faces her problem, but can in a sense conquer it.  It's not an easy film to explain, but it's beautifully done and a true winner.  I heard that they want to remake it with Madonna.  It would be nice for it to be in English, but a remake isn't necessary.  They certainly got it right the first time. "},{"Title":"Cléo is a 10","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Like any of Agnès Varda's movies, this one displays all her talentsas a filmmaker a strong story to contrast the 'flighty' maincharacter; her playfulness with form, which later became acommon technique for Godard's and Truffaut's as well as otherFrench New Wave filmmakers; the same playfulness in casting,as in having the great composer Michel Legrand as Cléo's pop- song writer, or the cameo appearance of Godard, all wonderful, unpretentious and charming moments, inter-leaved within theworries of the narcissistic main character, Cléo. The movie is lessexistential than it is about life, and Varda has masterfullyjuxtaposed a range of moments and emotions and situations tocreate a true classic with Cléo's day from 5 to 7.  "}{"Title":"Cléo de 5 à 7's black and white Paris is an elegant backdrop to this moving, unique story of self-discovery.","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" As the title reveals, Cléo de 5 à 7 takes place between 5pm and 7pm. In this time, we follow a beautiful young singer, Florence 'Cléo' Victoire, as she walks the busy streets of Paris all the while awaiting a dreaded test result from her doctor.Director Agnes Varda, nicknamed Grandmother of the New Wave, combines fluid camera movements with sporadic 'jump cuts' to casually glide us through the streets of Paris, allowing us to delve deep into the scenery. The mobile camera provides a realistic and intimate experience.Florence 'Cléo' Victoire begins her journey embodying a cliché. She is consumed by materialism and almost hypnotized by her own beauty. She is selfish and ignorant to her surroundings. From 5 to 7, Cléo peers deep within herself and in result experiences a kind of enlightenment. She begins to open her eyes to the outside world, observing the hectic streets of Paris, visiting old friends, and in a twist of fate meets a fascinating young soldier preparing to leave for Algeria. The soldier is a beautifully written character. With subtext involving serious topics such as classism and more specifically impoverishment of Algerians (1954-62), one would predict that the film's message was multifaceted, and perhaps intended to serve a cause.However, after watching the film, I've come to that conclusion that Cléo de 5 à 7 is meant to be a celebration of life. The film encourages us to appreciate our blessings without the use of any clichés and without being preachy.Cléo de 5 à 7's black and white Paris is an elegant backdrop to this moving, unique story of self-discovery. If you are a French New Wave lover or just someone who adores Paris, I'd encourage you to watch this film. It is simply stunning.-Joanna C.T. http//addictivefilm.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A film of style and substance","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I have to say that I never tire of watching this film. It is one of those films where form and content, style and substance, merge to form a great work of art.The character of Cleo, a beautiful young singer forced to accept a possible diagnosis of cancer, is both iconic and true to life. I love the shots of her walking the streets, shot from a birds' eye view and you hear the comments of men as she's walking by. Varda's objectifies her from this angle as she pops out from the scene with her puffy wig and polka dot dress, and in the background is just this incredible music. The camera-work is so varied and so strong throughout the film. There are objective angles, subjective angles, there are playful movements of the camera to go with the music, a back and forth with the mirrors in the cafe, in the hat shop, slow, soft, out of focus movements in bed as she waits for her lover, zoom transitions as she sings her song, Slow pans in the art studio. One scene I liked especially was the scattering of the birds as she's walking down the street. It seems to signify, so well, to me a sign of a bad omen tied to almost a mythological scale. These are my scattered impressions of this film, a perfect film in my opinion. "},{"Title":"A great & highly original movie!","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What's wonderful about this film has already been pretty well described in many of the preceding reviews. I'd just like to add two things. First, the songs & performances of Michel LeGrand & his partner are terrific _ they show LeGrand at his most inventive & infectious. Two, after reading several of the previous reviews, it occurs to me that Cléo de 5 à 7 works like a litmus test on its audience. Those who can invest this film with their own life-experiences, who can fill in the blanks with their personal emotions & thoughts, will be richly rewarded. Those who cannot, those who need plenty of exposition & explanations, will find it slow, ponderous, even superficial, because it will literally be over their heads. C'est la vie. "},{"Title":"Desire and Death, Femme and Fatale","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I found this film extremely enchanting, 46 years after its release. We should all age so well. If you are looking for a stylish splash of existentialism, then this gets a major Ye-Ye from me. SPOILERS FOLLOW... Agnes Varda has been a recent revelation for me. This is merely my second film of hers, Sans Toit, Ni Loi being the first. Interesting that in each film the female protagonist is so very alone, the one a drifter and in Cleo a celebrated chanteuse. Although Mona the vagabond scrapes by, Cleo oozes opulence. The scene where she stretches before a stretch, affectionately attended to by her assistant, was remarkable. Cleo's minx quality is boosted by these tiny kittens following her around her apartment (one almost assumes they are given away once they reach six months and their neotenic effect evaporates!) Cleo is not someone we the audience are intended to like, but the camera loves her. As does the wardrobe department for this film. I've seen some variety of posts on this film here and elsewhere, honestly after watching the film my initial thoughts were that the Doctor was tossing Cleo a polite lie, and that indeed the situation was as grave for her as it was for those in Algeria at the time. But then I see other responses and comments including a cogent one on the boards here from a doctor citing all of the things that Cleo, now Flora, has shed...as if she has come out of her luxury cartoon cocoon as a real woman.For me the film rather was about Cleo's vague sensitivity to something being wrong in her solipsistic state, but not understanding it. Caught up in decaying mirrors, and feeling her powers of celebrity fading like the pop of a paparazzi flashbulb...she is reviled by the flesh, and its ultimate decay. For this we have the frog swallower, the drive-by shooting (providing another cracked mirror). And of course her nagging, gnawing pain inside, which in my opinion we are led to believe is nothing. A manufactured malady. Wasn't that the point of the film within the film, the wrong colored glasses effect the wrong results in life?Cleo's flesh is crawling, as a response to the idea that unseen swirling supernatural forces are calling her life. There is the oft-cited tarot opening (in color as it is the decree of the creator/filmmaker, and the mere film is just in black and white). Additionally the superstition about new clothes/hats on Tuesdays (a French thing??), her matchbook plucking loves-me loves-me-not. Perhaps worse than being unseen, the forces and her fate are unknown.So the nearly eerie happy ending is Cleo embracing her mortality, and not just a quick peck on each cheek for death...but a more measured response. Life is short...even two hours is really 90 minutes, but the garden is open for now?Well that was something like my take-away. The film is elusive to me, but so memorable in many ways. Even side scenes like the girlfriend telling off her pushy boyfriend in the cafe, while Angele consoles Cleo in her histrionics, they stick with me still. The female cabbie, had me wondering even today how many female cab drivers there are...I wanted to call a cab company and ask to speak to some of them. Dorothee Blank...her name alone should spin out a film of death and desire, she was a nice contrast to Cleo in this, piloting her own car and her own destiny.My ramblings fail miserably here, as do essays and treaties typically, this is why we need art. Vive le difference, between theory and art...between real and reel...between man and woman!Lastly, there seems to be a dearth Varda, I hope someone will use the force and re-release more of her canon on DVD!8/10 Thurston Hunger "},{"Title":"Recording Artist's 'Bad Hair Day'","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Agnes Varda's 'Cleo from 5 to 7' is the story of Cleo, a relatively unknown pop artist, with a few songs on the radio to her credit, who now faces the very real possibility that she might be suffering from terminal cancer. We follow Cleo in real time, wandering around Paris, waiting for the results of medical tests that will inform her (and the viewer) of her physician's fateful diagnosis.Varda condenses Cleo's journey of anxiety from the two hours of the title (5 to 7) to an actual hour and a half. We learn from the documentary Remembrances (which can be found as part of the DVD extras in the Criterion Collection) that anytime a clock was shown during the film, it would accurately reflect the time elapsed in Cleo's journey.The film begins with Cleo's visit to a Tarot Card reader who reinforces her belief that indeed the diagnosis will turn out to be cancer. Cleo's bad mood is made even worse when two songwriters (one played by a very young Michel LeGrand) come over and tease her as if she's a ten year old child. Cleo stalks out of her apartment and grows more self-absorbed (she plays one of her own songs on a jukebox in a café, expecting to get noticed by the patrons only to find herself ignored by them).Varda focuses on Cleo's internal strife as opposed to developing any kind of compelling conflict between the quirky characters she encounters. For most of the film, Cleo is presented as shallow and narcissistic&#x97;it's hard to like her at all. Instead, Varda is content to draw us into the sights and sounds of a bustling urban landscape. The film is full of snippets of conversation including long forgotten news items (a gift from Khurschev to JFK is mentioned over the car radio) along with non-actors filmed eating their lunch as the fictional story unfolds before our eyes.Despite a plethora of vignettes, there's very little story arc in 'Cleo'. For me, the ending was a bit of a cop out. After all the self-hatred, Cleo's mood changes from positively dour to semi-exuberant. All it takes is the companionship of sweet-talking Antoine, the soldier just back from Algeria, who knows how to 'treat her like a lady' coupled with her oncologist's terse pronouncement that two months of chemotherapy will make her into a new woman! How many people do you know who are positively giddy after being told that they're facing two months of chemo? Varda clearly wants all of us to give 'Cleo' a 'pass'. All the shallowness, the self-absorption of this character is nothing more than a portrait of a woman under extreme stress. Cleo is to be forgiven since she's 'not in her right mind'. Wouldn't you be having a 'bad hair day' if you were facing a cancer diagnosis? Varda doesn't want us to judge Cleo's book by its unhinged cover (remember, it's not REALLY her!).More interesting than the film itself is the documentary Remembrances. I found it fascinating seeing what the actors look like after all these years. It's hard to believe that the film's stars, Marchand and Bourseiller, had not seen each other since the making of the film back in 1961. You'll also get to see how much has changed (and how much as remained the same) in terms of the Parisian landscape over the years.Cleo from 5 to 7 often feels more like a documentary than a fictional narrative. I marvel at the cinematography which appears to be way ahead of its time. But clearly 'Cleo' has been placed on an undeserved pedestal in the pantheon of art house fare. Without compelling conflict, Cleo falls back on the internal arc of a stressed out, petulant pop singer. And despite all the nice visuals, I keep asking, why should anyone care? "},{"Title":"Appearances; desire","Date":"12 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I took a walk after seeing this and felt cleansed like always after a great film, the night fresh. More so than womanhood or death, this is about having lived a life. She believes she's dying from cancer as the film begins, but of course we have to wait until the end to get the hospital results.The Tarot cards of the opening are an entry; artifice, images in place of the real thing, and yet the old woman is spontaneous enough (or contriving) to improvise a story they supposedly tell, some of it vaguely correct, some not, but a story that just so happens to hit on the problem of her suffering and unlock personal truth.The problem is desire, something we think is wrong with life. The filmmaker unveils in the early stages a marvelous space of desire, as poignant as any of Resnais' spaces on memory (the other debilitating facet of mind); the girl in a precious hat shop, safe on this side of the shop glass, gliding among and admiring trinkets we have come up with to dress life, make it more beautiful than it is. Yet of course life has an ugliness we can't dress, but that's not out there, no hat will fix it. It's the constant vexation with things not being just perfect (which is desire for them to be other than they are), a lover who is not always there, a piano player who doesn't fawn over her singing talent. It's not just her of course, at a cafe we hear people complaining about all sorts of things.What underpins this is ego, that self who must be at the center of things, the filmmaker playfully sketches this in a rehearsal scene, where as she sings, with a small pan of the camera we find her singing directly to us as if center stage for an imaginary audience, the center of attention.But there's also, along the way, a bubbly friend who is open enough about things to pose naked for a sculpting class. Another marvelous image here, a naked body which does not have to overthink its place in the room, which can freely let others take away a glimpse that they can chisel into shape, something she can give of her that she doesn't lose.It's all about the view we bring to life, the air of realization through which we see, the appearances we cultivate. This is beautifully rendered in a film-within the two girls see, a silent where a man throws away his dark glasses that obscured the way things really were to find his girl alive and well, she had just tripped, no one died. It's this easy.But how can it be easy when she's dying? The film doesn't clearly reveal, the doctor's unworried look can mean either of the two things. But of course that day will come just the same, it could be months or decades away. What's left then? Having lived a day just like this, having taken walks like these with a soldier in the park, bus rides like these through the first day of summer.This is beautiful stuff, more simple but as deep about the life of appearances and consciousness as Hiroshima mon amour. It reminds me of the cheeky Buddhist saying that explains how there has never been anything wrong from the start.Something to meditate upon. "},{"Title":"Cleo from 5 to 7","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" A beautiful blonde walks down the street. Everyone stares. As Cléo walks through the busy streets of Paris, everyone goes about their day but not without admiring her gorgeous appearance. Her appearance, is so attractive that everyone, even women stare, or is it that the public stares for another reason? Cléo's beauty unmatched through the film suggests a theme of vanity and superficial obsession in which the main character chooses to hide behind, she states Ugliness is a kind of death... As long as I'm beautiful, I'm alive more than others.Cléo from 5 to 7 was directed and written by Agnès Varda, one of the few women writer and directors of her time. The main actors include a famous singer named Cléo, her guardian or maid Angela and there is a brief appearance of the following characters; Antoine, Dorothée, Bob and her lover. The film was released in April, 1962 and has an average rating of 7.9 out of 10 stars which exemplifies a decent film. The film is based on the Cléo's painful two hour wait for the result of a biopsy that will determine whether she has cancer or not. Although clearly in turmoil, Cléo proves to be quite the selfish and vain character. Treating her maid Angela with little to no respect and expecting everyone around her to love her and shower her with attention. Ironically, when she walks the streets, she seems to feel uncomfortable from everyone starting at her and giving her attention. The two hours of waiting time prove agonizing for her as the thought of having a terminal illness crushes her spirits of a healthy and beautiful life. As she walks the streets she is dressed in black as if already mourning her own death. According to Cléo, your beauty is your health. Yet the character changes through the progression of the film as she later realizes that there is also beauty in imperfections. One of my favorite parts of the movie is when Cléo is swinging in her apartment as pair of wings hang on her wall and align perfectly when she is at the highest point of her swing and Angela rocks in her char. This scene proves the child like characteristics of Cléo and the motherly traits that are shown by Angela. The swinging and the rocking set up a perfect paradox between the life of a young lady and the life of an older woman. The music was also beautiful. The song performed in her apartment was a very emotional love song. It seemed like a perfect song for her situation. I recommend this movie, especially to fans of musicals. This movie is geared towards adults since it contains many themes that are not clearly pointed out in the film. I liked the movie because of its theme of the fear of death, which is something that most of us can relate to. I also enjoyed the movie because of the way that it was shot. Some of the scenes make you feel the anxiety that Cléo must have felt throughout the two hours. "},{"Title":"BRAVERY  When the woman who has everything could be losing it all","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Here is the story of a beautiful French singer in the unenviable position of needing to wait two hours until learning the results of a dire medical test.I was reminded of the classic short story The Lady or the Tiger as I spent the time with her, wondering whether she would live or have to face her demise.This film is refreshingly improvisational as we wend our way through Paris as Cleo (Corinne Marchand) visits a tarot-card reader, a café, her own apartment in which she rehearses a song with a pianist played by Parapluies de Cherbourg composer Michel Legrand, an art studio where her friend poses nude, and, finally, a park in which she converses with a soldier on leave from Algeria (Antoine Bourseiller).Marchand is gorgeous here, wearing everything well, from her sexy dress or housecoat to her wig or triangular fur hat. The camera adores her. Rich and gifted, she is also impoverished because her lover (a suave Jose Luis de Vilallonga) speaks lovingly yet will not truly give of himself. And, of course, she is potentially facing a very premature death.Cleo demonstrates bravery as she passes the time, occasionally navel-gazing, growing maudlin, and even boring us a little. (Who among us wouldn't do the same in a similar situation?) Cleo's repartee with Antoine as the film draws to its close is endearing and compelling. One even wishes that the drama could have started with the pair, but that would have been a different film.Truman Capote is credited here with writing the dialog, and I wonder whether he did so in the original French. If so, I'm impressed.In all, this was a powerful experience. "},{"Title":"Beautiful...this did not disappoint me.","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Cleo de 5 a 7 is the story of a singer waiting for news from her doctor. The film opens with Cleo, the siniger and very much the featured character, getting a tarot card reading, and it follows her as she travels around Paris over the next few hours.There is a lightheartedness that tries to mask the underlying darkness and anxiety. There is a tale of rebirth and almost of redemption. There are characters who, like in the other Varda movies I've seen, are very real. There is a lot of symbolism in this, or so it seems to me. But most importantly, it is so beautifully filmed that its portrayal of anything is worth seeing.This is the third of Agnes Varda's films that I have watched (the other two being Le Bonheur and Vagabond), and with each one I have a greater admiration for this wonderful director who knows so well how to tell, and how to show, a story.Definitely recommended. "},{"Title":"What makes a friend?","Date":"10 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Cleo form 5 to 7, is a poignant tale of a young singer, who must face her own possible mortality before she is ready. The film starts with Cleo visiting a fortune teller's office, where we find that, Cleo who is waiting for the results of a doctor's test, will experience a major life change soon. Unknown to Cleo, the fortune teller speaks in an aside to the audience, and predicts that Cleo has cancer. This film which runs one and a half hours, and literally spans one and a half hours, is basically a journey that Cleo takes. It is in the moment that Cleo faces her deepest fears that she realizes she has no true friends. Scared of her possible test results, instead of spending the time with friends and family, she spends it wandering around Paris, and with a soldier on leave. Neither her companion, lover, friend, or producers, can understand what she is going through. Cleo may at first choose not to burden her friends with her problems, but the longer she tours Paris the more she realizes that a true friend would be there with her, she wouldn't have to worry about annoying them with her problems, and she would know that they would always have an open ear for her. It is as she walks around a park in Paris that she meets a young soldier on leave who will be going back to fight soon. To Cleo, although it may seem as simple as pouring her problems onto a man she will never have to see again, if she so desires; she is really unconsciously choosing this stranger over all the people in her life. She may subconsciously believe that the soldier know what it is like to be scared and alone, and may believe that he will best sympathize with her problems, since he too has felt fear, as opposed to her other friends, who basically live the golden life. "}{"Title":"Very superstitious, Cleo's bout to fall","Date":"30 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Get ready to watch a film that will make you ponder deep, deep thoughts on the meaning of life, death, and fate. Far too often people tend to think that their life events equate to some great Greek tragedy. Far too frequently reality suggests otherwise, as all people undergo similar triumphs, troubles, and matters of doubt and uncertainty. Because Cleo in this film is dealing with the issue of cancer and death, we must be sympathetic. Nonetheless, the film plays out in this manner and I truly believe you will get the idea that Cleo is viewing her circumstances as some giant Greek tragedy (in the beginning at least).In essence, Cleo as a film aptly reflects how subjective thinking pervades both thought and action (which arguably are one in the same). When faced with death or any life trouble, events with no great significance often seem too close to home or far too stimulating considering one's individual circumstances. Maybe someone with financial troubles may cringe at a TV commercial for a large commercial bank just like Cleo might have cringed deep inside at the grim mortality tolls reported on the Taxi radio. When viewing Cleo I frequently wondered if Cleo felt this or that given the situation she was put in at any given moment. Did she view old people with bitter jealous resentment, knowing she probably won't reach old age? What about the opposite? Did she feel pity for them considering she valued her youth and beauty so much and knew they will wither away in a less attractive form from their youth days while she can die in a state of preserved youth and beauty? Furthermore, I found Cleo's encounter with the young soldier bound for Algeria rather profound. While some might have viewed this ending episode in a romantic manner, I viewed it on a different level. Sometimes when someone is troubled they may identify with and find consolation in others who have similar life circumstances. I don't mean this in the misery loves company way, but just ponder whether or not Cleo found consolation in the young solider simply for the fact that they both may encounter a similar fate. Just as Cleo might die from cancer, the young solider might die from any wartime hazard. Lastly, when considering the pervasive issue of superstition in the film one can only reflect on how little mere mortals know and how desperate we become when searching for answers and a sense of certainty. Go watch this movie and get on the level of Socrates. "},{"Title":"Cleo is realistic","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is realistic. There is no Hollywood flair, fairy tale story, or conclusive, nicely packaged ending. All of the characters and their interactions with one another are normal, expected and true to life. There is nothing fake in them. There are no scene stealing characters. They all go together and react to one another in a fluid, natural way. There are no climactic kisses, fatalities, or surprises. If there were any they would be very subdued in order to keep with the feel of the movie.This style is much different from the Hollywood style. It may come off as boring at first, but that is only because we, Americans, have been trained to expect action, drama, and over the top performances. None of that exists in Cleo. There is only a slight bit of drama and that is Cleo's illness. And even this drama is marginalized and downplayed. At one point, Cleo is referred to as a drama queen.When you slow down and think about it, the style is quite astonishing. Very subtle acting is required to pull off the illusion that the characters are real. They are as real as your own family and friends. This creates intimacy and relatability with the audience. This is hard to find in Hollywood films because the characters are caricatures with large ego's and huge personalities.This is the essence of Cleo. It is a good movie not because of an amazing plot, famous actors, action, drama, etc. Cleo relies on the actors' and actresses' ability to literally draw you into the movie as if you being a normal person could play a role. I was writing this review as the movie was ending so I missed the part where Cleo goes to the doctor. I did catch the very end and the smile that Cleo shares with the man. It is a smile of levity and confidence. I am not sure if there is any resolution to the only problem in the whole story. Maybe the doctor wasn't there, and she has to wait until tomorrow. With all the emphasis about Cleo's illness, it is funny that the movie doesn't need any resolution concerning her situation. Whether she gets an answer or not, whether she is going to die or live, it does not matter. Life will go on with or without her. "},{"Title":"Fleeting, modernist, deceptively subtle","Date":"29 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The plot of Cleo from 5 to 7 centres around a successful pop singer, Cléo (Corinne Marchand). While waiting until she can collect the results of a medical examination that will reveal whether or not she has terminal cancer, she meets with her friend Angèle, a lover, fellow musicians and wanders the streets of Paris. Feeling a great deal of anxiety about the way she is perceived by people and society, she retreats to the quiet of a park, where she has an unexpected encounter with a young soldier on leave, named Antoine.Early on in the film there is extensive use made of mirrors. If Cléo is not reassuring herself of her own external beauty by staring half-quizzically, half-admiringly at herself in a mirror, she is surrounded entirely by the walled mirror of a restaurant. Sometimes, Jean Rabier's camera films Cléo entirely in reflection, her actual body out of frame.Cléo's superficial image of herself &#x96; and the staleness that stems from it &#x96; is a by-product of a rapidly-changing society. At the beginning of the 1960s, after much post-war stagnation, Paris was finally evolving into a truly modern city. Major plans were being implemented for the city's motorways, infrastructure, its international airports and tourist industry.The freshness of this newly urbanised metropolis and its rejuvenated economy is captured very well. We often follow Cléo from an inexpressively high angle on the Paris streets, evoking perhaps a feeling of observation, the novelty of casual surveillance; the camera keeps her central to the unstaged, bustling frame.Several scenes unfold on vehicles of modern transport. Early in the film, Cléo is chauffeured around the city by her friend Angèle, who has just learned to drive. Angèle indicates each turn by holding out her appropriate arm, as if on a bicycle. Much later in the film, Cléo travels via bus (it's more exciting than a taxi) to see her doctor and find the results of her test; Antoine accompanies her. The pair share a lengthy, intimate silence amidst the otherwise chaos of public transport. It is an affecting scene; charming, too by camera trickery, Antoine leans out of the bus and snatches a flower from a passing floral cart to give to Cléo. It is both artsy and romantic; cinematic, Parisian.Read my full review here http//idfilm.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Waiting and searching in the reflection of death","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is the third Agnes Varda film I've seen, and each one just seems to get better than the last. Perhaps it is because the intimacy of The Gleaners and I really struck a chord into her character in general, Varda's other work seems to feel more and more familiar, and it is clear that she gets as much joy out of the camera as we do watching it.Cleo from 5 to 7 is about fear, via the sort of process a neo-realist film would send us through. We follow Cleo around Paris as she waits to hear the final diagnosis of cancer from her doctor after the diagnosis is backed up by a Tarot reader. The movie traces her gradual transition from vain and self-involved singer to someone in tune with the world and without fear. These transitions are made absolutely clear by the structure of the movie but are never outwardly pointed to. This is one of the few movies I've seen in a while that I've wanted to analyze frame by frame, as in each composition the meaning is made quite clear. We move from a world dominated by mirrors and cat calls until Cleo sings a powerful and evocative song; from there the world is full of more fragmented reflections and people staring until a mirror is broken; from there Cleo becomes the observer and takes in the world around her.The dialog follows a similar trend, from irony to blunt truthfulness to platitudes. Remarkably, no matter what the characters say it's quite clear what they mean, and no matter what they mean it's quite clear what they actually believe. Meanwhile, Varda's camera is equally as sincere, delighting in the world of movement and art around her and gazing deep into whatever she wants to see, as well as occasionally playing along with the characters or moving to the music.The editing is of some mention because this is a movie (a temporal medium in the first place) obviously based in a temporal subject (waiting an hour and a half to hear the final results of Cleo's life), but it doesn't even bother with real time (even though it's still generally along those lines) and instead plays out the time within Cleo's mental state. This is indicated pretty much from the get-go when Cleo walks down the stairs from the seer's room and a close-up is repeated three times in rapid succession to pretty much state clearly, from Agnes Varda's side of the camera, that this is no real-time drama but a matter of mental space. The cuts also coincide exactly with the music playing, which features prominently throughout the film and significantly alters the emotional landscape of the film.Despite the fact that the two films are very different, there is something comparable here to L'Eclisse, but I'm not sure what it is. It's not something as superficial as a blonde woman wandering the streets trying to find love under the shadow of death--such comparison would fall apart when the sheer mood of the two pieces are compared, less before the structure. However, a sort of wary knowledge of the importance of the wait and the search is juxtaposed to the political climate of the time in such a way that ultimately, even though both the wait and the search are frustrated in both movies by a lack of conclusion, the knowledge that things outside their lives spiral out of control adds its own definitive ending. It is not certain whether Cleo nor the soldier she meets will live or die, but it is certain that they are in danger of doing so.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Spending Time with Cleo","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The Cleo in Cleo from 5 to 7 is a frivolous, spoiled singer living in Paris. The 5 to 7 refers to the two hours (roughly) of the day we spend with her as she awaits the results of a medical test that will tell her whether or not she has cancer. During that time, we watch her pout, sulk, buy a hat, and goof around with friends, but it's not until the film's final moments, when Cleo meets a total stranger, that she has anything resembling meaningful interaction with another human being.The most remarkable thing about Cleo from 5 to 7 is the performance of Corinne Marchand in the title role. Her Cleo is petulant and unlikable in the film's early moments, and she barely plays a part in her own story. She's not even so much afraid of dying as she is of losing her beauty. But over the course of the film, we see her gradually emerge from her pampered shell and flower into a three dimensional woman, capable of complicated thought and emotion. It's a minor miracle of acting.The film doesn't exactly have a happy ending, but it's not really a downer either. Cleo gets her diagnosis, but her reaction to it surprises us. Her final words in the film are about her feeling happy -- the way she delivers the line leads us to believe that this is a new sensation for her -- and at that point it's as if the diagnosis doesn't really matter anymore, either for her or us.Grade A "},{"Title":"A film worth reading and rereading","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" In my quest for literacy in the art of film-making, I've returned to the French New Wave, and discovered an unexpected jewel. Is Agnes Varda a case of erasure so common among writers and artists? If one sought illustration of the male gaze turned inward, this is the work to see. The heroine, Cleo, begins as an image totally absorbed in herself, and gradually awakes to the world around her. Faces, streets, storefronts, dialogue, all act as signs of an inner humanity that the woman herself is unaware of. Only when encountering her true other does she emerge from a world of external images and interact genuinely. Her name itself is a clue to the real versus the unreal. The oft-dramatized heroine of history and legend becomes the goddess of spring, encountering her first day of summer. The viewer is invited to provide the last half-hour From 5 to 7 (the film runs 90 minutes) to turning away from the screen to reality and see the world in a new light. "},{"Title":"Narcissism and paranoia from 5 to 7","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Yet another good Nouvelle Vague film. What makes them so good is that they are so fresh, so full of new ideas that even watching a film from the 60s nowadays makes it a refreshing and new experience.This one had a tricky premise, though. Director Agnes Varda set about showing us two hours of the life of a fairly-successful singer, Cleo. The trick here was to make us sympathise with her while portraying only two hours of her life. To do so, we understand from the beginning that she is waiting for medical examinations, and she fears she has cancer. Also, before the first half of the film, we realize that she is not happy, as she says that everyone spoils her but nobody loves her.In fact, to make us like the character, Varda shows us how lonely she is. Her boyfriend never sees her, even though he supposedly loves her, because of work reasons. Her songwriters only pretend to admire her, but really, it's quite clear that they are only using her as a tool for their songs to go around the world. Even her best friend, as they talk, is thinking about other things, has to go places and do things in the real life, and although shaken by the news that Cleo might have cancer, she has other problems on top of that.Really, the on-screen presence helps of Corinne Marchand really helps. She is truly beautiful, with or without a wig! And that leads to the other issue about the character; narcissism. She believes that everyone turns to look at her when she crosses the road. She looks at herself in the mirror quite a lot, and repeats to herself that she is beautiful. She is so narcissist that we actually come to doubt that the people the look at her are actually really looking at her, or is Varda playing with us. However, this narcissism of Cleo is not exactly a good thing, as it leads to paranoia. She tells her friend Dorothee, who is a nude model for art students, that she could never do her job, because she would be too afraid that the people would find imperfections in her body. We also see that she is paranoid about what other people think about her when she goes to a bar and puts on one of her songs in the jukebox, to see the people's reactions. When the song is over, she just walks away, disappointed at the fact that there basically were no reactions.To move the story forward, the character of Cleo moves too, constantly. Whether walking, on a bus, on a taxi, there is always movement, which gives us another chance to take a look at Paris, as we do in many films of the Nouvelle Vague. But the film really becomes charming when Cleo meets Antoine. We know that when she meets him, and the two like each other instantly, we might not have enough time to see their first kiss, because our time is nearly up. In fact, by the end of the film, when we see the word 'fin' prop up on the screen so suddenly, we are left with a sort of frustration. That means that the film worked, we were drawn into it, hence, Varda really does a good job.There are a few imperfection, speaking of narcissism. The voice-overs don't work, they slow down the whole movie. Sure, there is something witty about the fact that we are hence able to understand exactly what each character really thinks about Cleo, but that looks more like a cover up for something that lacked in the footage shot than an artistic choice. It is always much to easy to have voice-overs to portray emotions.But apart from that, it's really quite a good movie not to be missed for the fans of this french New Wave.WATCH FOR THE MOMENT - The very end, as Antoine and Cleo walk towards the camera, and she finally says that she is happy... "},{"Title":"Un film pour la vie, et pour moi","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  - A personal reflection.Perhaps the most un-Swedish film I've seen. Varda became focused mainly on the documentary genre later on, and this film has many shots of Paris in the 60ies. I loved that. I wish I could be in the film, a part of it, or at least in Paris at that time. Typical New Wave; unrepetitious, unique details, enjoyable, light yet touching, sweet yet realistic and good music. A film about life and happiness, and a film that makes you happy (at least for me). The film is closer to life than many others. And the French/Latin way of life is much more natural and, imho, better than the Swedish. A lot of commotion going on. Many people around on the streets. You work and after that you are free to enjoy yourself, and it's possible to do so, and it seems like many have a lot of fun during work as well. Much more relaxed, natural, energetic, more out-going, more beautiful, more magical.5/5 "},{"Title":"A beautiful life-affirming work from a great and original filmmaker!","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" When I think of interesting filmmakers, the world over, whose movies are always a pleasure to watch, I thank God every day for Agnès Varda. I had her '4 Films by' Criterion boxed set, seemingly forever, left unwatched, and I don't really know why. Perhaps I felt her films wouldn't excite me enough, I don't know. I certainly enjoy foreign, and French, filmmaking enough. Maybe it was because she was female, I don't know. I hope not, but I'm simply being honest. Sometimes I'm apprehensive about starting to investigate the works of a director who's different from me Female, non-English, non-Caucasian. I think it's difficult for me to start, because I'm afraid that I won't be able to fully emphasize with their sphere of reference, and thus won't be able to either appreciate or enjoy the filmic experience as much as I should. Once I start, and watch that first film I see of theirs, I'm fine. But until that point, it's truly a challenge.My university library had her two recent critically-acclaimed films, 'The Gleaners and I' and its sequel, on one DVD, and one of my favourite critics, Roger Ebert, had made a 'Great Movie' article about the original. So I gave that series a viewing, each film a separate night, and I fell in love with her as a person, and found that her films were not going to be a challenge for me at all. Thus I then turned to my previously-imposing, aforementioned boxed set, and went through it chronologically.This, the second film of the set, was extraordinary, basically a real-time cinematic exercise of a lady who is waiting for the results of a biopsy, and thus wondering if her quality of life is going to be seriously challenged or not. In it, as I've found in all of her films so far, there's an extraordinary visual flair, a great and natural storytelling facility present, and you can really tell that Varda both loves people and is glad to be alive, and it shows in everything she does. If you are in a similar boat, and are reluctant to investigate Varda's works, please do yourself a favour and don't hesitate any longer. Appreciate this extraordinary woman and her work while she is still alive. You will never be the same. "},{"Title":"Giddy Celebrity's Crushing Fear of Death","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" In this film, an insecure, vain pop star, Cleo, waits to hear the results of a biopsy. She spends time with her maid, her lover, and her band who regard her fear of cancer as just another of her moods, and reassure her that she is young and beautiful so there is nothing to worry about. Her self-pitying mood is pushed to the edge and she sets off on her own, reconnecting with a series of people who she relates to more authentically and eventually hearing her diagnosis.The film is brilliant in how it shows the paranoiac and isolated feelings of a person facing death unexpectedly. Everyone seems to Cleo to be staring at her. The subject of death comes up casually again and again, but suddenly it is no longer a joke to her. Faced with something as overwhelming as cancer and death, Cleo falls back on superstition and self-pity.The singing adds an interesting element, that is both beautiful and on point. There is a scene where Cleo sings a beautiful tragic song about a woman dying of love. She is moved by the tragedy, but the irony is that she and her lover are using each other and don't have real feelings for each other. Her other songs have to do with sexy manipulative women who get whatever they want, which is ironic because while Cleo's whims are indulged, she is fundamentally childish and without a will of her own, manipulated by those around her.Cleo's suffering seems authentic and moving, but her salvation as the film goes on somewhat less so. It is an inspiring idea that the fear of death can be overcome by moving from a shallow mentality to a state of real human connection. Unfortunately, that the idea is one one would like to be true doesn't make its presentation in the movie convincing. In particular, the end of the movie, where a brief encounter with a sympathetic young soldier seems to cure her fear of death doesn't convince. Related to this issue is the heavy-handedness in which we are reminded by voice-overs and dialogue that Cleo is childish and caught up in herself, as if it's only due to being emotionally deficient that her potential cancer is a problem at all.Overall, a movie worth watching, well done and with an interesting subject matter. The overall premise is fascinating but there are not many particular scenes from this movie that deeply moved me or stick in my memory, so all in all not essential. "}{"Title":"Enchanting.","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Set in the late 1950s/early 1960s, this film follows a singer as she wanders around Paris waiting for the results of a cancer test she has had with her doctor.We are shown a number of low key encounters that she has with her friends and Parisians. The implications of her possible medical condition give added meaning to aspects of everyday life that she encounters. The black and white, hand held camera-work gives the film a 'live', documentary, spontaneous feel.Visually impressive, simple and interesting, but ultimately not sufficiently engaging to hold the viewer's attention for 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"The beauty of life and a strange morbidity walk the streets of Paris alongside Cleo","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Everyone has looked for a reason to live,some pretend to admit that they have a reason to live when in fact they don't, and Cléo is one of that persons. Cleo anxious wait a medical examination that will tell whether it has or does not have cancer, while it expects the examination, Cleo lives an hour and a half of unique moments and feelings and at the same time, without knowing it, she reflects on her life. While Cleo walks on the streets of Paris, a a unsure feeling of death seems to be following her, and at the same time life it is strangely following her, she believes that her beauty is her reason to live, while in fact she does not know why she is alive, she has a lover that her secretary consider good, But she knows and admits that he is selfish, she deludes herself and disappoints when she sees that it is just an illusion, she is surrounded by fake people that spoil her but ignore her feelings, Her pianist calls her spoiled and constantly put her down even if she fights back with words. During these time, she discovers that the true happiness is in small moments with true friends. Cléo from 5 to 7 (actually 5 to 1830) It is a film that the medical examination she craves is what matters least, so some will be disappointed. Cleo from 5 to 7 is a beautiful and excellent film, it is an existentialist movie and has a great performance of the protagonist. "},{"Title":"Left Bank of The French New Wave","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" A 90-minutes real-time experiment tracks Cléo's life from 5pm to 630pm (although the title indicates a 120-minutes span), directed by the reverend female Left Bank pioneer Agnès Varda, actually it is my first entrée into her oeuvre. Cléo (short for Cleopatra, Marchand) is an uprising singer, who is going to get a test report from her doctor of whether or not she has cancer, the film records the exact time she spends before receiving the result. Beginning from an ominous Tarot card augury (the cards is the only part shot in color), Cléo descends into upset and despair, solaced by her assistant Angèle (Davray) and a fur hat bought in a millinery, they return home and Cléo has a brief moment with her preoccupied lover (de Vilallonga), then arrives the pianist Bob (the composer Legrand himself) and the lyricist (Korber), they rehearse a poignant rendition of SANS TOI (a majestic one-take close-up of Marchand's emotive exuberance). Afterwards, Cléo meets her friend Dorothée (Blanck), who poses as a nude model in a sculpture studio, together they watch a silent comedy short (starring Godard, Karina, Brialy, Constantine and Frey, which is a welcome highlight against the seemingly unpremeditatedly arranged text). Wandering in a park, Cléo meets a young soldier Antoine (Bourseiller), unexpectedly they establish a sincere conversation and he accompanies her to the hospital, where Cléo acquires the results while Antoine is going to the Algerian War the next day. Throughout the film, Varda conspicuously edits into the montages of passers-by on the street, in the cafeteria or on the bus, tellingly attests its realness in her modus operandi, which delineates the winsome picturesqueness of Paris at then, projects a strong sense of objectivity albeit its dramatized content, a young woman's inner state when she is facing the most stressing and gnawing 90 minutes of her life, waiting for a call from death or a near-miss joke.With three people billed as the cinematographers, the film actually adheres to a consistent effort of modulating the tonality of a laid-back documenting stance, although it is not a groundbreaking sleight of hand as the long-take stunt of real-time shooting in Aleksandr Sokurov's Russian ARK (2002, 7/10), frankly it is a bad comparison since Varda's work is made ages ago. Most importantly CLEO FROM 5 TO 7 still remains its distinctive élan of being a French New Wave prose and positively enchanting with its loosely organized language to keep the story intact. "},{"Title":"Cleo from 5 to 7","Date":"10 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Another film for me taken from the pages of the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die I was intrigued by what the title of this French film would refer to, and it turned out to be an interesting concept, from director Agnés Varda. Basically French pop singer Cleo (Corinne Marchand) is worried that she may be suffering a life threatening virus or cancer, so she awaits the results of her medical tests from the doctor. From five o'clock she has two hours to wait until she knows her state of health by about seven o'clock, and all she can do in this time is hang around with several friends she does not normally hang with as well as strangers while contemplating what will happen. Almost nothing happens in these two hours while Cleo thinks over her possible fate, and she is questioning whether or not there is any reason to continue with any life at all, and she feels really isolated and alone despite being with the certain people. She does eventually find some support and good sincere conversation with a stranger in the park, a former soldier in the Algerian War named Antoine (Antoine Bourseiller), and he is happy to come with her to the hospital. The end sees Cleo get the results as the doctor passes her in the car, she is told she does have a problem, but with therapy that will start immediately the next day they will be able to help her and she will most likely be able to pass it. Also starring Dorothée Blanck as Dorothée, Michel Legrand as Bob the Pianist, Dominique Davray as Angèle and José Luis De Vilallonga as The Lover. The film should obviously be two hours because of the title, it is only an hour and a half, but that doesn't matter, Marchand gives a good emotional performance and with a little bit of singing as well, it is a film that comprises of almost nothing happening, but actually that gives it a realistic approach bearing the situation, an interesting enough drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"The bright side of life.","Date":"18 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It's not like I simply love everything that is French. Au contraire! But there is no denying it that French movies from the old days often have something very special about them. Artistic, quiet, beautiful, engaging and for from boring, even though not an awful lot is always happening in it, as is also the case with this movie.It actually is its simplicity that makes this movie. Everything is very clear about this movie; we know who the main characters is and what she is going through. It's a movie without little complications to its story and instead decides to simply follow its main character and a couple of hours of her life.Another beautiful thing about this movie is that it's actually about a pretty heavy and serious subject. This movie could had so easily turned into something dramatic and sentimental but it instead feels like a very positive movie. It's a nice spin to the genre and it takes a real pleasant approach, that also helps to make this movie a very engaging one.This is at least what I got from this movie. As often is the case with these sort of movies, you might get something totally different out of it. It's also obviously being filled with metaphors and symbolism, without this ever becoming too distracting by the way. But because of this storytelling approach, you might interpret things different as I did, so it really still above all things is something you have to experience for yourself.It's a beautifully shot movie with some great camera-work at times. The movie is deliberately being kept small and simplistic, with both its story and visuals, which all was something director Agnès Varda obviously understood- and handled very well. It's a subtly done film, that perhaps requires multiple viewing to fully get everything out of it.Nicely done genre film with a great approach to it.8/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Strong Title","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Cléo de 5 à 7 is a French film made in 1962 directed by Agnès Varda. The story starts with a young singer, Florence Cléo Victoire, at 5PM June 21, as she waits until 7PM appointment. The lead in the film is Corinne Marchand who plays Florence 'Cléo Victoire' who is a pop singer wandering around Paris while she awaits her medical test results. Cléo readies herself to meet with her doctor at 7 o'clock by buying hats, travelling around the city, singing with her producers and seeing her lover and meeting with several other friends and strangers while trying to grapple with mortality. She is frequently upset throughout the movie from the lack of perceived care about her impeding visit and her frustration is lashed out to all those who speak with her. This is especially true for her accompanied assistant/friend Angèle played by Dominique Davray during most of the movie. Interesting enough the vast majority of the movie is black and white with only the 1st scene in the movie in color. In this scene Florence is having her future told to her from Tarot reading in the reading she is told lied to by the fortune teller who wishes to spare her the bad news of her death, from then on the movie is black/white. Throughout the film the usage of mirrors is very prevalent; they symbolize the self-obsession Cléo has for her looks.The film is confronts several of the themes such as existentialism, including discussions of mortality, the idea of despair, and leading a meaningful life. Cléo feels that she has not lived a meaningful life and the frustration with that turns into despair when facing her own mortality. The film has a strong feminine viewpoint and raises questions about how women are perceived in Western society. "},{"Title":"Cleo from 5 to 7","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This remarkable feature typifies all that was good in French film-making during its celebrated New Wave. Writer/director Agnès Varda (one of the unsung stalwarts of the period) constantly introduces the unexpected into both the central story and its many diversions, cinematographer Jean Rabier's images of Paris are fresh and uncomplicated, and the performances are cleverly stylised. Beneath her cool exterior, Corinne Marchand as Cleo manages to convey a range of emotions, whether worrying about her medical tests, chatting with strangers or singing with Michel Legrand. Watch out for a film within the film, featuring Jean-Luc Godard and other New Wave luminaries. "},{"Title":"Excellent Job by Agnes Varda","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This was the first movie I've seen by Agnes Varda. She is considered the mother of the New Wave, and characteristics of this style are shown throughout the film. I liked that we were brought into Florence's (Cleo) life and mind. I like that we are able to know what she is thinking, we are taken inside her mind. There is particular scene where she is walking down the street and the camera shifts to the street. It's as if we become her eyes and are able to see exactly what she sees. I noticed that some patrons even look at her, and thus the camera, which created a more realistic shot. It was like we were in the present time. The film portrays Cleo and the city around her. It really isn't an easy film to explain, but I do think Agnes did a wonderful job at capturing the audience and making us feel as if we were actually there with Cleo. Agnes left room for us to think about the meaning behind the film and relate it to our own lives. The film has more of a documentary feeling than a fictional narrative. Cleo (Corrine Marchand)does an excellent job in the film. I thought she was beautiful. I really like how she let us into her head, but left room for mystery. I found myself wanting to know more about her. Overall, I think this movie portrays the New Wave style in a positive light. Now I understand why Agnes Varda was appreciated by many and considered the mother of NV. I would definitely recommend this film to anyone who wants to see a film of the nouvelle vague. "},{"Title":"Very French","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Cleo from 5 to 7 is probably Agnes Varda's most well known masterpiece. As all art movies its more about the visual style than the actual plot. The plot can be summed up as the story of a famous singer who realizes that she may die of cancer. She awaits her results with a mosey sense of gloom and dread. The movie is basically following her around from 5 o clock to 7 o clock with everything she does documented for the viewer. We see a strange relationship between Cleo and her servant. Her servant is strange in that she always tries to undermine Cleo as if she is jealous of her lifestyle. I found the servant to be a bit of a sadist enjoying the pain of Cleo under the guise of friendship. Cleo eventually runs into her lively and youthful friend and hangs out with her without telling her of her illness. They eventually split ways and Cleo is again left alone to cope with her tragic future. She eventually meets a young soldier whom she initially despises, but grows fond of as she realizes that he is not interested in getting in her pants. They connect on a human basis with conversations about life. Together they learn the truth about her disease, but the soldier eventually goes off to Algeria leaving Cleo alone again. All in all Cleo from 5 to 7 is an interesting window into human emotion and the need for human interaction. "},{"Title":"Interesting Perspective","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is the first film of Agnes Varda's that I saw. Cleo from 5 to 7 follows a self-absorbed woman as she waits to find out the results from a biopsy. I loved how Agnes Varda shot this in real time. The viewer follows Cleo as she goes along her day and we are not taken on this Hollywood whirlwind of weeks and months smashed together into a couple of hours. I think the message of the film was well portrayed. Basically, life is a gift. Enjoy it while you can because it sure as heck does not last long enough! Cleo does not look on the bright side of things and I think this makes the viewer do the opposite. Watching someone sulk and knowing how he or she should act is an interesting viewpoint in this film. Now, I have only skimmed the surface of French Cinema but so far I like what I see. We read a book about this film for my film history class and if I remember correctly, they only opted to use color in the fortuneteller scene because they only had enough money to do that scene. I could be wrong but, I just thought that was an interesting piece of trivia. The woman who plays Cleo is gorgeous and I think this offers a really neat contrast of her beauty with looming sickness or ugliness as she calls it. In conclusion, I really enjoyed Agnes Varda's Nouvelle Vague' style. I love how she places the viewer into another woman's world for an hour and a half. I love how her message is a positive one and I think I am also starting to love French cinema. "}{"Title":"Varda's masterpiece!","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Agnes Varda's masterpiece Cleo from 5 to 7 is a lovely film that captures the essence of life. This film is shot to capture real time of the main character Cleo, a famous singer struggling with the news that she might have terminal cancer. The film begins with Cleo being told her fortune. She continues to be appalled by the cards she is dealt. When she leaves the fortune tellers residence the scenes soar with uncontrollable emotion. Varda further captures the rawness of Cleo's fate as she films Cleo walking down the steps in a somber trance. Cleo then meets her maid/ assistant, Angele at a restaurant and continues to pout about the agony of having terminal cancer. Surprisingly, Angele is not as friendly as one would expect her to be considering she is on Cleo's payroll. Angele continues to order Cleo around as if she were a child making Cleo's character weak and pitiful throughout the film. Midway through the film Cleo becomes fed up with Angele and her musician friends. She storms out of the rehearsal wearing a fitted black dress in all natural vibe. I felt this was the turning point in the movie where she quits feeling sorry for herself, and sets out on a voyage to see life as Florence and not her show business character Cleo. Varda does wonders capturing the close ups and essence of Cleo's life while waiting for the news from her doctor. Varda's directing allows the audience to become a part of the movie. I started to think what would I do if I had terminal cancer, how would I act. I also enjoyed the props and simplicity of this film. It was easy to follow, and although it was in black and white I found it more dramatic then I would if it were in color. In addition, the waiting made this film very suspenseful and captivating for the viewer. Overall, I would recommend this film to anyone. "},{"Title":"Cleo de 5 a 7","Date":"3 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Cleo from 5 to 7 is not any ordinary film that you might see today. It literally follows Cleo and the events that transpire in her life for just these two specific hours. There are no flashbacks or fast forwards it is a second by second documentation of her life for two hours. Which is kind of an ingenious little story in a way. Sure that two hours that you watch the film will not be a boring event in her life but every little detail of her life is in the film. And through this film you kind of have to infer what has happened in her past and how she got to these two hours in her life. It seems like a hard film to write just because there is so much extraneous detail that has to be inserted into the film subtly, while still making every detail of the characters life an interesting story. The main character of the film, Cleo, is roaming around Paris while awaiting the medical test results from the doctor. She meets with several friends and strangers and discusses her thoughts on mortality which is a big issue for her at this point in her life. These people seem unsympathetic towards her cause so she starts to question her solitude and whether or not she has anyone in her life that she can lean on for support. She finally meets a stranger who happens to be a soldier from the Algerian war. He is able to comfort her and is able to relate to her. And in the end he accompanies her to the doctors appointment to receive her results. This film definitely has an existential feel with conversations such as mortality, solitude, and leading a meaningful life in it. Overall, I thought this was a great film with an interesting story behind it. "},{"Title":"Cleo de 5 a 7","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The 1962 directed by Agnès Varda known as Cleo de 5 a 7 is a French film about a woman who's life seems to change because of a psychic's prediction. And she only goes to the psychic because of her health and she wants to know if she'll be all right. Throughout the movie she is depressed because her illness and doesn't know if its fatal. She believes that she has cancer and will soon die of this disease, so she walks around town just enjoying everything since she thinks it's almost the end for her. When she goes to the park she meets a soldier who is going to war the next day in Algeria and they start talking and kick it off pretty well. They go throughout town talking, well he did most of the talking, but at last they decide to visit the doctor to see if she is in fact ill or not. When they get there they find that the doctor isn't in, but decided to walk to his office anyway. The doctor appears in his car and tells Cleo that she will be fine that nothing is wrong with her, and from there she was happy and her and the soldier walk off together and the movie ends. The movie confronts several of the themes such as existentialism, including discussions of mortality, the idea of despair, and leading a meaningful life. The director did a great job with the film, putting the mood of the film the way Cleo felt throughout. Such as when she was feeling gloomy, the music was the same, and when she felt happy the same with the music. This movie was a great film to watch, which is why it won the Critics Award and nominated for the Palme d'Or. "},{"Title":"Review and Analysis","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Cleo de 5 a 7 is a intriguing movie with an underlying theme of mortality. It follows a young pop singer around town for a day while she awaits her diagnosis to see if she has cancer or not. The movie is one of few that actually match the time in the movie to real time. It follows her every minute of the day. This can be a challenge to do, because it is easy for the film to become boring or lose the interest of the audience. Cleo, the central character, is presented in the beginning as a spoiled star that has most everything handed to her and all the difficulties of life taken care of by her nanny. There is one thing that she can't escape though, and that is cancer. Her fear of death is depicted through out the film with symbols of it. One example of this is when she is driving in the taxi and keeps driving past tribal masks of death. She is very superstitious and that makes her even more paranoid when coincidences keep happening that predict her death. At the beginning of the film, she sees a fortuneteller looking for comfort, or a definite answer. She also goes through several men looking for them to take care of her and meet her emotional needs. She meets a soldier in a park, and immediately has a connection with him. He gives her some kind of comfort and courage to face her doctor and diagnosis. Once she accepts that her life is fleeting, her persona changes and she seems to immediately to lose her heavy burden of fear and become grateful for the life she was given. "},{"Title":"Cléo de 5 à 7 A French Masterpiece","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Realism in one of the finest senses, Cléo de 5 à 7 takes place over the course of 90 minutes (the name Cléo de 5 à 630 just didn't sound as good I'm sure) and tries to show what 90 minutes of uninterrupted life would be like. The film follows a young singer, who, though some read as pompous and over-the-top, is transfixed on the thought of life and death as she waits to find out the results of a medical test from a doctor.The film makers took some artistic liberty when it came to actually presenting an uninterrupted 90 minute narrative, but as a viewer, at no point during the film are we bored or uninterested in what is happening. The film captures the inextricable, minuscule and innumerable interactions between a person and their surroundings during this 90 minutes, and it is absolutely stunning.The cinematography is subtle, but not understated, making full use of modern cinematic technique, while still having the feel of a documentary.An absolute delight, Cléo de 5 à 7 is a must watch. "},{"Title":"a beautiful walk around Paris","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Varda's Cleo from 5 to 7 was filmed in Paris at the beginning of 1960s. it's a meditative black and white account of one summer afternoon in the life of the film's main character. if you've seen Le Feu Follet by Louis Malle, you'll know what to expect, both in terms of visual style and ambiance. there's nothing much to say about the plot, simply because the main character is the city. Paris in the 60s is portrayed with extraordinary tenderness and profundity. everything shimmers with elegance pedestrians' outfits, cars, streets, cafes, faces, crossroads, gardens and bodies. visually enthralling. "},{"Title":"As enjoyable as it was influential","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" A wonderful dreamy film that seems as crisp and delightful today as it did almost fifty years ago. Corinne Marchand is perfect in the central role but then much must be down to Varda, because although appearing to be part improvised, everybody gives immaculate performances. I am not particularly keen on the short slapstick film in the middle but other than that it is near perfect. Beautifully shot sequences give us the notion of floating through Paris. Images are reflected in mirrors and the camera sweeps along and we catch snatches of various peoples conversations. The hat shop scene is a sheer delight and the reflections of the busy street scene in the window a real marvel. The music is just right but then as the composer, Michel Legrand appears in the film, I guess he was intimately involved in the making of the film. As enjoyable as it was influential. "},{"Title":"Varda's Chef d'oeuvre","Date":"18 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Cleo de 5 a 7A popular trend in films is discreetly shadowing the lives of people. In this film from Rive Gauche director Agnes Varda, we are given an amuse-bouche of the life of Cleo.Cleo is a singer who is successful enough to live in a cavernous Parisian apartment with a doting housekeeper. But after she visits a fortune teller who dispenses shocking news, Cleo's balance is thrown off. She is an emotional wreck. Not a white fedora or a visit from her lover can erase her cloud of doom. The film follows Cleo in real-time from 5 pm to 7 pm (not exactly the film runs a little over 90 min). By never separating us from Cleo, we are forced to witness her moments of triumph and brief moments of reprieve. In one scene, she is singing in her apartment and the camera pans until we see only her face and a black background. We are suspended in her life as she occupies the whole screen and holds our undivided attention. Her tears, combined with the orchestration, have a powerful effect. We are supposed to sympathize with her at the end, and we do. The pacing, lighting, and acting are first-rate. The camera deserves a nod for best supporting actor by showing us sympathetic or harsh shots of Cleo. Varda&#x97;born in Belgium and considered an icon of the Nouvelle Vague cinematic movement&#x97;is superb in the way she plays with the idea of fate and chance. Cleo's fate is certain and macabre. She thinks her fate is inevitable, and acts miserable. Further, a chance encounter with a soldier (Antoine) who is going off to fight in the Algerian War (unabashed political commentary on Varda's part) in which he will most certainly die, causes Cleo to realize at last the importance of nature, beauty, spontaneity, love, and life. After two hours of moping around with the soldier, Cleo goes to the hospital for her regularly scheduled appointment. Unmoved by the news that her doctor is away, she strolls the grounds of the hospital when her doctor pulls up to her in his convertible. She learns that her cancer is benign from his off-hand comment delivered by her doctor. Her worst fear didn't materialize after all. Cleo from 5 to 7 is undeniably voyeuristic. We are privy to the essence of a human being. But this realistic technique is not journalistic or precious, which are potential pitfalls. The ambiguity of death&#x97;introduced with a Tarot card (in Technicolor no less) and alluded to throughout&#x97;is a prime storytelling technique. Varda also conveys Cleo's character being altered by the street performers as she strolls the streets of Paris (a city which can evoke emotions, tone, and energy as well as any on-screen character). But while we are watching Cleo's life in particular, something more universal and personal emerges our own hopes, experiences, and fears projected onto this woman. The storyline isn't the central focus of the film, and never causes more than a passing interest in the viewer. But Cleo's melancholy and almost martyrdom is rather appealing. Some film techniques (such as the switch from color to b/w after the pivotal opening scene) and the use of a hand-held quick camera are fresh and innovative. The film is sweet without being saccharine, optimistic without sounding false, and young without being naïve, airy without being blithe. "},{"Title":"not really perfect, but then life ain't either","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Cleo from 5 to 7 (actually it's 5 to 630 but how it is sounds better) is the feminine point of view of Paris, of a discombobulated woman on the edge of a potentially tragic discovery (whether she might die of cancer), and it works because Agnes Varda is in love with the cinema and in love with Paris and in love with her character and star. The passion carries over what little flaws there are- I personally couldn't really stand the actor playing the soldier, though maybe it was some of the writing that came off poorly or self-consciously- and it works as modern film art for what it accomplishes which is one of those rare pure movies for women that doesn't reek of sentimentality or kitsch. It's got some hard issues to face, but it's done in a beautiful style with the camera- itself, as some have noted its own character- and modernity in its thoughts and dialogs.The star, Connie Marchand, aside from being an unusually beautiful blonde (I almost thought at one point Varda couldn't get Deneauve and settled on a very respectable 2nd choice) conveys that sense of being young and pretty and possibly talented but also unhappy and disillusioned by what might happen not just with her potential illness but herself in general. There's one short scene I really loved where she's just walking down the street and the point of view goes back and forth, jarringly, between herself and those men (and men) of all ages taking a glance or look at her. Is it because she's a semi-famous singer or because she just happens to be a pretty blonde walking down the street? A similar scene occurs when she goes to a café and puts on one of her songs on the jukebox and everyone goes about their business.Varda, at the least, gets us as much as she can inside her head-space, be it in small scenes like that or something truly grandiose like when she sings the sad song written by Michael Legrand and as it continues and rises it culminates into something too emotional for her to sustain. She tries to explain it as well, which makes it worse. It also helps in Cleo from 5 to 7 that the structure is broken up as it is in the chapters; another French New-Wave film from 1962, Vivre sa Vie, may have featured a better structural grasp on the chapter break-up, but here Varda seems to suggest that it's based upon both the limitation that time presents for someone like Cleo and for a post-modern break from traditional narrative.Why be told simply this is the end of a scene, this is the beginning, this is the middle? With Varda, as with others from that age group in France making movies at the time, there were no firm rules except to be true to the artistic self, and as the camera and editing take on lives of their own and the star becomes something more as the film progresses, it to becomes a strong piece of art. Some it dated? Maybe, it's France over 45 years ago. But its impact remains due to its dedication to its character, to women living lives uncertain and odd, and to Paris. "},{"Title":"good, uningratiating character study","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Varda's breakthrough, so I'm told; it involves a superstitious pop singer's anxious wait to discover whether or not she has stomach cancer. Told in almost real time, it follows this woman, who has a serious Debbie Harry thing going on, from a tarot reading to a cafe to a hat shop to a cab to an abortive rehearsal to a rendezvous with her artist's-model friend to a movie house to a rendezvous in the park with a dashing soldier, the latter providing one of a few quite earnest and vague references to the war in Algeria. Lots of stylistic flourishes keep things interesting to look at and the episodic structure is a nice touch too, but this is one of the least ingratiating movies I've seen in a while. The audience might as well have been watching a blank screen from its overall reaction. The woman is kind of erratic and difficult, the string of events are slice-of-life inconclusive rather than allegorical, and the ending is inconclusive. Which means that it comes down to a character study, about the difficulties behind facades. And as such it's brave and admirable, at a respectful distance. "}{"Title":"France How of Existentialism and Feminism","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Cléo (Corinne Marchand) is a pop singer who wanders around Paris while she awaits her medical test results. As Cléo readies herself to meet with her doctor at 7 o'clock, she meets with several friends and strangers while trying to grapple with mortality.I love how the film starts with color tarot cards, then switches to black and white. This in itself is a stark contrast, but then so is the black with the white. Sometimes color film cannot capture the difference as well, and for that reason I think the right choice was made here.What is the deal with the art students? Or the kid in the street playing the toy piano? Those people are quite confusing to me, and seem to be important though I cannot imagine why.The film is noted for its handling of several of the themes of existentialism, including discussions of mortality, the idea of despair, and leading a meaningful life. The film has a strong feminine viewpoint and raises questions about how women are perceived. The role of mirrors are prevalent to symbolize self-obsession. I did not gather all this from watching, but only after from reading. This in itself is cause for a second viewing.The director, Varda, is known for her views on feminism and particularly abortion, so it is not strange that this film is feminist. Though, like I say, I did not really catch that. Aside from having a female lead (which is rare enough, I suppose) there was little that made her stand out as a strong woman... "},{"Title":"Falls apart at the end","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Though the title is a misnomer (it should actually be called Cléo from 5 to 630), the real time aspect of the film actually works pretty well. The development of the lead character is quite interesting to watch over the 90 minutes. Not to mention she's pretty easy on the eyes. Varda's direction is top-notch, as every shot is loaded with symbolism and metaphor, and the score is very memorable. The short musical number in the middle is quite powerful as well. But the acting, outside of Cléo herself, is very unimpressive, and the story takes a nosedive in the last fifteen minutes. The seemingly random structure of the film works up until she meets Antoine, at which point all the strong femininity which had built up is immediately discarded. Still, it's an interesting watch. "},{"Title":"I heart Varda, but this film tried *ma patience*","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" it's awfully hard to take an interest in Cleo, the saving grace of the film is the actress' face and the ending is sweet, when she gives of herself a little bit. I think people responsible for the ecstatic reviews should consider the title. I don't think Varda's intention was to suggest this woman is all squared away after 2 hours and a different person, not at all. It's just that she thinks of someone else for the first time since we've known her. maybe it's a start. but come on... we're reminded by the title this is 2 hours in a woman's life. Also the title is a kind of joke cause in Paris one speaks of a 5 to 7 meaning an illicit affair that takes place after work and before dinnertime.I feel this should not have been a feature though there is so much padding in it. Why does she even need to meet up with this artist's model? she might as well have just arrived in a park randomly and met the Robert walker crossed with pier Paulo pasolini type guy.Maybe it seemed really fresh in 61 to see scads and scads of random shots of people on the streets of Paris who, cleverly, react to the camera, but to the audience it appears they are freaking out over how gorgeous Cleo is. this is cute. And she sure is, sort of a blonde Carolyn Jones type. . . But some of the editing is pretty inexplicable like Cleo says, The word montsouris makes you smile like 'cheese' then we cut to the Taxi sign on the cab then we cut to a view of the ride that includes the Taxi sign. What the hell is that supposed to be? ? ? lol a lot of edits I think looked bad like that. basically hough I just don't think Cleo's wanderings and conversations with people are that interesting, the music is a real weakness in this film for me too, and so also the film's investment in the music, which is considerable. as far as the scene when the musicians come over for a visit, that I found really disagreeable to watch. in the end I feel as though this film presents sort of a man's view of women. whatever she was probably being very honest and this is definitely a pre women's movement film. actually it's about time for films like this again, with women's movement backlash. it's not the ending in which she seems to find the seeds of redemption in capitulating to a strange man's desire but rather the rest of her story how completely vain she seems to be. . . that's disturbing and seems a dude's view of chicks. My main problem was being bored out of my skull by this movie though.there are some great great moments though like this one marvelously uncomfortably long shot of Cleo and the soldier riding in the train, Cleo looking and not looking at him wonderful. Cleo walking along and in a simple way we see that she's got all these people on her mind shots of them almost portrait like in style are cut in one by one...I know we are not supposed to comment on other comments. However, I don't understand how one of these reviews got by opening with the ultimate spoiler telling the first and last scenes of the movie and going on to tell much more. no alert for spoilers anywhere to be seen. this is some kinda oversight I think. . . "},{"Title":"Femme Fatale","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I've been dying to see this movie since I heard about it several years back, and finally got to today on IFC. But alas, like most movies I'm dying to see, this was a letdown.If a movie is going to address those Big Questions, is giving us a character we can root for too much to ask? Guess so. Cléo is a self-absorbed prima donna who acknowledges the existence of those around her only if they are serving a need at that particular moment. She is gorgeous, but, oddly, inspires no wolf-whistles from the horn-dogs who line the Parisian streets. Indeed, the men here are a bunch of drips, especially the one she hooks up with!Cléo is a moderately successful singer with a voice as flat as a pancake, yet lives it up a spacious flat (with a swing, no less) and has a maid. Either she knows more about cattle futures than Hillary Clinton or she has a second job, and it's not flipping hamburgers at McDonald's! And the movie does her no favors by inviting us to compare her to Édith Piaf.If watching old farts eating live frogs and Neanderthals sticking rods through their biceps is how you get your jollies, then Cléo de 5 à 7 is definitely for you. "},{"Title":"Look a bit deeper...","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Virtue came out of the 1960's, and certainly, Varda's idea of this lady's plight is as old as life itself; but look thorougly, and you will see a bit of all of us, who are afraid of our own fate--especially, when it comes to our own survival-- The reflection upon that which we take for granted creeps in; but the disappointment is, for such an avant-garde era--especially from France--this is about a very self-centered person, who is all about herself-- and My impression, is Marchand is not that good an actress; she is just playing herself-- Sorry for being so harsh; but I used to be a child actor in Italy, and in spite of all of the virtuous causes artists and Actors seem to attach themselves; it is a dark corner of self-centered, pompous, self-certified hypocrates--so, Maybe Varda got it right-By accident!Francesco Domenico Lisanti "},{"Title":"Antoine Et Cleopatre","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film was shown earlier today in a Double Bill with Jacques Demy's 'Lola', something of an all-in-the-family one-off given that Demy and Agnes Varda were an item for several years, a union that spawned an actor still active in French cinema. For good measure Corrine Marchand, the eponymous Cleo also had a smaller role in Lola and Michel Legrande, who provided music for both films (as well, of course, as Demy's out-and-out musicals)has a cameo as a musician. I have a nagging feeling that I'm saying all this because I don't have too much to say about the movie. I've never really been at ease with the New Wave but at least this isn't Godard or early Truffaut completely unwatchable without a sick bag or four within easy reach. Corinne Marchand is easy on the eye but she never seems to really BELIEVE that she has a possibly life-threatening illness and there's the inescapable feeling that she is a graduate of the Margaret O'Brien should-I-let-the-tear-fall-down-my-right-cheek-or-my-left-Mr-Director school of 'Feeling'. The basic concept has a certain originality and Varda makes a decent stab at introducing a fairly mixed bag of characters but there's also an air of contrivance surrounding the ultimate meeting between Cleo and Antoine who, by pure coincidence, are both in their different ways waiting to face life-threatening situations. To recap I saw both 'Lola' and 'Cleo a cinq a sept' as a double bill some 43 years after their initial release (both were released in 1961) and though I wouldn't necessarily make much of an effort to see either again both succeeded in holding my attention to their respective ends. 5/10  "}]