[{"Title":"Ghost story or psychological study?  Who can say?","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"138 out of 156 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Innocents is one of those films that prove subtlety and imagination can be ten times more terrifying than loud noises or things that go bump in the night. There are no raging spirits or escaped madmen here. Nor will you find that stock of today's second rate horror films -- the creature that embodies evil and finds amazingly obscure ways in which to slaughter naughty teenagers. No, this movie scars one's psyche with darkness and silence and possibility, all mingled with its refusal to give the audience an easy answer at the end.Based on Henry James' novella, The Turn Of The Screw, the story is deceptively simple. An inexperienced governess is hired to care for two orphaned children in an isolated British manor and slowly comes to believe the ghosts of the previous governess and her brutish lover are trying to possess the children's souls. Being a decent woman who loves children, she fights back the only way she can -- by confronting the evil head on. But the question is, does the evil truly exist...or is it all in her own mind?As told by James, the novella is a startling ghost story, without question. He adds his usual psychological insights to the characters, but never do you doubt the ghosts exist. The defining moment comes when Miss Giddens sees Quint's face in a dark window then later finds a locket bearing his portrait and comes to her realization, Oh, he's a ghost! But in the movie, Truman Capote and William Archibald reverse this sequence -- she finds the locket first and THEN sees the man's face in the window -- and all simple explanations go out the door.Is Miss Giddens imagining things? Has she become overwhelmed by the responsibility of raising two precocious children without any sort of support from their selfish uncle? Is she merely sexually repressed and immature enough to transfer her crush on the uncle to a boy not even into puberty yet? And what of Flora, Miles' sister? If this is merely sexual repression on Miss Giddens' part, then why does she drag a little girl into the morass? Throughout the film, Miss Giddens offers evidence of her concerns -- a letter received from Miles' schoolmaster that she cannot fully share with Mrs. Grose because the woman cannot read; her awareness that the two innocents in her charge have a far more advanced knowledge of life than children that age normally would; stories told by Mrs. Grose about Miss Jessel and Quint and how they treated the children. So could it be the spirits of two miserable adults have come back to reclaim life in the persons of Miles and Flora? It could go either way.There is not one wrong moment in this movie. Not one. The first time I saw it was in New York City on a double bill with The Haunting (1963), a things that go bump in the night kind of movie. The audience and I howled through that one, it was so much silly fun. And we chuckled through the first ten minutes of The Innocents (especially when Mrs. Grose tells Miss Giddens, I'm SO glad you're here, with a little quiver in her voice), but by the end of that film (and I use the word film deliberately), the entire theater was dead silent. Any film that can shut up a room full of rowdy New Yorkers has got to be damned good.So...is The Innocents a ghost story or psychological study? Who can say? And to be honest, who cares? It is, at the very least, a damned good movie...and at the very best, a horror story that makes The Shining, Rosemary's Baby, The Others and even Psycho (a movie I love) look like the works of children. That this film is not available on DVD is a travesty. "},{"Title":"Unique in Film History","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"121 out of 154 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" All great films engage us to lesser or greater degree some emotionally, some intellectually -- a few, equally.No film in history, to my memory, seduces the viewer into actively co-creating the piece as it unreels, as does The Innocents. Immediately, vividly, and subtly, it arrests then implicates the viewer in every frame.Its first image, in fact, is a blank (black) screen -- and the haunting sound of a child's song. Instantly, viewers unconsciously react, emotionally (as to all music), to the beguiling yet off-putting song and the voice. Emotional tension, established immediately.Yet, one's mind never stops producing thoughts and images. So, without any visual cues from the screen, the haunting song produces images in viewers' own minds -- each no doubt different. Already, then, viewers are seduced into supplying their own mental images and, whether they know it yet or not, have been brilliantly and subliminally placed in the Deborah Kerr role. This, before a single production credit has appeared. We are watching a shadow a nothing. And our minds demand we fill it with something.Thus does Jack Clayton's astonishing The Innocents begin. Certainly, other films have used the same opening device. But none with The Innocents' payoff.For, as it develops (based on Henry James', The Turn of the Screw), The Innocents' themes are, What do you see? What do you believe is true? Is it? Who is 'innocent?' The children? The nanny? You? The emotional undertow is inescapable, perhaps more so because two-thirds of the trio of protagonists are children in peril, always a surefire hook.But in peril from what, exactly? Deborah Kerr's possible paranoia / schizophrenia? Ghosts? Or our own powerful, perhaps lurid, imaginings of what may or may not have happened to these children from their deceased and perhaps sexually perverse tutors? The children's memories or imaginings of what did or didn't happen? The film unfolds with some of the most beautiful cinematography in history (Freddie Francis). The Innocents requires full-size screening, or at least letterboxing to fully appreciate the visual poetry supporting the suspense.Jack Clayton's production and direction rank among the finest in screen history.The miraculous work he pulls from his cast is uniformly jaw-dropping.Despite Deborah Kerr's ravishing natural beauty, one never recalls even a single performance in which she was Deobrah Kerr she was always the character -- whether a nun (Heaven Knows, Mr. Allison), an adulterous sexpot (From Here to Eternity), a Tennessee Williams underdog (Night of the Iguana), a strong-willed soprano-singing teacher (The King and I) or a romantic comedienne (An Affair to Remember).Contrast Kerr's beauty, talent and career with Elizabeth Taylor, say. Equally ravishing, one was always aware of watching Miss Taylor act. Even in stunt casting, like her Martha in Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? or the debacle of Cleopatra. Miss Kerr is the real thing. So are Megs Jenkins (Mrs. Grose), Martin Stephens (Miles) and Pamela Franklin (Flora).The story and filming progressively grow more audacious, until the last heartbreaking sequence between Kerr and young Stephens.By then, of course, our hearts and minds are so thoroughly complicit in the goings on that the final cry heard on the soundtrack, before we are left again in the blank, black void of our own hearts and imaginings at all we've just lived through, before credits begin to roll, leaves us with perhaps the most haunting of all cinematic experiences.Why? Because we have made the film as it went along, as fully involved as any character in it -- our own minds contributing all that's unspoken and unseen.The Innocents is the Citizen Kane of its genre. And like Citizen Kane, it transcends genres.This is an immortal achievement by a team of filmic artists at their peaks. A revelation of what film can be. "},{"Title":"Genuine creepiness in glorious black & white","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"73 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What makes a good chiller? Gore, special effects? No, as director Jack Clayton proves here, it's atmosphere, combined with the sounds of horror, that makes the difference. Granted, I've seen just about every Elm Street and Friday the 13th instalment, but The Innocents proves that what you don't see can scare you the most. Deborah Kerr is in fine form as an English governess who is sent to a remote mansion in the country to look after two young orphans. Their uncle in London doesn't have time for them. Kerr slowly begins to realize there's something not quite right with the young boy and girl. Their thoughts and actions are not consistent with the behavior of pre-teens. There's a dark secret, and Kerr sets out to discover it. We do see the ghosts, but it's when Kerr searches the house for the sources of strange noises and voices that we really feel a chill. The Innocents also makes great use of its black and white photography. I can't imagine it working as well in color (are you listening, Gus Van Sant?). Shadows just seem creepier in black and white. The children are well played by Martin Stephens and Pamela Franklin. Franklin was 11 when she made this film, and as an adult she would go on to star in another excellent haunted house movie, The Legend of Hell House. It's a shame that Hollywood has stopped making movies like The Innocents. Perhaps audiences used to Halloween-style slashers, Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer would be demanding blood and guts. Yes, Scream was, pardon the pun, a cut above. It raised the slumping horror bar to new heights, and then I Know... ran under that bar, but that's another story. If you want genuine chills rather than cheap thrills, you can't do much better than The Innocents.  "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"70 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Miss Giddens, an uptight but pretty young woman, takes a job as a Governess for two orphans on a grandiose estate in the English countryside. Flora and Miles seem like thoroughly innocent and angelic children, but soon, whispers of corruption begin to materialize. Miles is expelled from school for reasons he is reluctant to discuss. Miss Giddens learns of the fate of the prior governess, a masochistic young woman named Miss Jessel who was having an affair with a sadistic man named Quint. Soon, Miss Giddens is seeing the ghosts of the arrogantly handsome Quint and the forlorn Miss Jessel everywhere and comes to believe that the children have been possessed. But is she only imagining these horrors? And will she destroy the children in her attempt to save them?This movie is creepy, claustrophobic and totally paranoid. Filmed in moody black and white with an almost non-existent musical score (other than the chilling song Willow Waylee sung in a child's voice over the opening credits and throughout the film) The Innocents is a flawless suspense drama. I hesitate to call it a ghost story, as the presence of the ghosts is never confirmed (or denied, for that matter.) Nor is the sanity of the main character. Is the prim English Governess (played with classic elegance by Deborah Kerr) simply an uptight prude having obscene fantasies, or are the two children she's caring for really possessed by the evil and perverted spirits of the former governess and her sadistic lover? There's no gore, no stupid incidental music, no insufferably adorable children and no happy ending. Unspoken horrors, dark secrets and things that decent people don't discuss, fill this film with sick shadows and diseased memories. Whether or not the ghosts exist is a moot point by films end. This film is about corruption and perversion. Indeed, there are no Innocents in this film...only the facade of innocence, a flimsy backdrop of beauty drawn over the ugly, festering truth. But what IS the truth? This film is a masterpiece of dread and still has the power to disturb even some forty years later. I would highly recommend it to ghost enthusiasts and psych majors alike! "},{"Title":"Horror that is the cinematic equivalent of rising damp","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"53 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Director Jack Clayton's masterpiece is a study of deepest dread. Its horror is the cinematic equivalent of rising damp.Deborah Kerr accepts a job as the governess of two strange children (Martin Stephens and Pamela Franklin) and becomes convinced that they occupy a world haunted by repressed memories and the restless dead.Martin Stephens' performance as the unfathomable Miles is extraordinary. The child projects a physical authority rare for his years. His dialog exchanges with Kerr run the gamut from highly amusing to deeply disturbing.Clayton's greatest achievement is the way he subverts common household settings to the point where they become arenas of fear.The sound design is chilling, conjuring sudden terror and thrusting us into the complex mechanics of the Kerr character's growing paranoia.Strikingly shot and lit, the film is a textbook example of grave cinematic suggestion. "},{"Title":"Superb psychological horror!","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"50 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Miss Giddens (Deborah Kerr), a nineteenth century British governess, is appointed to take care of two children, Flora (Pamela Franklin) and Miles (Martin Stephens). Upon arriving at the bleak mansion she meets the housekeeper (Megs Jenkins) and also Flora. Miles arrives a few days later from school. The children seem like little angels but, following a series of bizarre events and examples of the children's wicked impulses, Miss Giddens begins to suspect that all is not what it seems.This dark and atmospheric tale is a wonderful example of how to create an admirable horror movie that, although has violent undertones, features very little violence when all is said and done. &#145;The Innocents' is certainly a psychological horror movie which leaves in doubt how much of the inexplicable happenings are supernatural, and how much is in the mind of the protagonist, Miss Giddens. Director Jack Clayton uses some astonishing visual trickery and ghostly effects to create and maintain a very unsettling atmosphere, almost from the very beginning. A number of effective ghostly apparitions are displayed on screen during the movie from varying distances which gives &#145;The Innocents' a constant, foreboding atmosphere. The way some scene changes blend with the end of the previous scene are rather disconcerting and almost dream like as there are long lingering images, once again, wholly adding to the effect. Some of the dialogue may seem a little unrealistic, but in general the movie is well scripted and features a few very dramatic scenes thanks to some delightfully written dialogue and strong acting performances. William Archibald and Truman Capote both won awards for their script writing.The only real fault with &#145;The Innocents' is how fast the film moves along. Miss Giddens seems to realise the truth of what is happening all too quickly. This does not make &#145;The Innocents' less enjoyable, but it would have been nice to have had an extra ten minutes or so explaining the story to us a bit more. &#145;The Innocents' has a sustained tone of dread throughout the movie. It seems that Miss Giddens is unable to move without being confronted by some spectre or seeing some rather peculiar behaviour exhibited from the children. I'd compare the dark atmosphere with that of &#145;The Haunting' (1963), both movies are comparable in the way they are presented and are both aesthetically pleasing. The acting was of a high standard, though one must forgive the two young performers if they occasionally seemed to overact. Martin Stephens was very good as Miles, playing his sinister part with an awful power, even though the character's superciliousness became somewhat of an annoyance. Megs Jenkins was also delightful as the anxious housekeeper Mrs. Grose. From the moment Mrs. Grose is first introduced the viewer can begin to suspect something. Jenkins came across as a friendly, but scared, woman who is desperate to maintain decorum in the house. A fine performance suited her character marvellously. One must also mention Deborah Kerr's fine performance as Miss Giddens as she played it with the right balance of inquisitiveness and fear. Deborah's dramatic performance certainly helped make this movie fantastic and one sympathises with her deeply as the film ends on the sombre and heartbreaking note that it does.&#145;The Innocents' is an elegant and stylish movie that is certainly worth watching. Fans of &#145;The Omen' and &#145;Village of the Damned' should enjoy this as well as any fan of dark, atmospheric horror. A strong screenplay, fine performances and breathtaking visual trickery make this movie a very pleasing addition to the horror genre and I highly recommend it to all. &#145;The Innocents' was able to scoop a BAFTA Award (British Academy of Film and Television Awards) for Best British Film as well as a BAFTA nomination for Jack Clayton which he thoroughly deserved. My rating for &#145;The Innocents' - 8/10. "},{"Title":"Creeeeepy!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"37 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" They sure don't make movies like this one anymore. This is one of the few horror movies that does not have gory or graphic images in it. Instead, the spooks in this movie are presented in a subtle way....yet, the movie is quite scary. This is the type of horror movie that I like, one in which every now and then you see a frightening image or a startling scene, and that image or scene lingers in your mind.Everything about this movie is haunting. First, there's the song at the beginning you hear a young girl's voice singing a beautiful yet somber song. Later you hear that song in several scenes in the movie.Second, there's the setting this movie takes place in a large Victorian mansion with many rooms and passages, while only about eight people live in it....what could be more eerie than that?Then there's the exceptional cinematography. The black-and-white photography is perfect for this movie. This movie would not have been too creepy if it had been done in color. Further, many of the shots were innovative and the lighting was used ingeniously in some of the scenes.Additionally, I liked the way that the director chose to play around with the sound, which brought more of an element of mystery to the movie. In one particular scene, there was a lot of noise initially....and in a split second there was dead silence....then several seconds later, it was noisy all over again (all in the same scene).But what I think is the most interesting thing about this movie is the fantastic performance by Deborah Kerr. It's fascinating to watch her facial expressions in this movie. She demonstrates her character's fear quite well.I also think that the actor who plays Quint is very scary-looking! He has a very sinister look, and it adds to the spookiness of this movie. If you really want to be spooked by this movie, watch it late at night with all of the lights off....dare to watch it by yourself. "},{"Title":"A film that has haunted me ever since I first saw it. Staggering, brilliant, masterful, The Innocents is the Rolls Royce of ghost stories.","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"48 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Innocents is a film that has haunted me ever since I first saw it. Staggering, brilliant, masterful, The Innocents is the Rolls Royce of ghost stories. From the unforgettable camerawork by Freddie Francis to the incisive, beautiful direction by Jack Clayton to the brilliant performance by Deborah Kerr, The Innocents works on a thousand levels. This is a film for anyone who truly wants to see brilliance in its purest form. Any director who wants to make a suspense/horror piece that counts, see this film now. If you can, don't see the pan and scan version -- it was shot in black and white Cinemascope and should be viewed that way -- Letterboxed. Let's hope 20th Century Fox put it out on DVD. It is available on Laser Disc is a beautiful letterbox transfer. But if you get the opportunity to see it on a screen -- RUN. A film that lingers in the mind for decades to come. What more could you ask from a film?.............................. "},{"Title":"Best film I ever saw","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"45 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Jack Clayton's sensitivity proves it, there is no need of blood and disgust to make a good creepy thriller! I saw many films in my life and I learned to love Bergman, Kubrick, Kieslowski, Leone, Allen, but I really believe that I enjoyed no other film as much as The Innocents! Outstanding cast and outstanding photographed! The music of Georges Auric is perfect (included an old death-yearning song O willow waly). If you ever go for a trip to England, go and see the wonderful location Sheffield Park Garden in Sussex. This is not only an intelligent and incredible atmospheric film, it is a weird journey into a spiritual world. And perhaps Clayton's direction went too far, because unfortunately this gem never found an audience! After a novel The turn of the screw by Henry James. One more tip, if you ever have the chance to see this Cinemascope-film in a movie theater, do it! It really is overwhelming!!! "},{"Title":"The other Others","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"35 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Innocents is a masterpiece of atmospheric horror cinema. The obvious influence for 2001's 'The Others', The Innocents portrays themes of paranoia, death and madness; superbly wrapped around a plethora of great performances from the four main leads.The story revolves around an uncle who doesn't have time for the children he has inherited, and therefore hires Miss Giddens (Deborah Kerr) to look after them. When Miss Giddens arrives at the mansion, she first meets Flora, the young girl and is 'enchanted' by the child. A few days later the boy, Miles, arrives at the house after being expelled from school. The fourth lead is made up by the housekeeper, Mrs Grose; played by Meg Jenkins. From the housekeeper, Miss Giddens eventually learns of what happened to the previous occupants of the house, and that's where the fun starts...Martin Stephens (Miles) and Pamela Franklin (Flora) do surprisingly good jobs as the two adorable young children that are the centre of the story. Their characters are portrayed as nice young children, but at the same time there is something sinister about them, and that is where the tale draws a lot of it's suspense and mystery from. Deborah Kerr also shines as the watcher of the children. We know from the outset that her character loves children, which makes her plight believable to the audience when she does all she can to save the children from the evil she believes is haunting them. We never really know what is happening in the movie; the children's viewpoints contradict that of Miss Giddens, and as there is evidence to support what both sides say, along with evidence to support that of the contrary, the mystery is able to build itself through this and that, therefore, along with the empathy we are able to feel for Mrs Giddens due to the nature of her character; the film is able to remain interesting and suspenseful for it's running time.The thing that this film does best is in capturing a dark and foreboding atmosphere. Through the way the story is portrayed and the beautiful cinematography, Jack Clayton is able to create scenes and sequences that are genuinely frightening and suspenseful; less is more rarely works to a great effect, but here it does. The 'ghosts' have very little screen time, but the time they do have is powerful and memorable enough to make it seem like much more. The film's creepy and menacing atmosphere never delves into violence or gore and relies solely on the story itself and the Gothic, atmospheric setting; and that is much to the film's credit.If you liked the slightly later 60's paranoid horror films, such as Carnival of Souls or The Haunting, then this film is definitely one to check out. "}{"Title":"Not about ghosts","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the 1960's people just didn't talk about child sexual abuse. They also didn't depict it outright in movies. The fact that this movie was cast in the setting of Victorian England further demonstrates its intent to highlight an era of extreme sexual repression, when feelings and emotions that didn't fit with the social and cultural mores of the time were subjugated to evil thoughts and deeds.Miss Giddens was a perfect example of a woman who was raised in a highly religious and fundamentalist environment, who could never admit that sexual longings and urges exist in herself. Nor could she ever conceptualize how young children could suffer abuse from observing violent and sexual acts committed by adults in their presence. Whether there was any direct abuse to the children is speculative, but anyone who has had any training or education in the field of psychology knows that vicarious trauma can be transmitted to children who witness sexually deviant and violent acts.Miles exhibits classic sociopathic behaviors at school and we're given clues to this when we're told the other children are afraid of him and Miles himself starts to admit that he hurts things. There is also the scene where Miles hides a dove with a broken neck under his pillow and Miss Giddens assumes was killed by Quint's ghost, but in actuality, Miles is committing a classic behavior that many children of sexual abuse do at a young age, which is to kill or maim animals.Individuals who have been sexually abused are often described as seductive, which is more about lack of clarity around boundaries and intimacy. A child's ability to develop strong boundaries around their sexuality can be destroyed from sexual abuse and physical violence. We can see that Miss Giddens is drawn into the seductive nature of both children, but especially Miles. As her own sexual repression and desires are projected onto Miles, as she is pulled into a desire that causes her lose all her senses about the fact he is a child, and not the sexually deviant, yet desirous Quint. Her desire is so strong that she allows herself to be drawn into an inappropriate kiss from Miles, further demonstrating that the child's sexual boundaries are lost, and so too are hers.In the end, Miss Giddens forces Miles to confront a memory, which is aptly stated by Mrs. Gros when she attempts to point out to Miss Giddens that the little girl is overwrought, not from witnessing the presence of a ghost, but from a bad memory. Mrs. Gros knows that these children witnessed unspeakable horrors and seems to be often taken aback when discussing these issues with Miss Giddens. Miss Giddens immediately considers these events as evil abominations of ghostly presence rather Mrs. Gros' apparent sense of real incidents that are too taboo to discuss out loud.The fact that Miles dies from the knowledge that he forced to confront is more of a psychological death, as many children of abuse suffer a death of the soul after such abuse. In its excellent dramatic and cinematic effects, The Innocents documents events that are too unspeakable to present outright. The emotions and psychological impact of such events are brilliantly portrayed and touch the viewer somewhere deep in the psyche. "},{"Title":"One Full Turn of the Screw","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Innocents (1961)The title loads this gun a little differently than the original from the long short story (or novella) by Henry James--The Turn of the Screw. But Jack Clayton's version of the story gets at the point with great ambiguity--uncertainty is key, and the suspense is partly under pressure because we don't quite know which side to take.I can't say more, of course, because even a hint of a hint will start a viewer off on the wrong foot. But know that The Innocents is vigorously filmed in widescreen black and white, that Deborah Kerr, always a cool actress, is perfectly cool here (some might just say British, but she has no Julie Andrews in her governessing, and no Elizabeth Taylor in her at all). The two kids are both rather poised and charming as well as chilling, the boy especially intriguing for his precociousness (and preciousness). We empathize with all three equally, and yet, as you see, you can't quite see the events from their three pairs of eyes equally. Something is wrong, and you wait to see what, and how it will be revealed.If it ever is. One of the brilliant things about Henry James is how you finish one of his books (the novels are better than the stories for this, I think) knowing what has happened but not knowing completely why. I mean, it all makes sense and feels right, but it feels suspended with an air of lingering needs. So you end up thinking about it later. As you will with this film.There are some moments of special effects that are very well done even if a kind of 1950s/60s style of overlapping images and dreamer/dreamed simultaneousness. And the ghosts, not to give anything away, are pretty matter of fact. This is more an appreciation than a complaint, because the lack of gore, of cheap surprise, or of obvious scare tactics makes the movie a relief, and a bit of cinematic magic. "},{"Title":"What shall I say when his feet enter softly, leaving the marks of his grave on my floor?","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The secret to mastering the horror genre is atmosphere. Modern directors can keep their unrealistic monsters, their overuse of gore, their sudden cheap scares &#150; great horror is all about atmosphere. For this very reason, Alejandro Amenábar's 'The Others (2001)' is one of the finer chillers to have come our way in the last decade, and it's not altogether unsurprising to discover that the film borrowed extensively from an earlier film, Jack Clayton's masterful ghost story, 'The Innocents (1961).' Adapted from Henry James' 1898 novella The Turn of the Screw, the film's screenplay was co-written by William Archibald and Truman Capote. Like James' original story, which has been endlessly debated by literary critics for over a century, Clayton's film has, after all these decades, retained its tone of ambiguity. Is it a ghost story? Is it a psychological exploration of a sexually-repressed woman? Whichever way you interpret it, 'The Innocents' remains one of the horror genre's landmark achievements, and the secrets of an old, dark mansion have rarely been more sinister, nor indeed, more beautiful.The elegant Deborah Kerr stars as Miss Giddens, the reserved daughter of a country parson, who agrees to become governess to two orphaned children in the care of a wealthy, indifferent businessman (Michael Redgrave). After travelling to a remote country mansion, Miss Giddens meets Flora (Pamela Franklin), a warm and vivacious young girl with a fondness for her pet tortoise. However, when Flora's brother Miles (Martin Stephens) is mysteriously expelled from school and sent home early, life at the house begins to take a sinister turn, despite the boy's charming and seemingly-innocent demeanour. Peculiar apparitions begin to appear, supplemented by an unnerving selection of unidentifiable creaks, voices and music. Large homes, it seems, breed large secrets, and it doesn't take long before Bly House reveals its tragic past, a scandal involving the former valet Peter Quint (Peter Wyngarde) and Miss Giddens' predecessor Miss Jessel (Clytie Jessop), who were romantically involved and who both died in bizarre circumstances. Could the mansion's past, long thought forgotten, be returning to haunt and corrupt its current residents?Placing Kerr in the main role was a very deliberate and effective casting decision. Few actresses are able to project such grace and reverence, and, consequently, the audience is expected to treat her character's suppositions as sensible and well-founded suspicions. But, indeed, is it sensible to suppose that two former lovers, to allow their continued romance, have inhabited the souls of two young children? Why has Miss Giddens alone witnessed these perplexing manifestations? The participation of author Truman Capote contributes elements of Southern Gothic literature, and the perceived haunting might justifiably be approached as the metaphorical personification of Miss Giddens' repressed sexual desires. Having endured a confined childhood with a smothering religious father, she has taught herself to suppress these desires, and her feelings towards Michael Redgrave's prosperous businessman instead manifest themselves in the form of the ghost of Peter Quint, a handsome rogue who represents everything from whom her parson father had shielded her; Quint's former lover, Miss Jessel, could conceivably have been her in different circumstances.In the film's most shocking and unsettling twist, Miss Giddens' ill-directed sexual desires transfer themselves from the absent businessman to his roguishly-charming nephew, Miles, a pre-pubescent boy. Their frictional relationship, which must have caused severe headaches for the censors, culminates in a alarmingly-sensual kiss, which Miss Giddens' feebly returns in the film's final moments. If we were to exclude for the moment the possibility of ghostly possession, the perceived corruption of the two young children could be viewed as a result of their abuse by the now-deceased lovers, and it is strongly implied that the children may have been present when the pair performed sexual acts; it is only when forced to confront these memories that the children finally deteriorate into hysterics, and permanent emotional damage is done. Both children are excellent in difficult roles, but Martin Stephens is the genuine sensation, approaching the role with maturity and assuredness that suggests an actor twice his age. Stephens recognises perfectly that young Miles should not be an openly sinister character, and yet every charming complement is undertoned by the subtlest hint of sardonic menace.At the end of the day, whether one accepts 'The Innocents' as a psychological thriller or a traditional ghost story, the unambiguous truth is that Jack Clayton's film is brilliant. The black-and-white Cinemascope photography by Freddie Francis who also worked on 'The Elephant Man (1980),' and has directed his own share of films is breathtaking to behold, with many scenes seemingly lit only by the flickering flame of a single candle. The sound design, particularly in a virtuoso sequence of things that go bump in the night, employs bird and insect calls, wind and faceless human voices to evoke the desired atmosphere, and Georges Auric's musical score complements the tone beautifully. The film is similar in style to Robert Wise's haunted-house chiller 'The Haunting (1963),' itself one of the horror genre's greatest entries. Surprisingly underseen in most circles, 'The Innocents' deserves to be lauded among cinema's finest horror movies, not just due to its extensive creepiness, but because of the film's impeccable artistry and thematic depth. What a treat this would be on the cinema screen. "},{"Title":"Oh willow I die, oh willow I die...","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Based on Henry James' novel, The Turn Of The Screw, The Innocents is a thoroughly absorbing chiller that pot boils with almost unbearably knowing glee as to what it's doing to the viewer. Deborah Kerr stars as Miss Giddens, the lady hired by Michael Redgrave to act as governess to his young niece and nephew. We find ourselves in Victorian England, out on some country estate at Bly Mansion, where the children are angelic and enchanting in equal measure. Yet there's an eeriness hanging over this place and it starts to seemingly play tricks on Miss Giddens' mind, she thinks she sees and hears things. It's only when she talks to housekeeper Mrs Grose (Megs Jenkins), that she starts to piece things together, but worryingly it's the children that appear to be at the root of the problems. Aren't they?Kerr is fabulous here, carrying an elegant gait around with her, she does a fine line in borderline hysteria caused by something unknown bubbling away under the surface. Filmed on location at Sheffield Park and Gardens, and the Bluebell Railway in East Sussex, this lovely Gothic chiller does justice to its literate source. Being co-scripted by Truman Capote, William Archibald and John Mortimer, that's really not much of a surprise in truth though is it?! Choosing to play on the viewers imagination more than pandering to shocks, director Jack Clayton superbly creates a sort of itchy like sense of dread. He's fully aware that here in and around the Gothic abode, it's more often than not what you don't see &#x96; or think you see - that is more frightening.Ace cinematographer Freddie Francis does a marvellous job with the photography, with deep focus and shadows the order of the day, and with Clayton sharp cutting and dallying with angles; and Georges Auric's sinister music floating around the estate like some spectral peeping tom, the atmosphere created is akin to claustrophobic foreboding. In many ways it's actually an uncomfortable watch, but for all the right reasons, the themes that rumble away are grim in texture, the question of malevolent evil or otherwise is a constant, and fittingly the finale offers up a shocking denouement that is nigh on impossible to shake off. With great performances from the child actors (Pamela Franklin/Martin Stephens) sealing the deal, The Innocents is one of the smartest and most effective chillers to ever have come out of Britain. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Atmospheric Translation of Classic Ghost Story","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Jack Clayton's The Innocents is a wonderfully atmospheric film translation of Henry James' classic Victorian Era ghost story, The Turn of the Screw. Highlighted by stunning black-and-white cinematography from Freddie Francis (who later worked on David Lynch's The Elephant Man) and fabulous set designs, The Innocents stays very close to James' text while adding a few cinematic elements (like the music box, highly suggestive visual symbolism, and the reading of a macabre poem) as it weaves its tale of a governess (Deborah Kerr) trying to unravel the mystery surrounding some strange apparitions on a lavish country estate where she cares for two young children displaying some odd behavior.The brilliance of the film and the original story is in the ambiguity. There are two logical interpretations the governess is slowly going mad, or the estate is haunted. Regardless of which interpretation you take, there is still plenty of room to intertwine the disturbing Freudian subtexts involving the governess' repressed emotions and what the children have actually seen, heard, known, or experienced. I can't think of a more refined or subtle exploration of what happens when an adult transfers or projects their own psychological hang-ups onto children in their charge than James' quietly suspenseful potboiler.The performances are a bit melodramatic at times, but note perfect in their proper context, with Kerr prissy but sympathetic and the children expertly performing the sudden turns from innocent angels to sinister manipulators. The Innocents does feature some dated sound effects that come across as annoying rather than creepy, but the visuals and the shrieking climax are what will stick with the viewer. Unlike recent (and for the most part very worthy) modern updates on the story like The Others and The Orphanage where a twist ending reveals the only true interpretation of the ghastly events, The Innocents leaves it all to the imagination of the viewer. The imagination, it seems, can be a very dangerous thing with which to play. "},{"Title":"Ambiguous and Beautifully Crafted","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the Victorian England, the tutor of the teenagers Flora (Pamela Franklin) and her brother Miles (Martin Stephens) hires the governess Miss Giddens (Deborah Kerr) to raise the children in their huge mansion with total independence and authority. Sooner, Miss Giddens believes that the ghosts of the former governess Miss Jessel and housekeeper Peter Quint are in the property haunting the children, and she decides to help them to face the spirits and get their souls free.The Innocents is a beautifully crafted ghost story, with an awesome black and white cinematography and performances, and ambiguous screenplay. The most evident story is a horror movie with a scary atmosphere. However, it is never clear whether Miss Giddens is insane, since none of the characters, including the housekeeper Mrs. Grose (Megs Jenkins), admit to see the fiends. Do the ghosts exist or are they in her head? The movie is never clear. Deborah Kerr is very beautiful and has a stunning acting supported by a great cast. A couple of weeks ago, I saw The Nightcomers, where there is an explanation for the behavior of Miles and Flora, but The Innocents is better and better the way it is. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Os Inocentes (The Innocents) "},{"Title":"house of the damned","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Amid the releases of numerous Hammer films, Jack Clayton directed a different kind of horror film, more of a psychological thriller. The Innocents casts Deborah Kerr as Miss Giddens, a woman hired to be a governess for two children in a manor in the English countryside. At first, the children are happy to have Miss Giddens around. But as time passes, Miss Giddens begins to suspect that something is not quite right...or is it all in her mind? The movie, based on a short story by Henry James, has a lot going for it. The black and white cinematography alone creates a significant Gothic feeling. The setting certainly adds to that an antiquated mansion in which just about anything could be hiding; the house could easily be the star of the movie. But Deborah Kerr's facial expressions are as creepy as anything that happens in or around the house. Her expressions truly serve to make the audience wonder how much of the terror is real or in her mind. And of course the girl's song is also pretty sinister.Watching the movie, I could see some similarities to The Shining and The Others. It just goes to show that real horror comes not from blood and guts, but from what the viewer doesn't know. There were a few scenes in this movie that made my blood freeze a little bit. Without a doubt it was a solid achievement for Clayton, Kerr, and also Truman Capote (who co-wrote the screenplay). Definitely one that I recommend. "},{"Title":"Gothic horror with a more literal twist","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Miss Giddens (Deborah Kerr) is a precocious young woman who gets a job as a governess over two young children, Miles and Flora, in a mansion basically uninhabited and neglected by the two children's uncle. Her enthusiasm for the job is quickly met with Gothic horror, however, as the seductive nature of the children, the brooding atmosphere of the estate, and the appearance of things that go bump in the night causes Giddens to believe that the children may be possessed by the spirits of their previous caretakers, a dysfunctional duo of lovers that met untimely demise.As an exercise in Gothic horror, The Innocents is a very well crafted genre piece. Suspense is built slowly as chiaroscuro, editing, and graceful long takes builds up the horror and anxiety in the main character. However, what's strange about this movie is that it pretty much literally is about a woman who suffers from schizophrenia, leading her to kill and damage the children she was attempting to protect. On that note, however, it's very interesting how this movie makes the insane character utterly relatable by maintaining its perspective in her own conscience and imagination, while making all of the truly sane characters by making it seem like they're hiding something.Part of the reason of this is that Giddens' paranoid schizophrenia rises mainly from the fact that the children she's taking care of are so creepy, plus that they are in such a desolate and disturbing space. It's easier to understand her perspective when a little child is giggling secretly behind a curtain than to get into the children's perspective when they refuse to tell the truth. It's a very interesting exercise which builds very well... to a disappointing ending. At least, however, it did not go Psycho and decide to explain itself.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"It was only the wind, my dear.","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Atmospheric period thriller, ghost story, psychological study of repressed fears and sexuality, The Innocents (1962) adapted by Jack Clayton from Henry James' novella The Turn of the Screw fits perfectly all these genres and blends them in the unique, one of its kind film. Ms. Giddens (Deborah Kerr) is hired by a rich, self-centered man (Michael Redgrave) to take care of his young orphaned niece and nephew who live in the country side. He needs her to be completely responsible for them and never bother him with any problems. The young woman is very eager and exited to meet two children and to become not just their governess but their friend. She is ready to love them. The huge mansion where a brother and sister live is full of dark and gloomy secrets. Very soon, the young and inexperienced governess begins to suspect that the children who act strangely may be possessed by the spirits of two former servants who both died under the mysterious circumstances. Are the children possessed or is that Ms. Giddens' imagination and fears play with her mind? Do the ghosts appear or is she the only one who sees them? We would never receive a definite answer but it does not make a movie any less interesting and compelling. "},{"Title":"NOT a ghost story","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Reading the comments here about The Innocents, I'm surprised to see that so many users call it a ghost story. I don't think that it is.Miss Giddens, the governess, is a sexually repressed young woman, the daughter of a minister, middle but working class, and terribly naive. Her ghostly apparitions are a result, in large part, of her repression. They are triggered by her impossible infatuation with the children's uncle (I think the suggestion is she harbors that Jane Eyre fantasy of the powerful Master falling in love with the prim, plain, poor governess). They are heightened and fine-tuned with the discovery of the good-looking, lascivious Quint and his affair with Miss Jessel (after all, the woman she replaced could've been her!).Miss Giddens wants sex, or at least is curious about it, but she also fears it. She is astonishingly intolerant of the Quint-Jessel affair, believing without evidence the pair to be evil and corruptive (Quint may have been abusive, but in the Victorian age, what man wasn't a creep?). In her real and imagined encounters with the males of the story, she is submissive to the dominant Master, to the dominant Quint, even at times to the dominant Miles, with whom she shares a disturbingly sensual kiss.But she is also sexually manipulative, for example using her ghosts and the children's possession as excuses to contact the Master even after he has explicitly told her that he doesn't want to be bothered. Afraid of sex, she still seeks sexual attention.As for her charges' evil behavior--that is easily explained by privilege. Miles and Flora aren't exactly purposefully cruel, but like many privileged children they are rather blunt and self-centered, not terribly disciplined, and certainly bored from time to time by their provincial governess. In scene after scene they make fun of Miss Giddens for her simplicity and superstitions. The bright and well-educated Miles is particularly patronizing. When she spooks from a snuffed-out candle, he says, It was only the wind, my dear. But this doesn't make Miles (or Flora) evil; merely precocious.Of course, the children are also plagued by their own psychological dysfunctions they feel unwanted by their uncle, who regards them as a nuisance; lonely and isolated from other children (one scene has Miles BEGGING to go back to school to be with other boys his age); traumatized by the sudden and violent deaths of their parents and parental figures. What normal, otherwise healthy child wouldn't be mischievous and misbehaved, given such a history?Childish stuff, simple and complex, but Miss Giddens feels threatened by it, and increasingly rejected by Miles and Flora. She desperately WANTS to be a part of their lives of privilege, as she desperately wants their uncle or another Quint to be a part of hers. But try as she might, Miss Giddens is not even a surrogate mother, and is in fact regarded by the household as only the highest-ranking member of the servant class.The Innocents is as much about class struggle as it is about sexual repression--and Miss Giddens owes much of her sexual repression to her class, middling and respectably conservative.Well, I could go on, but this is too long already (ha)... The ghosts are Miss Giddens' and Miss Giddens' alone. Note that neither Mrs. Grose nor the children see the ghosts. Even in the closing exorcism scene, when Miss Giddens tells Miles, Look! Peter Quint!, he only asks, frantically, Where? Miles is eager enough to make contact with his dead friend/father figure. So why doesn't he see Quint--unless Quint isn't there? His inability to see Quint even when he WANTS to invalidates Miss Giddens' claims that he is in constant contact with and being corrupted by ghosts.By the way, I agree that Kerr's performance is over-the-top, but I think there's a reason for it besides the simple fact that The Innocents was made in the early sixties when over-the-top acting was the norm Kerr's character IS a melodramatic woman, so she plays her melodramatically!  "}{"Title":"We, the Spook","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You will almost certainly not enjoy this. Its because it depends on conventions that have since been made obsolete. And it was roughly remade with vastly more complexity and depth by Kubrick.But in its day, this was pretty spooky stuff. Although it is in black and white, you would have known the unstable governess was a redhead &#151; here with impractically flowing hair. You would have inserted that then simple stereotype into some cinematography that seems tame today, but comparatively, it exploits the space and hidden spaces therein.But the essence of the thing was cerebral, as with the novel on which it is based. It is an adventure in the possibility of the untrusted narrator. The clever thing is that its not even clear just what that means. Superficially, it about a woman caught in a noir situation with ghosts and possessed children. One level removed, it is a two-braid either that is true or she is imagining this and driving the children mad. But there is a sort of genius here that blurs all the possibilities in between. Both in some way. Even that there are demons of some sort that from the noir place of simple cinematic play have decided to seed suspicions of all possibilities, none of them true. I like this the most. It is something Henry would have admired though he hardly attempted it himself. But that was before noir was invented, this notion that the viewers are the ghosts, pulling lives to and fro.Best see this, then The Shining, to see how the notion of noir manipulation, and embodiment in space were taken to still unappreciated perfection. Or even The Others which is the complement. Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"A Classic Horror With Atmosphere","Date":"2 October 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Based on the novella The Turn of the Screw by Henry James, a young governess (Deborah Kerr) for two children becomes convinced that the house and grounds are haunted.As outsiders looking in as voyeurs, we are left wondering about what the governess sees are the children possessed? Or perhaps they have become friends with ghosts? Or is the governess simply paranoid? The film keeps us guessing, which only adds to its creepiness.This title has the distinction of featuring the debut of Pamela Franklin, here playing the child Flora, who would later be memorable in The Legend of Hell House. She expertly presents herself as innocent (hence the title) while saying creepy lines such as, Oh, look, a lovely spider! And it's eating a butterfly. Did this inspire Jack Hill's Spider Baby? The film has received wide critical acclaim for its psychological thrills and also its technological achievements (cinematographer Freddie Francis made the lightning his number one focus, and also shot the film in layers, giving it a deeper look than most movies). No less than Martin Scorsese has listed it among the greatest horror films ever made.Freddie Francis is in top form here, coming off his Oscar win for Sons and Lovers (1960). His mark on the horror genre would only increase in the following years, as he took the director's chair for Amicus and Hammer numerous times in the 60s and 70s. "},{"Title":"Things that go bump in the night, or in the mind.","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Rating **** out of 4. Jack Clayton's adaptation of Henry James' Turning of the Screw can either be taken as a straightforward horror movies about things that go bump in the night. Or it could be seen as something that's more psychological, which is far more unsettling. THE INNOCENTS is one of the most intelligent horror movies I've seen. It's got the right, spooky atmosphere and some downright chilling sequences (the black-and-white cinematography by Freddie Francis is just perfect), but I'll remember it more for its psychological view of its characters. Are the ghosts real, or are they figments of a fractured mind? The movie takes it as either and comes up with a far more intelligent effort than the usual assembly-line horror. The story is set in 19th Century England. A governess named Miss Giddens (Deborah Kerr in an emotionally distressed performance) who is employed in an the isolated Bly estate in the countryside. There, she is tasked to look after two children, Flora (Pamela Franklin) and Miles (Martin Stephens), who was originally in boarding school until Ms. Giddens receives an unexpected news that he was expelled for his behavior. This comes as a mystery to her because both children are mostly cheerful and well-behaved... or so it may seem. And who are those two people, a woman and man, that Ms. Giddens seem to be seeing throughout the estate. THE INNOCENTS is a number of substantial creeps, achieved by building up the suspense than simply outright scares. The appearances of the spectres themselves are more creepy than they are shocking, and that's just as effective. This is also an example of the classic ghost movies, where walking down a dark hallway accompanied only by a candelabra are more chilling than actual scares. But I guess the real treat for me about the film is how complex it is. The movie doesn't totally dismiss the supernatural; in fact it deepens it. In the end, the movie can be seen as both a chilling ghost story and a disturbing psychological analysis. Horror fans must see this! "},{"Title":"Effective and handsome, but not totally fulfilling chiller","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" We all love a good ghost story and to be scared out of our wits. They've been told for generations and with the invention of film could be brought to life for eyes to see. They've changed a great deal through the years, the earlier efforts more about atmosphere and what you don't see while more recent ones have upped the ante. One of the most popular is Henry James' 'The Turn of the Screw,' an old fashioned ghost story about repression, the loss of innocence, good versus evil and more. It's been adapted many times, but this 1961 version is one of the most well known and praised. It's not hard to see why and the film is still powerful today, but perhaps not quite a classic.Pros First rate performances. Suspenseful storytelling. Fabulous score that becomes ominous when things really start taking a turn. Beautifully photographed. Equally eye pleasing English scenery and mansion architecture. Perfect slow burn pacing. Steady direction by Jack Clayton. Some haunting sequences.Cons There's nothing wrong with being ambiguous, but maybe this one leaves too many unanswered questions. Some plot points are rushed, making them harder to swallow.Final thoughts It's amazing how films about ghosts have evolved over the decades. Now a lot of special effects are utilized, sometimes wisely and others too generously. Then you have ones such as 'The Haunting' and this film, which use a less is more approach and successfully. Having to use the imagination to make you dream up the most horrific things, which is part of the fun.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"The Innocents (1961) ***","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This one was slow going for awhile, but in the end I just had to admire its creepiness and much of its sinister ambiance and attention to detail. It's a British film based on the 1898 American novella The Turn of the Screw, about a young woman (Deborah Kerr) who accepts a job as governess for two small children somewhere off in the English countryside. Neglected by their distant uncle (Michael Redgrave), little orphans Miles and Flora are of special interest to Miss Giddens (Kerr), as she adores children and cares about their well being. But very soon she begins hearing voices and seeing vivid apparitions of the deceased former governess and her dead lover, an evil valet who used to work on the Estate. Are they ghosts? Have the two children become possessed and corrupted by the spirits of the dead? Deborah Kerr's paranoid performance is very good here, and I appreciated the ambiguous nature of the proceedings; not everything is spelled out, and much is left to the viewer's imagination, including the ending -- which is not completely resolved, but is very powerful. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Gone is my lord and the grave is his prison.","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Miss Giddens (Deborah Kerr) is hired to be the governess to two children on a country estate. She comes to believe the place and the children are haunted by the spirits of their previous governess and her brutish lover. No one else believes her so she tries to get rid of the ghosts herself.The first screen adaptation of Henry James's The Turn of the Screw,  a psychological ghost story that leaves unanswered the question of whether the ghosts are real or imagined. This sort of story is pretty common in movies of the last 20 years but was much less so in 1898 or even 1961. Don't let the ambiguity put you off that there are no scares here. This is a movie full of spooky moments, shadowy figures, startling reflections, eerie voices. It's beautifully photographed by Freddie Francis. The music and sound effects add to the feeling of unease. Deborah Kerr gives a nail-biting performance as the neurotic, repressed Miss Giddens. The child actors, Pamela Franklin and Martin Stephens, are sufficiently precocious and weird to keep you off balance as to the truth behind their possession. Stephens was the leader of the kids in Village of the Damned. Franklin would go on to appear in such '70s greats as And Soon the Darkness and The Legend of Hell House. Megs Jenkins is good as the kindly housekeeper. Peter Wyngarde is creepy as the menacing Quint.The pace is slow, which will turn off impatient viewers, and the scares are subtle and not as visceral as most modern horror fans seem to enjoy. But if you like thoughtful horror films then this is one you'll want to see. Fans of the suggestive classics Val Lewton produced in the '40s should also check this out. "},{"Title":"Untouchable","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Innocents is a superb old-school British ghost story. Moreover, its a remarkable film on all accounts. The only things dated about it are the vintage opening credits and of course the black and white.The cinematography is rich, the atmosphere is dead on, the dialog is razor sharp, and the horror is deeply effective. Each character is affectionately handcrafted and each scene delicately builds upon the supernatural intrigue. The creepiness and paranoia build up to an epic finale that will prove to be nightmare-ishly memorable to even a seasoned horror enthusiast. In short, this movie is a transcendent classic.The 1989 version of The Woman In Black seems to borrow heavily from this film, which I personally had seen first and thoroughly enjoyed also, but The Innocents blows it away. "},{"Title":"We lay my love and I, beneath the weeping willow...","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ghost stories that are made into quality movies are few and far between. And if the unlikely happens they often tend to fall between the cracks as viewers expect horror shockers, spectacular monster flicks or supernatural encounters of the CGI kind. This was also the fate of The Innocents when it had to compete against the emerging Hammer gore in 1961, which was less brainy, more action-packed and featured blood that was really red. All things which the slow paced creepy picture of Jack Clayton with its black and white cinematography, the ever present ambiguities and subliminal psychological aspects lacks. All things however which make the film so very special.The Innocents is an adaptation of Henry James' famous novella The Turn Of The Screw and takes place in a manor in Victorian England, the perfect scene for some decent haunting. As is genre standard Governess Miss Giddens's (Deborah Kerr's) task of raising two orphan children more and more turns into a nightmare when she senses that the children must be possessed by decadent ghosts - or are they? Kerr is absolutely convincing in her role, but so are the other three main characters, and it's all about characters and their innocence. Among Clayton's most effective tools are dissolves and superimpositions to weave a web of atmospheric mystery, and the viewer can never be sure about the true nature of what's going on. Suffice to say, it's much more than just a ghost story, there's more than meets the eye, but judge yourself - and don't complain about goosebumps when you are sitting in total darkness and find yourself listening to a catchy haunting tune, which plunges you right in... "},{"Title":"The Screw Turns on Film","Date":"16 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In London, spinsterish parson's daughter Deborah Kerr (as Miss Giddens) is hired by Michael Redgrave to be governess for his adorable orphaned niece Pamela Franklin (as Flora) and nephew Martin Stephens (as Miles). Arriving at their brooding country mansion, Ms. Kerr finds angelic young Franklin and amicable housekeeper Megs Jenkins (Mrs. Grose) in residence; Master Stephens is away at school. Everything is, of course, way too perfect at Bly House. The surroundings reverberate with impending doom. Then, young Stephens is expelled for attempting to corrupt his fellow students. Kerr is worried...This stunning, magical adaptation of Henry James' The Turn of the Screw comes to the screen re-titled The Innocents from writer William Archibald's stage version. To say it bears no evidence of stage play origins would be an understatement.This is pure cinema.Mr. Archibald and Truman Capote contribute a screenplay more than faithful to the original work, though it favors one side in the does she or doesn't she debate due to the visual medium. Kerr's multi-layered performance makes up the difference. She was nominated Best Actress by Film Daily but received no notice from the Academy Awards and others; that her Miss Giddens was not considered the best performance by a leading actress for the year 1961 is astonishing.The National Board of Review did nominate the picture and deservedly awarded Jack Clayton Best Director of the year. For her role as the measured housekeeper, Ms. Jenkins should have been considered in the Supporting Actress category. Georges Auric's music is spine-tingling. Also award-worthy are photographer Freddie Francis and art director Wilfred Shingleton. Their work on this film is phenomenal, especially noteworthy is how well Gothic fits wide screen, then still considered in some circles as a format best-suited to biblical epics. Spooky corridors and billowing curtains fill the screen with frightening perfection.********** The Innocents (11/61) Jack Clayton ~ Deborah Kerr, Martin Stephens, Pamela Franklin, Megs Jenkins "},{"Title":"Haunted rooms, haunted minds","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay, so the idea is to achieve emptiness, so that we may be actually in-formed by what we see, by an intelligent notion or an atmosphere that takes us places where things make inherent sense, where we grasp effortlessly the totality of what the world means to us. When I say there is no truth in cinema, it's because truth is not until personally realized. Until made real in our persons.Naturally in this process some things we have to discard, or pick among the heap of images and ideas. Such is the case here, with the two levels of this film.On one level we have here the obvious haunted house trope, where a plucky governess goes to work in an old mansion where every room creaks with its own unspeakable secret. There are two kids here, who she's meant to protect and who may be in on what she's meant to protect them from. Usually in these films the source of evil is kept ambiguous, is it real or imagined, as meant to indicate that a damaged mind imagining things can be potentially as dangerous as the romantic notion of some ancestral sin dredged up from a dark past. After all a haunted house ideally aligns with a haunted mind, as one mapping to the other.So it makes sense to read the wanderings of the governess around the house as exploring both physical and mental space, the candelabra she carries with her as meant to dispel shadows both in and out. And more; her panicky jolt at the sound of a window slammed shut by a sudden wind is terrifying precisely because it is an idea, because the mind imagines something more to what is perceived by the eye. Something believed to be unseen that is, under these circumstances, in this particular place, neither wind or window.Films like The Haunting or earlier yet that great film by Jacques Tourneur, I Walked With a Zombie, also tried to situate the horror back inside the imaginative mind, where illusions begin that distort what reality we accept as given. So why come to this instead? The answer lies in the method of the madness.In this method we're not simply watching a fundamentally good person being led horribly astray by what the mind imagines in the dark; the shady history of the place that serves as template for that imagination also leads us astray if we indulge it. What chills here is the more frightening notion that the boy and girl, having witnessed what they did in that house and become privy in that previous sin however unknowingly, will grow up to be their morally corrupt caretakers. That the sin will be inherited by them. Freud would appreciate the veiled allusion to psychological impediments.Yet whatever is is the kids witnessed, if they did something, is now beyond the sphere of the rational. It hangs suspended what the kids perceived and what their governess interprets. So this is not merely a cautionary tale against moral arbiters, however well intentioned, on the other hand a reminder that the void between one mind and the next is impossible to bridge.Deborah Kerr wonderfully abets the fragile balance of simmering tension. None of this would have worked as well without her supplying the barely contained hysteria. She brings to this what she brought to Black Narcissus as Sister Clodagh, from a distance the mask of motherly intensity, being meant to provide and care for, but once foiled in doing so, the desperate human face behind.What keeps this back, especially for '61, is that little of this is rendered cinematically. Conceived in the Hollywood tradition of horror that learned everything from Murnau but little from Epstein, it understands what shadows ought to do, what dazzle may be concealed within them. What it doesn't, is how to actually inhabit the mind where the shadows subjectively come to be. This is where young filmmakers like Tarkovsky and Resnais would come into play. "}{"Title":"It was only the wind, my dear.","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A true ghost story, where the ghosts may very well exist only in your mind. This is old school horror, where your imagination works to produce images that may not be appearing on the screen.Miss Giddens (Deborah Kerr) comes to care for two children, but thinks she hears and sees the former governess and her lover. Are there really ghosts, or is Miss Giddens just possessing a vivid imagination? After all, you see them, too.Truman Capote assisted on the screenplay, as adaptation of a Henry James novel, and it works perfectly with the brilliant black-and-white cinematography and excellent direction by Jack Clayton (Room at the Top, The Pumpkin Eater). "},{"Title":"Miles? Miles!","Date":"22 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I own this on DVD and just watched it again last night. It never fails to give me chills. A recent IMDb reviewer called it the Rolls Royce of ghost stories and although I'm quite fond of The Others (another excellent film in this vein) I agree. From the opening moments with that haunting song, to the finale with Miss Giddens' plaintive cries of Miles!, this film never fails you. The scene at the pond in the rain is pure genius--very frightening. Anyone who watches will know what I'm talking about. But just about everything about this film is top notch from the cast to the photography. Bleak, desolate, Bly House is unforgettable and sinister. One of the best ever made of its type. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A decent psychological thriller.","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Deborah Kerr stars as a governess to two strange children Flora and Miles in this film 'The Innocents'. The movie is based on the novel 'The Turn of the Screw'. The same novel was also adapted into a movie called 'In a Dark Place.' I unfortunately ended up seeing the latter movie first for I believe it is a really bad movie directed without much skill and a total waste of time. My major complaint with the movie was the way in which the disturbed mental state of the lead character was handled.But wind the clock back to 1961 and see this movie - 'The Innocents' and you will find Deborah Kerr giving the right performance. Her performance along with the brilliant performance of the child actors sets up the story in a much more clear and precise fashion. And while the puzzle in modern day version as to what exactly happened is not a proper puzzle, the puzzle is presented in a much clearer fashion in this movie.I guess a major strength of this movie is that it was made during a period where there were no CGIs available and the directors had to use all their brains to create the fear using both sound and camera. The movie moves very smoothly giving you the goosebumps and handling the sex part of it without any boldness and yet using effective dialog to convey the same.It is one of those movies that leave the viewer at the end to form his or her own interpretation as to what exactly happened. And the way the screenplay has been written, one can present some arguments in favor of the supernatural and one may also argue that if there is anything supernatural, it is the ability of the mind to see what it wants to see. A wonderful movie, a must watch for those that enjoy psychological thrillers. "},{"Title":"The Innocents","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was sitting in my seat in shock and owe when the film abruptly ended, compared to PSYCHO (1960), which I watched a week ago, this largely overlooked thriller/horror magnum opus distinguishes itself with its tactfully ambiguous elucidation, a carefully vetted exposure of a cracked-up governess who fervently desires to verify her existential merit, saving the possessed children is just the modality, there is a troubled-soul lying deeply within. Directed by the underrated British director Jack Clayton (ROOM AT THE TOP 1959) and set in a rural countryside villa in Britain, the haunting starts with a creepy song O WILLOW WALY, the horror oozes in spontaneously and steadily through the standpoint of the governess, not until the last minute, the final punchline is overwhelmingly unexpected, which intrigues an indelible aftershock inside. The film is also remarkable for its cast, Deborah Kerr delivered a world-class performance to lead us into a mysterious world while occasionally kindles some suspicion to her character's innate lunacy. What's more unforeseen is two child stars, Martin Stephens and Pamela Franklin, especially the former, whose outstanding work I could confidently address as the best from a child actor. Unjustly the film has been ignored by most of the major awards at that time, maybe the audacious kiss scenes are rather ahead of its time, however now in the 21st century, it is the solidest proof of its precious quality - the conformability towards one's volition (Truman Capote might take his credit for this as one of the writers).Without any scary props, the film genuinely shows us how to produce a thorough horrorfest without being ferociously visual-dominant, the true fear will have its prolonged staying power to project on every victim as long as it follows a pliant modus operandi to inject its empathy with the right timing and right interpretation. "},{"Title":"Possession or Madness?","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Innocents is one of the many great horror movies that used be made before the slasher phenomenon took over and horror movies became little more than excuses for sadists who enjoy watching naughty teens getting bumped off by psychos.Like other masterpieces from its time, like Whatever Happened to Baby Jane, Hour of the Wolf, or Carnival of Souls, this is a movie concerned especially with good acting, good writing and creating an atmosphere through intelligent editing and cinematography. All in all, it's a movie first and foremost and horror almost as an afterthought.Deborah Kerr plays Miss Giddens, an unexperienced governess who takes on an assignment to watch over two orphans at a luxurious but lonely mansion. It's a beautiful place, with gardens and a lake. At first everything seems fine, but as she arrives at the place she starts hearing strange voices calling for the children. Next she starts seeing mysterious people, who may be related to a past tragedy. Or she may just be insane. Either way, she believes the children are in danger and she'll do everything to save them.This is a fascinating movie that explores the line between fantasy and reality and how one's madness can be passed on to someone else. She believes the children act strangely; but is it because she's influenced them or are they really possessed? This is just one of the many questions that this suspenseful mystery asks.The two young actors who play the orphans are just as good as Deborah Kerr. Pamela Franklin plays the angelic Flora, always wearing white dresses and who seems incapable of evil. Martin Stephens is Miles, a strange boy who seems too wise for his own and can seem innocent and settling simultaneously.The black-and-white cinematography is beautiful, arguably the best ever in a movie. Freddie Francis constantly plays with light and shadows, and it's interesting how the movie becomes progressively darker.Also worth commending is the adaptation of Henry James' novel. I admire his work, even though I'm not crazy about it. But the novella which inspired this movie didn't fascinate or thrill me, just left me bored and indifferent. William Archibald and Truman Capote brought the story to life in a way that left me excited and always on the edge of the seat to know what would happen next, while keeping the ambiguity of the novella intact. This is a great movie and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Sinister chiller dripping in atmosphere","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Innocents is a chilling film and a stark reminder of how horror films can be more effective through implication of threat rarther than the pornographic exposure of violence and gore of many films produced in the last twenty years.The film features some memorable scenes and is very well acted throughout.The children in the film ,particularly the portrayal of the young boy Miles is nothing less than outstanding.The film will have you scratching your head a theorising at the ending but the atmosphere is thick with the threat of something sinister lurking and the story keeps you interested until the finale.In summary The Innocents is an satisfying chiller that while being a touch hammy in places,still manages to strike a chord all these years since.The Others (2002) also owes the film a huge debt. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Eerie and Haunting","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This eerie tale of fear should be seen and known by more. The film ultimately leaves the resolution up to the viewer to decide as a governess caring for two children comes to believe they are being controlled by two ghostly figures that walk the grounds of the country mansion where they live...only is it all only in her mind, coming from a combination of years of repression and two mischievous children? The acting, Freddie Francis' cinematography, setting and script all deserve considerable praise although I do feel the film is paced just slightly too slowly. One viewing alone may not enough to fully appreciate all this has to offer. "},{"Title":"Unsettling ghost story","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There appear to be only a handful of really effective ghost stories, and this is one of the best.  I agree with most of what other users have said thus far, so will not repeat those remarks here.  There is no on-screen depiction of a ghost that I found as disturbing and frightening as that of the motionless form of Miss Jessel far in the background on the other side of the lake.  That image stayed in my mind for a very long time!  I wish more modern ghost films would take this approach.  That brief scene was much more frightening that 90 minutes of non-stop horrific special effects used in such films as Poltergeist and the remake of The Haunting. "},{"Title":"Haunting and unsettling; one of the scariest ghost films ever","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hands down, The Innocents is probably the spookiest ghost movie I've ever seen, and that's saying a lot. The plot, based on Henry James' Turn of the Screw revolves around Miss Giddens, a young woman who is sent by an eccentric Uncle to take the role as governess of two orphaned children in a large, secluded mansion in 19th-century England. After arriving to the house, Flora, the young girl, seems angelic in nature, if not a little strange. When her brother, Miles, returns home from grammar school, Flora is ecstatic. The siblings are best of friends, and Miss Giddens enjoys their company. But as time goes by, strange apparitions and sounds plague Miss Giddens. When consulting the housekeeper, Mrs. Grose, on the history of the house, she tells Miss Giddens about the previous governess, Miss Jessel, and her lover, Peter Quint, who both died on the property. As more bizarre occurrences take place, Miss Giddens is convinced that Miss Jessel and Mr. Quint are possessing the children and interacting through their bodies. Is it possible that the dead have returned, or is this idea a pure concoction of Miss Gidden's own fears and imagination? Superbly dangling the viewer between reality and insanity, The Innocents is one hell of a scary movie. The story is a fine piece of work, and the screen adaptation is well-written all around. The atmosphere, strengthened by the fact that the film's black and white photography, is eerie and unsettling to begin with. The large mansion, its dark corridors, and the property around the house give the film a classic haunted house type of feeling. The sound design is terrifying and well used, with all of the strange whispering and echoing that plagues Miss Giddens throughout the film. Deborah Kerr gives an all-around stellar performance, making her character completely believable, winning the audience's sympathy throughout the whole film. There are some genuinely eerie sequences in the film, specifically when Miss Giddens encounters Mr. Quint's ghost, first on the tower, and later as his image approaches the window during a game of hide and go seek. But even more unsettling and unforgettable are Miss Jessel's appearances, first passing through a corridor, then being spotted across the lake. Both of those understated images are hard to shake from your mind.The most remarkable thing about this movie is what it leaves to your imagination. The ghosts are rarely seen, but when they are, it's extremely eerie; and when they aren't, which is most of the time, the thoughts in the viewer's mind begin to stir, especially when Flora hums the eerie little song, and when Miss Giddens begins to hear voices around the house. What really is going on? Is it possible that there really are ghosts? If so, why can nobody else see the spirits but Miss Giddens? The baffling conclusion, while it doesn't entirely explain it to the audience, leaves it up to your own imagination to decide the fates of these characters.Overall, The Innocents is a magnificent blend of insanity and hysteria&#x97; it is quintessential proof of the effectiveness of understated horror. If you enjoy horror films that err more on the elegant side, such as The Haunting and other ghost tales, this is a must-see. Kerr's performance is incredible, and the film is a successful exercise in madness. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Today I watched one of my favourite horror films which never fails to amaze me. The movie is so effective even on multiple viewings. This is the movie which I see as a landmark for slow burner horror movies and the movie to which I always compare other slow burner movies.One of the surprising things about this movie are the performances of the children. I am never satisfied with performances of children in horror movies. What may be a creepy child seems often lame to me. But in this movie, the children often seem possessed. And not in the over the top way of many other movie, but in the sense that these children seem like they are not aware of what they are saying, they seem controlled. That is not apparent in the beginning of course but later on, it becomes clear that there is something wrong with the children. I know many people are divided on the exact interpretation of the ending (and most of the movie). When I read the synopsis of the original story, I understand one thing. Abuse. Abuse is supposedly hinted at, in Turn of the screw. It is probable for abused children to develop split personalities, talk and behave like their abusers. When you look at in that angle, the possibility that it could all be real is available. Not that it has to be possession exactly. It could be mental illness for the children. I don't exactly buy that the governess was crazy, that is too simplistic when you consider all that we see in the movie. Even if you think that, what can explain the behaviour of the children? Personally I look at it as a straight forward creepy ghost story with the ghosts being able to control the minds of the people who they influenced while alive.The movie is incredibly atmospheric. Every scene near the lake are excellent, for example. No over the top scenes or jump scares here. The music is mostly minimalist except in few key scenes. And that creepy song is played throughout. The performances of the children and Deborah Kerr are amazing. I have not seen other movies of hers but she totally floored me in this one. There is a stylish ending which again may be vague for most people but it is highly effective. Even for today's standards, there are certain elements which people may find disturbing. But there are no scenes of violence or nudity. This has ended in my top 10 horror movies. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Not Easily Understood By Today's Audiences","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is essentially a ghost story but the ghosts are more intellectually complex than most found in the movies, The special effects while decent for their time are a bit dated now are effective.We have a Governess (Kerr)moving into a large creepy house with 2 young children and a creepy old lady caretaker. The old caretaker while she knows all does not reveal all in one place or one time too Kerr. She has too take a dangerous path of learning from the young boy and the young girl what is real and since the youngsters are both possessed by the ghosts, this is indeed creepy.There is a very adult and still taboo relationship where the 40 Year old Kerr has a romantic encounter with the 12 year old boy though the story has him possessed by the ghost when it happens. That is the only reason these scenes got by the censors. This is still the kind of relationship that makes head lines when teachers do this with their students.While the scenes in this movie are mild by today's standards, they effectively get the message across. Even at age 40, Ms. Kerr is still plenty alluring enough to make these scenes very effective.If you want a film that is not main stream for Halloween, this one fits the bill quite well.As a lot of folks have not read what this is based upon, they tend to not understand and get bored. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of atmosphere and tension.","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A young governess for two children becomes convinced that the house and grounds are haunted. Set in England, the uncle of orphaned niece Flora and nephew Miles hires Miss Giddens, played by the beautiful Deborah Kerr, as governess to raise the children at his estate with total independence and authority. Soon after her arrival, Miss Giddens comes to believe that the spirits of the former governess Miss Jessel and valet Peter Quint possess the children. Miss Giddens decides to help the children to face and exorcise the spirits. The Innocents in my opinion is one of the best atmospheric horror movies in cinematic history. It is full of a brooding tense atmosphere that lasts for the entirety of the movie. I personally love this type of movies because the leave you on the edge of your seat. This film is a masterpiece of atmosphere and tension and still has the power to disturb today as it ever had back when it was first released. I would highly recommend it to fans of atmospheric tense horror movies. In my opinion it is one of a few horror movies that genuinely scares me and that is truly a sign of a good horror movie. "},{"Title":"Masterful, Elegant Horror","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Innocents is an incredible adaptation of Henry James' classic novella/short story The Turn of the Screw. This film, like its source material was obviously incredibly influential, as you can see certain horror tropes that were used in later films. The best example of this is the classic frightening children who are corrupted by some evil (The Exorcist and The Omen come to mind). Also, the opening lullaby instantly reminded me of Rosemary's Baby, which has a lullaby at the beginning as well and they are similarly haunting. This is one of the few horror films that I would say are beautiful. The English literary 19th literary style of Henry James is masterfully rendered on screen, which I attribute to the film being beautiful black and white cinematography, the ornate sets, and the masterful dialogue and its delivery by a stunning cast. Particularly, the child Martin Stephens who plays Miles displayed poise and skill quite above his age. This film is also historically interesting as one Truman Capote's few lasting ventures into screen writing, and the script bears his technical brilliance. "},{"Title":"One of the very best ghost horror films ever made","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This exquisite ghost story is a film that has held up extremely well over the years. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, it is a genuinely eerie film with several spine tingling moments. Secondly, it looks gorgeous but more of that later. And thirdly, it's quite experimental and even transgressive at times giving it a more modern feel than you might expect.It's about a governess called Miss Giddens who accepts a job to look after a couple of young orphan children who live in a large house in a remote estate. Before long she starts to see two ghostly apparitions who appear to be dead former employees, the former governess and her lover. These spirits seem to have possessed the two children leading to some extremely disquieting behaviour.It's based on the Henry James story 'Turn of the Screw', a book I have never read but which I have seen at least one other film adaption for. I think it's only fair to say that The Innocents is the greatest of these adaptions though by some margin. Not only that but it's one of the best haunted house movies ever made. From the outset you are made aware that this isn't going to be an ordinary affair. It has a very weird beginning. A girl sings a strange song over a black screen for a disquieting amount of time before the Fox logo appears. The first images we then see are a close-up of praying hands with bird song in the background, while a woman seemingly in some sort of distress prays. It's a terrifically strange opening, beautifully shot, with great sound design. It's an early indicator of the work of one of the chief architects of the film, namely cinematographer Freddie Francis. Throughout the picture there is an amazingly effective use of the widescreen frame. The camera-work is far from static though. It often fluidly swirls around characters and there is a prominent use of deep focus lensing where we see characters in the background and foreground in focus simultaneously. What's impressive is that while extremely impressive, the camera-work isn't showy; it always serves a purpose and accentuates the foreboding nature of the narrative and accentuates the dramatics. It's also only fair to say that it's hard to imagine this particular film being improved by colour, the black and white photography is simply perfect.Helping matters a lot is the great sets. The house, pond, tower and gazebo are all utilised to their maximum effect. Like the best haunted house movies, the setting is as much a character as the people. Deborah Kerr is outstanding as the governess. She brings a huge amount of skill to the role and makes the character so multi-layered that a great deal of ambiguity comes into play. Are there ghosts or is everything in the governess's mind? There is a cameo appearance by Michael Redgrave as the absent uncle but it's the child actors Martin Stephens and Pamela Franklin who really make an impression alongside Kerr. If these creepy kids hadn't been played by such brilliant child actors the film would have had far less impact. Young Martin Stephens in particular is extremely good. The moment when he kisses Miss Giddens remains extremely potent and incredible over forty years later; a striking moment of horror in such a subtle way. In general, that is one of the things that make this a classic. The way it consistently maintains an atmosphere of dread without ever resorting to anything visceral is highly impressive. There are several unforgettable moments of this kind of spine-tingling horror, possibly the best being the image of the governess standing and staring from the reeds from across the old pond. It's an image that stays in the mind. And it's a film on the whole that you will want to return to. "},{"Title":"Captivating","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I went to see this at the BFI's Gothic movie season, and I'm so glad that this is my last viewing of this year, as it's the best film I think that I've seen in 2013. From start to finish, it held my eye, such a lovely thing to look at, yet so spine chilling to contemplate what you're seeing and working out who is doing what to who. So good thanks for whoever did the restoration job.I found the cinematography to be joyous, deep and lustrous and dark and atmospheric, the performances are vivid and intense, and the way that little facts and incidents are superimposed upon each other makes for a very compelling story. Is she losing the plot? Or is it the spooky unworldly dastardly kids out to do her? Or is it the spooks? And why does Quint look a bit like Oddbod? I had a number of occasions when I genuinely had shivers down my back bone. And not in an Eddie Cochran way. Although I was shaking all over. This film was superb basically, I'd love to go and see it again in a cinema, it suits the big screen in so many ways and will probably reward you with something extra with every viewing. "},{"Title":"Would you believe the 60s version is .. unequalled?","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Never having the willpower to resist taking something already perfect and trying to make it less perfect, the brain trust in Hollywood tried no less than 3 successive times AFTER THIS ASTONISHINGLY PERFECT film to re-make it, or re-imagine it. They were all TV movies. They were all wretched. Although Clayton did get some scant attention for superb direction, Kerr never once got the respect she deserved for arguably the best role of her life. The other reviewers nailed it. Puts the creepy in creepy. Astonishing when you consider this was the early 60s, when the emphasis was on vampires and ghouls and generally the subtle was always eschewed in favour of excess. Boy is this film subtle. But if you watch it beginning to end, you will have trouble sleeping that night. Guaranteed. The only analogue I can offer you, if you are looking for something else this good, this special, in Ray Milland in the Uninvited (1944). Wow. Wotta film. "},{"Title":"Doubly scary","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The entire movie, you are never sure if the children are truly haunted, or if the nanny is haunted. She could be insane. The children could be just messing about with her, trying to scare her, sadly not knowing she's insane. The movie is really through her eyes, and if you think she's insane the movie suddenly becomes so much more horrible than a ghost story. One pictures her being sent off for murder, to a horrible Victorian insane asylum after the movie ends. If nothing else, you see she's changed, and ghosts or not, she's not normal anymore. Some adaptations of this story try to leave out the ghosts. You don't see them so you are left with more of a question about the sanity of the nanny. This movie adaptation is quite good as you get all the input the nanny does. It just slowly begins to dawn upon you, especially with the climatic end, that she could be insane. If she's insane, it's far more ghastly than ghosts, and you feel sorry for the children. It's a movie adaptation that tries to fool you, it plays on your emotions, but a skeptic can especially enjoy this movie. Real ghosts aren't nearly the danger that people that believe in ghosts can be. A rewatching, with the nanny as the bad guy scares people far more than when they first watched it thinking it a simply ghost story. The Innocents are the children, ghosts or nanny, they are simply playthings for adults in this movie. "},{"Title":"A clever haunted horror movie","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the original haunted house and its haunted history movies, Innocents, does an interesting difference to the later haunted house adoptions. Although the plot has become nearby a cliché in the later horror movies and it is not too hard to guess how the events turn out, the movie still feels refreshing. One of the main reasons for that is the clever use of the camera and not to rely on silly shock effects like in today's horror movies. Also Deborah Kerr was a joy to watch and when she gets in the middle of the things, I actually felt sorry for her. That is something that doesn't happen with today's silly horror movie babysitters. Innocents is from the beginning to the end an interesting, clever and amusing movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Horror Perfection","Date":"23 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love this movie! Every now and then, you'll hear about a horror movie that is generally regarded by everyone to be a masterpiece. This is one of them. If there are critics of this movie, then they are few and far between. This is a movie that EVERY fan of horror needs to see. I don't think I'll ever be able to do it justice, but that's not gonna stop me from trying. Miss Giddens is a beautiful women, and is offered a job as Governess for a wealthy family with two children out in the country side. She soon starts to suspect that something is not quite right, and that the house and possible even the children may be haunted. I'll say no more, the less you know about this movie, the better! So, here's why I adore this movie. It's timeless! Even today, certain scenes are bound to make your skin crawl and keep you up at night. The subtly is brilliant in really unnerving the viewers that it makes it so memorable! Just mentioning this movie is bound to have people humming that or so famous tune! Even in the opening, hearing this haunting theme play before even seeing the opening credits or the production logo! Absolutely haunting! The ambiguity! This often fails in movies, but here, they got it just right. There are so many different interpretations to this movie, you could discuss it for hours! In fact, you probably will. The acting is exceptional! The two child actors were sensational, I cannot praise them enough. Deborah Kerr, as Miss Giddens was amazing too. A really emotional performance, and one you're not likely to forget. All of this helps to create an atmosphere that is chilling to the bone! The symbolism. This movie is full of it. I've watched this movie two times now, and even on the second time, did I pick up so many things that I missed the first. Some of this symbolism adds to certain interpretations. But it mainly adds to the creepy atmosphere that is The Innocents. Finally, the ending! My God what an ending! For a fair review, one should examine the faults of a movie, but there just isn't any. To me, this film is horror perfection! I could go on and on about it. It really is such a creepy and memorable film and one that I can not recommend highly enough! If you have not seen this movie, please check it out, I promise you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Frightening ghost story","Date":"29 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1800s England Miss Giddens (Deborah Kerr) is hired as a governess for two children--Flora (Pamela Franklin) and Miles (Martin Stephens)--in a huge house in the middle of nowhere. She starts to see ghosts and comes to believe that they're trying to possess the children. Are the ghosts real or is she going mad? Or are the kids playing games with her? The scariest thing about this is that the question is still unanswered at the end. There's evidence for each resolution. Any of the conclusions are disturbing. The acting is perfect. Kerr said this was her best performance and she's right. She plays it beautifully with just the tiniest touch of hysteria so you're never sure if what's she seeing is real. Stephens and Franklin match her--especially Stephens. That kid is downright creepy and the looks he gives her are disturbing. The ghosts are shown but sparingly. They're also downright terrifying. The first appearance of Quint(Peter Wyngarde) is enough to give you nightmares! You see his face slowly appear out of the darkness staring at Kerr. No blaring music or any sound at all. Just dead quiet making it even more scary. It's shot in beautiful black and white and CinemaScope which helps. You have to see this in wide screen or letter-boxed. Also there's a literate script and great direction. A powerful movie and one of the scariest ghost stories ever put on film. "}{"Title":"One best creepiest movies of all time","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I loved how this movie tries to creepy out even before the movie as started as the start of the movie, you get the Really Creepy Kids voice.That is one hell of the way to the start a movie like this, I creepy factor dose not stop there at all.As the movie keeps going you may thing that Kids how doing something as do act a little strange in some scenes.I love this very dark settling movie, there are some very creepy scenes in this movie, the laughing near end of the movie was very creepy.I loved the ending of this movie, I clad that is one reason this might never see a remake, I can't see that do that ending now-er daysThe acting was outstanding from the whole cast 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"from  different  period","Date":"1 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" beautiful. precise. seductive. powerful. profound. an adaptation but with a special flavor. because it is a Gothic story and more. because Deborah Kerr does a splendid role and atmosphere - creepy, mysterious, dark, credible - is an admirable work. it is a slice from a period with precise manner to create tension. to make details as a delicate pieces of embroidery.and the acting - subtle, precious, sparkles of nuances - is touching and real impressive.a film like a memorable experience. the art of director, the amazing young actors, the house, the presence of Megs Jenkins, the ghosts and, sure, the music, the obsessive music are ingredients of this movie. must see it ! only for discover a style to present a story. and, for the warm air of past. "},{"Title":"Southern English Gothic","Date":"19 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Henry James's novella The Turn of the Screw, on which The Innocents is based, tells the story of a governess who works for a wealthy gentleman who has become responsible for his orphaned nephew and niece. She travels to her employer's country home, which he rarely visits. (Most of his time is spent in London or abroad). He takes little interest in the children and in fact explicitly warns her not to bother him with any communications. Despite the eccentricity of her employer, the young woman is initially delighted by her work and adores her two young charges, Miles and Flora. Her happiness, however, is disturbed when she begins to see the mysterious figures of a man and woman. She believes them to be the ghosts of her predecessor, Miss Jessel and of Peter Quint, one of the servants, both of whom died not long before her arrival at the house. The governess is terrified of these apparitions, not so much on her own account as on account of the children, to whom she believes the ghosts pose some terrible danger, a danger that may lie as much in their power to corrupt the children's innocence as in their power to do them physical harm, and her fears are increased when she discovers that her predecessor and Quint were lovers, something which would have would have been far more shocking in late Victorian England than it would be today.James's tale is, at least ostensibly, a ghost story, but like a number of other nineteenth-century authors writing about the supernatural he uses a device known by the German name Rahmentechnik, or framework technique. The purpose of the device is to distance the author from his narrative by making it seem like something he once heard about, or something that happened to an acquaintance, rather than something which happened to him in person, and its effect is that The Turn of the Screw becomes famously ambiguous as to whether the supposed ghosts are real or a mere figment of the governess's overwrought imagination. Although director Jack Clayton and screenwriter Truman Capote dispense with the James's framework in which the narrator listens to a friend reading a manuscript written by a deceased female acquaintance, they keep the ambiguity of the original. This needed some subtle acting from Deborah Kerr, but she manages to pull it off; her governess (here called Miss Giddens, although unnamed in the original) can be seen either as the heroine of the story, desperately fighting to save her charges from very real dangers, or as a woman on the verge of madness whose irrational and superstitious fancies are themselves endangering the children's psychological well-being. (Miss Giddens believes that the spirits of Quint and Miss Jessel have possessed in order to use their bodies to continue after death the relationship which they themselves enjoyed in life). Other noteworthy acting contributions come from Martin Stephens and Pamela Franklin as the children and Megs Jenkins as the kindly housekeeper Mrs. Grose. Since the great success of The Exorcist, The Omen and their imitators in the seventies, the horror genre has become dominated by what I would call overstated films, relying heavily on gore, violence and stomach-churning special effects. The sixties, however, saw some excellent examples of quieter, understated horror movies which have achieved their effects more subtly. Other understated horror films from this period include The Haunting from two years later and some of Roger Corman's Edgar Allan Poe adaptations such as The Masque of the Red Death and The Tomb of Ligeia. All of these films were made in Britain, but all included input from Americans either as director, writer or actors. James himself was, of course, an American by birth, and although Capote, another American, keeps the English setting of James's story, he brings a certain Southern Gothic feel to the story. It was filmed on location at Sheffield Park, a Gothic stately home in Sussex, Southern England, but one could easily imagine this story unfolding in a crumbling mansion in the Deep South. Clayton who specialised in adapting literary works for the screen, wanted to make something very different to the Hammer horror which was so popular at this period. The film therefore is made in black-and-white rather than colour and includes no gore or violent physical action. The Turn of the Screw, which falls within the Gothic tradition of English horror writing, is a subtle exercise in creating an atmosphere of psychological terror, and here Clayton is able to achieve similar effects through lighting, music, and direction. The Innocents is an excellent adaptation which has been described as one of the best psychological thrillers ever made. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Innocents Be Damned","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Innocents (TI, for short) was released in 1961. This was a year after the release of that total terrorizer Psycho, which, when it came to horror movies, was not an easy act to follow. But, thankfully, the producers of TI weren't interested in following in Psycho's gruesome foot-steps.What a contrast there is between these 2 excellent and very powerful horror movies. Both are packed to capacity with mounting suspense and terror. And, of course, both, in their own right, are superbly crafted with top-notch performances from all members of the cast.While Psycho, literally, drenched the audience with buckets of blood, TI didn't even spill a single drop. It took a different approach to terror. It produced the one thing that was in short supply in Psycho and that was genuine goose-pimples. I'm not kidding, this movie is so eerie and spine-chilling that it'll have you shivering all over. It's the very thing that true ghost stories are made of and it's all been captured here so brilliantly.The story is set in the late-1800's. The location is a fantastic mansion isolated from the rest of the world by forest and a small lake in the English country-side. What could be a better choice of settings for a ghost story such as this? The screenplay, adapted from the short novel The Turn of the Screw, by Henry James, was impressively co-written by, none other than, Truman Capote, who later went on to shock-our-socks-off with In Cold Blood.The terror that lurks within the shadows of this brilliantly frightening story really needs to be seen by you, the viewer, rather than me wasting my time trying to describe the indescribable. It can't be done. Even though we've all been pretty much jaded by all the horror films that have come out since TI I don't think there's another one out there that packs the sort of ghostly wallop that this one does.If you want chills. If you want thrills. TI delivers in a true Gothic style. "},{"Title":"It was just the wind, my dear....","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The uncle of orphaned Flora and Miles hires Miss Giddens as governess to raise the children at his estate, with total independence and authority. Soon after her arrival, Miss Giddens is aware of the children's growing impudence, and comes to believe that the spirits of the former governess Miss Jessel and valet Peter Quint are possessing the children. Miss Giddens decides to help the children to face and exorcise the spirits.....Easily one of the greatest British films ever made, The Innocents feels much like the ghost stories that used to be on TV at Christmas, Whistle And I Will Come To You with Michael Redgrave springs to mind.Its so refreshing to see a film that relied on good old lighting, sound effects, and wonderful imagery to garner the scares, unlike today where the makers use a loud bang like a cow prod, see Insidious, The Conjuring for cheap scares.This is the kind of film that chills, the kind that, is watching in the dark, alone, you will find yourself staring in the darkest corner of the room, just in case.Kerr is wonderful as The Governess, but Stephens absolutely steals the film as Miles, one of the finest child actors who ever worked.When a film is described as spine tingling, this is the true definition of that saying. It chilled me to the bone from the moment she arrived at the house. And I'm still pretty unnerved one day after.Seeing it for a second time though, and you have to ask yourself one question, was it all in her head? After all, she was the only one who saw the ghosts, and the children's behaviour? Why, they were just recovering from a massive tragedy.Food for thought, but brilliant stuff. "},{"Title":"The Innocents A Perfect And Exquisitely Frightening Ghost Story","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It seems to me that all of the best haunted house movies came out in the 60's, one flawless example being Robert Wise's The Haunting. In this decade, it was scarier to be afraid of something that you couldn't see. Jack Clayton proves that this formula works again with a movie that came out two years before The Haunting, and it could almost be its twin in that it is an exceptionally scary, strange, and psychological fright flick. The film is called The Innocents. Based on the famous novella The Turn of the Screw by Henry James, the film centers around Deborah Kerr as Miss Giddens, a young governess that loves children. Her first job is handed down to her by a man who is too busy to handle his niece and nephew, young Miles and Flora. She is aware of the death of the first governess, Miss Jessel, but her only concern is, for the time being, parenting the children. Therefore, Miss Giddens is sent to the beautiful Bly Mansion to take care of Flora while Miles finishes his term at boarding school. But after Miles is expelled from school and returns to the mansion, a newer kind of behavior is exhibited by the children that Miss Giddens finds extremely odd. Their behavior is almost too mature, too secretive. And then Miss Giddens begins to see two frightening figures that, according to the housekeeper Mrs. Grose, are dead. Could the house be haunted? Could the children be hiding something? Or could Miss Giddens be losing her mind?All of the movie buffs that watch The Innocents get the feeling that it's a psychological study disguised as a haunted house movie in that a sense of ambiguity is prevalent throughout the film. Is it ever made clear that Bly is haunted or the children are possessed? No. It is also never truly discovered what kind of twisted relationship Quint and Miss Jessel had, especially with the children. But that allows the movie to lend an idea of uncertainty to the viewer, which is a positive note.Most of the time, it's arguable that Miss Giddens is on the brink of insanity. She knows that what she's seeing and claiming is real, but it might not make sense to others. The film only takes Miss Giddens' side of the story, which makes us feel unsure of ourselves.Thanks to some delectable cinematography from Freddie Francis, The Innocents has a benefit to being black and white. At one moment, when Miss Giddens encounters Quint for the first time, the screen suddenly darkens around the character, setting a mood of unbelievable dread. And that mood stays existent as the movie goes on.Scripted by William Archibald, Truman Capote and John Mortimer (who provided additional dialog for the film), the story's symbolism and motifs are an important part of why the movie creates such fear and sympathy for the characters. Miss Giddens is seen crying and praying in the opening credits, her hands clasped together tightly. She is an innocent, only wanting happiness and peace around her and the children. She is seen this way at the end of the film, returning to her emotionally damaged state. The theme of innocence or corruption brings to mind something pure and beautiful that soon becomes horribly rotten, like the bug that crawls out of a statue in one scene of the movie. This theme is found more, however, in Miles and Flora. Just children, the idea that they are being taken over by the spirits of such horrible people suggests that they have been corrupted and are at a loss of innocence forever afterward.Even though sound effects are key in the film, the score, composed by Georges Auric, is exceptional and elegant. At times happy but other times disquieting, the music is a highlight, and the tune that Flora is constantly singing just brings chills each time you watch the movie We lay my love and I, beneath the weeping willow, but now alone I lie...oh willow I die. And last but not least, the cast is filled with talent. One of the most underrated actresses of her time, Deborah Kerr gives the best performance of her career, showing the right amount of subtlety, sexual repression, and questionable insanity that the character of Miss Giddens requires. Megs Jenkins and Michael Redgrave are also great as Mrs. Grose and The Uncle. Redgrave's screen time is minimal, but he makes the most of it. The performances that easily equal Kerr's portrayal belong to Martin Stephens and Pamela Franklin as Miles and Flora, especially Stephens. Facially, he is childlike, but in his body movement, choice of actions, and interpretation of dialog (i.e. Miles's morbid and disturbing poem) suggest maturity and adulthood. In a scene when he intimately and grossly kisses Miss Giddens, he shows no sign of discomfort, reminding us why British horror movie kids are so terrifying.Overall, The Innocents is one of the best horror movies of all time with a hefty amount of symbolism, some excellent performances, an amazing creep-out factor, a fantastically original story, and an ending that leaves you with just as many questions as it does shivers. It's a film that reminds us that nowadays in haunted house horror, we may be used to poltergeist activity, but a real ghost doesn't terrorize much at all. They linger in an area of the house and the mind, leaving a subtle warning that you're never alone. "},{"Title":"One Particular Scene","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" No need to recap the plot or repeat the movie's overall excellence.It's tricky filming psychological horror like The Innocents, especially with such a small cast and a 100-minute run time. After all, effects have to come from mood and atmosphere, not from the easy way out of the slash-and-bleed crowd. What's unusual here is that the lighting is not what you'd expect from a Gothic tale. Instead of the expected heavy gloom, many of the spectral effects occur in bright sunlight, such as by the lake or on the grounds. Then too, the daylight glare is often blinding, lending a different kind of boundary between the earthly and its opposite. In fact, there's a lot of laudable creativity in the staging of Clayton's film.I remember as a kid trying to figure out the subtleties of the Henry James novel. I never did until someone filled me in. Here, the sex angle is much more prominent than in the original, though it's a prime motivating force in both. Then too, it's truly unnerving to see Miss Giddens (Kerr) put a lip-lock on young Miles (is she kissing him or Quint?) My real concern, however, is one particular camera set-up that, I believe, changes the nature of the story. That's in the last sequence when the camera does an over-the- shoulder shot from beyond a raised hand that includes Quint's facial profile. To that point, the apparitions have appeared on camera strictly from Miss Gidden's perspective, which is as it should be, that is, if she's merely imagining these figures as we've been led to believe. However, by including three figures, ie. Miles, Giddens, and ostensibly Quint, in the same frame, meaning the same world, the camera implies the objective reality of Quint in addition to Miles and Giddens. In short, the shot implies that Quint (at least temporarily) is not an apparition but a real being. So, which is he now&#x97;real, ghostly or a figment . Now, I have no solution to the apparent inconsistency&#x97;maybe it's intended to heighten the mystery and keep us guessing. Nonetheless, I think the implications of this particular shot are worth pointing out. However that may turn out, the movie happily remains among the best of its kind, thanks to those willing to risk a difficult project. "},{"Title":"Thinking man's horror in the real world.","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Innocents is a near flawless horror film of restrained terror working beautifully within the bounds of reality with the outcome in doubt until the final seconds. It is an eerie thriller suspenseful and terrifying without gore and buckets of blood to drive its point home.A wealthy uncle (Michael Redgrave) charged with the care of a niece and nephew files them away on a lavish country estate in Victorian England. The less he has to deal with them the better so he hires Miss Giddens ( Deborah Kerr ) an inexperienced nanny to handle it. Upon arrival at the estate Giddens is filled with optimism and commitment to give the kids the adult nurturing the cold uncle is incapable of. It isn't long however before things start going bump in the night and Giddens begins to perceive the children may be in some danger. As she digs into the past she becomes more convinced they may well be possessed. Director Jack Clayton does a superb job of sustaining suspense without overwrought hysteria or graphic violence by impeccably applying the tools of the trade to get it. Along with cinematographer Freddie Francis he painstakingly unwinds the plot and builds the suspense with subversive audio, visuals and editing with jarring effect.The small cast is pitch perfect from Michael Redgrave's single moment as the indifferent uncle immediately and economically establishing a strong degree of mood and background in the film's opening scene to Deborah Kerr's magnificent Gidden present in every scene gaining our trust as the film's guide. The depth of the children's performances ( Martin Stephens, Pamela Franklin ) are gripping and mature beyond their years while Megs Jenkins' fretting ambiguity expands the generic maid role to new heights.The Innocents is not only an excellent thriller, it is a clinic in the collaborative process of film making. "},{"Title":"Miss Giddens in Wonderland.","Date":"8 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's an effective and spooky psychological horror story, with Deborah Kerr as a governess, Miss Giddens, sent to an enormous, remote country house to care for two cute but strange children, Pamela Franklin as Flora and Martin Stephens as Miles. It gets stranger.The opening scene has Kerr being interviewed by the children's distant uncle, Michael Redgrave, who has no room in his life mentally or emotionally for the little tykes. Kerr is an unmarried daughter of a Minister and seems attracted to Redgrave but he sends her off with good wishes and leaves for Italy, not wanting to be bothered.The novel begins with someone telling someone else the story of someone else. Conrad's Heart of Darkness begins the same way. I don't know how this fad got started. It turned me off at first but the story itself is so involving that I did a paper on it in graduate school. It was the only novel by Henry James that I enjoyed.At the vast estate, Kerr meets the grounded and practical housekeeper, Mrs. Grose, and the two cute children. Miles has just been expelled from school for vague reasons but at first everything seems to be going along swimmingly. The kids are always polite and smiling, fond of playing games, sometimes just involving the two of them.But odd things begin to happen. I'll just give three examples. The grinning eleven-year-old Flora calls to Miss Giddens and says, Oh, look! A pretty butterfly. It's being eaten by a spider. And later, when Miss Giddens is clipping roses in the garden, she uncovers a shabby lawn ornament, a chipped cherub, and from its open mouth a cockroach tumbles out. Finally, the two children ask if Miss Gidden's home was a big as theirs, and was it big enough for secrets? The kids smile perkily as if there were a particular reason for asking that particular question.Mrs. Grose tell Miss Giddens that the children were very attached to a butler and the previous governess, now both dead. The butler and governess were a couple of rascals. He beat hell out of her but she loved it, and they christened every room with their sexual escapades, although the little kids must have stumbled on them once in a while. Giddens becomes firmly convinced that the kids have been possessed by the spirits of the departed miscreants.It's all very ambiguous. Either Giddens is off her rocker or there are ghosts haunting the place and living through the children, as she puts it. Although Giddens importunes them the kids admit nothing. Mrs. Grose has seen nothing supernatural or even unusual in the kids -- not until Miss Giddens started getting hysterical around them.When I read this, I took it as a ghost story. Yes, it's vague, and the spirits are clichés. (It's hard to avoid clichés in a ghost story taking place in a huge Victorian mansion.) Sobbing is heard, a wispy figure is glimpsed in the distance. But it's all told from Gidden's point of view, and I now see it as her personal problem. I mean, after all, how can the spirits be incarnated in the brother and sister. The brother never mistreats his sister, nor is he likely to be playing doctor with her. Miles does give Miss Giddens a great big smooch for a good-night kiss but that might just be childish clumsiness.Taken pragmatically, looking only at the consequences, Miss Giddens arrives, and then Flora goes nuts and Miles dies of shock in her arms while she screams at him. It's good to look at it pragmatically. The author's brother, William, would have been pleased.The role of Miss Giddens, the lonely and excitable spinster, could have been written for Deborah Kerr. She gives a fine performance. (She was miscast as the bruised and sluttish Army wife in From Here to Eternity although she was flawless as the tough middle-aged housewife in The Sundowners.) She looks as innocent as the children. It would be sinful to think of her ankles. The two kids are very good too. I don't know how they manage to find children of that age who can act so convincingly. They're both terribly cute too. Pamela Franklin grew up to be even cuter a few years later. In fact she was pretty yummy in The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie. Now, having seen it a dozen times, I'm impressed by the less noticeable elements of the movie -- the painterly composition of each shot, for instance, retained even when the camera is in motion. It seems to me that this is so much more frightening and better done in almost every respect than a typical slasher movie, even one with elements of originality like Night of the Living Dead. "},{"Title":"A haunting 1961 haunted house classic","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This black and white 1961 haunted house classic is a winner all around. Set in 19th century England, The Innocents has a haunted atmosphere throughout the movie that is perhaps unmatched. This movie is based on the novel The Turn Of The Screw by Henry James.This is a ghost story that stars Deborah Kerr, who plays a governess who is caring for two orphaned children (Miles played by Martin Stephens and Flora played by Pamela Franklin) in a huge Victorian mansion. Throughout the movie there are ghosts that appear once in a while, such as a ghost of a woman who walks down a hallway, a ghost of a woman in a field, and the ghost of a man who appears on the roof of the house and outside a glass door. As the movie progresses and the ghosts continue to appear, the children's' behavior changes to the point of being strange and obnoxious. As a result, Deborah Kerr starts to wonder about what happened to the previous governess and her lover. The governess feels that it's possible that the ghosts of these people are trying to destroy the children's' innocence by possessing the children. On the other hand, the haunted happenings could be just her imagination. The children really get on the governess's case when she insists she's seeing ghosts and wants the children to notice them, but the children don't see them. The only thing I didn't like about the movie was all the yelling and screaming by the children. It occurred a little too often.One of my favorite scenes occurs when Kerr is walking through the house with a candelabra in hand, investigating strange things that are happening. It is such a spooky scene with perfect lighting, shadows, and background noises. There are some classic haunting situations throughout the movie that are eerie and will scare you, some familiar, some innovative.Just like The Haunting (1963), this movie's atmosphere benefits from and is enhanced by the black and white filming because to me, black and white makes it darker and spookier. There's just something about black and white that works. It elevates the creep factor by bringing out the shadows and darkness.This movie is always compared to The Haunting by horror fans and critics. Why? It's because both films were released around the same time (1961 and 1963), both are black and white films, both are ghost stories set in haunted Victorian mansions, both are based on novels, both are extremely creepy, and both have innovative camera-work. I often have a hard time deciding which of these two films is better. Of course, the authors whose books these movies are based on (Henry James's The Turn Of The Screw and Shirley Jackson's The Haunting Of Hill House) wrote stories that are night and day different. The movies, however, will always be compared due to the above reasons and simply because it comes down to what a person looks for and prefers in a haunted house ghost story movie. When it comes to comparing haunted house movies, I personally put the movie's atmosphere first and the story second. The next person might do the opposite.If you're up for a good ghost story, buy The Innocents. You won't be disappointed. It's one of the all-time great haunted house/ghost story movies. "}{"Title":"Horror of horrors","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The best version of the best horror story I know, Henry James' The Turn Of The Screw, here re-named The Innocents. Right from the start, over the titles, we're taken into Deborah Kerr's governess Miss Giddens' anguish, the daughter of a minister confronted by evil from the beyond which seems to be corrupting and indeed possessing her adorable (looking) infant charges, left to her care by an absent playboy uncle. Or is it all in her fevered mind and a sign of her loss of faith? Therein lies the hub of the narrative as every time Kerr experiences a visitation from the ghosts of Peter Quint or her predecessor as governess the corrupted Miss Jessell, no one else appears to see them.Deeper and deeper into the void she plunges, finally deciding to confront her own and the children's demons head-on until the literally heart-stopping conclusion. Photographed brilliantly in monochrome by Freddie Francis and making great use of atmospheric sounds, the film grips from the start and never lets go.It has to be said however that Kerr seems way too old for the role as Miss Giddens, as part of the strength of the original tale is that it really has to be centred on an only slightly older than the children, young innocent abroad herself in her first position away from home. Remembering too her earlier starring role as a quite different nanny in The King And I, she nonetheless belies this with a winning performance of great subtlety and skill, never resorting to histrionics as she's put through the gamut of emotions by the happenings around her.As for the child actors playing the spooky Miles and Flora, once you get past the cut-glass accents, I have to say that their performances are as good as any you'll ever see by children. Seemingly cherubic, they often manage to convey something sinister in their smile or laughter to disconcert both their governess and we the viewers. Obviously they were superbly directed by Jack Cardiff who throughout respects the story (I detected one or two excusable cuts from the original no doubt to maintain focus on the children's plight) but he drives the story along, subverting the old haunted house clichés and delivering a terrific horror film which keeps you guessing right to the last silent second.By the way that's a young Peter Wyngarde (later the mustachioed camp crime-fighter Jason King from later in the sixties) looking suitably demonic as the silently menacing Quint. "},{"Title":"Understated","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With similar understated works like Robert Wise's The Haunting, Jack Clayton's adaptation of Henry James' novella The Turn of the Screw fits into that small sub-genre of early revisionist horror films which eschewed monster madness and instead tap into our unconscious (and still cinematically under-explored) fears of the out-of-place, the suggested and the uncanny.It's not hard to see the influences on Stanley Kubrick's The Shining, in the floating, disembodied camera; the indistinct figures, grey-faced and out-of-place; the shrill atonal music. But where Nicholson's Jack Torrance was an archetypal villain straight out of the silent era &#x96; a man who put the ego-maniac in the maniacal &#x96; Clayton's melodrama bellows straight out of the Governess, played by Deborah Kerr. Her descent into madness is barely a step down from where she starts the movie oversensitive, jumpy, uncertain and dribblingly paranoid. I never felt there was any doubt about her sanity &#x96; a pity, given the subtlety of the other performances, particularly that angelic vessel of chaos, Miles (Martin Stephens).Very, very creepy. "},{"Title":"Consummate Ghost Story from Antiquity","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This portrayal of the Henry James story The Turn of the Screw catches the true spirit of the work. It is a subtly developed story of a woman who finds herself the governess for a couple of very strange children. These kids have an almost unhealthy connection to each other. They also seem to have something buried in their psyches. The house appears to be haunted by two ghost of previous employees who seem to be contaminating the children. Deborah Kerr may or may not be sane herself; this is somewhat in doubt. She attempts to maintain her rational being in the face of overwhelming threat. Miles, the young boy, is incredibly threatening in the most quiet, fierce way. Her efforts solve the mystery are headed off by isolation and by the children's lack of cooperation. It eventually leads to a most tragic conclusion. This is a suspenseful film that really moves us through the psychological being of the young woman and allows us to speculate on what happened. "},{"Title":"Gothic Mystery Horror Drama","Date":"23 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Innocents (1961) Starring Deborah Kerr, Martin Stephens, Pamela Franklin, Peter Wyngarde, Meg Jenkins, Michael Redgrave, Clytie Jessop, Isla Cameron, Eric Woodburn.....Director Jack Clayton, Screenplay William Archibald, Truman Capote and John Mortimer.Gone is my lord, and the grave is his prison. What shall I say when my lord comes a-calling? What shall I say when he knocks on my door? What shall I say when his feet enter softly, Leaving the marks of his grave on my floor? Enter my lord, come from your prison Come from your grave, for the moon is arisen!............Loosely based on Henry James novel The Turn of the Screw, The Innocents was actually taken from a successful stage play at the time but made into a suspense-filled Gothic ghost story which for the early 1960's was absolutely groundbreaking. Released in 1961, it was directed by Jack Clayton and starred the well-known British actress Deborah Kerr. Although Kerr had done many excellent films before The Innocents (including From Here To Eternity and The King and I) Kerr delivers what she considered to be her greatest performance, in part because so much of the dialog is taken from theater which had always been her forte. Kerr portrays Miss Giddens, a 19th century Victorian nanny, known at the time as a governess who is sent to care for two orphan children whose guardian is their busy, distant and indifferent uncle. The boy Miles (Martin Stephens) comes home after being expelled from school. He is a strange boy with an adult mind and personality. His sister Flora (Pamela Franklin) although sweet and innocent, also has a creepy quality about her. The housekeeper Anna (Isla Cameron) tells Miss Giddens about the sordid past in the house. The children's previous governess, Miss Jessel, had a torrid affair with the valet Peter Quint (Peter Wyngarde). The children were exposed to the lovers' erotic trysts and Quint's brutality and were consequently corrupted by them. Quint died under mysterious circumstances and Miss Jessel committed suicide by drowning herself in a lake. Their ghosts still haunt the estate and later, after seeing the apparitions for herself, Miss Giddens is convinced that the spirits of the adult couple have possessed the bodies of the children. The writing is brilliant. Some of the script, lifted from the original play, was written by Truman Capote, who manages to slip in subtle, discreet innuendo, particularly in the scenes with the precocious boy Miles, who behaves like a miniature Truman Capote. He always speaks to his nanny as if he were an adult gentleman and not just a little boy she's taking care of. There is enough evidence in the film to suggest that Miss Gidden is not just imagining things or has lost her mind, unlike the more ambiguous Henry James novel. In the film, we see what Miss Giddens sees through the window during a game of hide and seek when she first sees the specter of Quint face to face and when she encounters Miss Jessel as seen from a distance by the lake where she drowned and also in the library where she again sees her this time far closer in person and even touches her tears. There are many unforgettable moments in the film that paved the way for later horror movies. There have been many film versions of The Turn of the Screw and a recent adaptation was with Nicole Kidman entitled The Others. The ghostly presence of former residents of a house has also been seen in recent films like The Grudge or A Haunting In Conneticut. Two scenes that stand out is when the children are reading an eerie poem What shall I sing to my lord at the window?' which is actually about the relationship with Miles and the dead Quint and the scene when Miss Giddens, alone in the house in the dark with a lantern, hears a melange of eerie noises and screams that seem to fit inside a haunted house attraction ride! At this time in early 60's horror films, sound effects were more sophisticated and this film definitely makes use of them - the children's song serves as an eerie, unsettling musical theme, the children's laughter, Quint's sinister laugh and voice, Miss Jessel's cries of pain, screams, sudden gusts of wind and doors closing with powerful force. The story reaches dramatic heights toward the end when Miss Giddens attempts to get rid of the ghosts and their influence over the children. The finale is both climatic and disturbing. With eerie and exciting music by Georges Auric and a Gothic cinematography by Freddie Francis, this is a classic horror movie that although tame by today's standards is a perfect example of drama and mystery coming together and the results are spine-tingling. "},{"Title":"Jack Clayton a cinema of intellectual mystery.","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A puritanical governess Miss Guiddens (Deborah Kerr) receives the mission of to take care of two orphaned children living in a mansion of Bly. The protagonist soon will realize that the former reared, who died long ago, still have, however, a much stronger presence in the lives of children of what a principle could be expected.. What a principle seems to be a indent naive, soon becomes moving on into a dense and morbid tale adult, evolving from the mystery to terror, especially after the emergence of children players, and largely thanks to the good of Deborah Kerr that is splendid in its role and that makes evolve to his character in a very convincing. The film has an excellent direction of photography in charge of Freddie Francis. The lighting of the interiors of the mansion are very well made, as well as the affairs where the splendor of the landscape and the brightness of the sun are magnificently achieved. Only you encounter the final too symbolic, since it unless it has been read the novel of Henry James, the viewer can be left in doubt "},{"Title":"A  Masterpiece Of Terror","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first saw The Innocents back in the early 70's and it remains, quite simply, one of the scariest films I have ever seen. Yet amazingly, it now manages to have a 12A certificate! Everything about this production - from the atmospheric black and white photography, through to the eerie score and the ground-breaking sound effects is first rate - proof positive that it's what you don't see that really scares you. The children, Myles and Flora, somehow manage to be sweet and profoundly creepy in equal measure and there are fine performances from all involved, particularly Megs Jenkins as the conflicted Mrs Grose. And of course, there's the wonderful duality of the movie - is Deborah Kerr's young governess really seeing ghosts or are they simply phantoms, generated by her own repression? I suppose it's only a matter of time before there's a Hollywood remake of this (it was surely a huge influence on The Others) and I shudder to think what they'll do with it - the concept of showing less to scare the audience more has never really caught on there.Settle down to watch this film... get to the scene by the lake... and I challenge you not to be freaked by the first glimpse of Mrs Jessel. I've seen the film a dozen times and I still get chills every time it comes on! "},{"Title":"Kerr gives her greatest performance","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Even if you have not seen The Innocents for many years the film is as scary as it ever was. If you are looking for special effects forget it. There are no gimmicks, just skillful direction, a magnificent script, brilliant black and white photography, a remarkable use of the creepiest sounds imaginable and superb performances. One wonders if the younger film goers brought up on a diet of whizz bang special effects will be able to fall under the spell of the magic of this masterpiece. We live in a world where people are bombarded by visual images and have the modern cinema goers become too shallow? One could write a thesis about the film. As others have asked is it a brilliantly scary ghost story or something more? On my first viewing that is exactly how I saw it; a ghost story. Now I am convinced it is much darker. It is about perversion and there are plenty of very clear suggestions that the children were victims of abuse. Its not so clear but easy to presume that Kerr's character is a victim as well. Kerr's character was brought up by a religious zealots and fanatics, its a clear implication but it is never obvious. The film maybe too subtle for young cinema goers.THe death of Miles remains a topic for conjecture. In a world where a woman can die of a broken heart can a child be scared to death. I believe the governess scares the child to death. There are great performances in the film . The two children played by Pamela Franklin and especially Martin Stevens as Miles are haunting. Mrs Grose the house keeper is superbly played by Megs Jenkins. She holds the movie together and as she seems the only sane presence in the house we look to her for explanations. There are wonderful mysteries here such as the strange absence of the children's uncle played by Michael Redgrave. This is intelligent cinema, we do not see it very often today. The movie is full of remarkable images such as when a cricket creeps out of the mouth of a garden statue, images of the evil apparitions in the window and many more. Central to whole film is a performance of true power. It is towering performance of incredibly profound layers and artistic brilliance. Deborah Kerr is tremendous.The camera loves her and she knows how to use it. She looks beautiful and few actors have ever been able to capture pure style and elegance. The performance however is much more, indeed it is a tour de force. You will never forget it. "},{"Title":"One of the scariest British horror films ever made","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Innocents is directed by Jack Clayton, is based on the novel The Turn Of The Screw by Henry James, has a screenplay by Truman Capote and William Archibald, has music by Georges Auric and stars Deborah Kerr, Pamela Franklin, Martin Stephens, Peter Wyngarde, Megs Jenkins, Clytie Jessop and Michael Redgrave.The repressed Miss Giddens(Deborah Kerr)takes up the position of governess at Bly House, a beautiful mansion with lots of land.She is responsible for the nephew and niece of the mansions owner (Michael Redgrave),they are Flora(Pamela Franklin)and Miles(Martin Stephens). Flora and Miles act very strangely, it's almost as if they are connected telepathically and both of them act much older than they are. As Miss Giddens gets to know them she is convinced that they are being possessed by the spirits of two dead servants Quint(Peter Wyngarde)and the children's former governess Miss Jessel(Clytie Jessop). Quint and Miss Jessel were romantically involved with one another. Along with housekeeper Mrs Grose(Megs Jenkins)Miss Giddens tries to get to the bottom of the mystery at Bly. There are so many possible interpretations to The Innocents. Is Miss Giddens losing her mind with terror due to the atmosphere at Bly and the children's strange behaviour?or are they really possessed by the malevolent spirits? I think it's a combination of both, the children saw the things Quint and Miss Jessel did together and because of that their innocence was corrupted. The memory of those events and of Quint and Miss Jessel themselves still exist for the children. Memories can haunt a person just like a spirit could. There may not actually be physical ghosts gliding around the house but the memory of those two has certainly lingered on past their deaths.Miss Giddens is herself an innocent just like the children. She has been brought up in such a reserved and sheltered household. The things she learns about Quint and Miss Jessel's behaviour troubles her and introduces her to what she would consider sin, that is something she cannot deal with because it has never entered her life before. The more she thinks about these things the more troubled her mind becomes.The film is scary because it plays on the fact that we can often be scared more by what we don't see or by what we are afraid we might see, than by anything we may actually see. The ghost sightings we are shown here are eerie and done in a different way than many other ghost films and are truly chilling to behold. What is also really scary about this is the adult behaviour of the children, particularly Miles, he speaks and behaves like a grown man and the things he says to Miss Giddens are very strange and uncomfortable to listen to. Stephens performance is chilling and very impressive for one so young. Everything about this film is superb from Freddie Francis's atmospheric and stunning photography,Truman Capote's outstanding screenplay to the superb acting of Deborah Kerr, Pamela Franklin and Martin Stephens, without a doubt The Innocents is a must see. "},{"Title":"Classic Neurotic Horror","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A fantastic screen adaptation of a classic horror story by an eminent psychologist. Deservingly sets the standard for the psychological horror/supernatural genre.Eloquent development and evocative score underline the subtle disintegration of a broken family under the guidance of a liberal housekeeper. It must be said the character of Mrs Giddens portrays an age where neuroticism and sexual repression were characteristics to be praised. In this context, lines such as 'he used rooms by day as if they were dark woods' is akin to flashing an ejaculating penis for the insatiable audience of the 21st century.When the film's intangible horror begins to materialise in the form of ghostly figures, Clayton's superb cinematography ensures that there are no definitive clues as to whether the ghosts are real or not.This tension leads us to the climatic ending, in which the neuroticism of 'old style fools...who half the time were soppy stern and the other half at each others' throats' is deadly.But in what way? And why? Never in a horror film have unanswered questions remained so tantalisingly rewatchable. "},{"Title":"See and be Saved","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Much like the Lawton/Tourneur horror films of the 1940's The Innocents relies heavily on eerie sounds as well as glimpse of shadowy figures to scare the audience without the use of gore violence or special effects. Being told by the uncle, Michael Redgrave, of the two children Miles & Flora, Martin Stephens & Pamala Franklin, whom she's to be their new governess at his Blye estate Miss. Giddens, Deborah Kerr, feels very confident with the owner giving her total control of all who work there. Miss. Giddens doesn't realize that things didn't go that well before she showed up with two of the people looking after the children dying mysteriously. Sweet kind and caring Miss. Giddens wins over Flora almost at once and everything goes well until her older brother Miles, who was sent to a private school in London, unexpectedly returns. It turns out that Miles was expelled from the school but the reasons that Miss. Giddens gets from him and the maid Mrs. Grose, Megs Jenkins, seem sketchy and secretive. This makes her wonder if there's something very dark that they, Miles & Mrs. Grose, don't want her to know about Miles.Later Miss. Giddens starts to see or hallucinate a man up on one of Blye Manor's towers and finds young Miles there all by himself. The man keeps popping up in and around the Blye house but it's seems that Miss. Giddens is the only one who sees him. Talking to Mrs. Grose about all this it turns out that what Miss. Giddens has been seeing may very well be the ghost of Peter Quint,Peter Wyngarde. Wyngard ran the place some time ago and was killed one cold evening when he fell dead drunk on his head and died. Later Miss. Giddens sees another strange aberration, a young lady who shows up at the lake and seems to be attracted to young Flora. At first thinking that she's going mad Miss. Giddens starts to believe that the two ghosts Quint. Later Miss. Gidens finds out from Mrs. Grose, the former children's governess Miss Jessel, Clytie Jessop, are possessing both Miles and Flora's bodies and that they've been doing it since they both died tragically over a year ago.Miss. Giddens also finds out that Miles had been expelled from school because his classmates were terrified of him and the strange things that he was doing there. Miss. Giddens herself realizes that Miles and, to a lesser extent, Flora were not acting as the pre-teenager that they are but as grown ups. With Miles acting as if he were Miss. Giddens adult lover by brazenly giving her, to Miss Giddens surprise and shock, a very adult-like kiss. It becomes obvious now to Miss. Giddens that what she's been seeing is not a figment of her imagination but the real things. Peter Quint and Miss. Jessel's ghosts who are in control of Miles and Flora's bodies and using them to drive her out of her mind. Seeing that the two children, as well as the maid Mrs. Grose, not only claim not to see the ghosts but don't even mention their names, Peter Quint & Miss. Jessel, makes Miss. Giddens certain that what's happening is real. Even more that their uncle knows about it since he didn't want anything to do with his nephew and niece in the first place not wanting to end up going mad like she's in danger of doing. It's then when Miss. Giddens comes to the shocking conclusion in the thought that the very mention of the ghosts names, by Miles & Flora, will break the grip that they have on them and finally set them both free. What she doesn't know is that the freedom they'll get by doing that may be far worse then the condition that their both in right now. "}{"Title":"Truly innovative, great horror film","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't claim to have seen every single ghost story ever captured on film, though I believe I've seen all the majors... THE UNINVITED, THE HAUNTING, THE SHINING, etc.  While all of those are very good films, none of them can compare to the near perfection of THE INNOCENTS.  It really infuriates me that the film isn't more routinely recognized as one of the greatest horror films of all time.  THE HAUNTING almost invariably appears on such lists, yet THE INNOCENTS is more sophisticated and frightening... and it was released two years before.  I'd even wager that Robert Wise was influenced by this film.  People always note that THE HAUNTING was smart enough not to show any ghosts and that the imagination makes the ghosts much scarier.  While that is certainly valid, THE  INNOCENTS proved that what you show can be equally frightening...  and that is more impressive.  What really strikes me about the film is how innovative it is, quite possibly as innovative as PSYCHO and NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD.  I can't think of any earlier films which used electronic distortion of sound to this affect... and that sort of thing now text book horror or thriller genre sound design.  Yet, maybe only David Lynch (whose always done his own sound design) and composer Toru Takemitsu have been able to do it as well to this day.  The film has not dated in the slightest...  I can only imagine that it was too scary for audiences of the early sixties and that is the reason it isn't more widely hailed as a classic by critics today.   "},{"Title":"A disturbing masterpiece of horror","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I sought this movie out because I'm a fan of the photographer, Freddie Francis. Little did I know that it's one of the most astounding films in his entire career. Not only is his photography groundbreaking and beautiful, but the film itself is an excellent exercise in ambiguous terror.Deborah Kerr stars as a first-time governess given a rare pair of strange kids to watch over at their uncle's remote country estate. Usually when you see kids in a horror movie that's the death knell right there, but these kids are top notch performers -- Martin Stephens and Pamela Franklin. The whole movie is a puzzle, because we never know how much of what's going on could be some kind of demonic possession and how much could be the mental state of Miss Giddens (Kerr).I've never seen Deborah Kerr finer, though I've never been a fan of her work in particular so I haven't seen all her films. This film erased any remaining doubt I had about her talent. Even the past association of her with other schoolmarm type roles only enhances this film. You can't imagine her whisling a happy tune to make these troubles go away. And there's even a bit of the sexual tension from Tea and Sympathy here. Kerr's innately protective and motherly screen presence was subverted and utilized for this film in ways that make her seem like a whole new actress.Francis' photography is some of the most stunning in horror film history, which of course makes it all the stranger to look at the films he directed for Hammer a few years after this which are not 1/100th as scary as this one. But never mind all that, he creates the perfect atmosphere here. He actually manages to make the ghosts really spooky even though they get quite a lot of screen time. The woman on the other side of the lake is a very haunting image. There are many great shots in the film that are worth watching in and of themselves for cinematic value. He achieved amazing depth here with his images, I have no idea how he did this stuff because I'm not a professional. But it's more impressive than Mario Bava's photography in Black Sunday even. I simply can't think of a horror movie with more memorable images than this one.I watched it in a completely well lit room but it actually creeped me out. Sometimes I don't even like horror movies that are as weird as this one, but the great photography and performances compelled me to keep watching. The story itself is very gripping also, and unpredictable. "},{"Title":"Who is the auteur of this masterpiece of horror?","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Certainly one of the greatest psychological horror films ever made. It is regrettable that Jack Clayton, credited with directing only ten films spread over a 48 year career, would never again do a project quite up to the quality of this one. Perhaps, as was the case of young Orson Welles who benefited from the input of Greg Toland, Robert Wise and Bernard Hermann on Citizen Kane, Clayton for the only time in his career had the collaboration two of England's most masterful technicians the incomparable film editor Jim Clark and the cinematographer Freddie Francis. One cannot diminish their contribution to the effect of this film. Sadly, a year after the release of The Innocents, Francis began his career as a director; and although he was to do a number of competent horror films, his ability as a film director in no way ever matched his genius as a cinematographer. Clark, now in his seventy-seventh year, went on to edit a number of John Schlesinger films and is presently editing for Mike Leigh. So often today the director is considered the sole auteur of a film such as this one, but truth be told the director, lighting cameraman and film editor are the true author/creators of this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"a ghost story for the connoisseur","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i first saw this film on its television debut in the late 60s or early 70s.it is a film that stays long in the memory.i was delighted to find out that it is now available on DVD,but would it still remain a remembered classic or was it just that an eleven year old is easily scared.i'm happy to say that it is a true classic,if anything it is a better film now that i understand some of the more 'adult' themes that are inferred.the slow build up in intensity as miss giddens(deborah kerr)begins to unravel the secrets that the house holds.are the angel faced children,miles and flora,playing children's games or is theirs a knowledge that is beyond their years?have the departed spirits of quint and miss jessel returned to haunt and ultimately posses the souls of the children?is this all the imagination of the repressed miss giddens? deborah kerr considered this to be her best film-no arguments here.i also enjoyed the fact that it was shot in black and white as it lent a more chilling look and atmosphere to the tale.one piece of trivia-i believe it is the only 20th century fox film where the standard piece of music played over the fox logo is not used, instead we hear flora singing 'oh willow waly'(the song that miss jessel taught her).---SMALL SPOILER----finally a word about the ghosts.i think that the sparse glimpses of the ghosts of quint and miss jessel are what makes the film truly great.a figure in the reed beds across the lake,a shadowy face seen through a window,a voice calling in the distance.but the scene that stuck in my mind for thirty odd years was miss jessel crying in the schoolroom only to disappear and leave behind one teardrop on the desk-classy and classic. "},{"Title":"Mostly Ghostly","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the creepiest movies ever made, once seen never forgotten. It was shot in eye-cutting clarity and precision framed on black and white acetate film but with the key spooky moments deliberately smudged and with odd sound to make you doubt your senses. A lot of thought went into this Henry James adaptation, an author I regret I've never sampled &#150; this will have to suffice &#150; nodding to Dead Of Night, Belle Et La Bete, Black Narcissus and The Secret Garden and being the better bookend to The Haunting.Imaginative Deborah Kerr is hired by dour Michael Redgrave to look after his weird young nephew and niece in a gloomy Gothic pile in tremendous grounds with an ideal folly by the side of a lovely lake. Apparently the interiors were constructed at Shepperton Studios &#150; much more realistic than the much cheaper digital cartoonery favoured nowadays! Are the children or is Kerr possessed? You're led to believe the spirit of the dead Quint is abroad, but it still could be her romantic imagination leading us all into the vortex - who's possessing who? The scene with Quint in the window with Kerr looking on is indescribably fraught with frisson. Beguilingly the paedophilic nature of a few kissing scenes between Kerr and Miles could also jar if neither are possessed, but Hell! Don't go down that road or in the end the do-gooders will get it cut! Freddie Francis's photography and lighting is amazing throughout, and coupled with cogent scripting, acting (especially by Kerr) and direction make it an experience.A must-see because it's good and not just to say you've seen it, but definitely best seen in the dark with your concentration turned on. "},{"Title":"An amazing movie profiling ambiguity at its finest... What was YOUR set of decisions?","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Apparently, in the novel by James, it is sincerely implied that the ghosts ARE real...However, I'm going to HAVE to stand with the crew that believes that Miss Giddens was INSANE, TERRIBLY sexually repressed/oppressed (called hysteria at the time), and that one or possibly both children had been abused (in this case, I do mean it literally) by Quint and/or Ms. Jessel and/or watching an apparently abusive sexual relationship occurring to 2 adults that they thought of as parental figures (thus my usage of the word abuse, also)...I believe that Miss Giddens was the only possessed (not literally) person here, however... I believe that these 2 children who have LOST their natural parents due to unknown means (never explained in the movie at least), are then further traumatized (possibly severely) by Quint and Jessel's relationship, and then are AGAIN traumatized by a woman they came to trust in the person of Miss Giddens.One person insinuated that it was actually more likely that Quint had abused the boy and Miss Jessel had ALLOWED him to in order to shield Flora... (Something that was known to happen in that time frame where people didn't discuss sex whatsoever... I Have heard many a tale of a man abusing the HELL out of a little boy all so the mother could protect the daughter of the family... It sickens me, really...) Once both of these antagonists are dead, in the scheme of the story, Miles then begins to traumatize Flora by telling her what had transpired... It is also what gets him thrown out of school...having told the other kids at school either what happened TO him at the hands of Quint or that he witnessed (or was made to witness?) vicariously having seen the 2 abusive adults having violent sex...I further believe that Miss Giddens projects her own sexual frustration/repression/etc onto the boy who (imo) has obviously been sexualized (re the kiss he lays on her at bedtime) and then falls in love with him (rather, becomes obsessed with the idea of loving him by proxy in lieu of either the Uncle, who she is obviously interested in, or, more significantly, in the person of Quint... The ultimately lascivious and lewd, forbidden (especially at this point in history) kind of love...) and then arranges to be alone with the boy...Theories abound as to HOW the boy dies at the end... (Much to my shock, horror, and tears...) Whether he was scared to death by an apparition of Quint... Whether he was traumatized and exhausted by Miss Giddens' unwarranted attack... Whether Miss Giddens HERSELF either directly or indirectly or accidentally kills him HERSELF... (In one movie adaptation she smothers him by accident in her eager attempt to comfort him... In another she accidentally snaps his neck in the same circumstance...) I believe that she indeed did push him to his limit... And that he died from heart failure brought on by stress, painful memories, and repeated psychological trauma... I also agree with some people who have said about this that it was typical of Victorian novels to have people just seemingly inexplicably just DIE for no apparent reason... A broken heart, Died from the shock... and so on...In my view, though, I think Miss Giddens drives a boy who is (for better or worse) sexually precocious into just, basically, self-destructing... Are children sexual? Yes, by definition and by nature... Any adult who says otherwise is living in Victorian times still, themselves...Are sexually precocious children necessarily victims of past sexual abuse (directly, indirectly, or vicariously)? No... I don't think so...Was Miles in The Innocents sexually precocious because of what happened to him? Yes & no. Yes if you believe my thoughts on that he at MINIMUM had witnessed full-on sexual intercourse between 2 adults, possibly on numerous occasions... (I do not believe the evidence exists to suggest, like many would claim, that he was sexually molested in any classical sense...) Did he attempt to project that on an apparently receptive adult, Miss Giddens? Yes... Of course.... It only follows, I think... I read in a psychological study once of normal childhood sexuality that children try out their 'technique' on the adults in their lives as is only normal, logical and natural...Did Miss Giddens encourage this attempt by the boy? Well, she sure as hell didn't chastise him for it! And that kiss at the end of the movie when she has come to the horrifying realization that the boy is dead...one has to question just who, exactly, was that for the benefit? It could only be for her own gratification... When one discovers a child that is dead, one does not kiss them like a dead lover...And I now understand why Kate Bush wrote the song The Infant Kiss after watching this movie... And what it MEANS in that context...This movie was full of deliberate ambiguity... Derived from an ambiguous story by Henry James... Adapted for the screen by Truman Capote who is KNOWN for psycho-sexual thrillers... And you have the formula for this movie...The photography was done by the same man who did the principle photography for Dune... So it stands to reason that the cinematography is stunning...The movie opens on a black screen of a child sweetly singing (off-puttingly nonetheless) a song that gives rise to chills... And conjures strong images from the get-go of the movie... And ends on a black screen... Leaving you to wonder just what was real and what was not? And what are the implications of that decision...? "},{"Title":"The influence of the innocents.....","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ....in the field of fantasy and horror movies is incalculable and is only equaled in significance by that of Robert Wise's the haunting .Amenabar's excellent the others is the best example ,but I could mention almost every good fantasy work (= which does not rely on special effects)which was to follow.Of the three versions of Henry James' novel I have seen,this one is by far the best.Deborah Kerr as the governess is simply sublime and the black and white cinematography is beguiling.So strong Clayton's directing is that we never know if something supernatural happens or if the woman is going nuts.The children are also convincing ;Pamela Franklin would be part of the cast of Clayton's too overlooked sensational our mother's house ,another film crying to be watched. "},{"Title":"This is my favourite film of all time!","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Naturally, I saw this film during a class project (how else would someone my age have access to such a gritty film?) and was haunted by it for days. They don't make films like this anymore, the directors and actors are probably too lazy and egocentric nowadays. Anyhow, the story revolves around this nanny who accepts the job of going to take care of two motherless children in the countryside while their father is away on business in the city. Sounds ordinary enough, but the Nanny (played to perfection by Deborah Kerr) senses that something is not altogether there when she interviews with her potential master and finds that he seems to be afraid of his house and his children. Nevertheless, she accepts the job, goes to the house and meets the children. The the supernatural chaos begins to unfold as fast as the dark secrets come seeping out from behind the antique old worldliness of the estate. A must see thriller meets horror flick! A+ Thumbs Up! whatever you want to call it! This film brings it like it's never been brought before! "},{"Title":"Kind of a pre-Exorcist, but so much more","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Whoa - what a movie! Deborah Kerr is a governess who comes to care for a young girl in a British country manor. A short time after the girl's brother comes home after being dismissed from boarding school, the governess begins to suspect that the children are possessed by the ghosts of two former residents - the last governess and a servant, who were lovers.To say that The Innocents is loaded with atmosphere is a gross, oh gross, understatement. Not only is there a brooding, dark atmosphere, enabled by the black and white production and inventive photography, but there are chills galore, as Kerr begins to see and hear these ghosts everywhere.Based on the novel The Turn of the Screw by Henry James, this film presents the story differently, raising a lot of questions. You ask yourself how much is real and imaginary and who's crazy. It's an extremely compelling, absorbing, edge of your chair type movie that demands repeated viewings. Pamela Franklin, who plays the young girl, Flora, is marvelous, and in real life, she grew into a lovely woman and continued acting for a time. Martin Stephens, as her brother Miles, is excellent as well.Deborah Kerr is fabulous as the governess, and the neat thing is the way her performance builds from a sweet, gentle young woman to one completely possessed - though you aren't sure by what. She plays the daughter of a minister and takes on a ministerial tone magnificently as the film progresses.This is a brilliant movie, a no miss, filled with fabulous performances and production values. It will leave you with your jaw dragging on the floor, and your jaw won't come back up for some time afterward. "},{"Title":"Hands down, my favorite horror movie of all times","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Light and shadow, the thing you see out of the corner of your eye that is suddenly not there, and the suggestion that darker evil may lurk just beyond the glow a single candle are the deliciously scary parts of this 1961 classic, and adaptation of The Turn of the Screw. Creepier than the rambling, haunted mansion in the English countryside, which is far enough away from town to ever send for help, are the two children whose minds and perhaps souls are occupied with the pure evil of some former residents. Deborah Kerr takes the growing horror of a governess one step further than expected when she portrays a strange combination of nurturing and revulsion to young Miles, who seems to be the more endangered of the two children. And just when we think Kerr's character has broken the spell on her charges, comes a final blow to our senses. All is not well in England, but it is in the fine presentation. "}{"Title":"It's amazing how a black and white horror movie with practically no special effects can scare the wits out of you.","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The beautiful, vulnerable and lovable Deborah Kerr frightens me with her superb acting that convinces me that indeed there is a malignant presence in the manor. Note that the apparition of Quint was almost too quick for the eye to catch. As for the weeping ghost of Miss Jessel, only the atmospheric photography and the wide-eyed expression of Kerr conveys a terrifying presence. Years later I saw another version in color entitled Turn of the Screw after the book's title but I prefer this older version with Kerr for its sheer eerie coldness and subtle hints about the depravities the late Quint committed with Miss Jessel. "},{"Title":"cute kids, chilly atmosphere","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Long before atmospheric horror movies fell into the convention of featuring ugly looking kids in films such as the american THE RING, THE OTHERS, and DARKNESS FALLS, a movie like THE INNOCENTS could make a scary movie out of adorable children. Not the teary-eyed mutt kind of adorable oozing out of that kid in THE SIXTH SENSE, but a healthier kind of cute. Seemingly happy playful smart kids. This is the charm of THE INNOCENTS. The lighting play of black and white is very well accomplished and works marvels. The movie has eerie moments, although it scares little by modern standards. It is still worth watching just for the viewing pleasure of the kids and the cinematography.  "},{"Title":"An Excellent Chiller","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Based upon the classic novella THE TURN OF THE SCREW by Henry James, this movie is a superior ghost story full of creepy moments which ingeniously keep the viewer mesmorized throughout the film. Deborah Kerr is perfection personified as the Governess who is hired by Redgrave to care for Flora and Miles.  Few are films which take place back in the 18OO's which take the viewer into a genuine feeling for that era this is one of them. The film is leisurely paced and beautifully (and suitably) photographed in black and white.  The acting is top-notch even to Megs Jenkin's portrayal of the illiterate housekeeper who is afraid of the evil which looms over the two children - and the house in general.  Really a kind of cat-and-mouse game between deceased spirits, the two children & Miss Giddens, this is one of the most original and satisfying of all films of the ghost genre the ending is traumatically heartbreaking, and the film is expertly handled in every respect. 9/1O "},{"Title":"Flawless!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ghost stories, when truly good, are ideal for heightening a character's emotions of fear and possible insanity, but few reach the heights to which The Innocents takes Deborah Kerr's character, Miss Gibbons. Yet director Jack Clayton does so in such an elegant, cinematic fashion (no gimmicky shockers here!), making it one of the best ghost movies of all time. Remarkably, Clayton transforms a literary masterpiece into a brilliant (as well as terrifying) film.Right from the credits, The Innocents snares you into Miss Gibbons' world of possible madness and subtle, growing terror.  The Innocents is filmed in an absolutely unique way, with sweeping camera moves and tight close-ups, that brings us closer and closer to the nature of corruption and evil. And all through two seemingly innocent and happy children, played to ominous perfection by young Stephens and Franklin.Deborah Kerr also gives a fascinating performance. Like the other aspects of the film, she adopts an old-fashioned style of acting that starts out foreign and distant and eventually becomes terrifying.There is little more that one can say about The Innocents without stating the obvious. I will say merely that this film is one of the best, scariest ghost stories ever, on a par with such modern classics as The Sixth Sense. "},{"Title":"Top Notch Psychological Horror","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A film with many admirable qualities. First off, a intelligent, literate script. Directed with a subtle yet confident hand by Jack Clayton and luminously photographed by the great Freddie Francis. A stellar performance by the lovely Deborah Kerr, who is supported admirably by her two young co-stars. Lastly, an abundance of fabulous gothic eerieness and atmosphere, including a delightfully haunting tune that is repeated throughout the film.WARNING slight spoiler material follows...With repeated viewings, I'm continually impressed with director Clayton's (and of course, author Henry James) skill at balancing the two distinct possiblities of the events at Bly. Are we witnessing the brave struggle of a compassionate woman fighting alone against spirits of the dead for the souls of her young charges? Or are we instead observing how the sheltered, pious upbringing of a lonely spinster causes her to brand a pair of precocious orphans as possessed? Either interpretation is a fitting souce of horror---wether the children are truly in peril from the dead, or if they are instead being terrorized by an unhinged governess, who says the dead have returned to claim them.When I read Henry James The Turn of the Screw while at school many years ago, I came down firmly on the side of the governess' strict, sheltered upbringing as the reason for her belief that the children were possessed and that their peril was more from her attempts to help the children rather than any ghostly menace from beyond the grave. What I love about Jack Clayton's film is the way he brilliantly gives evidence for either possibility (and in this he was helped enormously by Deborah Kerr's tour de force performance). It's a film about terror that is frightening no matter which interpretation you hold to...making it one of the greatest horror films ever made, in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"Chilling, Excellent and Intelligent","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Those with low attention spans, patience and no sympathy for the 'suggest but don't show' school of ghost stories and horror films would be well advised to wander away. 'The Innocents' is a highly intelligent ghost story and adaptation of the Henry James novella 'The Turn of the Screw.'I'll not spoil anything but, to set up the plot, a young governess is hired on and given total independence and authority to care for two young children in an isolated estate. As she arrives and begins her duties she becomes convinced that ghostly presences are on the estate and hungering for the souls of the children. 'The Innocents' succeeds by being subtle. Filmed in Black and White and being minimal in special effects, 'The Innocents' relies on chilling atmosphere heightened by the Governess' morality and sense of isolation. Throw in an excellent musical score that wants only to supplement the movie and not overshadow the film and you have a first rate picture.The film works brilliantly on two levels. As a ghost story it is superlative and very well done. Chilling special effects with great usage of reflections and windows. Deborah Kerr turns in what must rank as an astonishing performance. The complexity of her role and the skillfully nuanced performance that she delivers rank her, in my mind, as one of the top-tiered actresses. The supporting cast is excellent. I'm often a bit suspicious about whether little children will be watchable or not. They are here, and they show wonderful depth and range of emotion -- especially in the final ten minutes. That said, you may find yourself wanting to bash your head repeatedly in the final scenes of the little girl; she's a bit much. Over all though, no problems and mostly plaudits for all of the actors and actresses. Michael Redgrave, incidentally, has a wonderful bit part as the children's legal guardian.The second level where the film works brilliantly is of a psychological study. There is the very real possibility that the governess is mentally ill. She doesn't understand why she can't convince any of the other characters about the ghosts that she is seeing and as her anxiety begins to increase, so does the tension and over all effect of the film. As to which theory is the truth? It is left less ambiguous than it is in the source material but as for the answer of the film-makers, I'll never tell! Are the ghosts real or is she mad? Yes. You'll have to watch the film to see which question I answered. "},{"Title":"Horror that deserves more viewers","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One thing that truly bothers me about classic horror is that since some movies are so well known, it is impossible to be surprised by many of them. Though movies like Poltergeist and The Shining gave me some shock and surprise, especially Kubrick's movie, the fact that so many of their scares are ground in popular culture made me feel as if I didn't get the full extent of their terror, because I knew most of what was coming. That is why I love horror movies that I know little about when I watch them, because everything comes as a surprise. The Innocents is just such a movie for me. It may be one of the most eerie and atmospheric movies I have seen. Unlike many horror movies, The Innocents builds up tension fairly early and gives the audience no break from it, no scene where the weight lifts from the audience and they can calm down. In the films more powerful scenes, I was almost begging for the next scene to be a calmer moment, to stop what was going on. The plot lets the audience know just as much of what is going on as the main character. I despise slasher films that let us know where the killer is at all times, so no death or attack comes as a surprise. In The Innocents, we get only vague hints as to what is going on, learning more as the character knows more and more. The direction and sets are incredible, and the house truly looks menacing in both the dark AND the light. The acting is fine across the board, particularly with the children, who perfectly give the impression of being sinister while still managing to behave like children. My only complaint about the movie is that the main character gets a very sure idea of what is happening a tad too early, and how she talks about what is happening to the children with incredible certainty was a bit unbelievable for me.I have noticed and been quite saddened by the lack of votes for this movie. It really needs to be seen by more people. I encourage you to check out this movie, and then tell other people about it. It is really an overlooked, tiny classic of horror and suspense. "},{"Title":"Brilliant haunted house rivals THE HAUNTING as best ghost story ever","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  THE INNOCENTS is a brilliantly crafted ghost story that relies on the power of suggestion and captivating acting to horrify its completely enthralled audience. I can only compare it to THE HAUNTING in terms of power and intelligence.Based on the Henry James novel The Turn of the Screw. Ms. Giddens (Deborah Kerr) is the new governess of two orphan children, Miles (Martin Stephens) and Flora (Pamela Franklin), after their rich uncle wants nothing to do with them. Living in the uncle's country mansion alone with the children and the housekeeper, Mrs. Grose, Miss Giddens begins seeing the specters of the dead valet, Quint, and his lover, the dead former governess Miss Jessel. Giddens discovers that the specters are continuing their love affair through the bodies of the children and fights to save them from ultimate destruction.     Deborah Kerr is great as Miss Giddens, but I was much more impressed with the child actors, Martin Stephens (VILLAGE OF THE DAMNED) and Pamela Franklin (LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE). They are both magnificent in their portrayals of the innocent pawns in the games of the dead lovers, who are also revealed to have made love in front of the children. The themes of incest and pedophilia (is that a word?) are underplayed, but are quite obvious when the facts are laid out. It's too bad that the careers of both Stephens and Franklin were cut short, but both appeared in a few films in their adult years Stephens was in Hammer's THE WITCHES and Franklin almost stole THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE from veteran actor Roddy McDowall.Many of the scares are implied, but the images of the ghosts appearing to Miss Giddens are still chilling today. I could never accuse this movie of being slow. Every scene without the children is well-crafted and attention-grabbing; every scene with the children is a bonafide winner.THE INNOCENTS deserves to be on DVD, but isn't. I hope FOX wakes up one day and realizes they are sitting on one gem of a movie and finally releases it for a whole new generation to enjoy. I would even recommend it for family viewing on Halloween night; kids won't be bored by it. It is still effective after all these years, quite an accomplishment for a film of this type. Seek it out, it's worth it. "},{"Title":"Deborah Kerr's most magnificent performance","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As of this writing this phenomenal actress, Deborah Kerr, is still with us. There is not another actress alive today who can compare with her. She has beauty, class, sex appeal, sensitivity, depth, intellect, poise and a keen spirituality. In an acting career spanning almost 6 decades she has delivered some of the most impressive film performances of any actress ever to grace the screen, and The Innocents is the epitome of her body of work.The Innocents (1961) is based on novelist Henry James' (Wings of the Dove, Washington Square, Portrait of a Lady) classic story of the occult and the possession of two children. According to the Bible, devils (demons) *do* exist, and they can enter into a person and often manifest themselves in sexually deviant ways. To understand this story you *have* to comprehend these basic biblical facts. Otherwise you will puzzle over this story, try to modernize it, and believe the governess, Miss Giddens, is imagining everything that goes on; you will attribute her behavior to psychosis or other mental deficiency.Since this is a story of the 19th century, when more people read and believed the Bible, and the major character in the story is the daughter of a bible believing Parson, she would of course immediately sense the demonic oppression which pervades the house and lands where the two demons (devils, not ghosts) are masquerading as the dead spirits of the former valet and governess, Peter Quint and Miss Jessel, respectively. These are really spirits, but to repeat, they are *not* ghosts, they are demons (called devils in the Bible). These types of spirits show up many times in the Bible, and many times Jesus is shown to cast them out.So Miss Giddens believes that if she prays hard enough and if she forces the children to confront these devils that they will similarly depart. She ignores Mrs. Grose's wise counsel to avoid confronting the evil herself, for the children's' sake. However Miss Giddens is *not* Jesus, and perhaps only has an intellectual understanding of the biblical matters she deals with here, not a real spiritual discernment, hence the devils do not depart with prayer. Miss Giddens is above her element here dealing with this alone, and should have sought counsel from others more experienced in demonic possession immediately, once the children began to behave in odd and abnormal ways. Her pride proves to be her downfall...and unfortunately the downfall of the children.Miss Giddens herself appears to become possessed by these devils, such is their power over her and the children. She almost seems to be jealous of the devil impersonating Miss Jessel, and her influence over Flora.The two long mouth kisses she shares with the little boy Miles are indicative of this possession. It was not normal behavior for a governess and her charge to kiss each other in this manner, and there is evidence of pedophilia here, another aberrant behavior common to satanic oppression/possession. With the first long kiss they share like this, instigated by the devil through Miles, she appears to be both horrified yet pleasured by it. Watch her face closely. The second long kiss occurs at the very end and she is the one who initiates it. It is a lover's kiss. Miss Giddens is now fully possessed AND no longer in her right mind.The first time I watched The Innocents I was puzzled by Miles' actions at the very end, when he jumps up and screams that Miss Giddens is insane. I thought, This means that she MUST be insane, because of course a child has to be right. But then I reconsidered. No, not necessarily. Miles himself *has* to believe Miss Giddens is insane, because he is simply not aware he is possessed. When people are possessed by devils they are not fully aware of what they are doing while under the possession; they are not morally responsible for their actions, the devils are responsible. Miss Giddens understands this. That voice, those words, they weren't yours. Perhaps the most frightening aspect of The Innocents is its abrupt end. We sense that Miss Giddens will continue to be haunted by these devils until at some future date she understands she requires an exorcist to expel them from her life and spirit. She makes tragic mistakes during this story, and we are left to wonder if she will continue to make them in future, or if she will finally find peace.The performances here are all top-notch, including Miss Kerr's, Megs Jenkins, Martin Stephens, Pamela Franklin, and Michael Redgrave. The black and white cinematography is evocative and lovely. I feel sorry for people who say they don't watch black and white films. What they are missing! Some of the best films of all time were made in black and white and they often give a much more realistic feeling than color films, which can fade with time. The music is romantic and haunting. The song Willow Waly is not an old folk song, it was written for the film, but the composer wrote it in typical 19th century style, and it fits here very well.A disturbing film, but if you approach it with a biblical understanding you will see it more clearly than if you approach it as a modern study on psychoanalysis. That just doesn't work. The devils are too real and the behavior of all involved too strange. Chances of ALL the major characters being mentally ill at the same time is nil. No, it is demonic oppression/possession, not a ghost story, and not a tale about insanity. "},{"Title":"Is the world blind!? Ms. Giddens is the bad ghost!","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I know that nobody wants to read such tall comments. But I can't say it in a short way. If you like The innocents, it could be interesting for you. If you don't like it, this comment will probably change your opinion!Yes, this film is not scary! It is absolutely possible that Ms. Giddens is the mad one in this story and the children are in fact The innocents.Just look at the amazing emotion-symbols  When Ms. Giddens arrives in Bly, the camera shows Flora's reflect in the water. The following perspective proves Giddens' and Flora's reflects over the water. A sign that both of them do have a close second personality.The butterfly on Ms. Giddens' dress... One day later, when she carries out that Miles will come home, Flora comments that a spider eats a butterfly &#150; and that she LIKES spiders. A voice screams Flora! - the ghost of Ms. Jessel? There is no resolving while the whole film.. It could have been the cook, too, like Mrs. Grose says.It's absolutely clear Ms. Giddens identifies herself with the dead Ms. Jessel. She looks in a mirror at the wall while she asks Mrs. Grose, what a kind of woman Ms. Jessel was. At the end, she wears Ms. Jessel's dress.Flowers loose their blossoms when she touches them (symbol for falling innocence through Ms. Giddens - in one scene a blossom falls on her holy bible!) The wobbling roller-blind-pendulum is the perfect mark of Ms. Giddens' sexual fantasy.  She discerns Quint's ghost AFTER she has seen his photography.AND The film begins with its end. Ms. Giddens remembers what is happened in the last months. So we see the whole movie in her recall. Who says that it is the right version?  Miles dies at the end Was it the bad ghost of Quint, Jessel or was it he bad ghost of Ms. Giddens??&#133;.. A wonderful shy musical score emphasizes this stroke of genius. The lullaby O willow waly, almost constantly in sad minor-accords, is another sign for the children's innocence. Flora hums it a lot of times (one of the rare differences to Henry James' novel), but she never sings the grave lyrics.Some people said that Deborah Kerr overacts here. In my opinion it is her best performance.  Excellent performances by the two children, too (although they couldn't know the sense of the story), fantastic cinematography, great atmosphere. And the screenplay seems almost to be written by Henry James, himself.Wow! Believe me, this is a masterpiece!Thank you. "}{"Title":"Breathtaking, exquisite -- and I loved the film, too!","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Don't bother renting this film -- buy it! You'll see it over and over again.While many compare The Innocents to The Haunting, it reminded me more of Repulsion (which was made later, though I saw it before The Innocents). The themes of repression and (perhaps) madness run through each film, though the respective directors handled them in their own unique way.  In Repulsion, Polanski used sudden, violent images to highlight his heroine's (Deneuve) sexual repression and psychological descent. In The Innocents, the entire story seems to float just above the ground, much in the same way Kerr seems to float above the floor as she moves (like no one else can) in hoop skirts and tight corsets. The images in this film don't jump out at you -- they creep (no pun intended) up on you (like menacing fog), or they're off in the distance -- and you're not quite sure what you're looking at. I think the word is ethereal.British child actors, for whatever reason, are not as obnoxious as their American counterparts. Martin Stephens and Pamela Franklin were superb. Stephens especially succeeded in capturing the duality of his character. And Peter Wyngarde gave an eerie performance that will stay in your head for a long time.Finally, this was not only Deborah Kerr's best performance, but one of the best performances ever. Her uncanny ability to show her feelings just above the surface was perfectly displayed in this film. Also, few actors have such control of their facial expressions, nor can they call upon them so expertly, as Miss Kerr can. Truly one of the few actors we can call great, this performance above all others demonstrates the inadequacy of the English language when attempting to describe such breathtaking beauty and such inestimable acting talent.  "},{"Title":"If you think The Others takes the prize, check out this winner!","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is one of the most chilling to come out of the 20th Century Fox studios' horror think tank in the 1960's. It has brains, breeding and most of all, real suspense. None of this CGI-Japanese-inspired-children-reaching out-from-televisions-to-kill-you-stuff. Its a truly dark, dark tale that sometimes nearly crosses the lines established by the then ancient Hayes Code, but doesn't ever come close to beating you over the head with its comments on the deep rooted effects of incest, child molestation and general psychological abuse, not to mention loneliness and repression. Not only is this adaptation of Henry James' Turn Of The Screw concise, literate and plot driven, with thanks to William Archibald and Truman Capote, it is beautifully shot (taking cues from deep-contrast 60's Italian Gothic cinema.) In the wrong hands, this movie could have read as another episode of Dark Shadows, but it truly reaches moments of the sublime in its storytelling and pacing. The treatment of the supernatural characters in the story is also well thought out in their relation to the household. Quint is close and present, we see him clearly. Jessel is distant, a melody, a shadow. The performances by the children (Peter Wyngarde and Pamela Franklin) are close to perfect, Deborah Kerr as the Governess brings all of her intelligence to a juicy role, and the subtleties of character vet actress Megs Jenkins lends to her supporting lead make you want to watch it again to catch all of it. It is so well done!I have watched this film on more than one sunny afternoon, and still felt that lump in my throat and the need to see if anyone else might be hovering in the corner of the room. Spooky! "},{"Title":"Quite simply, the greatest horror film of all time!","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If this review doesn't stir up some discussion, NOTHING will. Judging from my email-inbox I seem to have a growing fan-club of rabid and violently disposed opposers to my views on many films - this one should generate a feeding frenzy! THE INNOCENTS is gothic horror at its greatest. While you're sitting there, sympathetic to Nicole Kidman's cause while her pasty-faced daughter reminds her I AM your daughter! in THE OTHERS, just remember, THE INNOCENTS was here first! In fact THE OTHERS is little more than a part remake with a back-up of THE SIXTH SENSE for good measure. It's an OK film as far as the lets copy something else school of entertainment goes and Nicole Kidman is excellent but THE INNOCENTS it ain't!Those of you who made the totally incorrect observations that this film is 'boring' and that Deborah Kerr was overacting...should realise perhaps that this film was made FORTY years ago, it isn't going to dove-tail with dialog from the 21st century!Filmed in black and white which so added to the realism, Jack Clayton's film, based on Henry James' marvellous TURN OF THE SCREW, builds tension exactly BY nothing much seeming to happen, the sounds of nature, close-ups of the garden - that unforgettable shot of the beetle disappearing inside the statue. The horror and destruction of the children's souls is a building process...(IF in fact it is happening at all and THAT possibility you are supposed to be assessing!) Miss Giddens' (Kerr's) first glimpse of Quint on the roof as the doves take wing is just so creepy and realistic. I recall the power of that scene even today - how many of the reviewers saw this on the big-screen? not the same on video.Megs Jenkins was nothing short of compassion incarnate as the housekeeper totally out of her depth emotionally and unable to come to grips with the dreadful force overtaking them. I don't know about you, but if anyone has seen a more realistic or horrific ghost portrayed on screen than that glimpsed when Miss Giddens follows Mile's gaze across the lake from the summerhouse, I'd like to hear about it. That was pure spinal melt-down.The film's conclusion?  Another point of rampant conjecture! To all of you who thought Huh? how boring - wow, what a weak ending! Have you ANY idea what you just saw? Again, the staggering camerawork as the boy confronts Quint in all his barely glimpsed horror, the shock of which kills him and THEN, the ENTIRE POINT OF THE FILM if you have any awareness whatsoever - Miss Giddens cradles poor Miles' head and kisses him on the lips. When you understand what that scene means, then and only then, have you SEEN The Innocents. "},{"Title":"Deborah Kerr Rhymes with Star","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Remarkably well-done, subtle Gothic horror film starring the great Deborah Kerr in the role of a governess who may or may not see dead people. Based on The Turn of the Screw by Henry James, director Jack Clayton here fashions a fascinating story of sexual repression, evil, and loneliness. Set in the English countryside in a mammoth estate, Kerr arrives after an abrupt interview with a strange uncle (Michael Redgrave) to take charge of two small children. The estate is isolated, and the house is run by a housekeeper (Megs Jenkins) and a few hardly seen servants. Flora seems like a delightful child, but things start to turn sour right off when a letter arrives saying Miles is being expelled from school. The children seem to have a weirdly close relationship, one that revolves around the previous governess and her relationship with the sinister Peter Quint. Kerr drinks in all the gossip, pieced together from snippets from the children and the reluctant housekeeper. Suddenly Kerr starts seeing visions of people, but no one else seems to see them. Are they real? Is she imagining them? Is she having a breakdown? When she learns of the brutal sexual relationship between Quint and the governess the visions become more frequent and menacing. Sexual repression? But then the children (Pamela Franklin and Martin Stephens) seem to being getting stranger and stranger, until Flora has an hysterical breakdown and is sent away. That leaves the boy and Kerr alone together. What transpires is chilling. Great performance by Deborah Kerr, who is perfect in the role of the governess. The children are solidly spooky, and Megs Jenkins is good as the housekeeper. Oddly small role for Redgrave, but he is affective. Top-notch film. "},{"Title":"They Don't Make 'em Like This Anymore","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I titled this review with one of the most overly used clichés I could think of, with a wink and a nod, but recognizing that it fits this movie as closely as you can get. Indeed, this film comes from a bygone era. The product of a short story (which no one writes anymore) written in a style that has long since gone out out of vogue and made into the sort of Gothic ghost movie that Hollywood never attempts to make anymore. Many critics and scary movie lists will tell you that this is one of the classics of the genre and they are not wrong, but I am, also, willing to acknowledge right off the bat that the average 18- year old will despise this movie. This is a film lovers movie and is never going to be the sort of thing that appeals to a mass audience anymore. Indeed, it didn't appeal to a mass audience at the time.At the turn of the 20th Century, the public was becoming more literate and had more time on their hands, creating a wave of magazines that specialized in short fiction. Some of the most popular of these magazines were selling horror fiction. Mind you this is a century ago and what we think of as horror was not yet developed. Most of these stories were Gothic pot boilers influenced heavily by Poe and Hawthorne, that were more about mood, suspense and atmosphere than any real spooks. Quite possibly, the creme de la creme of this min-genre was THE TURN OF THE SCREW, which this movie is based upon. It became the benchmark for this sort of fiction.By the time this movie was made, in the 60s, that genre was out of style. When the monster movie died in the 40s, Val Lewton brought on a new focus on these sort of films, culminating in gems like THE UNINVITED and THE SPIRAL STAIRCASE. By the 60s, though, we had Hammer Studios, Maria Bava and PSYCHO, all revolutionizing the horror genre. Even by then this sort of shadowy, psychological ghost film was a risk, but one that resulted in what just might be the pinnacle in this style. While many critics will point to THE HAUNTING, for me, this is the best of the Gothic ghost movies.DO NOT expect rattling chains, ghostly apparitions and things that go bump in the night. This is not that kind of ghost story. In fact, the sum total of ghostly scenes is probably a handful at most. Rather, this is the kind of ambiguous ghost story that Hollywood almost intentionally killed off in the 70s. Richard Matheson, in particular, rallied against it when he created HELL HOUSE, but I am digressing in my history lessons here. What I mean by ambiguous is that the viewer is left to wonder many things at the end. Where there actually ghosts? Is our heroine just mad?There are so many things that work so well in this movie, that help it create that perfect tone. The direction and camera-work are spot on. The viewer sees many things from our heroine's perspective, aiding in the illusion that we are seeing things as she does, but left to wonder if anyone else sees them. The magnificent use of wide angle shots often creates a sensation of loneliness and isolation, putting characters on far opposite ends of the frame. The astute viewer will take notice of the use of light and shadow. The movie begins on a brilliantly lit summer day, but as the movie progresses we see less and less sun and more of the shadows. When we do get our glimpses of ghosts they are unsettling and tense. These aren't Scooby Doo goblins, but stark imagery that sticks wit the viewer.Of course, the best part of this movie might just be the acting of the two children, who are excellent in their roles. Our governess is convinced that they've become possessed by their former caretaker and her lover, destroying their innocence and corrupting them. The roles demanded an acting grace that is uncommon in children this young. The young boy may just be calculatingly evil or may just be an ordinary naughty boy, while his sister shows off both playful and carefree, then switching to a girl haunted by things out of her understanding, starting into space. So many scenes can be seen in dual ways with these children. Are they ordinary children, acting out in ordinary child- like ways, or are they corrupted and possessed and whispering secrets?The rock in all of it is Deborah Kerr as our main character. She seems to age before our eyes as the madness and terror overwhelm her. From scene to scene, or even, shot to shot, she can switch from a caring, loving woman to a frightened madwoman, surrounded by forces beyond her control. This movie revolves around her in so many ways and could have been a boring disaster in lesser acting hands, but Kerr is superb, pulling empathetically on the viewer's strings, drawing us into liking her and caring for her, which becomes so vital as we need to see things from her eyes to see the madness unfold.You probably know if you are the right person for this movie. That's lazy reviewing, but that's the truth. If you can appreciate an older style of film and a movie that focuses far more on its' acting and directing styles than any plot-driven action, than you will appreciate this movie. It is old-fashioned and was old- fashioned at the time, but that does not mean that there isn't a lot to love about this movie. "},{"Title":"A superb psychological / supernatural horror film","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Based on the 1898 novella The Turn of the Screw by Henry James, this is a superb psychological / supernatural horror film. I have not read the original story but I understand that it sticks quite closely to it. The film is imbued with a wonderful sense of tension caused not so much by the admittedly very effective and memorable visuals but by the ambiguity regarding the exact nature of the events being portrayed, specifically whether they have a natural or a supernatural origin. It has a first rate script by William Archibald, Truman Capote and John Mortimer and the excellent direction of Jack Clayton is certainly up to the task. Much of the credit for the film's atmosphere has to go to the beautiful black and white cinematography of Freddie Francis, a master of his craft and a great director in his own right. I was particularly impressed the use of deep focus on numerous occasions and the interaction of light and shadow throughout the film.The film stars Deborah Kerr, probably my favourite actress of her generation, in an utterly fantastic performance as the fascinating character Miss Giddens. In spite of the fact that she has no previous experience, she is hired to be the governess of the orphans Miles and Flora by their emotionally distant uncle, who would rather spend his time cavorting in London and elsewhere than raise his charges. Miss Giddens loves children and looks forward to bonding with Miles and Flora over the course of many years but almost as soon as she arrives at the luxurious country estate Bly, strange things start to happen. She hears voices and she sees figures that cannot possibly be there and which no one else seems to be able to see. The figures in question are a man and a woman which Miss Giddens believes to be the ghosts of her predecessor Miss Jessel and the uncle's valet Peter Quint. She learns from the housekeeper Mrs. Grose that the two of them were lovers and were not great believers in discretion since their behaviour left very little to the imagination of the other servants and possibly even Miles and Flora. After Quint's death, Miss Jessel fell into a deep depression and committed suicide. Since Miles followed Quint around like a puppy and Miss Jessel was a mother figure to Flora, Miss Giddens concludes that both their strange behaviour and her experiences are being caused by Quint and Jessel taking control of the children. However, Mrs. Grose is rather less convinced.One of the major reasons why I found the film so effective is that I could never make up my mind as to whether Miss Giddens was entirely correct about Bly being haunted by the ghosts of dead servants or whether she is insane. There is ample evidence to support both scenarios but whenever I thought that I had decided on one of them, something else happened to make me reconsider. For instance, in the film's most frightening scene, Miss Giddens sees Quint at the window and his cold, piercing eyes make quite an impression on her. However, she had discovered his photograph in the attic only minutes earlier so he was certainly on her mind. She thought that he was the man that she had seen on top of the tower earlier but his face was not clearly seen so her mind may have been filling in the blanks. On the other hand, the children are very, very odd and there are a few moments where I thought that the supernatural explanation was the more likely one. Miles in particular is a rather disturbing child who is far too mature for his age, complimenting Miss Giddens in a very flirtatious manner and even giving her an inappropriate kiss on the lips at one point. As Miss Giddens thought, he may be possessed by Quint's ghost. Then again, it may be because he spent so much time with Quint when he was alive and he is imitating his inappropriate behaviour since he has no idea how to act around women. Flora is the more normal of the two children, comparatively speaking, but there are numerous moments in which it seems likely that she is in contact with or even possessed by Jessel's ghost. While the film most certainly belongs to Deborah Kerr, it has a strong supporting cast. Martin Stephens, presumably cast based on the strength of his performance as David Zellaby in Village of the Damned (1960), is incredibly creepy as Miles and it is easy to see why Miss Giddens suggests that there is something otherworldly about him. Pamela Franklin manages to be both sweet and a little off-putting as Flora. Her innocent face may hide a mind that has been corrupted by either natural or supernatural forces. Peter Wyngarde does not have any dialogue but he makes an unforgettable impression as Quint in the aforementioned window scene. Megs Jenkins is excellent as Mrs. Grose, who becomes increasingly concerned about Miss Giddens' mental health as the film progresses and perhaps with good reason. Michael Redgrave has a great cameo as the uncle, who is mentioned throughout the film but only actually appears in the opening scene. I think that Mrs. Grose and the uncle are the only characters whose roles are entirely straightforward, incidentally.Overall, this is an engrossing, thought-provoking and incredibly clever horror film which I have not been able to stop thinking about since I watched it. The title was very well chosen as it is unclear who exactly it refers to, which is rather appropriate under the circumstances. "},{"Title":"A perfect movie.","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is an example of what you can get when you put together a good story (the film is based on a novel from 1898 by Henry James), an actress who can play any part with perfection (Deborah Kerr) and a director of photography like Freddie Francis (also a filmmaker specialist in horror movies). The innocents is the best adaptation of Henry James (along with The heiress &#x96;1948&#x96;, the excellent melodrama directed by William Wyler with Olivia de Havilland and Montgomery Clift) and one of the greatest (if not the greatest) horror films about haunting ever made. This atmospheric and unforgettable film is so deep and tense that is difficult find another title that can give us so much darkness and suspense (only some of the masterpieces by Alfred Hitchcock). Do yourself a favor and watch this movie!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"As candle flames flicker, the air brings an atmospheric chiller","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Opening with a beautiful rendition of O Willow Waly my attention was instantly caught. The scenery of rolling fields alongside the soft virtue of the violin adds to the mystique and curiosity of The Innocents. It must be said the child actors are superb and Deborah Kerr, ah, she cuts a beautiful figure as Miss Giddens her piercing eyes seem to enthrall you, the gentle refine of her voice is a strange comfort as you the viewer and she seem hesitant on the true intention of the home. I can't argue that the atypical jump scares excel at unsettling you but it's the sweet subtlety of the quiet moments against the melancholy score that truly dazzles. What I love most about The Innocents is the devastating crawling build up, the atmosphere that cradles each scene especially at night when the flicker of candlelight is all that penetrates the darkness with a whispering shiver. There are so many things I could applaud regarding this film Wyngarde in a small role that can carry an entire scene, Kerr who brings an emotional beauty to the role; the bespoke house that frames the darkness to towering effect or the haunting, classic notes that permeates the entire film. But it's one and all, the culmination of every quality rolled into one. In one way a gorgeous haunting story, in another an enchanting family tale and at the core an heartbreaking film that leaves the mind wondering where the truth began and where it ended. I'd happily argue this isn't merely a film but an experience; one that deserves utmost viewing. Top marks, I absolutely adored this film! "},{"Title":"The atmosphere is hard to beat","Date":"31 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After a first viewing I was actually most impressed by the atmosphere and the setting but I didn't understand the story behind it too well. With a second viewing there are scenes I understand much better and the movie has even more impact on me now. But that it still keeps it ambiguity in several places might still be the movie's and the story's Turn of the Screw strongest aspect. Most impressive to me was the acting of Martin Stephen as the young Miles who also played strongly as David in Village of the Damned a year earlier. With the story more clear to me now the way he did that discourse gave me the chills. That was only one of the things I didn't get too well the first time around. But let's not forget Pamela Franklin as Flora, angelic face but behind that smile there truly was some cheekiness. I was most impressed by the scene she makes when governess Miss Giddens forces her to see. The governess is played by Deborah Kerr although I'm not a big fan of her acting she pulled of the role quite well. Her best scene and the best scene of the whole movie is when she is wandering through the dark corridor and hears those voices which are not only shocking her but also the viewer realizing how disturbing the history of the mansion and its inhabitants actually is. And last but not least there was the charming Megs Jenkins playing housekeeper Mrs Grose, not very bright but oh so kind, like the sweet old aunt every child would wish for. "},{"Title":"Bath Film Festival review digitally restored preview screening","Date":"17 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Innocents is one of the classic Gothic films featuring in the festival line up. First screened in 1961 this screening was a preview of the digitally restored copy from the British Film Institute. An adaptation of the book 'The Turn of the Screw' by Henry James published in 1898 and the play in the same name by William Archibald premiering in 1950. The film begins eerily with a totally black screen and the haunting sound of a child singing then the 20th Century Fox logo appears. The singing continues before the opening credits begin. As the credits display, we see a distraught Miss Giddens praying on the left side of the screen and proclaiming that she was only trying to help the children. Within the first few minutes of the film you are set up to expect the worst and I definitely felt shivers, and not just from the cold Winter air on the 1st day of December!Miss Giddens (Deborah Kerr) is employed by the uncle (Michael Redgrave) of the orphaned children Miles (Martin Stephens) and Flora (Pamela Franklin) to be their governess at his large estate in the country called 'Bry'. At first all seems well at the estate, Flora is well behaved and bright. But things begin to change when Miles returns after being expelled from school for some unknown reason of wickedness and being a bad influence on his classmates. Warning signs that something is not right with the children start when Miss Giddens sees a man on top of the tower, when she reaches the top she finds Miles there who claims he saw nothing. Also when accompanied with Flora Miss Giddens sees a woman in black across the lake, which Flora says she didn't see. After speaking to the housekeeper Mrs Grose (Megs Jenkins) it transpires that these figures are apparitions of the former valet Peter Quint (Peter Wyngarde) and the previous governess Miss Jessel (Clytie Jessop) who died a year ago. Miss Giddens is certain that the children are possessed by the spirits of the tormented lovers. This is evident in the way that Miles acts, as he may look like a young boy but speaks like an adult, especially when he recites the morbid poem about a 'lost lord' and also when kisses his governess goodnight, in what is a very intimate adult kiss. Incidentally for you fact fans out there Kate Bush's song 'The Infant Kiss' is about this very kiss. Miss Giddens attempts to exorcise the spirits from the children with mixed outcomes. She believes that if they say their tormentors names they will be free of them. Flora is sent hysterical and Miles has a much more tragic ending.A great film and one true classic British horror film that every film goer who loves this genre should see. This was the first time I had seen it, and so glad I it was on big screen rather than a DVD at home. The darkness of the Little Theatre highlighted the extremes of darkness and light in the film and provided more atmosphere and creepiness. The questions that remain unanswered are if the children were really possessed, was the house haunted or was Miss Giddens just stark raving mad? Definitely a film that stays with you long after the lights go back on.Review from the Bath Film Festival http//bathffblogger.wordpress.com/2013/12/08/the-innocents/ "}{"Title":"Hollywood's second or third greatest spook film","Date":"23 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There has been much discussion over the years as to whether this film or Robert Wise's THE HAUNTING (1963) qualify as Hollywood's greatest ghost movie.I have to vote for THE HAUNTING.Yes, THE INNOCENTS is a stylistic masterpiece, but somehow, every time I watch it, THE INNOCENTS seems to me a series of macabre vignettes brilliantly realized. But the narrative of THE HAUNTING seems to hold together better.Jack Clayton's direction and Freddie Francis' camera-work for THE INNOCENTS are indeed stunning,and the kids are great. Yet I'm never compelled by the actual ectoplasmic motives and find myself irritated by Deborah Kerr's overly actress-y, stagey performance.But, hey, it's an impressive film nonetheless. "},{"Title":"A Classic Horror Tale..","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" From the opening scene through to the end, the movie holds your undivided attention.Here is a classic example of the horror genre excluding the over the top make-up and gore. I truly wish film makers would walk down this path more often...The film uses elements of light and sounds in the most haunting manner. A chilling tale conveyed through the most unsuspecting of characters.From the moment the Deboarah Kerr reaches the house,viewers are cast into an unsettling seat with the fear of the unknown..Jack Clayton has brought to life this classic horror tale in a manner that is befitting of it's true essence. "},{"Title":"Classic psychological horror","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Directed by Jack Clayton, and starring Deborah Kerr, Michael Redgrave, Martin Stephens, and Pamela Franklin, The Innocents is a dark and eerily disturbing film of psychological horror. Set in Victorian England, and based on the novella The Turn Of The Screw by Henry James, with its Freudian screenplay written by Truman Capote, The Innocents has long been a favorite of fans of the genre.Cinematographer Freddie Francis' skillful lighting and Clayton's direction give the film its eerie atmosphere - the beginning is completely black, with only singing heard (which confused projectionists of the time), for almost a minute, before the credits begin. This sets the tone for the entire film, in the manner of another masterful black and white film of the genre - Robert Wise's The Haunting (1963).The uncle (Redgrave) of orphaned Flora (Franklin, age 11 at the time in this her first film role) and her brother Miles (Martin Stephens, an extremely popular child actor of the 50s and 60s) grants Miss Giddens (Kerr) her first position, as governess. He gives Miss Giddens full rein with them, as he is busy and does not want to be bothered. Her repressed sexuality begins to be evident in her scene with Redgrave, and is brought to the surface more as the film develops, especially in a couple of particularly unsettling scenes with Miles.Miss Giddens is convinced soon after she moves into the estate (the film takes place on location in a Gothic estate in England) that the spirits of the former governess Miss Jessel and valet Peter Quint (Peter Wyngarde- who fans of The Avengers TV show will recognize from the most popular episode of the series, A Touch Of Brimstone, have possessed the children, and she strives to free them of the dead lovers' influence - resulting in unforeseen consequences. "},{"Title":"The Innocents","Date":"2 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Seeing how it was Halloween and that I hadn't seen many British horror films, this one sounded very interesting, with Truman Capote assisting the script to adapt the book The Turn of the Screw. Basically, set in 19th Centurt Victorian England, The Uncle (Michael Redgrave) of a pair of orphaned children, niece Flora (Pamela Franklin) and Miles (Martin Stephens) has hired a new governess to look after them. Miss Giddens (The King and I's Deborah Kerr) arrives at the estate with total independence and authority, she warms to Flora very quickly, and then Miles is sent home for wickedness in boarding school. Slowly Miss Giddens starts to see and hear things in the house, and the children are behaving very strangely, and she asks housemaid Mrs. Grose (Worzel Gummidge's Megs Jenkins) about past history. She asks about the fate of the previous governess Miss Jessel (Clytie Jessop) and the former valet Peter Quint (Peter Wyngarde), two servants who were in love with each other, and apparently had a bad incident took their lives. Miss Giddens is convinced that the house is haunted, and the innocent children are being almost possessed into going insane, and she is willing to against these supernatural forces. Though her struggle against the spirits seems to go the right, in the end there has to be tragedy when Miss Giddens sees the unpleasant Miles meet his fate in a bit of a bizarre fashion. Also starring Isla Cameron as Anna. Kerr does really well as the terrified governess, the children are very creepy in the obvious moments, and there are some good creepy scenes using early special effects, surprising it is almost neglected, a great classic haunted house style horror. It was nominated the BAFTAs for Best British Film and Best Film from any Source. Very good! "},{"Title":"They could never remake this movie - but they should.","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" (Sorry for the remake heresy, but I think someone talented could do a SPECTACULAR remake. Then again for ten years I said the same thing about THE POSEIDON ADVENTURE and well we all know how that one came out...) I tivo'd THE INNOCENTS and watched it late one night and couldn't believe how good this film is. Deborah Kerr was great - so overly dramatic, but in the end, pathetic and WRONG. Loved it. I couldn't believe how many films and literary works have been influenced by this film. The woman standing in the reeds (Miss Jessel) is a surreal standout. You never see her face, just her visage - a masterful, creepy touch by director Jack Clayton. I'm haunted by this film and how it stays with you. GREAT STUFF. I'm buying it on DVD. WATCH AND LEARN how to make a real horror film. "},{"Title":"A Fine Adaptation of a Tense, Thought-Provoking Story","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Henry James story on which this movie is based is one of the more unusual short stories in literature, combining psychological tension with a strong suggestion of the supernatural, in such a way that it keeps you completely off-balance. It seems like a very hard story to adapt for a movie, but The Innocents does the job very well. Within the first 10-15 minutes it grabs hold of your attention, sets the atmosphere, and then maintains a constant tension the rest of the way.Deborah Kerr succeeds in a difficult role, as the governess who gradually suspects that something is horribly wrong with the two seemingly personable children whom she supervises. Much of the tension in the story comes from not knowing whether her character's perceptions are accurate or not, and Kerr keeps all the possibilities alive, thus significantly increasing the accumulated suspense. The rest of the cast all have much simpler roles, but they play their parts quite well.The story is quite interesting and thought-provoking, but it's the kind of story that is most satisfying to watch or read if you know as little as possible about it beforehand. And for a story that keeps any outright shocking developments to a minimum, its implications can seem rather frightening once you are drawn in. It's a fine adaptation of an unusual story, a credit to Kerr, director Jack Clayton, and the rest of the cast and crew. "},{"Title":"Why no mention of the novel?","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is a fantastically chilling story with a wonderfully ambiguous ending but after seeing this film and looking it up on the IMDB I was shocked to find no mention of the novel it is based upon Henry James' The Turn of the Screw.  When I first watched the film I was surprised to find that I already knew the story after having already read the novel. The film is close to the book although there are some changes, but the overall feel and mystery of the book is well represented by the film.  I was especially pleased to find that the ending had not been changed and had retained it's ambiguity.  I would recommend this film to anyone who is tired of slasher movies and longs for a good old ghost story. "},{"Title":"Terrifying and unforgettable","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Along with Black Narcissus and From Here to Eternity, The Innocents is one of Deborah Kerr's best roles and films. She is excellent as the haunted Miss Giddens, but that is not to say she is the only asset worth looking out for. This is a superb film, truly terrifying and unforgettable with a brilliant story(based on Turn of the Screw) and the suspense and chills are so much that even after seeing The Innocents two days previous I've never forgotten about it. The script is excellent too, as is the direction, while the conclusion is incredibly chilling to say the least. Then there is the fantastic cinematography, and Pamela Franklin and Martin Stephens who are bone/spine-chilling as the orphans and Peter Wyngarde who is the personification of evil as brutal Quint. In conclusion, a must see for especially fans of Kerr or of Turn of the Screw. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A surprisingly creepy movie.","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Almost everything about this movie is great, but the thing that stands out, and that makes this interesting even during it's few lulls, is the camera work. Parts that could be boring become interesting because of camera angles, and playing with shadows. The camera work deserved the first paragraph, because it was excellent.In this remake of Henry James' Turning of the Screw, we are treated to quite a few chills. It deals with a Governess (Deborah Kerr) moving to watch two children, Flora and Miles at a large mansion. The last two people who worked at the house died, and The Governess begins to see their ghosts. It's a pretty faithful adaptation of the book, and even if it wasn't it's still a good movie. The direction, and as mentioned before, camera work, are great. The scares are based on not gore and jumps, but the knowledge that something is there, that our protagonist can't see. The acting is also pretty good. The kids overact at times, but they do a good job for the characters they're playing, especially Miles.In the end, this was a creepy, well directed movie, and probably about as good an adaptation from the story as you can get.My rating *** out of ****. 95 mins. "},{"Title":"Fuzzy ghost story","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The film does a good job of recreating the eerie atmosphere of the Henry James novel. Kerr is in good form as the governess who is haunted by spirits at an old mansion. Whether the ghosts are really there or figments of Miss Giddens' imagination is left for the viewer to decide. That is a part of the problem with the film, however. It's like a long joke that ends without the punchline. The final scene is vaguely presented. How did the boy die? The cinematography is excellent although it did not help that the DVD from Netflix has been butchered from wide-screen to 43 format. Redgrave is hardly on the screen for five minutes; Franklin does OK in her screen debut. "}{"Title":"Who's that at the french windows?","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first time I saw this on TV, it was on late at night. To be honest I didin't get beyond the bit where Deborah Kerr hides by the french windows. Oh my God! I had to switch it off... A film like this shows that daylight can be as unsettling as darkness. A masterpiece of atmospherics. Amazing cinematography. A profoundly disturbing treatment of the sexuality of children (the moment when Deborah Kerr goes to kiss Miles on the cheek...?) If you haven't seen this, watch it. If you prefer subtlety to gore, this is the movie for you. If you liked The Others, this is better.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful adaptation of James's very disturbing story.","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Turn of the Screw is a great story, but frustratingly oblique. This movie takes one line, but leaves plenty of ambiguity in visual and acting terms. It may be Deborah Kerr's best performance. The seduction of the governess by young Miles is very frightening and unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Classic Horror","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE INNOCENTS is quite simply the best ghost story ever made. I am certainly glad it was finally released on DVD. This is also Deborah Kerr's finest hour. I can't understand how the picture missed an Oscar nod, as well as Miss Kerr's excellent, and terrifying performance.Jack Clayton only directed a few films, but three of his films rank as among my very favorite films of all time (this one, THE PUMPKIN EATER, and ROOM AT THE TOP.) I am an English literature teacher, and so I am familiar with Henry James' brilliantly ambiguous novella, THE TURN OF THE SCREW, on which this film is based. Not only is this screenplay a magnificently realized adaptation of James' novella, but in some ways I think it is superior.Whether the ghosts are real, or the governess is mad, evil is present. But, (and this is the most frightening aspect of the story,) is the evil out there or inside? "},{"Title":"One of the Best Ghost Story Movies","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Innocents begs comparison with Robert Wise's The Haunting from 1963. Both films were made in the '60's, in the then popular 'Scope technique of photography. Both feature a female protagonist through whose eyes we see events and who may or may not be entirely reliable. And both feature a big, spooky house with things that go bump in the night. But The Innocents is better than the other film in just about every way, and may be the best ghost story movie ever made, or at least the best I've ever seen.Deborah Kerr is perfectly cast as a prim governess who is given charge of two strange children in a huge, rambling English country estate. Kerr was known for playing nuns and nannies, and was the epitome of British refinement. So to see her playing this sprightly governess, who gradually unravels under the influence of the creepy goings on taking place in the house around her, adds an extra jolt of shock to her performance. I don't know that I've ever seen her play a role better than she does here, with perhaps the exception of Black Narcissus. In the story this film is based on, Henry James's Turn of the Screw, the state of the governess's mind is left ambiguous. Is she correct in assuming that evil forces are at work and are manipulating the children, or is she manufacturing everything in her head? The film's director, Jack Clayton, does an admirable job of trying to achieve this same ambiguity. The children are just creepy enough, and objective parties like the housekeeper seem freaked out enough, that the viewer suspects the house may indeed be haunted by ghosts. But Deborah Kerr plays the role so well, that it seems just as likely that she's conjuring situations from her paranoia. I won't tell you which is true, but few movies have an ending more shattering than this one.The Innocents is the best kind of creepy movie, because the creepiness is in the psychology of the characters, not in the film's effects. For a relatively short movie, it packs a lot of themes into its story sexual repression and deviance, obsessive protective instincts, the nature of evil. On top of that, it's got top-notch production values. The b&w cinematography has been much lauded, but kudos need to go to the art director for taking full advantage of the massive set (notice the use of flowers) and to the film editor for terrific use of dissolve editing. There really are not many films quite like this one.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"A great Horror film based on The Turn of the Screw by Henry James","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of the few movies that Even today can send chills down my spine. One of the all time best in true horror!!! The Innocents is not a hack and slash film that has become all the rage in horror films today. However, the use of atmosphere and great black and white filming makes it an edge of the seat spine chiller without the body parts and buckets of blood flying around. Top notch acting and directing produced a one of a kind horror film the should be a must see for anyone who likes the be scared out of their wits. True fans of real horror and not blood bath movies will be in love with the feeling this one gives you. As if something is just waiting to crawl out and grab you. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece  -  A  Must-See in Cinemascope","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The picture was recently on PBS and not advertised in the Guide as being letterboxed. I watched the main titles which were intact and expected it to shift to pan and scan in the first scene. It didn't and I was thrilled. Before, you'd miss almost half of Freddie Francis' exquisite black and white widescreen photography (whether on VHS or prior television showings, not on DVD yet). After all these years, no film has come close to the impact of this terrifying ghost story (although contenders, The Haunting - 1963 and The Others - 2001, came close). Even the start is very unusual we hear a girl sing a haunting theme over a black screen for a good minute before the Fox Trademark appears (no background music); then the main titles appear on the right side, while clasping, praying hands (with night birds twirping and ominous music building), that eventually belong to Deborah Kerr. It's unsettling and sets the mood throughout. Kerr is outstanding, perhaps her finest hour, as a governess who takes a job watching two orphaned kids in a beautiful English countryside. Gradually, Kerr sees apparitions, apparently of two former and deceased employees of the estate. Director Jack Clayton is a master, building tension deliberately and intelligently; goosebump factor is huge. No blood, hatchet murders or freaky monsters are needed; this is psychological drama at its best. Entire supporting cast is superb - don't miss this classic. "},{"Title":"that devil child ...","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An adaptation of Henry James' novel, 'Turn of the Screw', this version isn't as explicit as the Michael Winner film 'The Nightcomers' which was made the following decade instead it relies on chills and menace through apparations and the creepy performances of the children (especially Martin Stephens who will make you shiver as the disturbed Miles).Deborah Kerr finds herself in a house where the children are far from innocent, and where malevolence waits around every corner.  There's a fine performance from Peter Wyngarde as Quint, the epitome of danger in a world of nothing; and Megs Jenkins, Michael Redgrave, and Pamela Franklin make an impact too.  Kerr herself took her career another leap forward and proved her worth as a versatile actress.  An intelligent chiller which will leave you aware of the power of the evening shadows and of suggestion on young minds. "},{"Title":"The best gothic movie of suspense ever made!!!!!!","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of my favorite classics! The script of Capote is excellent and Deborah Kerr`s scared eyes really are shocking... This horror film is based on a Herny James` novel The turn of the screw (I read it and I think the film is even more suggestive). It tells the story about a governess that goes to an old, big and gothic mansion in the country to take care of two little orfans, Miles and Flora... the boy that is at school pupile is sent back because of misbehaviour, when he arrives every seems to be alright... until the two beautiful and smart kids turn out to be possessed by the ghosts of a governess and a landlord that have a sado-masochist afair. Mrs. Gibbons (Kerr) sees spirits, in the garden, in a tower, in the window (this scene can really freak you out!), etc. The scenery is gorgeous, the actors (kids and kerr) are swell and the resolution is unexpected and really surprising! A MASTERPIECE OF ALL TIMES!!!     "},{"Title":"Good Classic Horror Film, with Certain Reservations","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Innocents is a beautifully shot film. Freddie Francis' work on this film is great throughout. As much as I enjoyed the film I must admit I had a few major problems, which I will go into later. Firstly the good points. Alongside the cinematography, the acting is very good. Deborah Kerr is excellent as you would expect, showing extreme paranoia and unease throughout. The two children (one of which, Pamela Franklin, would go on some years later to star in The Legend of Hell House) are fine, they are both very believable and do a great job. There are also loads of subtle references throughout the film, which are mentioned in other reviews. There are some scares, mostly the two ghosts, but as in most of these films it is the constant atmosphere of unease that should make it work. Now comes the hard part. To begin with I could not see beyond Deborah Kerrs' character as anything but crazy. She seems to add all the clues together far too easily regarding the link between the two dead servants and the children. Also, unless she had experience in such matters how she comes to the conclusion that if the children say the names of the ghosts they will be OK is very strange and a little abrupt. She is a ministers' daughter, but unless he was an exorcist I can't see it helping. This isn't a major problem but one sequence with a tear (or water droplet) later on seems to change the whole plot. Ambiguous plots and red herrings are great, but I found this a little hard to digest. The film seemed at times more of a melodrama than a spine tingler, and having watched it a second time I must admit I enjoyed it less. Excellent direction and cinematography are not enough I'm afraid. Once my mind was made up on the insane plot angle, the ghostly apparitions had little effect, and I felt anyway these were done without too much subtlety. In these films personally I feel that once the ghosts are shown I find much of the mystery is lost. A good film and recommended, but in my eyes nowhere near as sharp as The Haunting (1963), The Changeling or even The Legend of Hell House. "},{"Title":"People who say this is a film about a repressed Victorian woman are wrong","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Unfortunately people see a female lead of integrity, strength, and power and immediately rush to smear that character. Simply put people who assign these insults to the lead character are wrong and are probably trying to avoid the true themes of the film.The film is about child sexual abuse and the literal hell that children inhabit when they deny and associate with those who abused them.It faces the great unspoken, rampant, and hidden truth in society and this film does an admirable job of dealing with it. And providing those who have suffered with it some perspective and catharsis. All the while wrapping the film in a ghost story.I could go through an analysis of whats said in the film and shown in the film to prove my point but I wont. I will simply conclude by saying that this is definitely not a film about a crazed, repressed Victorian woman. If only all of our mothers were more like the passionate and caring character played by Deborah Kerr in the film, the world would be a better place. "}{"Title":"A Lot of Explaining To Do","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For once a classic novel was faithfully adapted for the screen when The Innocents was made from Henry James's The Turn of the Screw. It will be a film that will raise more questions than answers when you've finished seeing it.The Innocents is also a horror film in which you will see not one drop of blood spilled and there will be only one bloodless death during the course of the action. Yet it will scare you a lot more than the biggest gore fest that Hammer films ever brought to the screen at roughly the same time.Deborah Kerr is a recently hired governess to watch two children, Martin Stephens and Pamela Franklin by their very detached uncle, Michael Redgrave. They're orphans and he's about seeing their financially provided for, but little else. They stay on an estate with the servants and little else.After Kerr settles in ghostly apparitions appear of the former governess and a hired hand who was her lover. They frighten Kerr, but no one else takes any notice. Not even the cook Megs Jenkins who becomes Kerr's friend and confidante.It seems a natural step in casting for Kerr who did so well as a governess in The King and I to this part. But I'm sure Anna Leonowens would have dealt with ten times the children and a couple of more kings of Siam than Ms. Giddens has at this Gothic estate. Like The King and I the part fits Deborah Kerr beautifully.Even with two children in the cast and no violence as such to speak of, I'm not sure The Innocents is one for the kids. Let's just say that at the end someone is going to have a lot of explaining to do to the authorities. "},{"Title":"Handsome, literate, well-acted...all that's missing is a scary hook","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Heavy-handed adaptation of Henry James' The Turn of the Screw (a better title to begin with!) about a hopeful, energetic woman who takes a job as governess to two children living in an idyllic English estate on the Moors. Miss Giddens is sunny but nervous as a cat, hearing voices on her first day and then jumping at shadows. Deborah Kerr is well cast in the role, but the part as written doesn't allow for much shading, and Kerr occasionally slips into a monotonous sort of sing-song. The film poses all sorts of different questions, but doesn't satisfy us (or itself) with the answers. It certainly looks good, but the finale doesn't provide the viewer with any release. And, to my taste, the direction at the end is questionable--taking Miss Giddens' sensitivity towards the boy to an off-putting level (she kisses him like a lover). Director Jack Clayton doesn't have the nasty spirit to give us a good spook show--he's too literal in his visual style and too high-brow in his approach--but the film isn't stagy as one might expect and it isn't predictable. I just didn't find it particularly scary. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Very good mystery film!","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This really does remind you of the old movie Village of the Damned and also Jane Eyre without the romantic setting! I thought Deborah Kerr was excellent at playing the young governess. She really is sweet and she doesn't need the role to prove that. She's a very talented actress and it's a shame that I've never heard of her before. Even if I watched Village of the Damned that she was in, I still didn't find out much about her until this movie!I thought Martin Stephens and Pamela Franklin as the children were great little actors. When they said dear or my love, it does creep you out especially in a horror setting like this. I wonder did they notice that they were doing a actual horror film or did they not bother their heads? It's interesting like in Village of the Damned, I could figure out that the children knew they were cursed but what about the kids in this film? That'll be a mystery for me haha!Anyways its a good film, I give this 8/10! "},{"Title":"God & Satan","Date":"24 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1 of the most wonderful movie I've ever see...worth watching again, I am going to review this movie on psychological basis, which I believe it is and going a little deeper but not too far. This movie depicts a timeless problems of parents-child relationship and how you should grow your child without fear specially the fear of the God, Satan and related topics, and obviously when love becomes obsession how darkness arrive at the door of happiness do his duty by the help of peoples innocence. A victim child of believing god n devil by the religious conviction inherited by her parents (she mentioned dad but I believe both) and after growing up then becoming a governess who is really naive on her core, and find motherly love on these rather mature & talented children, who saw the reality by who knows may be the Satan. It shows logical contradiction if you try to differentiate so called God from one of his part the Satan, and both serves quite the same purpose or duty to the innocents, perhaps it is Swami Vivekananda's vision, and he is very right, once he said about a religious book that, it is better to play football than to read that holy book. I believe he was trying to say that you must maturely handle or read the book (the holy one) or not read it at all. I would say on the same tone that  it's better to have faith in a Dog than to the so called God/Satan. what? feels offensive enough well you should be, because that's the evidence suggests that's the reality we live in, I just remember 'Robin Hardy's film called the 'Wicker Man' 1973, its a great one. But to conclude about this movie, it's a wonderful story, even without its clear 'shining' of 'The Massacre of The Innocents' and the two paintings of Peter Paul Rubens on this subject. The best British horror film I've ever seen! Thank you!!! "},{"Title":"Say His Name And It Will All Be Over","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Yes. This 1961 Supernatural-Thriller certainly had its fair share of good points, as well as its not so good points.The one thing that really impressed me about this particular ghost story was that it delivered its eerie, little story quite effectively without spilling even a single drop of blood.I think that, alone, earns The Innocents some rightful and respectful recognition in the realm of horror. 'Cause, even way back in 1961, a fright flick could never be expected to hold the viewer's rapt attention without the necessity of blood & gore.Anyways - With strong performances given by all of its principal cast members, I thought that the overall subtlety of The Innocents' sinister and nightmarish tale was quite impressive. And I wasn't in the least bit disappointed with this supernatural story as it slowly, but surely, unravelled its mystery of mounting madness that seemed to rise from the depths of a very dark and curious netherworld. "},{"Title":"A very profound thriller","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I wish to write this review as I do not believe many of the reviews for this film have been written by a skeptic. My viewpoint will be a little different than the usual review's take on matters due to that reason. I hope this review is interesting to the reader, but the reader must realize my different viewpoint.Despite the movies and plethora of TV shows treating the existence of ghosts as a given there actually is no conclusive evidence for such things. The various TV shows that depict ghost hunting are bemusing, at most; most probably delusional, as they will show people equipped with thermometers, emf meters, infrared cameras, and other such specialized equipment looking for ghosts yet one wonders just how can one prepare oneself to look for something if that something has never even been proved to exist in the first place? And, there is no surprise, at least to me, when they never find anything conclusive.Yet, the belief in ghosts must have some foundation. Somebody, somewhere, must have experienced or seen something that is ghostlike. And, this movie deals with that position. Here, a live in babysitter (modern term for Deborah Kerr's role) experiences some things that are not easily explainable. Yet, nobody else seems to experience what she is experiencing. Or, do they but don't tell her? She has two young children to look after in a beautiful but rather empty Victorian mansion. The children are brother and sister and provide a sort of emotional mirror to a grown man and adult woman who had died fairly recently in this place and whom the children knew. The babysitter has an older woman to help her and this woman tells of the love of the now dead lovers. But, are the dead lovers gone or still there. The babysitter sees these ghosts in a frightening manner that seems to indicate no doubt of their existence...but nobody else does!! Not told in this story but implied is the fact that this babysitter (governess as they called them back then) is unmarried and around 40. Certainly she has some emotional issues over that! Though Deborah Kerr said this her finest role, her physical beauty was such that nobody could imagine her character was unmarried for lack of attention from men. In the original story the governess was probably more of a frustrated plain Jane who had issues with that fact and probably projected herself into the story of the dead lovers for that reason. So, is the governess imagining the ghosts or are there actually remnants of people now dead still lurking in that area? While watching the movie and trying to answer that question be prepared for some frightening events and sheer emotional terror. No great special effects like you see in modern films; just suspense and terror. They don't make these sort of films now like they used to so it is well worth viewing for a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"David Lynch's secret influence?","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Rather than merely echo the sentiments of my fellow reviewers - suffice it to say, The Innocents is a breathtaking film and remains one of my all-time favorites - I thought I would take a moment to provide some food for thought.A friend of mine once said, whimsically of course, that the moment that made a young David Lynch decide he wanted to make movies must have been the scene in Mad Love in which Peter Lorre appears wearing an enormous neck brace and bizarre metal gauntlets on his hands, under sunglasses and a wide-brimmed hat.I myself prefer to muse - tongue firmly in cheek - that it was The Innocents that made Lynch see the light, the specific moment occurring early on when Deborah Kerr, clipping roses in the garden, spots an ivy-covered statue of a cherub. The cherub holds the broken hands of some long-missing older playmate. As Kerr stares at the statue, suddenly a hideous insect crawls right out of the cherub's mouth! With the film step-framed and slowed down, no less. A wonderful moment - frightening and artful, surreal and perverse - and an amazing feat when one considers the year of the film, and the laudable but oft-considered workaday talents of director Jack Clayton. For those who have seen the film, of course, it is just one of many such moments.While I'm musing, I must also add that when David Lynch sought a cinematographer to shoot his own widescreen, black and white Victorian monster movie, The Elephant Man, he looked no further than The Innocents' own DP, Freddie Francis. Coincidence? "},{"Title":"The Turn Of The Screw","Date":"9 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Can horror entertain and actually sustain itself without buckets of blood being splattered up the wall, without severed body-parts being found in the fridge, without a crazed maniac being on hand to line-up his victims? After watching The Innocents, I believe that it can. And it can be done quite effectively, as well.Eerie. Mesmerizing. And very Haunting.This 1961 film (whose screenplay was co-written by Truman Capote) was based on Henry James' novel The Turn Of The Screw which was published in 1898. "},{"Title":"One of the best Gothic tales of horror...","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Among the many works of Gothic fiction that came up during the revival of the genre in the 1880s, Henry James' classic ghost story, The Turn of the Screw, is certainly one of the most intriguing and fascinating of all. The reasons for this are many, but one of the most important has been the ambiguous way James uses his ghosts to explore the psychological issues of his characters. This ambiguity has led to countless debates about the nature of the plot, as the way James wrote the story has allowed many different interpretations about it over the years. Obviously, this has resulted in the fact that most of the many adaptations to other media that have been done about the novel presents a different way to see the story. Fortunately, the 1961 movie, The Innocents, is somewhat an exception, as this masterpiece of 60s Gothic horror manages to keep the seductive ambiguity of the novel.In The Innocents, Deborah Kerr plays Miss Giddens, a young and unexperienced governess hired by a wealthy man (Michael Redgrave) to work at his country home and take care of his nice and nephew, as he is unable (and has no interest in) to take care of the two orphaned children. After her arrival, she meets Mrs. Grose (Megs Jenkins), the housekeeper, and Flora (Pamela Franklin), the young child now under her care. Everything seems to be working perfectly until she receives the notice that the other kid, Miles (Martin Stephens), has been expelled from his school. After Miles returns from school, Miss Giddens will begin to experience strange events around the house, hearing and seeing eerie apparitions that make her suspect that the house is haunted. The strange behavior of the two children will only increase her suspicion that someone or something wants to take control of the innocents.Following Henry James' short story in a very faithful way, the screenplay by William Archibald and Truman Capote manages to capture the exact same atmosphere of ambiguity and paranoia that impregnates the pages of James' classic novella. In fact, one could say that the writers take the story's ambiguity one step beyond as they joyfully play with every element the story has to offer supernatural horror, psychological drama, and even a subtle yet strong nod to the voluptuous sensuality of Victorian sexual repression. The plot twists and turns as the story unfolds, toying with every possible explanation for the strange events that are taking place, but never giving too many clues, wisely keeping all the mystery and suspense till the very last moment. Finally, the superb development of the characters is another element that makes this movie one of the most powerful tales of horror ever put on film.Two years after directing the internationally acclaimed Room at the Top, director Jack Clayton once again shows off his talents to transform literary works into classy films that remain faithful to the essence of their sources. Focusing entirely on Miss Giddens and the two children, Clayton stays in line with the ambiguous tone of the script, creating a claustrophobic character-driven horror based almost entirely on suggestion, leaving to the audience's imagination the nature of the haunting and the source of the those unspeakable horrors that seem to take place in the house. And of course, the star of Clayton's masterpiece is without a doubt the impressive work done by cinematographer Freddie Francis, who using black-and-white photography creates an ominous atmosphere of dread that's frightening in all its beauty.While Francis's cinematography is definitely a highlight of the film, The Innocents wouldn't be the same without the remarkable performances done by its cast. Deborah Kerr's acting as Miss Giddens is a powerful dramatic Tour De Force as she literally becomes her character, transmitting that subtle mix of naiveté and repressed sensuality that fits perfectly her character, and one can truly sympathize with her as she descends into a spiral of fear and paranoia. As the innocents of the title, Martin Stephens and Pamela Franklin are perfect in their performances, and one wonders how they could achieve the maturity to play their roles. Stephens is specially a joy to watch, as he can go from playful child to sinister figure in a frighteningly natural way. Finally, Megs Jenkins adds her talents as Mrs. Grose, making an excellent performance in a role that easily could had become a caricature.As Robert Wise's The Haunting would do a couple of years later, The Innocents is a movie that bases its impact in the power of its ominous dark atmosphere and in the ambiguity of its script, and it is probably this last element what may also be its main flaw. Well, not exactly a flaw, but certainly something that won't be everyone's cup of tea. What I mean is that since the movie takes on many different interpretations to what is going on with the children, modern audiences may feel that the movie doesn't give enough answers to the questions it poses. However, that's precisely where the magic of The Innocents is, as like Henry James' novella does, this allows a wide range of possible interpretations to its ambiguous plot. Wheter this is a flaw or a virtue depends entirely on the viewer, and personally I think that this is one of the film's strongest points.The fact that some consider the film too vague while others think of it as too biased towards a single explanation, is simply a testament of how intriguing and fascinating the movie still is more than 40 years after its release. Creepy and atmospheric, The Innocents is also a powerful display of the best talents the British film industry had to offer in the 60s. With its excellent cinematography and wonderful acting, The Innocents is simply a masterpiece of Gothic horror that easily ranks among the best horror movies ever made. Fans of ghost stories, this is a definitive must-see. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A great old sixties horror movie","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Like the great work of Mike Mignola, cartoon artist (creator of Hellboy), the director used very well the darkness of the house, creating this foreboding dark-corners atmosphere. This haunted-mansion kind of story brings us to a perfect sense of such non-seeing-horror. It means, even if there's no scene of violence or gore on this movie, you couldn't escape the feeling that someone is watching the characters, and there's the real horror of the film. The constant emotional approach used by the director, showing the eery feelings of the governess (Deborah Kerr), when we see her eyes illuminated only with a thin tread of light, with all her face surrounded with darkness is really disturbing. I liked everything on this movie! "}{"Title":"One of the scariest movies ever made!","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This black and white film is one of the scariest movies I have ever seen.A woman,her two children,and her maid,are haunted by terrifying ghosts.Not only is this movie very unsettling,but it will keep you thinking until the end and maybe even after that! It's remake,THE OTHERS,as scary if not scarier.I highly recommend these two wonderfully made films to any one who is a fan of horror,and mystery.It will be very hard to find on DVD but THE OTHERS is everywhere.Do not watch this film alone and don't let young children watch them alone.These are two of my favorite movies ever,and the directors are geniuses.the director of the others M.Night ShaymalanHas many other movies out all of them are very creepy.I recommend all of these films. 5/5 stars without a doubt.  "},{"Title":"Very eerie and unsettling story line, hard to forget.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Very few moments on the screen have the power to remain in our memory as truly frightening as this. Many years have gone by since I saw this film, but the thought of this film still gives chills down my spine.  The film's use symbolism and the insidious corruption of innocent children by the supernatural is quite unsettling.  To dissect the story line would take away from the films impact.    "},{"Title":"Creepy Classic Of Prim Nanny And Unearthly Children With A Devilish Secret","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Miss Giddens is employed as a governess for two orphaned children at a large country house called Bly. As she gets to know her charges and learns something of their history, she becomes increasingly convinced that some evil and corrupting influence is at work on them. Can this be true, or is she losing her mind ?This is a fabulous, unnerving, gorgeously made film, which, like Psycho and Repulsion, exists on the fragile border between old and new horror movies. It's old because it has Gothic trappings, no violence and is in beautiful black-and-white, but is also new because it deals purely with psychological states. Are the children possessed, with their whispered secret conversations and their knowing glances ? Is Miss Giddens as nutty as a fruitcake, all that virginal puritan spinster zeal finally driven her off the edge ? The movie plays a delicately balanced line between obsessive character study, creepy ghost story and family tragedy. Kerr does a wonderful wide-eyed job as Giddens - somehow the film makes us afraid for her safety while she's afraid for the children's safety, and Stephens and Franklin are both memorable child actors. The real star of the show for me though is the incredible photography by Freddie Francis; I think the job of a movie is to tell a story in pictures and if you really watch the camera-work here that is exactly what it's doing. It's elegant, simple, classy, inspired and most of all, it makes you feel whatever you should be feeling at any point. When the ghosts appear, like the classic moment when Kerr is hiding behind the curtain and Quint's face comes out of the darkness, it's purely the way it's shot which makes all those little hairs on the back of your neck stand up. This is Francis' genius. The movie also pulls some great tricks with sound, like the scene where all the country garden noises suddenly fade into nothing, or the disturbing narration we hear in Kerr's head as she roams the darkened corridors at night. Sometimes people tell me that horror movies don't scare them; when that happens, I ask them to try a picture like this, or The Seventh Victim, or The Tenant. Invariably they come back looking white as a sheet. Horror films are the most malleable genre; they come in all different types, but when one works as well as this the end result is always the same gleeful, unsettling fun. If it has a fault, it's the usual one in ghostly material, that the back story has to be gotten out through some dry, talky scenes. The script, by William Archibald and Truman Capote, was based on a stageplay, and it occasionally shows. The original tale however, The Turn Of The Screw, by Henry James, is one of the very best classic ghost stories of late Victorian literature. There are several other film and TV versions of it but this one is the tops by quite a long chalk. Quality creep-out viewing. "},{"Title":"A comment on Deborah Kerr in this and other films","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In my humble opinion, The Innocents is a cinematic triumph of chilling subtlety and effectiveness without the display of bad taste, blood and gore, computer-generated monsters, and other resources used and abused by so many unimaginative and standardized movie makers of today. I was moved by the comments the reviewer identified as holdjerhorses wrote in 2005. Yes, Deborah Kerr was the real thing. She also had something neither Elizabeth Taylor, nor any of the other sexpots of her generation could boast class. Real, unadulterated class even when she played the sultry cheating wife in From Here to Eternity. In this film (The Innocents) --which calls for the deep emotions only she was able to deliver on screen--, she shows her own kind of strong human intensity, full of tenderness and intelligence under the unfailing poise and exquisite beauty she had and was frequently essential to the characters she played. She has always been my favorite screen actress (you may want to read my comments to Deborah Kerr's performance in Edward, My Son, a 1940s MGM flick) second only to Bette Davis, a very different actress, but one whom I consider, despite some bad career choices, a genius, rising head and shoulders above all the other actresses I have seen on screen.Thank you, holdjerhorses, for your eloquent and heartfelt homage to an actress who still epitomizes a unique kind of talent and grace, the likes of which world cinema is not likely ever to display again. "},{"Title":"Classic ghost story","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Innocents is a really good, if slightly slow-building film.**SPOILERS**Accepting a Governess job, Miss Giddens, (Deborah Kerr) arrives at the large Victorian mansion where Mrs. Grose, (Megs Jenkins) takes care of. Meeting one of her charges, Flora, (Pamela Franklin) she instantly grows fond of her and the three have a fun time playing on the grounds. When news comes that her other charge, brother Miles, (Martin Stephens) is coming to stay there after being expelled from school, she begins to feel uneasy about him coming over to the house. When he arrives, it all starts well and she gets along with the two children. As they spend time together, she starts to notice his odd behavior, which isn't present around the others. Hearing a story about the former nanny who had died in the house, she offers that as proof that something is going on. Unable to get anywhere, she confronts him on the issue, and finds that a deadly secret is alive and forces her into a deadly battle to save herself.The Good News This here was pretty good when it wanted to be. The biggest one here is that this one does the slow-burning payoff the right way. There's several scenarios to go, but this one is the right way to do it. It should start off with mysterious circumstances that seem reasonable after explanations, yet the longer it goes on the more mysterious they become and the harder to seem reasonable, and once it gets out, the craziness should be exponentially more intense and crazy than those before. This is what's going on here, from the hallucinations, dreams and the weird hide-and-seek game played in the beginning all leading up to grand payoffs later. The last half-hour of this is incredible, fast-placed with a lot of fantastic and really chilling moments brought up because of the ongoing circumstances from before. This is all quite chilling, which is the real shock for this one. All of the film's hauntings are creepy and quite chilling which give it a really great atmosphere. Most of them aren't the jump shock variety but the overbearing creepiness of them add up to a great atmosphere that really works here. What also works is that the place where it occurs here is fantastic. This is a marvelously creepy house, with a great layout that recalls the classic haunted houses of the past while still having a lot of it's own good points going for it. It's also not restricted to hauntings indoors, as there's some good stuff outside the house and in the adjacent grounds, including ponds, gardens and more that provide some great moments. All of these really help this one.The Bad News There isn't a whole lot wrong with this one. Most of the flaws here stem from the slow-build pace. This has a tendency to keep a lot of talking here with the occasional haunting scene to break it up. If lulled in the proper state, it can be easy to see how this one can be construed as a terribly-slow film with nothing happening in it. This is due to the fact that there's a lot of talking in here, with the general feeling that there's either something creepy happening or they're talking about it, leaving this one to give it a really two-sided view. Otherwise, there's not a whole lot wrong with it.The Final Verdict Even though it does tend to fall into a predictable rhythm of talking-then-haunting, it's still quite good for what it is. Fans of classic horror of all tastes would enjoy this one, while those who tend to prefer faster-paced films would be advised to seek caution.Today's Rating-PG Mild Violence "},{"Title":"A film that demands you give in","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just watched The Innocents again for the second time and found it just as powerful and disturbing as I remembered. As a huge horror fan I am constantly seeking out that illusive film that delivers, a goal that alas, has become more and more frustrating. The latest horror trend is to either assault the viewer with uber graphic gore and sadism or trot out the same old tricks and gimmicks, tried and true but worn out.When you read a horror novel, it's all in your mind. The story unfolds uniquely for you, no two people read the same book. This film attempts to recreate that sensation and succeeds. The plot is at first glance, uncomplicated. A nanny (Deborah Kerr) for children in the country. A quaint idea explored many times with the outcome usually being the Victorian concept of finally finding the mother and uniting the family. This is the antithesis of this cheery scenario and man, it goes deep.The children turn out to be rebellious to say the least, a taboo in such a strict world. Another force is at work in the house, unseen, that frustrates the proper governess, hellbent on ultimate power. The absence of the uncle is important, further isolating the core group with only domestics present. Anything can happen, especially if you consider the strange maturity of the children, something that unsettles the governess the most.Miles'(MartinStephens) relationship with Quint (Peter Wyngarde) becomes truly bizarre with the recital of the poem, one of the most beautiful and frightening scenes in the film. Flora (Pamela Franklin) creates her own creepiness, behaving like a woman in her 20's and obviously possessing knowledge that she teases with, but never reveals. The governess experiences visions and visitations beyond reality. The whole thing has a psycho-sexual tension, an overpowering sense of desire that needless to say, flies in the face of 19th Century society. A brilliant film, masterfully created by all involved. The ending is a tragic mystery and each observer is left to decide what really happened. Then the final quiet. Turn of the screw indeed. "},{"Title":"A superbly subtle and spooky period Gothic ghost story horror gem","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Prim, repressed, but eager Miss Giddens (splendidly played by Deborah Kerr) gets a job as governess taking care of two orphans -- mischievous Miles (the excellent Martin Stephens; the head alien psychic lad in Village of the Damned) and the adorable Flora (Pamela Franklin in her remarkable film debut) -- in a large Victorian mansion. Miss Gibbens starts to see ghostly apparitions and the children begin acting strangely. Is the place haunted or is Miss Giddens going crazy? Director Jack Clayton, working from an intelligent and literate script by Truman Capote and William Archibald (the screenplay is based on Henry James' novella The Turn of the Screw), does a masterful job of creating and maintaining a supremely eerie, mysterious and unsettling tone. Kerr ably carries the picture with her outstanding portrayal of the increasingly overwrought Miss Giddens; she receives sterling support from Peter Wyngarde as evil valet Peter Quint, Megs Jenkins as hearty housekeeper Mrs. Grose, Clytie Jessop as doomed previous governess Miss Jessel, and Michael Redgrave as the kids' callous absentee uncle. Freddie Francis' gorgeously crisp black and white cinematography, George Auric's elegant orchestral score, and the stately pace further enhance the overall disquieting and ambiguously spooky mood. From the uncanny opening children's lullaby to the extremely chilling conclusion, this dandy period Gothic shocker makes for a thoroughly gripping and ultimately quite devastating viewing experience. A sensationally smart, subtle and genuinely scary knockout that's wholly deserving of its classic status. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Rather than gripping your fellow viewer in fright, this is a deeply unsettling experience. I suppose, in the canon of ghost stories, this might be my favorite film. My objections are so few I miss James' framing device of this account being read on Christmas Eve by a group reading a manuscript penned by the now deceased governess, and the audio effects are dated. What is on the screen really is perfection.The performances&#151;I mean, the cast has to compete with Deborah Kerr with every stop pulled out&#151;are all outstanding. The setting is subtly creepy without sacrificing elegance. The wonderful screenplay maintains James' ambiguity; however, I'm on the side that this is a ghost story&#133;even if one/some of the characters are loons.In today's climate, I'm not sure the sexual allusions would make it to the screen adding even more squirms for the viewer. The DVD transfer is quite remarkable too. I first saw this film in a 16mm print that really didn't do the elegant cinematography justice. This is a classic that set the stage for many inferior imitations. Henry James rarely gets such splendid translation to the screen, and it immortalizes all those who contributed to this wonderful effort. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully mastered chiller","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Changeling is scary. The Haunting is frightening. But 'The Innocents' (if at all possible) tops all of these movies and delivers one of the most mysterious, magnificent, spine - tingling chillers ever made. The crisp, black and white photography, the beautiful but haunting scenery, the perfect acting, all of it just helps this little gem along.For all those who haven't seen this, the general plot line is Deborah Kerr plays Miss Giddens, the newly appointed governess to take care of a powerful man's young nephew and niece at Bly House. The nephew - Miles - is away at school, although Flora - the man's niece - insists that he will be coming home soon. Sure enough, he gets expelled from the school (for some unknown reason), and is sent to Bly House. The boy will not speak of the reasons why he was dismissed, and arouses suspicion, especially when Miss Giddens starts seeing ghostly apparitions around the house...This is one slick, scary slice of cinema, and as it is available on DVD in both America, and available on a remastered, BFI special edition in the UK, I would recommend that anyone interested in this movie, or merely a lover of the genre, to grab it with both hands. You won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Unique, chilling ghost story","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" They sure don't make ghost movies like this one anymore. The Innocents goes to prove that you don't need loud noises or things that make you jump to scare someone. No, the beautiful and chilling use of black and white and the claustrophobic atmosphere Jack Clayton conjures up make this one of the most chilling movies made. It's amazing how simple images can scare people. The image of a woman standing in some reeds or a walking around on a roof, simple, yet in this film, scary. This is the beauty of this film. No special effects or loud music is required to create atmosphere.The performances are flawless. Deborah Kerr shines in her role as the Governess of the two children. She portrays a woman who is obviously going through something very psychological and not once does she overact. She is perfection. The child actors are really quite creepy as Miles and Flora, the two children who are not what they seem to be. The way the actors portray the children is eerie.But the thing that makes this film truly stand out is the ending. What an ending it is! It is not a twist ending or a cheap ending. It is an ending which can be interpreted many ways and that is what makes this film stand out. No one will ever know the truth in the ending but half the beauty is interpreting it your own way.5/5 "}{"Title":"A very scary Deborah Kerr Film","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have watched many of Deborah Kerr's films. But I never have seen or heard of (1961)The Innocents. It is a rarity to see her in black and white movie. Her performance as the Governess was such a feat to watch. AS a avid horror-flick fan, I was so impressed to see a simple storyline turned into a mind bending black and white film. I watched this movie around two 'o clock. If you are spooked by a movie in the middle of the afternoon, you know it is a good one. Overall, it was a film that gave me goose bumps and at the same time made me shed a tear or two. Too bad you cannot get to see it on DVD. If you have cable and tune on the TMC channel, most likely you will see it there. "},{"Title":"Genuinely creepy","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As a kid, my brother and I used to go to Saturday matinées quite often, and I saw my fair share of the usual fare for that time -- House on Haunted Hill, Rodan, The Lost Missle, various Vincent Price films and more, but nothing I ever saw disturbed me as much as this film, which is tense almost right from the start and the evil overlay just continues throughout. I even associate the music that was played in the theater after the movie ended (Ebb Tide by the Righteous Brothers) lingering over the last scene with this film, I was that stuck. I sat there for 15 minutes soaking in the atmosphere of that movie. Terrific black and white photography, and a moving performance by the great Deborah Kerr. "},{"Title":"Echoing,echoing","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have to echo much of what The Others (hee hee) have said about thisclassic suspense movie. I think that the 'creeping horror' of this movie is that the subject matter is actually child abuse which is a hot button topic in our society. That Miles dies of this encounter leaves one even more haunted by this amazing movie which I originally saw decades ago but can't put out of your mind. As of September of 2004 this has not been released as on DVDseems a crime. This is not a forgotten classic in my mind but in my Top 10 Great Movie list.I would be happy to be contacted by other Britophile/fans of this movie. Rolando)  "},{"Title":"A Great Deborah Kerr Film Classic!","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"                 Always enjoyed Deborah Kerr in all her films and in this film she gave a fantastic performance dealing with two children that she had to care for in more ways than one!  Deborah Kerr(Miss Giddens),The Arrangement,'69 tried to help Martin Stephens(Miles),The Witches,'68, who was a good boy possessed with a great deal of mental blocks and was taught very evil adult thoughts while he was growing up.  Pamela Franklin,(Flora),The Food of the Gods,'76 was his sister and she also had bad evil problems which caused Miss Giddens many sleepless nights and running around a great mysterious castle like mansion with candle lights and all sorts of strange sounds.  All these actors gave great performances, which makes this a great Classic 1960's film! This is a very different horror film and has a wild Ending, enjoy! "},{"Title":"don't look over your shoulder.....","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the greats. Certainly one of the bleakest, scariest movies ever made, from one of the scariest novellas ever written. It is also sumptuously and beautifully shot, certainly meriting careful DVD restoration. It truly defines glorious black and white. Another great performance by that great, arguably underappreciated actress, Deborah Kerr. Michael Redgrave's brief intervention can provide an interesting subtext to the film.  "},{"Title":"Creepy and intense","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It was hard not to see this without thinking of similar films, particularly last year's The Others. I moderately enjoyed The Others, but a movie like The Innocents demonstrates just what that film lacked. (It does help to be working from a source like Henry James.) Mostly The Innocents played every subtle note just right, a difficult task that The Others didn't quite manage.The pacing is deliberate, as all the real action takes place in the mind of Miss Giddens. Deborah Kerr does a fine job of playing out her character's awakening horror. But the children, played by Martin Stephens and Pamela Franklin (also in the excellent The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie), are the real heavy lifters, in that David Lynch rotting-beneath-the-porcelain-surface kind of way. Megs Jenkins as Mrs. Grose also deserves notice for playing the perfect counterpoint to Kerr's Miss Giddens.Sound, cinematography (those shots of Miss Jessel on the lake are remarkable) and editing are brilliant.Among the best in horror. 9/10 "},{"Title":"One of the Top Ghost Haunted House Films Ever!!!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first time I saw the Innocents I was too young to really know what was going on. I knew it involved ghosts trying to get to small children and a governess was trying to protect them. I also knew it was scary. Later when I was older I saw it again and appreciated the fact that the horror was subtle, even understated, but there just the same. I knew right away this movie was something special, even as a youngster. Now that I am all grown up and a horror movie fan, I knew I had to add it to my collection of movies. For any horror/ghost/haunted house movie fan this is a must. This movie, the Haunting and the Changeling are the very best of this genre. If you do not have it, buy it. The story, the acting and the the general atmospheric creepiness are well worth the price. Ms. Kerr's performance is one of her best. But, it is the kids who really steal the show. They are sure cute, at least until you find out how creepy they are as well. This is the best version of the Henry James' story the Turn of the Screw. Subtle in it's horror. It's a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie!","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   I saw this movie for the first time at a theater when I was about 11 at a revival house and it scared the crap out of me!  Watched it again at my family's summer home on TV one night when I was up there all alone and it did the same thing. For all of you who feel it's overacted and S-L-O-W, it's the imagination thing, the setting up of things, the atmosphere and so right as one of you said, it could not work in color.  It's like old-time radio you just have to let yourself go.  Everyone is right, the cinematography is great.  The film is not as good as it could have been, probably, but still a good movie to rent, own or see if you are fortunate enough to live in a city that has a revival cinema that showcases such movies as this. "},{"Title":"A classy classic","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The 1961 film The Innocents, directed by Jack Clayton and based upon the novel The Turn Of The Screw by Henry James, is an classy, classic horror film. Ranking up there with The Haunting and The Shining as the best ghost stories ever filmed, The Innocents tells the story of a young English governess, played by the flawless Deborah Kerr, who comes to believe that the two precocious orphans in her care (played by the wonderful child actors Martin Stephens and Pamela Franklin), are possessed by the spirits of their former governess and her lover. The film's setting is a spooky mansion located along the English countryside, and director Clayton makes good use out of the black-and-white photography and the estate's creepy locales (gazebo, tower and pond). This film boasts some of the scariest moments ever captured in a horror film. But don't expect Friday The 13th chase sequences and A Nightmare On Elm Street special effects. The story here (scripted by Truman Capote and William Archibald) is very subtle, preying upon the viewer's mind as if we were Kerr's character, who begins to believe that the apparitions are all part of her unraveling psyche. Kerr, Stephens and Franklin are superb, and the scenes involving the spirits are genuinely frightening! The downbeat ending is appropriate for its time (no happy endings in this genre). Don't watch this one alone! Leave the lights on! My score 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Stunning Masterpiece","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There are hardly words enough to gush about The Innocents, the finest horror filmed, but one must try.I suppose the singular aspect which make The Innocents so uniquely masterful its direction Jack Clayton demonstrates complete genius as he weaves a gothic tail with spectacular (in the greatest essence of the word) imagery, and amazing movement and language.  It is a film of utter craftsmanship, readily in charge of its primary goal to scare.  And that it does.  It is not usual for a horror film made in 1961, of all years (a year that would include, and follow, and present many overmade terror films of a similair target) to actually SCARE a modern viewer.  Especially if that viewer has indulged himself in his most painful guilty pleasure (horror films) regularly, and has become a master of scares and suspence.  The film manages to create something of an amazing pheate, of leading up to and then executing divinely gothic frights, that amaze and tantelize the darker part of the human spirit.The story itself can be presented as a gothic wonder of sorts it is an intriquette array of pasts that meet with the future, focusing on Mrs. Giddens, a governess (played superbly by the plainly superb Deborah Kerr) in an immensely gothic and classic manor in Edwardian England, nursing for and to two children, seemingly possesed.The viewing pleasure of The Innocents can not be fully shown unless describing and depicting every beautiful moment (mainly due to Clayton's direction), which all add up to an explosive, amazing, thrillingly legendary conclusion.The Innocents is a film not only well made and executed with perfect professionalism and craft, but a beautiful horror.  A 10 out of 10, an A+ "}{"Title":"I wasn't as impressed as some...","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I hate to be the one who doesn't agree with everyone else, but this has the ring of The Emperor's New Clothes. Yes, this film has some great filming techniques.  Yes, the children do a great job acting.  And yes, there are three or four scenes that are genuinely creepy and kind of scary. But for the most part, this movie is sloooow.  Deborah Kerr overacts in several scenes, but I guess does a decent job in the rest.  There's a little bit of a mystery going on that you can have some fun trying to figure out, but for the most part I found myself looking at my watch to see how much time was left on this movie. If you want to see a classic ghost story with some groundbreaking techniques, or if you are a student of horror, see this movie.  But if you want to actually be entertained for 90 minutes, rent something else, like Rosemary's Baby or Village of the Damned.  This was a snoozer. "},{"Title":"Not bad - but disappointing  ***SPOILERS***","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I like this movie - I don't love it. I think it's worth viewing for the overall creep factor but truthfully this movie pales in comparison to the Haunting which is a much better haunted house story. The acting in The Innocents is top-notch if a bit hammy. The ending is completely vague and is very unsatisfying. I wanted to see more of what happened. What happened to Flora? Why did Miles die? I don't object to vague endings per se, but this particular ending just felt like the director ran out of steam and said cut before a real ending could be captured. I know this movie has it's devoted following but I'm wondering if that following has seen the Haunting? "},{"Title":"Slow psychological ghost story","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's Victorian England. Miss Giddens (Deborah Kerr) is hired as a governess to two kids Miles and Flora out in a vast English country estate. The previous governess Miss Jessel died suddenly. The estate has housekeeper Mrs. Grose (Megs Jenkins). There are mysterious voices which is assumed to be the ghosts of Miss Jessel and the uncle's valet Peter Quint.It's a slow psychological horror. It's a little creepy at times but it's not that scary. There is a spooky moody atmosphere. The kids tip into good creepiness sometimes. The movie does slow to a crawl at times and get quite boring. It's an old style ghost story. "},{"Title":"Horror Real or Imagined Remains Horrifying","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This One Lies in Between the Hammer Horrors and the Roger Corman/Vincent Price Poe Movies. It is Unlike Any of those. In Fact, it is a Hearkening Back to the Val Lewton Films of the Forties and is a Masterpiece of Freudian Sexual Repression and Paranormal Hauntings.It is a Film that will Linger Long After The End Appears on the Screen because it has Manipulated the Psyche with a Most Basic of Human Desires and Fears. The Atmosphere is Laden with Decaying Imagery and Sexual Symbolism. The Cast All Give Uncannily Convincing Performances, the Script Based on The Turn of the Screw by Henry James, with 90% of it from Truman Capote, and the Cinematography of Freddie Francis is a Gothic, Baroque Display of Widescreen Inclusions of Peripheral Ambiguities and Subtle and Beautiful Creepiness.Here is an Example of the Sexual Underlying of the Ghost Story and the Films Widely Discussed and Different Interpretations...Deborah Kerr as the Governess Arriving at the Brilliantly Realised Mansion says that She Fought with Herself to Accept or Not Accept the Position (it could be read as a decision to have or not have intercourse for the first time and relinquish her innocence or not).She Says that the Children Only need to utter ONE WORD and the possession will go away and they will be released from the horror (is another way of saying that if she would have intercourse just once her repression and resulting neurosis would have subsided).It is this Type of Layered Presentation that Makes the Movie One of Two Things...This is Really Happening and the Children are Possessed...or It's All in the Mind of the Mistress and She is Suffering from a Sexual Maladie and it is Her that is Imagining the Whole Thing.In the End does it Really Matter. It is just as Terrifying whether it is Real or Projected. The Goal of the Movie is to be Terrifying and it Succeeds Either Way it is Interpreted and Therein Lies its Greatness and its Ability to Haunt. "},{"Title":"atmospheric imagery and score enhance performances to great horror","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Based on Henry James the Turn of the Screw, this tale of two young children, govourned by a naive, church going mentor, runs deeper, and darker than youraverage Ghost story. Deborah Kerr is excellent as the prissy govourness.  The film lulls you into the unspeakable horrors that may lurk in and around a country mansion, withgenious direction that uses light to cast shadows, not only in the house, but also on the mind of Deborah Kerr.  Although we are shown the ghosts that haunt the grounds, we are left wondering if indeed they are ghosts of a never world, or the invention of Kerr, who on her first job away from home, is left out of her depth, with , apart from the two children, and a bumbling nanny, has only herself and her imagination for company. Look out for the scene with the infant kiss.  The tension is almost suffocating, and again touches on the mind of Kerr's character.  The score is tremendous, as also are the silences, used to enhance the terror of what might be. "},{"Title":"The horror holds up","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Much has already been written of the superlative acting,  cinematography, sound effects and music.  My point  Don't miss an opportunity to watch this on the big screen.  The sounds of chirping birds is impossibly sinister, and even the widescreen fade-in of the 20th Century Fox logo is magnificent.  It doesn't work the same in pan-and-scan.  This is the best ghost story on film. "},{"Title":"This one is the best","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Deborah Kerr is the most understatedly sexiest actress in film, or surely was in the 1950s, and her performance here is the pinnacle of a distinguished career. But everything about this film is a gem. What nobody else seems to have noticed is that The Innocents is probably the most beautiful, creamily shot black and white film of all time. Its only rival in this aspect is The Magnificent Ambersons.Please -- anybody who hasn't seen this film -- see it, and observe the brilliance of its surface. It's a brainythriller, too, and respects the intelligence of its audience. I will never get over this superb thriller "},{"Title":"A chilling horror classic!","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Proof positive that a great horror film can be made without gore, violence or shock; just pure spine-chilling concept. It's hard to find a film as genuinely scary as this. Ms. Kerr is brilliant as the governess, and the children deliver fine performances. Must-see. "},{"Title":"Sadness, grief, and pain... And no innocence.","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I curse this movie! I curse it for whatI've witnessed! A masterpiece, a glorious black and white symphony of pain and grief... Is it possible to make such movie nowadays? To create such heart-breaking story of madness, hallucination and mental suffer? Such irreversible tale of growing-up, shadow-boxing, mind-decay? Is there anybody out there, that can get even close to this premium play of shadows, music and dialog? This marvelous acting and creepy scenery? Repulsion, The Haunting, The Innocents - and you're done with cinema. Angry I am... and so sad... For this bitter pill I've swallowed. For the revelation that cut my heart in half. O, Miles, o, Flora - let us be whole again! Let us be whole again, please... "},{"Title":"A True Classic Film done well by DVD","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So many fragments of this film would became the basis of other horror films that this film may well be more influential than Pulp Fiction. It's quite a problem that so many people miss out on great films because they are stuck in a contemporary production and star arena. If they only looked in that rear view mirror they would find a bunch of new great films to see. Fox's DVD gives you a chance to see what I mean. And it's very well done with entrance music, Widescreen and very nice stereo; all from the way it was and the way Everybody wants to do it. It's hard to be sublime and outrageous at the same time. Check out the credits and make sure you see this fine film. "}{"Title":"Possibly the best horror film of all time","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw 'the innocents' when I was a child and it scared the living s**t out of me. everything about this film is pure poetry. And I agree with the user that reviewed it just before me. read his review for more details, actually very well written. The thing I love about this movie is in a word- everything. Sets, costumes, acting, script, adaptation, lighting, mood, film stocks, sound, and everything in between. I also liked very much the fact that this movie is very creepy even though there is no violence in the film. Most of all this movie has more atmosphere than any horror film ever made in my opinion. Kerr is absolutely breathtaking to look at through the whole film as well as having turned in the best performance of her entire career. The only question I have is why hasn't this been mastered to DVD? HINT, HINT, NUDGE, NUDGE!! Obvious to fans of this movie, 'the others' with Nicole Kidman was pretty much heavily adapted from this or perhaps from 'turn of a screw' which this film was an adaptation of. If you are looking for a horror film with real mood and texture. if you want your atmosphere very heavy, this is the movie for you. a perfect, classic horror movie. 4 stars **** "},{"Title":"Memorable","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Seen in Hong Kong in 1961 I still have goose-bumps remembering the film, it is the only film that has this effect on me after 42 years! Deborah Kerr played her role to perfection. I think I drove passed the location a few years ago (not sure where) but the scene was enough to raise the goose bumps again. "},{"Title":"A film that has haunted me ever since I first saw it. Staggering, brilliant, masterful, The Innocents is the Rolls Royce of ghost stories.","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Innocents is a film that has haunted me ever since I first saw it. Staggering, brilliant, masterful, The Innocents is the Rolls Royce of ghost stories. From the unforgettable camerawork by Freddie Francis to the incisive, beautiful direction by Jack Clayton to the brilliant performance by Deborah Kerr, The Innocents works on a thousand levels. This is a film for anyone who truly wants to see brilliance in its purest form. Any director who wants to make a suspense/horror piece that counts, see this film now. If you can, don't see the pan and scan version -- it was shot in black and white Cinemascope and should be viewed that way -- Letterboxed. Let's hope 20th Century Fox put it out on DVD. It is available on Laser Disc is a beautiful letterbox transfer. But is you get the opportunity to see it on a screen -- RUN. A film that lingers in the mind for decades to come. What more could you ask from a film?.............................. "},{"Title":"Subtle scares better than blatant.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a remarkable adaptation of Henry James' Turn of the Screw.  What makes this film effective isn't what you see or don't see, but what you almost see.  The overall creepy tone of this psychological thriller is enhanced by outstanding performances by all the primary actors. "},{"Title":"The forgotten, lost masterpiece!","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The lost masterpiece of gothic, ghostly terror. That this film isn't better known by the masses, esp. the horror and terror film fanatics boggles the mind. It is an astounding work of cinema, superbly directed and photographed with an aire of unsettling creepiness that will stick with one long after viewing. Even though I've seen this many times it never fails to get to me and stay with me for days after.You must buy/rent this movie and watch it with ALL the lights off. Discover this great film for yourself. A resounding 10 out of 10, a masterpiece - the best ghost movie ever filmed. Watch out for that climax. "},{"Title":"A brilliant, frightening adaptation of Turn Of The Screw","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  No one has ever managed to portray ghosts (either real or imagined) with the eerie beauty that director Jack Clayton and cinematographer Freddie Francis bring to this film - particularly the shots of Miss Jessel.  The Innocents is a brilliant psychological horror story with pitch-perfect performances by the entire cast.  Deborah Kerr outdoes herself here - I think it's her best performance ever.  And the boy who plays Miles - Martin Stephens - is simply superb (he's also the leader of the alien children in Village Of The Damned).This film is a model of literary adaptation, thanks to Archibald and Capote. By all means, this one is worth owning (though a widescreen version is certainly preferable). "},{"Title":"overlooked","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I recently saw this movie for the first time. I was very impressed with it.. deborah kerr was first-rate. the movie was very scary, and it didn't have to use all the gore and special effects that are used today..  i would highly recommend this one. "},{"Title":"Classic chiller.","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Magnificently effective version of Henry James' psychological thriller. Superior performances, direction, writing, cinematography and music.  See it on a dark and windy night (in widescreen!!!) and you'll never forget it. "},{"Title":"Well made but unnecessary adaptation of Henry James, with a creepy twist to the governess's psychology","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Henry James's short story The Turn of the Screw was taken as a straightforward ghost story for many years until people started to notice that it really seems to be about a hysterical governess who is only imagining ghosts. Some reviewers of this film adaptation seem to think that the director Jack Clayton has retained that ambiguity, but I don't know why. The governess here is a hysteric, all right. If there are any ghosts haunting the house, they'd have to crowd out the ones she's clearly imagining.Deborah Kerr plays the inexperienced governess of two children, a boy and a girl, the wards of an uncle who wants nothing to do with them. The groundskeeper and the former governess, who both died before her arrival, excite her already excited imagination, and she believes they have remained at the house as ghosts.The movie plays up her sexual repression and a latent passion she has for the little boy. Why? Are the director and writers making something overt that was suggested in James's original character? If so, why not leave it suggested? Even if not, why not leave it suggested? The movie ends just like the James story, with the boy dying of a heart attack, but as an added attraction, Kerr kisses the boy's corpse on the lips. Again, why? The idea was already perfectly clear to any attentive viewer. The director decides to announce his theme over a bullhorn with bright red blinking lights.The movie may seem subtle compared with any Hollywood adaptation we can envision Hollywood would have given us either real ghosts or a psychiatrist played by Simon Oakland to explain everything at the end. Still, it's a lot less subtle than Henry James. In his story, he allows us to see everything through the governess's eyes and accept what she tells us. The movie shows her in the title sequence praying for the ability to love children and not destroy them. No ambiguity there. We doubt her sanity from the get-go. The first time we see a ghost, we have a pretty good idea we're seeing only what she thinks she's seeing and nothing else.If we accept the combination of Henry James and Southern hothouse melodrama, the movie is cleverly made. The director Jack Clayton and the three screenwriters (including Truman Capote) ensure that while we see everything through the governess's eyes, we can also guess what's really going on. The performances are all excellent. Deborah Kerr gives the governess every possible shade and nuance; Megs Jenkins as the housekeeper persuades us that she has common sense but not enough imagination to see that Kerr has far too much; Martin Stephens and Pamela Franklin as the children are able to play both the normal children they are, and the creepy children of Kerr's diseased mind. But it all seems so humorless, overbaked and unnecessary. "},{"Title":"This isn't  A   'black and  white'  film.","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I first saw this film in the late 60's,there was immediately shown A kind of supplement of 2 or 3 minutes, with Deborah Kerr meeting and 'reassuring' the public, and playfully talking to the two children, that this was only A movie; why this was thought necessary speaks volumes about the effect this film must have had! Many excellent comments have already been made, and I don't want to reiterate what ones I read have said. What was particularly exceptional for me was the 'through the looking glass' sensation throughout the film, but especially at the end with the boy sounding like A coarse male adult,and denying seeing the mystery man standing on the pillar, as the governess obviously could see him, with A final tragic Fina'le . Surely what Henry James and the directors point being made was not so much differences between male and female, or moral and religious impact, so much as the difference between A child's perceptions and an adults. Only truly great performances throughout can suggest such A cold chill of terror. "}{"Title":"Still the Scariest Haunted House Movie of All Time","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have seen almost every major horror/ghost movie made since 1950, and can truly say that of any ghost movie, this STILL is the creepiest and continues to scare all I screen it for.It is as simple as this if you are in the mood for a scary movie, get The Innocents, turn off all the lights, get under the covers, and enjoy.  It will frighten you, it will get under your skin, it will be among the very creepiest movies you will ever see.  I guarantee it. "},{"Title":"My Lord","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This isn't merely some overlooked, minor chiller- this is an out-and-out CLASSIC!!! I can say nothing about this it that it can't say for itself. A few years ago I had seen it, liked it, and then recently rented it again- and watched it twice in two days.One caveat- on VHS the power of this film is diminished. Freddie Francis' widescreen cinematography is remarkable, an unsettling revelation. If you *ever* have the chance, watch it on the big screen, or laserdisc- or DVD! Don't worry about its similarities to The Others, this is a different, and superior, film. Good as she can be, Nicole can't hold a candle to Ms. Kerr. "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"9 June 2012","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I did not know until after reading about The Turn of the Shrew that this was supposed to be about whether the central character is psychotic or whether there were ghosts around, and that is my main objection to this film. True, by the end you begin questioning the governess' sanity but that is rather late and after what I thought was been cheated by director and screenwriter. The governess starts seeing ghosts way too soon, she is actually correct about who these ghosts are without any knowledge of the history of the house, and by the end we are supposed to think maybe she was imagining these things? And then the kid dies at the end? Why, because he was inhabited by that evil spirit, or just had a heart attack or something? My interpretation, and that's how I took the film as I was watching it, leans towards the ghost story instead of the mental illness, but if that is the case, it seems to me very strange that these ghosts only appear to the governess and not to the old lady, who seem not to mind living in that creepy mansion (and as correctly stated elsewhere, where was the rest of the staff of this huge mansion?)or even the children, who behave as if truly inhabited by the ghosts. And if the old lady did not believe in the ghost stories one assumes she would have confronted the governess more or even contacted the uncle to tell him the governess taking care of the children had gone cuckoo. And if it were ghosts, the old lady would for sure have heard all the rattle made when the governess is walking around with the candlelight, or when she screams at one point. And are we supposed to believe that the lady ghost inhabits the governess at the end? I was really stupefied when I saw The End on screen, and felt I had spent 2 hours on an inscrutable mystery not justifying the ride, however enjoyable due to direction and cinematography. I rather watch The Others where everything becomes clear and everything made sense at the end. In this film too many things simply do not add up to the ending. Ambiguity is one thing, sloppiness and cheating is another. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric but not quite the chilling effect it had on stage...","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So much of the fright and eeriness prevalent in Henry James' THE INNOCENTS came through beautifully on stage and the performance of BEATRICE STRAIGHT as the governess was an inspired one. And, as is the case in so many ghost stories, much of what happens is kept so ambiguous that the viewer is left wondering whether she is simply a repressed woman who is imagining things or is really a source of discontent in a house inhabited by ghosts.The movie too leaves so much in the dark, never actually giving plausible explanations. And DEBORAH KERR seems so perfectly normal and natural as the governess, that it's hard to think she is just imagining anything. The children are precocious and a bit baffling, as played by PAMELA FRANKLIN and MARTIN STEPHENS. Nor do we know what makes MICHAEL REDGRAVE tick, baffling as his behavior is when he first interviews Miss Kerr for the job as governess.In short, what's really frightening is whatever your imagination brings to the story, for it's the unseen and the unknown that are the real stars of this tale and they never emerge from the darkness.Summing up It's all very unsettling but may be a bit too tepid for today's audiences. "},{"Title":"Only One Shiver","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The woman seen staring across the lake is the only scene that actually gave me a shiver and I believe it's the only scene that gives any validity to this being a 'ghost' movie. If it weren't for this one instance in the film I would have to conclude that the governess is just plain batty. The ending is particularly baffling to me in that I fail to be convinced that her hysteria could cause a healthy eleven year old boy to expire. Particularly one as intelligent and adult-like as Miles.So why do I give it a 7 out of 10? First, because of the performances of the children. Flawless. Second, the black and white cinematography. Innovative and atmospheric. Third, it has all the potential to be as good a ghost story as so many reviewers here seem to think it is - if only there were a few more chilling moments on par with the 'woman by the lake' scene. If only. "},{"Title":"Terrible film.","Date":"19 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is third time I've watched this film and I've never liked it on any of the viewings. The film is so forgettable that, even though I've seen it twice already, I couldn't remember a thing that happened so I decided to give it another go in case I had made the mistake of brushing it off in the past.Well, I could not wait for it to finish. The film looks great throughout, thanks to the directing and cinematography. But the characters are all dull and the storyline is so repetitive and uneventful that I got fidgety watching it, just dying for something to happen.It's quite obvious from the start that Deborah Kerr's character is a little nuts but she doesn't half make a melodrama out of it. She's such a weak, unstable, annoying woman that I found it near unbearable to watch. The kids I could not stand. And that's all the main characters! Dull, dull, dull. It was a pointless waiting game, holding out for the end so we can see what has been an obvious set up from the start - a repressed hysterical woman slowly loses control of herself.The characters were so pathetic and the film so uneventful that I could find nothing of interest other than aesthetically. "},{"Title":"A decent film, but a bit overrated","Date":"18 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Especially today when lots of better stuff has been created within this category. Deborah Kerr as Miss Giddens is excellent as always, but the whole plot is around her, giving other characters too little space and importance. The other notable figure is Martin Stephens as Miles, a young boy with adult mind and understanding.The biggest values of the film are photography and background music, creating an obscure atmosphere with questions What is really going on? Is it real or mental? Who is to blame? Etc. However, the outcome, the ending did not satisfy me (unlike in The Others, for instance). I can assume that the majority of viewers are left confused.And last but not least black-and-white depiction does not provide additional value to the film, on the contrary landscape and interior scenes would be more enjoyable if colored. "},{"Title":"Do you have an imagination, Miss Giddens?. I'll say Yes, and how!","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As my space is limited--and as my take on the story will take most of it--and as others have already referred to cinematography, atmosphere, etc, I'll go right to the point I say both POVs are correct. Both things may be happening at the same time; all characters--or some--may be just outward projections of forces inside Miss Giddens' subconscious mind; or these forces, while still present, are being reflected on real individuals, like on a mirror--or on real ghosts. These ghosts may be there or not, true, and if they aren't, her feverish mind is creating them anyway. Also, Mrs. Grose, Miles, Flora may be just as well real people as simple symbols of elements dwelling in Miss Giddens' psyche. Here's my interpretation A chance encounter with Uncle sexually arouses her. He notices it but he makes clear he isn't interested. He's an experienced lover and he sees her just a prepubescent girl; a ten year old in an adult woman's body. Here's where the characters Flora & Miles appear--in their full symbolic meaning. By bringing them up, by linking her future with theirs, Uncle decides that all three belong together as they are at a similar stage of sexual (in)maturity. This explains why he has no use for the kids either--as he doesn't have it for her--as they all dwell in an evolutionary stage he left behind decades ago; both kids have a physical age similar to her sexual, also. If you don't see it this way, then why they have to be both precisely of that age; why they are not infants, teenagers?--the answer is because in the first case their sexuality wouldn't be an issue and in the second, it would be one already settled. So, it is all about her psychological and sexual underdevelopment here. Miles & Flora could be acting as external projections of her tattered psyche; or, if they are real people, as mirrors on which her repressed Id--the natural instincts she's fighting&#x97;-is being reflected. (See for ex. how terrified she's of uncontrolled natural forces wind, rainstorm; even of running horses, etc. This is even better illustrated when she sees just an innocuous flower vase in the thunderstorm Flora drew.) Writers know that, the least background you give to a character the greater the chances are it doesn't represent a real person but something more abstract. See for ex., as the 3 people in Bly don't have any history or any autonomous life; just like in Others. They all just came out of thin air. Mrs. Grose has no life other than that at the Manor and the kids could have well fallen from the sky for all we know; we don't know anything about their past lives or their dead parents. So what the script is saying is that these three people may be something else; they may be representing instead components a human psyche&#x97;with Mrs. Grose playing the Super Ego and the kids, the Id.It seems I'm seeing the divided psyche in too many films but blame scriptwriters for that, as they are the ones putting it there. Speaking of that, The Gilmore Girls may be used for comparison. There, Super--Ego Emily is constantly nagging daughter Lorelei to be alert, so granddaughter Rory won't lose her virginity. But Ego--Lorelei resents such unwelcome intrusion, as she considers herself, and Rory, sophisticated enough to be able to deal with Rory's nascent sexual life. Yet, Super Ego Emily has a good point, as it was at that same age--Rory's--that Lorelei got pregnant and, in her opinion, ruined her life. But everything ends well there, the reason for that being that what we got in G.G. is a healthy psyche&#x97;one built around a well balanced, fully developed, Ego-Lorelei&#x97;which is not the case in TI. Here Ego--Miss Giddens is not only sexually immature but utterly repressed also, and any intent to change that will leads to hysterics; so in her case she's condemned to fail (of course Uncle will be thrilled to know she's desperately trying to repress her sexuality, instead of freeing it!).Mrs. Grose gives the crucial clues in her warnings, as she embodies not only the morals of the times but also the voices of reason--she's like a library containing the accumulated experience. That's why even considering that what the lovers did in was disgusting, she recognizes that isn't something that could be repressed, eliminated, even when it affects the kids (and how could Quint & Miss Jesser have sexually abused them anyway, when they kept telling them to knock first?. In any case we have to see these kids rather as physical projections of Miss Giddens' sexual development, even if we may consider them also, alternatively, as real people. See also how a Super Ego may recommend diverse courses of action in Emily's case it recommends sexual repression--because of bad past experiences--while in Mrs. Grose's case it advises to let things follow their course. By not listening to her, by trying to repress her own sexuality at all costs, because of her brutally fundamentalist upbringing, Miss Giddens cuts herself from it&#x97;by alienating Flora & killing Miles--and so she finally ruins what could have been her own future love life. With that final kiss to Miles she's not saying farewell to a real kid&#x97;even if that may be the case--but mainly to her own sexual life. It's for herself, for her atrophied Id that she's crying, not for anyone else. 8/10. "},{"Title":"cat  among  the  pigeons  ?","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have never, so far as I am aware, seen a ghost and don't profess to believe in them but like most of us can enjoy pretending that I do when the right story's on offer, teasing the primal imagination down the dark roads of the unknown secure in the knowledge that I can scoot back to the sunny motorway when I want to. For some this simple premise is not always enough so we invite Dr. Freud along to observe, interpret and suggest, the old spoilsport, that it's all in our heads anyway. Henry James' novella The Turn of the Screw has always attracted this kind of dual-response. Are his phantoms 'real' or the product of brain-fever ? Putting it on the screen calls for an interweaving of both ideas so that they come to reflect on and challenge one another. To carry it off with the utmost success needs a poetic singleness of vision that Jack Clayton's film unfortunately lacks. To be sure it draws us back irresistibly into its web with each viewing but its aura of hovering expectation is more interesting to contemplate than to experience. The ambiguities bump and bruise but do not fuse.A certain conflict of aims is apparent between the director, who favours the spooks, and the writers who struggle with the back-story and the textual detail - and how they struggle. Between book and film there also lies a stage-play and its influence looms far too heavily over the action. When the governess and the housekeeper earnestly confer the film comes to a dead halt and the tortuous revealing of information, one step at a time, feels clunky and unimaginative. And the bland casting doesn't help. Deborah Kerr, much as I loved and admired her, was twenty years too old for her character and her wide-eyed girlish enthusiasm swiftly - too swiftly - turning to hectoring alarm seems misjudged and over-egged right from the start. Megs Jenkins as Mrs. Grose is far too cosy and complacent in the role considering what she's supposed to have been living with. She seems unconflicted and when it comes time for her to divulge the next piece of the jigsaw back comes her answer patly as if it's just occurred to her. And odd that an illiterate character is sometimes given dialogue that makes her sound like a Bronte.The problematic spectres are seen best at a distance - the film's finest moments courtesy of the cinematographer Freddie Francis, the real star of the show- the first glimpse of Peter Quint on top of the tower in broad daylight like a hallucination brought on by sun-stroke and Miss Jessel's later appearance among the reeds at the side of the lake tap directly into those primal fears of ours, genuinely disturbing, unearthly and in the case of the watching waiting woman blood-freezing. But when the pair start trolling around the house the effects become hokey and conventional and though Jessel's momentary appearance as a sobbing figure in the schoolroom is well handled the scene is marred and the balance upset by having her leave a teardrop behind. This conflict of techniques breaks wide open in a ludicrous episode when we seem to have wandered over to THE HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL for a spell. The fragrant Deb, candelabra borne aloft, swans around in her nightie checking all is well, accompanied by a full battery of Ghost Train noises, creaking doors, booming voices, mocking laughter, all that's missing is the Skeleton. It's a baffling lapse and quite disgraceful. If it's all in her head God knows, the film's not clever enough to offer the option at this point. Maybe they were trying to outdo Hammer but Hammer at least were never guilty of pretentiousness. All ends in tears and worse with the governess forcing the kids to face the demons - or browbeat them out of their minds, as you prefer - but Clayton finally throws his hat in the ring and gives Quint a full subjective close-up in the garden, the camera peering over his shoulder as he gazes down at his potential victim, all ambiguity abandoned. The children are quite extraordinary and it's a well-meant try but despite its intermittent rewards it's fatally muddled. A clear case of too many witches around the cauldron.It's interesting to wonder what Lewton, Tourneur and the young Kim Hunter might have made of it. "},{"Title":"The most frightening film I have seen","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Turn of the Screw by Henry James is far and away the best and most frightening ghost story I've ever read, and this magnificent film does it justice. The script, direction, performances, and, of course, Freddie Francis' wonderful black-and-white cinematography, are absolutely first rate. All combine to make this the most terrifying film I've ever seen - with not a special effect in sight! "}{"Title":"Close to perfection","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Every element in this adaptation of Henry James' The Turn of the Screw combines to create a movie so good, one is at a loss to suggest any way of improving it. Deborah Kerr may give her best performance ever -- and that's saying something! Alas, viewing it on TV will severely diminish its haunting atmosphere.  "},{"Title":"Unsettling","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Innocents definitely lives up to its reputation as a truly unsettling movie along the lines of the original The Haunting. The spooky shenanigans that go on are subtle, but possess a powerful impact.The movie tells the tale of a governess who, given full control by a distracted uncle saddled with two precocious kids, begins to fear that their remote mansion and the grounds it lies on are haunted, and more. The real key to the movie is the continually broached question of whether or not our heroine is truly battling otherworldly spirits, or simply increasingly dangerous delusions from her own mind.The film refuses to hedge its bets one way or the other, right up to the rather abrupt ending. This uncompromising vision makes for a slightly frustrating experience, but is a much better approach than what you get nowadays, which would be a neat twist that confirms things one way or the other. The Innocents really demands repeat viewings, where the nuances of the story truly start to shine through.Although there are weak points, such as the occasional flagging pace, the uncomfortable performance of lead Deborah Kerr and the inscrutable motives of the uncle, the film still holds a lasting fascination for viewers prepared to catch its meaning from the corner of their eye. "},{"Title":"The best 'scary' film of all time","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This brilliant film is a classic, it is as simple as that. It is the perfect illustration of why black and white photography can enhance a story. I defy anyone not to get 'goose-bumps' when Miss Jessell appears across the lake. Very, very scary. I wish Jack Clayton had made more films of this calibre. I seem to remember Don Taylor used to make creepy black and white ghost stories for showing on television, and these must have been the nearest thing to this masterpiece. Does anyone know where one can see Don Taylor's work? And can one get The Innocents on video? I would love to treasure my own copy. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't add much to what the other members have said, except to note that a side by side comparison of The Innocents and The Haunting (the original version, that is) is worth making, if only to show two quite different approaches to horror film-making. The Haunting is certainly scary, and its photography is superb, but next to the Innocents it is too noisy and brightly lit to be counted as one of the greatest of spinechillers.Clayton's film, on the other hand, uses subdued lighting, sustained long-distance shots and the occasional (utterly unpredictable) surprise moment to generate a superior, unsettling experience - and he handles the paedophile sub-text with care and delicacy. This director was often workmanlike, but he excelled himself on this occasion (we might also recall Roy Ward Baker, another generally sleeves-rolled-up director who surpassed himself with one film - in his case, the incomparable Quatermass and the Pit). It really goes without saying how good Freddie Francis's photography is. Lousy director, great lighter. Even the normally irritating Deborah Kerr is sympathetic. 9 out of 10. Those who have enjoyed Blair Witch (which I haven't seen yet) should seek this out. "},{"Title":"Foolish Drama Inducing Ennui. ♦ 35%","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The story is something to ponder about. Although, none of the sequences boggle, frighten or at least put the wind up. Nothing. The bungalow is supposed to be haunted, but the ghosts in here seem to be in love. Well, their affection certainly won't cause anything. The setup is made to be suspense-filled, but nothing yields out of it. You anticipate a gruesome climax like a crescendo in a symphony, but you are let down, terribly.The casting is very good, with the lead children generating enough mystique to keep you on tenterhooks. But that's all. They, in fact, annoy you over time. Deborah Kerr is very expressional. The artist who played chaperon impresses. But, the writers are to be blamed for this botched attempt in horror genre.With the climax on board, the whole structure is daft. The dialogs spun out ridicule, the sequences result in scorn. Oh, exasperation is the only thing you garner. 3.4/10.BOTTOM LINE Not even passes the litmus test for a genre so loved by people. Not recommended!Can be watched with a typical Indian family? YESProfanity/Nudity/Foreplay No | Vulgarity Very Mild | Sex Implied | Violence/Gore No | Smoking/Alcohol/Drugs No "},{"Title":"Strangely Amazing","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's shocking that this film which is hailed as a British classic is no where to be found on the retail shelves in its native country. Nevertheless, we cannot deny the film's hypnotic and creepy power to shock and unsettle audiences. I first heard of this movie when I was at school in England some time ago when by chance some students recommended both The Haunting and this as an illustration of fabulous 60's horror cinema. Although I was reluctant to enjoy it at first, over time the film has seriously grown on me and has compeled me to read more about the fascinating history of the movie.The acting is first rate, the photography is spellbinding, and the pacing is truly well structured. One cannot help but wonder how exactly Clayton got several of the subplots regarding paedophilia past the censors, my only thought maybe that his subtle approach to the subject meant that it went over the head of many of the audiences spectators back in 1960.The film lingers long in the head after its initial viewing and you constantly attempt to run over earlier aspects of the film in a vain attempt to rationalise the shocking and abrupt dénouement. Alas, there are no clues and one has to accept the horror. This movie is a must for anyone into film. One thing for sure, you will never look at lakes in the same way again! "},{"Title":"hard to describe","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Their were certain things i liked about it and some things i didn't like about it. I would hardly call this movie scary but a little bit like a mystery. Deborah Kerr is asked to go and take care of two kids that the uncle wants nothing to do with. I really don't to go on about the plot because you can find that out when you watch it. I don't even want to go into what really happened at the end because i don't even know if i understood it all, i thought i did but not after reading all the other comments. Someone who describes this movie very well is Pauline Kael in her book I lost it at the movies, which i think you should read. Most critics gave it a negative review but she's a critic who actually liked it and Leonard Maltin also gave it three and a half stars.  "},{"Title":"Atmospheric, Attractive, Strident, Boring","Date":"14 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE INNOCENTS is quite beautiful to look at and never fails to develop and maintain a series of truly atmospheric settings.Can't imagine why anyone thinks this is a horror film, much less a scary one. Despite portentous music, a threatening turtle and a screaming brat there's nothing fearsome about it.Little Miles does a good job of trying to appear mysterious and insolent but the real story here is an overwrought Deborah Kerr portraying a woman losing her mind. Or is she? Hard to care really. This film is passable as entertainment but vastly, almost cruelly overrated. I've written these lines to warn you. "},{"Title":"It's really rather boring and tedious..","Date":"3 December 2011","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can't imagine being scared by this movie.. and isn't that what horror films are about? You have two obnoxious children, a repressed governess (played by an actress who is much older then the character she plays)a gloomy house and a lot of dark photography with dramatic lighting.That's about the whole story. The children are snotty bores, the governess I think was hitting the bottle when we weren't watching, the sweet old housekeeper has bugs in her bonnet, and the house only has 3 rooms that we see... despite it being as big as Windsor Castle.I watched the entire thing - in the letterbox version - and kept hoping it would get better. It never did. It was almost a relief when the kid dies in the end, if he ever grew up he'd be intolerable. When the movie started out - it appeared it might be good - much to my disappointment it quickly deteriorated into a turgid senseless mess.I know the fans are going to say this isn't a helpful review, but perhaps one or two people will be saved having to sit through this mess. Or not.. if you want to see a vastly overrated mess, have at it.. you can't say YOU WEREN'T WARNED! (Nurse is in the lobby with coffee to help you wake up if you fall asleep during the screening of this feature..)I'd suggest you rent/Netflix/whatever the original The Haunting http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0057129/ one of several movies/miniseries about the same evil house.. THAT movie is genuinely scary and has two wonderful performances in it (Julie Harris and Claire Bloom..) "},{"Title":"Talk atmosphere and subtlety all you want, this ain't scary or interesting.","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Innocents is one of the most overrated horror movies of all time, maybe the most overrated.  It just never gets scary or interesting.  The Others, a very similar movie, while merely o.k., is much better than this.  That, at least, is my opinion.  But go ahead, see it and make up your own mind.  I want you to have to sit through this like I did.  In fact, make it a double feature and rent The Changeling as well.  Can't you just feel the excitement and the anticipation of viewing these amazing classics for the first time?  (I will admit, The Changeling starts out promisingly, but boy does it ever drag and go downhill.  The Innocents doesn't even start out promisingly). "}{"Title":"The Kink And I","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Following a brief scene in Michael Redgrave's (presumably) London home during which he offers and she accepts the post of Governess to his orphaned nephew and niece Deborah Kerr journeys by stage coach to the large country estate which is to be her new home. As she alights from the coach and we get our first full-length view of her (she was seated during the interview with Redgrave) we realize that she is wearing what seems to be an identical costume to the one she wore as Anna Leonowens in The King And I, albeit a black and white version. Nor do the parallels end there; in both films she is a Governess and in both films she comes up against a cold, violent autocratic male, the difference is that the ruler of Siam is very much alive whilst Peter Quint is very much dead. The film has just been re-released in England and having now seen it I'm bemused by the rave reviews it has garnered. It's okay but that's about it, in terms of suspense Les Diaboliques leaves it dead in the water. One sign that a film is not delivering what it aims to is if I start thinking practical thoughts. I started about ten minutes in wondering WHY Michael Redgrave bothered to keep up a house of what looks to have between 20 and 30 rooms standing in about 20 acres when, by his own admission (in that initial interview) he never goes there. He seems to maintain it solely for his orphaned nephew and niece which is stretching credulity somewhat, surely he could have sold it and bought them at least fifty more modest homes; next is the problem of staff; we HEAR about the staff but apart from Mrs Gosse and a VERY (no more than ten/fifteen seconds) fleeting appearance from a servant girl we SEE no one - and this in a house that would require a minimum of twenty; WHERE do they buy the food from and WHO cooks it? WHERE do they buy clothes. The house is isolated, natch, in order to give more credence to the faux 'horror' but no one seems to have thought to give us even a token scene and/or word that would answer this burning question. There is, of course, the 'obligatory' scene in which the ingenue, throwing all common sense to the winds, dons a nightie/negligee, arms herself with a candle and sets out to patrol the three a.m. corridors secure in the knowledge that sooner rather than later she will enjoy a rendezvous with those things that go 'bump' in the night. Adequate, sure; beautifully photographed, okay, if you insist but MASTERPIECE, you're kidding, right. "},{"Title":"It's 'The Sound of Music' from hell!!","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Very slow, yet very impressive thriller that takes place in nineteenth century Britain. Deborah Kerr shines as the goodhearted Miss Giddens. She's hired as the governess of two young countryside children because their uncle doesn't have the time to occupy with them. The children (Flora, a young girl and Miles, her older brother) seem exaggeratedly polite at first but all isn't what it looks like here. After a series of alarming events and the constant visions of silhouettes appearing out of the blue, Miss Giddens begins to suspect that the children's souls are taken over by two dead servants and they're now controlling them. The Innocents completely depends on its dark, terrifying atmosphere and the wondrous acting performances&#133;the film features no violence and no shock images. In other words this is perfect story-driven horror! Even though there isn't much happening throughout the entire film, an incredible level of tension is being build up! You keep watching and admiring the stunning black and white photography, whether you like to or not. It was Freddie Francis who was responsible for the stylish camera-work, by the way. Francis is one of the most talented guys in the British horror field and grew out to be the successful director of milestone horror films like 'The Creeping Flesh' and 'Tales that witness Madness'. It's almost like the Sound of Music in reverse! In that musical landmark, governess and children have great times, sing and learn important life-lessons! Here, in the Innocents, the governess slowly becomes petrified of the children and has to save their souls from supernatural evil! The Innocents is warmly recommended to anyone who knows how to appreciate solid writing and powerful acting performances. The best early 60's horror film along with (the even more impressive) Village & Children of the Damned. "},{"Title":"adequate","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Henry James 'Turn of the Screw' has regularly paid out dividends to the film industry. You have this, 'The Night Comers' and you have 'The Others,' which inserts a neat twist to make the story even more surprising.Anyone suggesting this compares favorably to 'Citizen Kane' doesn't understand Citizen Kane. Multiple readings over time are not possible with this movie, as they are with Kane. It barely supports two readings, which is my problem with it for all it's ambiguity, the movie really seems to favor a reading of an oversensitive and psychotic governess. Any element supporting the ghost story doesn't stand much of a chance. The movie didn't even usher in this narrative conceit, which is now the hackneyed, defacto gimmick of all horror movies (Dark Water, the Ring, Mothman Prophecies, Amityville Horror). Abbot and Costello spend entire movies with 'C' trying to convince 'A' that something he's seen (a mummy a werewolf, etc.) is real, not a dream, not psychosis. Playing it both ways might be the start of a good film, not the whole concept.Kerr played two roles to excess; There's, 1) the governesses (The King and I, The Innocents) and a more general category of, 2) the uptight prigs (The King and I, The Innocents, Tea and Sympathy, Black Narcissus). All I'm saying is that '50s audiences were perhaps too interested in watching Miss Manners get all keyed up. Of her movies I've seen, only Colonel Blimp required her to go some place fresh. Finally, when she played a bad girl she got raves for a) getting the part, and b) not tripping over her own feet. Really she's nothing special in From Here to Eternity.Both The Others and this have problems related to the source novel; structurally there's too little occurring, so the middle drags. But the camera work is nice here and there, and the two child actors are unusually competent. "},{"Title":"Gonna go against the grain...","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was really disappointed with this film. Im a big fan of supernatural horror particularly The Haunting, The Woman in Black etc but I really cant muster that much enthusiasm for The Innocents as a 'horror' film. The aforementioned films have momemnts that are purely terrifying and send shivers down the spine. In my opinion The Innocents just lacked something in this department. Any of the 'scary' moments ended up being wasted, almost incidental to the film. Perhaps its because this is such a familiar story to me and I expected more from it. Dont get me wrong, I liked this film BUT it really isnt scary. I have definitely seen better adaptations of this story. "},{"Title":"Not Tremendously Impressive...","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One word to describe this film boring.Seeing that this movie is considered one of the best classic ghost stories of all times, I decided to see it.A bit disappointed, actually. Don't think it deserves all the praise.I'm not fond of black and white movies in general, and this was no different.Is it a joke that this is classed as horror? There wasn't ONE scary or suspenseful moment in the entire movie. Not one. It wouldn't even pass for a thriller. Maybe a drama... Is there such a genre as ghost drama? If not, it should be invented just for this movie.Maybe, back in the 60s, something like this was considered scary, but now it's just... boring.Yes, the acting was convincing, the story/characters were developed properly, and the script was well-written. But this was nowhere near enough to make the movie entertaining.It's watchable, but nothing spectacular.I was quite unimpressed with the ending also. Very poorly constructed, unimaginative, and not at all gratifying. "},{"Title":"What a bore...","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The kids are excellent and so is the cinematography, Kerr is OK too. But boy is the script a naive bore, no wonder this hack Capote co-wrote the script, his journalistic writing never had a bone of originality. And it's all good and well to talk about traumatic experiences, and freudian repression and all sorts of fancy metaphors that people tend to read into films, but the fact of the matter is that the story just isn't there. Nothing happens at all trust me. There's no big revelation, an innuendo here another there, and that's that. Prissy governess stays in the house with two young kids, she has a few visions of a man and a woman, the head maid tells her the vision is of a man who used to work at the stable or something and who died on the stairs some time ago and the woman in the vision, his lover, committed suicide over this. And then the governess has a few more visions and some confrontations with the kids, before she sends the girl and the maids away, to stay with the little boy, he forces him to say the name of the devil that haunts him, or so she thinks, and the boy dies...big frigging deal. I like dark and atmospheric type movies of that age, l' anne derrière a Marrienbande is a favourite, but this is one is a miss for sure. So what if people like to speculate about the suggestive plot, in and of itself it's as boring as it could be. It's boring to have kids prance around acting all sinister, the apparitions are boring, and there are no twists. So what if the children were abused, or possessed or whatever, who cares? All these are interesting themes but when they are actually treated not hinted upon in a dead slow pseudo horror flick...You really can't trust peoples' taste in movies judging by the high rating this has, they are easily impressed by the most vacant stuff (high brow for film buffs, low brow for the rest, but vapid nevertheless) and they miss the subtleties and intelligence of (most of) the truly great pieces of filmaking. But that's just how it is I guess. "},{"Title":"Slow, stupid movie. Beautifully shot.","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Pacing was too slow, Deb Kerr overacted, sound effects were annoying, and the ending was oh so very, very bad.But, man, what great cinematography!  Especially that shot of the creepy woman staring across the lake. Subtle and very effective.  Definitely ahead of its time.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Guilty for All Charges The Innocents Rates 0*","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horrible, diabolical, terrible, miserable and just plain awful are all great adjectives to describe one miserable 1961 film. Having lost her 6th Oscar bid, the year before, what was Deborah Kerr thinking when she made such a terrible film?This black and white misery looks great at the very beginning when a mysterious uncle hires Kerr to be the governess for his nephew and niece. She will take full responsibility. Wow, did he know when to get out of this mess. We sure don't have The Sound of Music here.The children come across as loving and carefree before reality sets in. Reality in the face of a dead valet and prior governess, that is.Kerr is her usual excitable self as she searches for answers to the haunting and children possessed by the deceased. It's just horrid to watch all this. "},{"Title":"Spinster Cries Boo!; Gosh, Women are Scary","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"11 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Are people really frightened by this movie? I was merely bored and insulted. The operatic, over-the-top performances, the creaky special effects, and, most laughable of all, the ham-handed, Freudian, misogynist, silliness -- are obvious, yes, but scary? No.The whole terrically obvious and didactic premise is that wimmin are scary and when a woman like Deborah Kerr gets a bit older and isn't sexually attractive any more, she morphs into a religion-mad Victorian spinster who goes wacko and starts making out with little boys.She sweats bullets, prays to excess; her dreams clank and groan. The scary part is that there are misogynists out there so frightened of women that this works.Feh. "}]