[{"Title":"In the Wake of the Nautilus, the U.S.S. Seaview","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I still remember seeing this film at movie theaters way back when I was a lad. Of course I didn't hear very much of it due to all the shrieks and squeals from the teenage girls in the audience over Frankie Avalon. That curiously enough didn't matter because Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea is a very visual film.It might seem a little old hat today, but we've been through two more generations that have seen the United States Navy become an atomic fleet of submarines and surface carriers. It was only seven years earlier, in 1955 that the U.S.S. Nautilus was launched as our first atomic submarine. In homage to that wonderful visionary Jules Verne who foresaw atomic power one hundred years earlier the Navy named it after that famous undersea ship of Verne's great novel 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. The nuclear submarine was a wondrous thing in 1961.The idea of a nuclear power submarine was the brainchild of Admiral Hyman Rickover. Rickover was a tough minded s.o.b. who usually got whatever he wanted by any mean necessary including bullying. Hard to believe that the gentlemanly Walter Pigeon could play him, but he did and well as Admiral Harry Nelson, the ersatz Rickover. What's happened here is that the Van Allen radiation belt that surrounds the Earth has caught fire and temperatures are climbing all over the world. The planet is doomed, but Walter Pigeon's got an idea to save it. Fire a missile and seed the belt with more radiation, kind of a nuclear backfire and the blaze will end.A lot of people are telling him it won't work, but Pigeon brushes them all aside. The only two who have faith in him are his assistants played by Peter Lorre and Barbara Eden. But our intrepid admiral pushes through. Of course the U.S.S. Seaview encounters all kinds of obstacles along the way, but that's the rest of the story.The cast does very well for itself and young Frankie Avalon as a junior officer comes off rather nicely. Frankie sings over the title credits, but during the movie plays a trumpet. Avalon in fact was a trumpet virtuoso and a singing career was an afterthought. The fickle finger of fate.Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea still a nice science fiction adventure even though it is dated. "},{"Title":"smoke gets in your eyes","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Walter Pidgeon leads fellow iconoclasts aboard a giant, futuristic (for 1961) submarine in a desperate race to save the world from firey oblivion.  Another reviewer once commented that there was plenty of action but precious little logic in this film, but so what?  If one views it as escapist nonsense, it's pretty enjoyable, even if the plot does get a little overheated (sorry, we couldn't resist) toward the end.  Van Allen belt catching fire?  Absurd.  Three thousand foot crush depth for a Thresher-class attack sub?  Ridiculous.  But again, so what?  The effects hold up pretty well, there's a solid cast including Peter Lorre (not his last film but clearly his days were numbered), Michael Ansara, and Frankie Avalon, who was thrown into the mix to attract a younger audience, and, of course, the giant octopus. The octopus scene was actually shot in reverse, since octopi are quite timid and this one could not be coaxed into attaching itself to the submarine for any usable length of time.  Seriously though, in spite of bad science and stupendous leaps of questionable logic, Voyage is a better than average vintage sci-fi flick.  Make a big bowl of popcorn and enjoy the ride! "},{"Title":"A Beautifully Filmed Movie","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had ordered Voyage to The Bottom of The Sea on DVD and at 300 in the morning I found myself watching it. Okay, the idea of the Van Allen radiation belt catching on fire is silly, but it's just the premise for a really good sci-fi adventure film that I wish I could've seen in the theaters on a wide screen. But the rich colors on the DVD and Dolby sound is a good substitute for the real thing.In looking at it, I can't help but compare the movie with the series that followed as there are some of the actors from the movie who ended up in the show. Seeing this Lee Crane constantly arguing and second-guessing Admiral Nelson is a little disturbing, yet the movie inspired one of the best sci-fi series of the '60s. And the movie itself, like Fantastic Voyage, shows great creativity. Irwin Allen is always being underestimated by people with 60 second attention spans, but this movie shows how much of a creative artist that Allen was.I gladly give this movie 8/10 "},{"Title":"Before Roddenberry's Star Trek, there was Allen's Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A solid piece of science fiction that's fairly dated, Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea was a film from the old school of exposition film making. Half docu-drama and half science-fiction, Allen's production makes an effort to mix the world of tomorrow, as it was perceived in the late 50s and early 60s, with then contemporary drama. The result is somewhat stilted, and immature in a very innocent sort of way, but worth a look if you need some vintage sci-fi on your screen.The exposition of what Irwin Allen felt the future of scientific defense in the realm of the world's oceans feels like a Disney documentary. The drama almost seems as an afterthought to the technology being depicted (which I'm sure isn't too far off the mark), and doesn't really ever click in.An egalitarian para-military that is the crew of the USOS Seaview, was no doubt an inspiration for the Star Trek franchise as it was first conceived, as were probably the scientific functions of a government vessel manned by what is ostensibly a crew serving aboard a vessel whose role is part defensive and part scientific. It is in this capacity that the story takes shape, and challenges sub and crew as the fate of mankind hangs in the balance.Scientific loopholes abound Ice floats (the breakup of an iceberg would not produce sinking chinks of ice), radiation doesn't catch fire (the Van Allen belt is speculated to be a result of USAF atmospheric nuclear tests in the 1950s), the most advanced attack subs today can not dive beyond 1300 feet, active sonar is rarely used, etc. etc. etc. But, if you can get by all that, and forgive some of the earlier film making stylings in this film, then it's worth a look.It's not classic vintage sci-fi in the conventional sense, but one clearly sees how it influenced generations of sci-fi films to come afterwards, as well as spawning the eventual TV series that evolved from this film.Give it a chance, but don't expect too much. If you're a younger viewer reading this review, then you'll probably get somewhat impatient with it. Even so, try to keep in mind the kind of film it is, and the time in which it was made. "},{"Title":"Check this movie out!","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now this is sci fi, I like to see. An underwater adventure, involving a powerful nuclear submarine that moves like the great blue whale. Only a different color. I first saw the lunch box when I was in New York, and there was the title, the sub, and the menacing red octopus attacking a mini-sub. The cast of the movie were perfect. I would later remember that Barbara Eden(I Dream of Jeanine) and Michael Ansara(The Blue Djinn) have their memorable roles 4 years later on TV. She really puts on a show in the break room when the Lt. plays his trumpet down hard! The scenes are amazing, and I think that octopus is really a minor threat in the movie. He looks too uncooperative. The special effects are good, and the backgrounds, are OK. This movie is one of the best in scifi. I wouldn't disagree with anyone about it! Rating 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Seaview...and, possibly the end of the world","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Three years before the Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea TV series, Irwin Allen made this excellent movie. The TV series used the same submarine and a lot of the interior sets used in the movie.The atomic powered submarine Seaview is sent on a mission to try and destroy a ring of fire that has appeared around the Earth. Cities are being destroyed and many people are being killed through this. They have to face several dangers before doing this and these include giant squids, a mine field, another submarine and its torpedo's and saboteurs on board. One of these tries to blow up one of the Seaview's reactors but is then eaten by the shark in the Seaview's aquarium. Then the other saboteur tries to blow up the Seaview with a bomb but the crew manage to stop him and the nuclear missile is fired and the ring of fire disperses. The world is saved.Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea has excellent special effects and a good theme song.An excellent cast too Walter Pigeon (Forbidden Planet), Joan Fontaine (The Witches), Barbara Eden, Peter Lorre (20,000 Leagues Under the Sea, The Beast With Five Fingers) and Robert Sterling.Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea is a must for all sci-fi fans. Fantastic.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Great SciFi Classic !","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like most of us, I saw this movie as a kid paying 50 cents I recall. Now it is shown on Fox Movie Channel in letterbox and full-length, so I can really enjoy it again. Folks, this is 1961, before the Cuban Missile Crisis, President Kennedy was in office, and the U.S. was ready for the space age. Movies like this one showed to me a bright future for the world. It had an acute global warming problem, and a world organization arguing how best to deal with it. No one could save the world without the Seaview, and a nuclear missile. How futuristic was that! In many ways, this is in the same category as Forbidden Planet to me. Of course the story doesn't compare, but the ideas portrayed in both surely inspired some people to pursue science and technology in their lives. It is also reminiscent of Star Trek in many ways. Casting was decent using popular, safe actors of the time. Having the mysterious Michael Ansara, the beautiful Barbara Eden, handsome Frankie Avalon, and even Floyd the Barber from Andy Griffith (What DID Calvin Coolidge say.). Also the mature and beautiful Joan Fontaine added to the movie. A lot has happened in the world since I first saw this movie, some good some not so good. However for me personally, I love this movie, and when it's on, like today, I'll skip the NFL games, kick my shoes off, and make some popcorn to watch this classic. Who knows, I might even get a short nap in. Great for a December afternoon. "},{"Title":"The shakedown cruise for Irwin Allens futuristic Sub.","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Irwin Allens 1961 submarine flick.  Although the special effects are on the antiquated side the film when it came out in 61 was state of the art.  The movie led to the TV series of the same name but with a different cast.  Once again Peter Lorre is on a futuristic submarine on a dangerous mission (as in Disney's 1954 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea) The world is teetering on destruction from a force of nature. The submarine Seaview with its genius Admiral Nelson aboard played by Walter Pidgeon knows how to save the world.  However there are those who don't want him to succeed.  All in all a good Sci Fi feature.  Best if viewed in letter box.  Barbara Eden is included in the cast and as always is gorgeous.  Frankie Avalon, Michael Ansara, Joan Fontaine co-star.  Also look for Howard McNear best known for playing Floyd the barber on the Andy Griffith show as a congressman onboard to check out the submarine.  "},{"Title":"MUST SEE","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you're a sci-fi junkie as I am, this is one of your MUST SEES. Irwin Allen's Nuclear powered SEAVIEW is a marvel.  Must be seen in letterboxed format to appreciate all the effects.  I saw it in the theatres when 1st released and I still am in awe of it.  TV series only added to my delight. You'll enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Best Submarine Move Ever, Scientific Nonsense But Tremendous Fun","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a movie about a state of the art submarine. Walter Pidgeon, Joan Fontaine, Robert Sterling, and especially Barbara Eden do a superb job of acting. It is also state of the art inasmuch as it has Barbara Eden (Lt. Cathy Connors) on board, Actually no woman ever served on board until 20 years later. The main themes are a trip to the North pole under the ice and that the radiation layer is on fire. Joan Fontaine plays the part of a meddlesome pschiatrist and Michael Ansara plays the part on a  religious fanatic who independently  helps Joan Fontaine in the meddling dept. Actually the  meddling becmes more dangerous than the fire. Incidents with a rebellious crew, a giant octupus etc etc infinitum add fast action. Also there is a love affair between Lt. Cathy Connors (Barbara Eden) and Capt. Crane (Robert Sterling) which add love interest. Barbara Eden's acting (her fourth acting year) is execellent  and in my estimation she up-staged Joan Fontaine. Altogether a fantastic fun movie even if it was scientific nonsense. "}{"Title":"Great fun! Full of mystery","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When i first saw this film on DVD i thought, wow! Its great, its got my favourite actress Joan Fontaine who is really good in it and i'm glad Irwin Allen considered her for the role because its a good movie for all these stars. This film was a major box office hit in 1961 and a big cult classic to this day. The sets have dated but thats part of the fun, its best viewed on DVD with the widescreen presentation. Walter Pidgeon is quite good as the captain and 'Jeannie' Barbara Eden is quite good in one of her first roles, i think. Frankie Avalon does a beautiful entry for the films title song. Its mystery and actually quite sad. The ending of the film came a big shock to me as the saboteur came out of the radioactive engine room. You'll never guess who it is!Watch this film i highly recommend it, sure the story is quite far fetched but sit back and relax, this film has more intelligence and acting power than any new movie like 'Dude Wheres My Car' or American Pie. See this film for great veterans (Fontaine, Pidgeon, Peter Lorre!, Eden and Avalon). 10/10  "},{"Title":"great sci-fi film","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a disaster and science fiction movie all rolled into one. Walter Pigeon plays the captain of the ship and Joan Fontaine plays a doctor who has just recently come on board. When the come back up and find the sky is on fire and that the world is going to be destroyed when the heat is going to go too high, Pigeon comes up with a plan to save the world. Pideon goes to the UN with Peter Lorre, who plays a loyal scientist to Pigeon, but several other scientists disagree with Pigeon's plan and try to stop him. Pigeon has only two weeks to get to a certain spot on the other side of the world and his crew begins to turn on him and there is a saboteur on board who is trying to kill him. This is a bad title for this movie since they never even go down that deep. This is good for what it is and you should watch it. "},{"Title":"God's will is written above the heavens.","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea is produced and directed by Irwin Allen out of 20th Century Fox. The story was written by Irwin Allen and Charles Bennett and it stars Walter Pidgeon, Robert Sterling, Joan Fontaine, Barbara Eden, Michael Ansara, and Peter Lorre. The theme song was sung by Frankie Avalon, who also appears in the film. Winton Hoch is the cinematographer and the score is a joint collaboration by Paul Sawtell & Bert Shefter. It's a CinemaScope/De Luxe presentation.Admiral Harriman Nelson (Pidgeon) is commander of his new, state of the art nuclear submarine, The Seaview, which is on diving trials in the Arctic Ocean. When the sub surfaces the crew find the sky is burning, it seems that a meteor shower had occurred and a piece has fractured the Van Allen Radiation Belt causing it to catch fire, the result of which is a world-threatening increase in heat all across the Earth. Nelson proposes to the U.N. to detonate a Polaris nuclear missile in the belt to hopefully send it on a reverse spin into outer space. However, his idea is shot down at the meeting and he decides to take matters into his own hands. Setting off for the calculated launching point in the Marianas Trench, the crew of The Seaview must tackle terrors of the deep, pursuing hostile submarines and severe in fighting as the crew start to come apart under pressure.To those of us who were reared on pre Star Wars sci-fi it's hard to grasp the complaints of the modern audience about old time genre movies and the effects that reside within. Before George Lucas took sci-fi and cinema watching to a different level involving pacey action every other frame, explosions a plenty and money inspired effects our tastes were happily catered for by solid stories, character development and the odd bit of inspired for its time effects. Enter Irwin Allen's Voyage To The Bottom Of The Sea which boasts all those latter points mentioned.That the film was turned into a television series that ran for 5 seasons (64-68) is arguably its biggest legacy. For at the time of its release the critics gave it a very mixed response, but the public made it a hit. Made for roughly $2 million it comfortably made $7 million at the box office to justify Allen's faith in the movie. Watching it now as an adult it has lost none of the charm it had for me as a child. Only differences now are that I can sensibly think about such things as the science involved, observe a cheeky pro-nuclear stance in the Cold War era, and of course admire the form of Barbara Eden in a way I wouldn't have done as a spotty faced kid!.It's now also a film, thanks to the advent of home entertainment technology, that looks and sounds great. There's plenty of De Luxe colour eye candy visuals, some vintage effects and good quality underwater photography. The production design holds up well, while The Seaview itself, with its on board aquarium and unique eight-window bow view port, remains an indelible piece of sci-fi folklore. The acting isn't called on to be much, but they all deliver professional turns, while Avalon's title song is a catchy piece of harmony. All that and you also get Peter Lorre brooding and taking a shark for a walk!.Red sky at night is a slice of sci-fi pie delight. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi & Disaster","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As my IMDb comment history reveals, I have a love or addiction to all things Irwin Allen related. However, in my view, this under-rated producer started with a rather average or poor bunch of 1950s movies...such as The Story Of Mankind. Voyage/Sea might not be perfect but, to me, it is the official start of the Irwin Allen I know and love Voyage is a sci-fic movie, a disaster movie about a fire, an end-of-the-world movie, a movie with striking sets/miniature effects, and finally, the very first Irwin show to highlight the need of a top (and loud) musical score, thanks to composer Paul Sawtell. Over the decades I have made an estimated 70 viewings of this motion picture!This epic begins with Frankie Avalon singing - Come with me, come with me, on a Voyage, to the Bottom, of the Sea - and this totally under-rated song (it compares with the best of Sinatra!) should of been re-used in the Voyage/Sea TV series...as everything else in this picture was lifted into the series.Shortly after, the film then moves into Admiral Nelson giving us a tour of the submarine Seaview, which resembles the opening minutes of the Irwin Allen directed Time Tunnel pilot (1966) when we were also given a Tunnel complex tour.The Paul Sawtell scored footage of the icebergs pounding on the Seaview and the footage of the Seaview surfacing in a red sea would rank as some of the most striking bits of footage in Irwin's long history of film/TV making! Outstanding!The cast of this motion picture is fine but I know this cast from other quality productions (Forbidden Planet, I Dream Of Jeannie) and am not all together comfortable seeing this cast on the Seaview. Give me Richard Basehart (and the flying sub!).Some fans will put down this film because it features no Richard Basehart or David Hedison, but remember this, without this film there would of been no Voyage/Sea (1964-68) TV series. That is recorded fact! The budget for all of these sets, props and effects was HUGE, too huge for a TV series of the 1960s. The series happened because it could lift everything from the film. "},{"Title":"Interesting psychological approach","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea is a decent sci-fi experience that plays a psychological angle all the way up until the end.  Walter Pidgeon leads the crew of the Seaview in an effort to launch a nuclear missile into the Van Allen radiation belt.  The belt has caught fire and is threatening life on earth.  The psychological angle is interesting as the viewer is given evidence that Pidgeon's plan might be insane and him along with it.  Some interesting confrontations ensue as the submarine and it's crew face the pressures of the voyage.  Not all is as it seems to be and the unpredictability is one of the movie's strengths.  The effects are decent and the drama comes from within the crew, somewhat of a change from other sci-fi efforts of the era.  There is the occasional danger from giant squid and octopi but these moments are few.  The cast is excellent and much effort is spent developing relationships and creating conflict.  The movie is a little different from the standard fair which makes it more interesting.  The ending is also one of the most anti-climactic I've seen on film and not overly satisfying.  6.5/10   "},{"Title":"Thrilling and exciting submarine movie dealing with the Van Allen radiation that threatens Earth","Date":"19 October 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As the trailer movie explains ¨In all the world of fact and fiction..There has never been an adventure like Irwin Allen's Voyage to the bottom of the sea . Prepare for the most exciting experience , you have ever a motion picture theatre¡ ¨ . This is a Sci-fi thriller in which Admiral Harriman Nelson (Walter Pidgeon) as the commander of an experimental, extraordinarily designed US sea sub called ¨Seaview¨ and as second-in-command captain Lee Crane (Robert Sterling) take on several hazards and risks that are threatening all life on Earth . They encounter in the Arctic that suffers from melting iceberg caused by a burning radiation belt called Van Allen . Nelson is called into rescue a castaway (Michael Ansara) trapped on the remaining of an ice floe . Later on , there appears a saboteur aboard and the atomic submarine sit races to set off the torpedoes which Adm. Harriman knows will explode the dangerous radiation.Acceptable submarine movie blends adventure , action, intrigue , disaster spectacle, hokey fun ,suspense and emotional happenings with romance included . Our heroes incarnated by a throughly believable casting of the splendid character players get stuck in the ship before the world explodes , undertaking numerous adventures and suffering innumerable perils .It includes a series of interesting ideas that benefit from a decent screenplay and nice special effects to make regular-size Octopus seem like deep-sea giant. There are also mine fields, large squids and attacking sub courtesy of the flamboyant FX team . The protagonists spend most of their time devising intelligent ways for avoid to die from solar radiation . The underwater scenes , burning skies, explosion , pyrotechnics, floods are spectacular but the film is just another usual Hollywood product . High level all star cast as it stars Walter Pidgeon as efficient Nelson , Peter Lorre as his scientific assistant and Robert Sterling and Barbara Eden as intimate couple , plus the singer Frankie Avalon and the fanatic religious Michael Ansara and of course the attractive Joan Fontaine . Lively score musical fitting to action by Paul Sawtell and colorful cinematography by Winton C Hoch . Lavishly produced and directed by Irwin Allen who would go on filmmaking millionaire products as ¨The Poseidon adventure¨, ¨The towering inferno¨¨ and ¨Beyond of Poseidon¨ this picture is one of the last Allen's flops along with ¨Swarm¨and ¨When the time ran out¨ . It's followed by a successful and long running series , a TV show with the well known characters starred by Richard Basehart as Nelson and David Hedison as captain. Rating  Good family fare , acceptable and passable Sci-fi movie ; kids and teenagers will have a fine time. "},{"Title":"Was Irwin Allen a second Jules Verne?","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Irwin Allen is science fiction fans' favorite whipping boy. Many commentators have correctly noted the scientific impossibilities in Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea. Theodore Sturgeon corrected these errors on his novelization of the movie, ie, the Van Allen belt does not burst into fire but it is turned into a gigantic lens focusing heat into the ozone layer.What Allen did was foresee the possibility of a environmental catastrophe. With the problem of global warming, that prediction has come true. Global warming is the fire belt in slow motion. That places Allen on the level of Jules Verne in predicting the future.In the movie, Admiral Nelson tells the UN that when the temperature reaches 175 degrees F., civilization will cease to exist. In a recent Nicholas von Hoffman column on global warming, he mentions that we may need to learn to live in a temperature of 175 degrees F.Just coincidence? "},{"Title":"A Few Films you should see first","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Recently I bought a copy of ON THE BEACH, an anti-nuclear film made in 1959. It was branded defeatist by many American critics at that time, who disliked the idea of American's resigned to their fate after a nuclear holocaust. A film that is still worth a watch. ***(POSSIBLE SPOILERS)A week later I bought VOYAGE TO THE BOTTOM OF THE SEA, which came out in 1961. Wow, is it interesting to compare these two films. In the first, the world is destroyed by the bomb, and in the later, the world is saved by it. The defeatist attitude of the first film is countered in the second, who slams a God fearing man for wanting to accept his fate.Comparisons can also be drawn with THE CAINE MUTINY (1954). Both had characters who were in authority positions who had their sanity questioned. In the early film, this character was found to be insane, but in the later cleared of this charge.  All in all, VOYAGE was a fun watch. I had heard that the model of the submarine cost 400,000, but that's a little hard to believe. The copy I have is on the same disk as FANTASTIC VOYAGE, at at $24 Canadian, I felt that I got my monies worth. "},{"Title":"There's an immutable Hollywood law . . .","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" . . . that says Any film written, produced and directed by one person will be a stinker. This film is no exception.It is not science fiction but science rubbish. The Van Allen belt catching fire is as likely as the force of gravity going rusty. The world famous scientist admiral makes his crucial calculations on a slide rule. When he asks the captain Just exactly where are we?, the captain turns to a map of the world, jabs his finger at the South Atlantic Ocean and says We're right here, Sir. The conventional submarine chasing them EXplodes because it has gone too deep. When the captain orders the engine room All stop, the sub comes to a dead halt. And so on, ad nauseam.It would be funny were it not for the truly frightening message that underlies the plot, namely that in any global crisis a US commander may take it upon himself to save the world, and his chosen solution will be to nuke the problem. Half a century later we still hover on the brink of that precipice today. "},{"Title":"A Decent Sci-Fi Adventure","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I admit that I was put off a little bit by the beginning of this movie - and especially by the title song sung by Frankie Avalon, which seemed to set this up as some sort of light comedy or romantic adventure. It's not comedy, and while there's a bit of romance - between Captain Crane (Robert Sterling) and his fiancé Cathy (Barbara Eden) - this basically stands up as a fairly tense and exciting sci-fi adventure.No doubt the science behind the movie is implausible. A meteor shower sets ablaze the Van Allen radiation belt around the earth, quickly escalating our planet's temperature, and Admiral Nelson (Walter Pidgeon) comes up with a scheme to fire an atomic missile into the belt to extinguish the flames before the heat extinguishes the world. The world opposes his plan, but he orders the submarine Seaview to head for the firing point. Along the way the crew face all sorts of challenges, from a religious fanatic who convinces much of the crew that the end is near, to a potential mutiny from that portion of the crew who want to spend their last hours with their families at home, to various underwater and dangerous sea creatures, to sabotage, to attack by another sub trying to stop them. There's a lot packed into this. Along the way, Crane and Nelson themselves have differences over the correct course of action.Basically, this is a fun movie - under-rated here in my opinion. It's probably best known as the movie that spawned the 60's TV series of the same name. That series began as a fairly straight dramatic sci-fi adventure, but dissolved in subsequent seasons into a fun but silly show mostly dealing with various monsters from leprechauns to werewolves. The movie plays it straight pretty much all the way through, and it does a pretty good job of it. It gets 8/10. "}{"Title":"Very good underwater saga","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Voyage to the bottom of the Sea was the beginning in a long run of Sci-Fi films and TV shows by Irwin Allen. The film has a good cast Walter Pidgeon, Joan Fontaine, Peter Lorre, Frankie Avalon, Barbara Eden and Michael Ansara. The special effects for their time were ahead of what others in the field were doing with the exception of Toho Studios. A sub is dispatched on a mission and then is summonsed to the UN. The Van Allen belt has caught fire and will kill life on earth. The Seaview (the name of the sub)and it's crew are determined to fire a missile on a specific date and time to stop the fire. The film has a nice music score to enhance the action. A must see for fans of Sci-Fi films. "},{"Title":"global warming's got nothing on what happens here","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As we keep hearing more about how global warming is rising the earth's temperatures slowly but surely, Irwin Allen's Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea becomes even more interesting. Walter Pigeon plays an admiral leading his submarine to a coordinate in the Pacific Ocean to fire a missile at the Van Allen belt to stop it from blowing the world up. Completely outlandish? It sure is, but cool as can be. And let's face it, the movie's not pretending to be Citizen Kane; it's nice, unadulterated fun.I would suspect that when the movie first came out, Walter Pigeon, Joan Fontaine, Peter Lorre and Frankie Avalon were the most recognizable faces in it. To us in the 21st century, the most recognizable face is probably none other than Barbara Eden (playing a secretary), just a few years before she became famous as a certain Arabian harem. She wears one of those hokey secretary suits, but it looks good on her (as any outfit would). Also starring is her then-husband Michael Ansara, as a man found on an iceberg.All in all, very enjoyable. And I still wonder how Barbara Eden looked under that secretary suit... "},{"Title":"Old but good sci-fi","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this at the theater in 1961 and thought it was the last word in science fiction. I recently saw it on the tube and cringed a bit at the unlikely plot and cheesy dialog, but it's still great early sci-fi. Those familiar with Irwin Allen's overwrought disaster films (the original Poseidon, the Towering Inferno) will recognize his touch but find Voyage a more enjoyable film. The photography is beautiful as is the sub itself (the innovative Seaview, a design still unmatched by the world's navies), and the movie features a good mix of older and younger stars, including a very cute, pre-Jeannie Barbara Eden (and her then-husband Michael Ansara).Watch and appreciate this movie for what it is a fun, groundbreaking, modern sci-fi prototype. "},{"Title":"a comment about Mark Slade","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mark and I were students together in high school. He grew up in Middleton, Massachusetts, and attended Holten High School in Danvers, Massachusetts, prior to going off to Worcester Polytech... He was a good friend, and a great guy. His biography said that he was a great artist, although he did love cartooning and certainly drew the attention of a lot of the girls at the time, he had a great sense of humor and always had a smile and a degree of concern and care for those people he came in contact with. I read his website and it said he did some consulting and still lives out in the Los Angeles area. His home town during his youth was a very small place and could not afford the expense of a high school, so they got on the bus every morning and came over the road from Middleton to Danvers which was a few miles down the road. About the time Mark and I completed school, the students from Middleton went to Salem High School, which was larger and could take more kids. The movie Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea, is a sci-fi classic and is/was one of the best done. I also followed the television series in which Mark also played. "},{"Title":"Lots of fun","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ever wonder where Star Trek and all the other Sci-Fi series got there starts?I used to watch the series as a kid back when the UK only had 3 television channels, and they were offline more than online back in the 1960s when this was the State-Of-The-Art.Now, over 40 years after it was made and most of the cast are either dead or retired, this movie is still standing the test of Time.The plot is a little silly, with glaring holes that submarines could be driven through, and the acting is a little on the hammy-side sometimes, but for an entertaining look at how movie-makers in the 50s/60s thought the future might look, this is an excellent peek into how Hollywood was thinking at the time.The cast seem to mesh well together around stilted dialogue (Military Police swim like fish - it's part of their training), and the prodigious talents of the likes of Joan Fontaine and Peter Lorre are somewhat reined-in, but overall this movie is still great to watch over four decades after they made it. "},{"Title":"A fast paced action picture","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recommend this fast paced action adventure movie. Well written picture with a good cast of actors that keep the story moving without any pause. Give it 3 stars. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood Fiction? No, Irwin Allen's...","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a laughable movie this is, it's so bad that makes you laugh all the way through! A mess from beginning to end, the story goes with a nuclear sub that at the first scene raises from the bottom of the sea literally like a dolphin would (you can imagine the crew jumping like tennis balls inside) , receiving civilians inside(Joan Fontaine as a doctor is one of them) and giving a tour through the sub... a submarine that looks like a five stars hotel, big rooms full of space, an admiral that is also a top scientist and an inventor (Walter Pidgeon) with an officer(Peter Lorre)always beside him that no one knows what the heck he does in the sub, except for babysit a tiny white shark that no one knows why on earth is in the sub... a romance between the captain (Robert Sterling) and the admiral's secretary (a gorgeous Barbara Eden) and Frankie Avalon to get teenage audience... suddenly the Van Allen ring is on fire (why, or better HOW a belt of radiation in the middle of the space WITHOUT OXYGEN can catch fire is, of course, never explained) and the earth temperature rises up to 70 Celsius degrees!! at that moment most of the crew appears at surface and they sweat like in a really hot day!! my god they all should die roasted... everything in this movie is laughable, like the United Nations gathering with at most 30 people, including 2 geishas, 3 African fellows, 2 Muslims, a Moroccan guy, an Hindu one... the US guy should wear a cowboy hat and side pistols, what the heck!! the admiral's plan to save the earth nuke the ring with a missile (again no one wonder how a missile could possibly reach the space), and in the road to do the task more crazy nonsense stuff two giants octopusses attacking for no reason, a mine field in the middle of nowhere just to create some tension, a doctor who knows how to sabotage a nuclear reactor, then go nuts and tries to murder the admiral, and ends up eaten by the white shark (that's why is in the sub!) an so on and on... Barbara Eden in her tight dress and high heels -yes, heels for women is common fashion in US nuclear subs- is the only thing worth to watch, otherwise a complete and forgettable disaster! "},{"Title":"Irwin Allen's 1961 underwater adventure serves up some great fun!","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Impossible? You sound like Zucco. Nothing is impossible. Fun. This is a word that is apparently taboo in Hollywood of today. But it used to be that having fun was what going to the movies was all about. So it was with Irwin Allen's 1961 undersea adventure, Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea. You'll be hearing the word fun in this review a lot. It merits repeating, especially in today's world where movies are so insistent upon being serious and meaningful.The Seaview is a new atomic submarine designed and built by Admiral Harriman Nelson of the U.S. Navy to explore and study the mysterious undersea world. The thing is so big that Nelson was laughed at by all of his naval buddies for trying to build it, using his own personal fortune to see his dream realized. Not his dream is a reality and he is personally leading a mission to the Arctic to explore under the ice floes with his new research vessel, commanded by Captain Lee Crane and also including marine biologist and Navy officer Commodore Lucius Emery (played by Peter Lorre!).Along for the ride are Congressman Llewelyn Parker, Vice-Admiral Crawford and Dr. Susan Hiller. Parker and Crawford are there for money reasons (having exhausted all of his own money, Nelson obviously would like more funding for his expeditions, and wants the moneymen to see what the Seaview can do). Dr. Hiller is a psychiatrist doing a study of submarine crews in stressful situations. A stressful situation presents itself immediately early into its first dive under the ice the Seaview is hammered by chunks of ice as the surface melts and breaks up above them.Surfacing, Admiral Nelson, his crew and his guests discover the reason that the ice is melting the sky is on fire.As far as the eye can see the Earth's atmosphere is ablaze blood-red. After rescuing the lone survivor of an Arctic surveying crew found drifting on a chunk of ice, Nelson orders the Seaview to return to the U.S. post-haste, where he and Commodore Emery are to partake in a scientific meeting at the United Nations. Here we learn the fire is caused by the Van Allen Belt, which essentially means the Earth is surrounded by a ring of ever-burning fire and slowly being cooked.Nelson comes up with a plan to overseed the belt with excess radiation, causing it to burn itself out, by launching a missile into it from a specific point in the Marianas Trench. But another scientist, Dr. Emilio Zucco, who believes the belt will burn itself out, worries that Nelson will only make things worse. Explode the belt and you explode the world! Sadly, the U.N. sides with Zucco and forbids Nelson from enacting his plan. Panicking and desperate to save the world, Nelson flees back to the Seaview where he lies to Captain Crane and his crew saying that he did get U.N. approval, and soon the Seaview is underway.Getting to the Marianas is going to be difficult, as poor Nelson is going to face every conceivable kind of problem along the way. The Seaview will have to face a giant squid, a giant octopus (as if the squid wasn't enough), sea mines and another submarine sent to hunt them down.Can Nelson do it?! Admiral Nelson and Commodore Emery are fun and likable heroes, if a little over the hill, and you never doubt once that Nelson isn't 100% right. Mostly due to the fact it's the obvious conclusion, but also due to Walter Pidgeon's earnest and believable performance as an admiral who just wants to do the right thing and save billions. Even the stock character of the loony religious guy is well-acted. The story is somewhat episodic and the special effects aren't all that special, as the Seaview is obviously a model in all of the underwater shots, esp. during the octopus attack, but this never ruins the fun, and if it does, then you probably shouldn't be watching Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea to begin with! Seriously, don't watch this is models bug you. Otherwise, enjoy.I applaud and enjoy Allen's epic undersea adventure and salute Admiral Nelson for saving the world and providing my DVD collection with what is just a plain fun movie. I know I keep saying that, but it's true. And when so much of cinema today has ceased to just be fun, it merits mentioning as often as possible when something is. Especially an older movie such as Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea. "},{"Title":"Irwin Allen Does Van Allen","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have been a huge fan of Irwin Allen's TV show Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea for over 45 years now, and have come to regard it as Star Trek underwater. (Actually, since Voyage preceded Capt. Kirk & Co. by two years, it might be fairer to regard Star Trek as Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea in outer space!) Somehow, however, I had never watched Allen's original 1961 film on which the television program was based...until last night, that is. Now I realize that the film works as a nice introduction to the superior series, and that even though it avoids the silliness that would be the hallmark of the TV incarnation's Season 4, it still remains a strangely corny sci-fi outing. Fortunately, it also features a top-notch cast and better-than-adequate FX; how impressive they must have looked on the 1961 CinemaScope screen! During the course of the film, Adm. Nelson races his new atomic sub, the Seaview, halfway across the world to a spot in the Pacific, where he hopes to shoot a rocket at (and thus extinguish) the suddenly blazing Van Allen belt that is threatening all life on Earth. En route, Nelson and crew face what is by now a familiar roster of Voyage to problems minefields, sea monsters, sabotage attempts, an attacking sub and squabbling amongst themselves. It's all great fun for both young and old alike, but well done as it all is, I kept finding myself yearning for the familiar cast and crew that I'd grown to love by dint of watching those 110 TV episodes over and over again for decades. Walter Pidgeon and Robert Sterling just don't seem as likable to me as Richard Basehart and David Hedison in the Adm. Nelson and Capt. Crane roles. Also, I find Frankie Avalon's title song here sappy and inappropriate, the saboteur's motivations dubious, and the film's conclusion way too abrupt. Nice to see Del Monroe on board, though, with his Kowalski character (here, in this early incarnation, called Kowski). Oh...one of the film's stars, Barbara Eden, gives a very interesting interview on the Voyage to DVD, and even four decades later, still looks fantastic; she must have asked for the gift of eternal beauty from a genie in a bottle somewhere.... "},{"Title":"Exciting film with a good cast","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- 1961, Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea, A new super-sub becomes the only way to fight to save the Earth. The earth's radiation belt has caught fire by meteor showers. The sub must fight giant squids and many other ocean challenges to fire a missile to solve the rising HOT temps.*Special Stars- Barbra Eden early role as the sub captain's love interest. Walter Pigeon plays the Admiral Nelson. Peter Lorie plays the shark scientist. Frankie Avalon sings the movie title theme song and plays the sub Control room's comedy relief.*Theme- Science can solve all problems.*Based on- Many nautical legends and apocalyptic myths.*Trivia/location/goofs- Irwin Allen directed extravaganza. This film spawned a long and popular TV series with a different cast.*Emotion- An enjoyable and exciting film with a good cast. "}{"Title":"Classic Irwin Allen","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back in the '70s, this movie was on the 430 Movie after school on WABC several times. Even though it was on only a handful of times, it made an impression on me, probably because I also liked the show back then. This was Irwin Allen's own version of 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. Admiral Nelson was as much the iconoclastic genius as Captain Nemo ever was. If Walt Disney had a fight with a giant squid, the eventual Master of Disaster decided to go him one better with both a giant octopus and a giant squid. I didn't see it again until the '90s, but I enjoyed it more then than years before.Unlike the series, this, for the most part, tried to be serious. Save for a few decent episodes, the series was the epitome of campiness, seemingly a specialty of Allen's. It's part of the reason that today, I don't watch the show anymore, preferring to watch this movie every once in a while. Although, like most of Allen's writing, there's virtually no character development. You're given a couple of hooks into each character and that's it. The admiral is brilliant, irascible and smokes cigars. The captain looks out for his men and is engaged. His fiancée is the admiral's secretary and always believes in him. Alvarez is a religious nutjob. Frankie Avalon's lieutenant plays the trumpet. Beyond things like that, Allen preferred action scenes rather than showing what motivated them.It's a pity the show never had a female regular. Sure, Barbara Eden was better off starring in I Dream of Jeannie, but a regular female touch would have been more pleasing than the all-boys boat of the series (plus occasional female guest stars). Only one cast member would return for the series. Square-jawed Del Monroe played rebellious crewman Kowski, but as show regular and sonar operator Kowalski, became just the opposite, loyal to a fault to his captain and admiral.It's arguable whether Walter Pidgeon's Admiral Nelson was better than Richard Basehart's. Certainly Basehart's became more familiar over the course of four seasons. This Captain Crane is far more irritating than David Hedison's, though. It seemed that he spent an awful lot of time just walking around the sub rather than being in the control room. And when he wasn't doing that, he was sulking, snapping at his crew, second-guessing the Admiral and just generally being borderline insubordinate.There are subtle differences between this USOS Seaview and the SSRN Seaview of the show. Foremost is the observation lounge in the nose. Many have decried that the nose exterior has eight windows while the lounge only has four (a problem fixed when they built a new model later in the show), but eight windows actually make more sense here than in the show. Unlike the show, the observation lounge is not a direct extension of the control room, but on the deck below, reached by the spiral staircase. It's conceivable that there were four more windows above the lounge, at the same level as the control room. The exterior is still a distinctive design even today, although modern subs designed for possible arctic operations eschew diving planes on the sail to avoid damage to them when breaching polar ice. And many modern subs do use an X-shaped tailfin configuration, although Allen chose it for a different reason (he liked the tailfins on his car).I definitely don't miss everyone rocking from one side of the sub to the other and back as the rubber-suited monster of the week clutched the eight-foot model of the Seaview.The science was, as usual for Allen, laughable. A radiation belt that burns. Ice that sinks. They're too deep for divers, so they use a minisub. But the men inside the the minisub are wearing scuba gear, so it's a wet sub that wouldn't protect them against outside water pressure. Not to mention numerous inconsistencies. The reactor room is shown early on to have an alarm system, but a saboteur easily walks past it on the way in and out without setting it off.The Master of Recycling eventually reused numerous scenes from the movie in the series, sometimes the same scene in several different episodes. And these weren't just the usual Seaview under way stock footage, but things like them being chased by the attack sub or the men searching for the undersea telephone cable/octopus fight. "},{"Title":"Snotty Italians, nuclear bombs and Peter Lorre!","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I expected a sort of 'Journey to the Centre of the Earth', but I got an early Crimson Tide instead! You won't hear me complaining.Admiral Nelson designed a new sort of submarine, and he wants to convince the world his project was worthy. So he invites a vice admiral and a congressman along for it's first ride, towards the north pole. Also on the ship are Captain Crane, his love interest and secretary Luitenant Connors and famous female psychologist Dr. Hiller, among with a variety of members of the crew.When the submarine encounters some difficulties underneath, the sub is brought back to the surface. At then I thought the movie would go for some surreal angle, as the sky is literally on fire. But it turns out it's like that all over the world. So the sub rushes back to New York where the top scientists in the UN building decide what to do next. Snotty Italian guy Dr. Zucco suggests we do nothing, as the reign of fire eventually will destroy itself. But admiral Nelson can't wait for that long, and against the will of the UN guides his sub towards the pacific, where he wants to fire a nuclear rocket into the sky. Meanwhile, there are all sorts of trouble, as the sub is attacked by giant sea-monsters and UN submarines. Also, there is a saboteur amongst the crew, mutiny is about to break loose and who is that mysterious Mr. Alvarez?This sure is a fun-packed movie from the sixties. It really looks terrific and the acting is great. Such a surprise to see Peter Lorre suddenly appear in it! The tension is rising throughout the movie, I just couldn't stop watching! The scenes in the UN are hilarious, and when the Admiral says 'I don't listen to the UN, I only listen to the President of the USA', you can't help but wonder... was this movie recently shown in the White House?7/10. "},{"Title":"Not All That Bad","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was a good science fiction film for the era it was made in.  I know a lot of people talk about the fact that it has a lot of scientific inaccuracies, but I prefer to take it for what it is, a great adventure film.  Also, the characters may be stock but I like them for what they are. This definitely is a good way to spend a Saturday afternoon. "},{"Title":"disaster movie pretends to be sci-fi/fantasy","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really wanted to like this movie. Great cast &#150; Walter Pidgeon in a role that reminds us of his iconic Forbidden Planet, Barbara Eden and Robert Sterling as young lovers, Frankie Avalon as a musically inclined sailor (is a guy on a submarine a sailor?), even Peter Lorre as a scientist with a fondness for sharks. Maybe it's a good kiddie movie but I had trouble staying awake. Lorre was severely underused. I guess he was a red herring, like Pidgeon &#150; you expect him to maybe go nuts and try to throw the hero or his gal in the shark tank. No such luck. By the way, why is there a shark tank on a submarine? It's typical of the movie's lack of ambition. They explain why Lorre is walking the shark back and forth (because we're seeing it) but just expect us to accept the fact that there's a shark on this sub for some reason. Research? Yeah, scientists are always doing that research stuff, who can understand them? Of course, if there wasn't a shark, who would kill the evil psychologist lady (Joan Fontaine)? I'm sorry but even kid's movies in the 50s are capable of being less predictable and frankly idiotic (not to mention exploitative).The first 10 or 15 minutes really got my hopes up. Great theme song sung by Frankie Avalon. Pidgeon leading Floyd the Barber (Howard McNear actually, sorry Howie loved ya in Blue Hawaii) and Joan Fontaine on a guided tour, careful to skip the room with the huge WARNING sign on the door, past Peter Lorre with aforementioned sharks, and then we see a full screen shot of Eden shaking her moneymaker to Avalon's impassioned horn playing! The movie quickly goes downstream from there. There's no real explanation for the firestorm threatening the Earth, so there's a distinct lack of dramatic tension and no villain to boot. Instead Pidgeon's character is made into an unconvincing red herring vaguely of the Ahab variety (I guess The Caine Mutiny was still fresh in people's minds), and Fontaine's character suddenly turns evil for no reason at the end. Oh, I suppose the reason is that it's a surprise for the audience. And it is kind of surprising, since the only negative thing she's done is to talk bad about the captain's mental health and there's STILL no reason why she did the sabotage after she's revealed to be the villain. Very poorly done and unconvincing. The guy who was the pessimistic bible nut was better &#150; at least his character made sense.So what else could go wrong? Endless, interminable scuba-diving footage. I never understand the appeal of that kind of thing. A giant squid attacks the ship for a minute, just so there's a monster for the theatrical trailer. Maybe that fooled some people into thinking it was going to be a fantasy adventure film, instead of a half-baked suspense movie about military scientists who are never wrong. Yes &#150; perhaps worst of all, it's barely a fantasy movie much less a science fiction movie. It never did anything for my imagination because the whole premise was nothing but another disaster/apocalypse and these characters never experience any feelings of wonder or discovery. I'm through with Irwin Allen. I never liked his later movies anyway, but this one got me by pretending to be Jules Verne when it's really just another formula exercise in disaster escapism. The whole movie is just waiting to see which character will improbably turn evil and die. He always hired an actor/actress with a charming and personable screen persona to play these roles and that's the only element of surprise to be found since there's no logic to these characters anyway. What a pathetic waste of time for these actors. George Pal's movies are 100 times better (the only one that was lame was Atlantis, which, not coincidentally, was the most Allen-esquire), full of wonder and excitement and &#150; think of it! &#150; ideas! Other than a few effects scenes and Barbara Eden, there's nothing worth seeing here in my opinion. I guess it's good fun for those who are into disaster movies, but I think they are a hollow and dull genre of films. "},{"Title":"Surprising stable in choppy waters - 57%","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now I know that this isn't normally within my viewing tastes but one name caught my eye - Walter Pigeon. You see, I was fascinated by the idea that a leading man in Hollywood could have such a ridiculous name. Not only that but his name is billed above comic genius Leslie Nielsen on my poster for Forbidden Planet and I wondered for years why that would be the case. So this early Sixties sci-fi actioner would give me a chance to evaluate an actor who has been something of an enigma for me. Even when IMDb won't let me spell his name correctly!Pigeon plays Admiral Nelson (wonder where that name came from?), leading a team of square-jawed Americans on the experimental submarine Seaview under the arctic ice-flow. When they re-emerge after a few days under the ice, you'll never guess what happened? The Van Allen radiation belt surrounding the earth somehow caught fire (the what?) and it's up to the Admiral and his crew to save the world by launching a nuke into the ring of fire surrounding the Earth. Naturally, not everyone agrees (especially the Lenin-lookalike scientist who basically proposes to look at it and wish for itself to burn out) and when the crew of the Seaview begin to question the Admiral, led by upstart Captain Crane (Robert Sterling), the vessel has trouble inside and outside the sub to content with.There's no disguising that the fact that the story is a load of old cobblers. Not only is Admiral Nelson a top scientist as well, he plans to launch the nuke in the face of other scientific evidence that would suggest the annihilation of mankind would result from his actions. Reminded me of the current President but anyway... the film's real strengths are the performances wrought out of the actors and the amazing set-design. It feels like a real sub - a brief tour at the beginning of the film shows how much thought went into the design of the sub, though the model shots are a little crude as you'd expect. And despite the seemingly endless obstacles thrown at them (including a fantastic scene underwater with a squid-like piece of rubber), this is still an exciting and well-shot film and especially so when you consider it's age. It's miles better than the recently viewed Land That Time Forgot with Doug McClure and that's in spite of the supposed advances in technology between the early Sixties and the mid Seventies.In truth, there are several themes I picked up on that I found disturbing. America is great, Communism is bad, nukes are OK actually. Kinda chilling when you stop and consider where we are today. And though I have serious doubts whether the Van Allen radiation belt would catch fire in real life (even if there was oxygen up there), I still feel that America's response today wouldn't be that far from what it was then. In short, this is a well-made and interesting picture. The Technicolour looks incredibly bright and this is probably due to restoration but even so, the film is one of the better made films of its time and certainly surprised me. Yes, there are rubber sharks and silly tentacles at times but what were you expecting? Voyage To The Bottom Of The Sea wouldn't set the world alight today but it is a movie well worth seeing if you believe all older movies are rubbish. Pigeon kicks ass! "},{"Title":"First 10-15 minutes, it loses me","Date":"25 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So, you see a full nose broaching, sub nose to tower comes shooting up out of water like a whale then falling back into the water? Then we learn they are at the Arctic? Just happens there is a large opening in the ice with blue water?It gets better, there is a huge floor aquarium on board, looks like a swimming pool, one that's hip deep that you can walk a shark. What happens to that water with the above surfacing at near 45 degrees?Melting icebergs are dropping pieces down to 500 feet? Why are they sinking like cement?Why does Seaview have tail lights? Why are they on underwater?How do you do crash dive a sub at a pier? Why would it, from a stand still, kill the men on deck? Wouldn't they just get washed overboard if moving forward, the boat sinking below them?My major problem is I can't even find this movie campy. "},{"Title":"The Ensemble Disaster Start of Irwin Allen","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although it includes merely adequate acting, has special effects that range from good to bad, uses a ridiculous scientific premise for its plot, and a script that telegraphs its surprises, I continue to love this film. This is probably Irwin Allen's first disaster film, but you could go back to his previous two films as either producer or director, The Big Circus and The Lost World and see elements of disaster in them as well. In Voyage, however, the disaster is right up front, and driving the plot. Like his earlier films, it also boasts a large ensemble cast, and confines them in a tight space. I enjoy stories that take place on trains, also a tight space. It's appealing to be on a moving vehicle with the scenery wisping by out the windows, and also realize a world of intrigue is going on in the various compartments inside the train. Voyage appeals for the same reason. The Van Allen Belt somehow catches fire and threatens the end of civilization, so the Admiral of the SS Seaview, Admiral Nelson (a well-cast Walter Pigeon) must sail to the Marianas trench within a short time to fire off an atomic missile to break up the belt and send it off into space. Things could go wrong of course. So the Admiral is on a mission and we are flung together with a mismatched group that is often at odds with each other's objectives. Personalities often clash. Peter Lorre, as Commodore Emery, the feisty scientific associate of the Admiral, is good at displaying an irascible disposition driven onward by dedication to his commanding officer. Robert Serling, unfortunately not much remembered today, plays devil's advocate as Captain Crane, gradually coming to believe that the Admiral's scheme is lunacy. He is engaged to Barbara Eden's character, Conners, and their banter consists mostly of her trying to talk him out of going against the Admiral. It eventually grows tiresome but at least she has that blue uniform which has more sex appeal than one would think. Playing a sort of Iago to the Captain's faith in the Admiral is Joan Fontaine, as Dr. Susan Hiller, brought aboard to do research about men under stress. She believes the Admiral is off balance and tries to convince the Captain, who almost takes charge of the Seaview, but is stopped in typical Irwin Allen fashion when when the Seaview gets attacked by a UN sub intent on ending Admiral's mission.The interior set of the Seaview probably doesn't seem like much these days with its wood paneling on walls and cupboards, or it's array of flashing Christmas tree lights on the control boards, but it felt modern to me back in 1961. I only had Disney's 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea as a submarine film to compare it to. Disney's film is certainly a more quality production than Voyage, but it has a lot in common with Allen's film. Leagues uses an ensemble cast as well. Peter Lorre is also in the cast. Like Pigeon's Admiral Nelson, James Mason's Captain Nemo is of a single mind with a plan that many others aboard would like to subvert. There is a saboteur on board the Nautlus as well, Kirk Douglas, who alerts the authorities to the whereabouts of Nemo's secret hideaway by setting bottles adrift with messages. And of course both films have a giant squid. Voyage's squid is pretty shameful, fx-wise, but the Disney squid isn't all that realistic either. Voyage also has a giant octopus attach itself to the glass window nose of the Seaview and has to be disengaged by electricity. Unlike the fake-looking squid, at least this was a real octopus attached to the front of the Seaview model, and it was exciting to see its suckers glomming on from the inside of the sub windows.Where the visual effects continue to hold up is in the shots of the sky afire as the Seaview skims the surface of the ocean. These shots are convincing, have scale and do suggest the magnitude of the disaster. One drawback is a view taken from outer space showing the burning Van Allen belt encircling the Earth in a news report. Just as fake as fake can get. And of course, even though it looked good on film, when the Seaview is in the North Pole and the ice floes break apart, sink and bang into the sub exterior, someone forgot to tell the director that ice floats, it doesn't sink.The music by Paul Sawtell & Bert Shefter uses a swirl of glissando harps and includes a main theme song sung by Frankie Avalon (who also appears in the film) that for some reason, as corny as it is, still seems hip somehow. Maybe I was comparing it to Disney's Leagues which had Kirk Douglas singing 'A Whale of a Tale, clearly a song of it's time. At least the main theme for Voyage had a pop star as the vocalist. The film was a big success when it came out, spawned a TV series, continues to show on Netflix and get re-releases on DVD and Bluray. So it has staying power, as dumb as it is. I like it for the reasons mentioned the ensemble cast in tight quarters, often at each other's throats as they travel through the sea to defy world opinion and save the world from itself. Perhaps I'm the only one who has this much affection for such a silly film, but it has a quality I've not found elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Rather Mundane","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When the Earth is threatened by a burning Van Allen Radiation Belt, US Navy Admiral Harriman Nelson plans to shoot a nuclear missile at the Belt using his experimental atomic submarine, the Seaview.I added this of my list of movies to see because it had Peter Lorre. Unfortunately, it had relatively little of Lorre, who seems to just wander around in the background. Seems like they could have used him better (though exactly why a German would be on a US ship is questionable).The story overall is just average, with the real selling point the cast Joan Fontaine, Barbara Eden, Frankie Avalon. If you like any of these stars, it is worth watching the film. If not, it is pretty uninteresting by AIP standards. "},{"Title":"Grand escapist fare.","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Harriman Nelson (Walter Pidgeon) is the visionary admiral of a cutting edge atomic submarine named the Seaview. When Planet Earth is threatened with incineration and needs to destroy the out of control Van Allen radiation belt, Nelson thinks he has the answer. Not everybody agrees with him, however, and as the story goes on more and more onlookers question not only his modus operandi, but his sanity.Story author / co-writer / producer / director Irwin Allen created a very fun movie here. It does take a bit of influence from 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea, but is still fine entertainment in its own right. It's commendable that, as often as Allen and company focus on setbacks and spectacle, they don't forget the human element. Crew members are anxious to return to their loved ones, especially if the end of the world truly is imminent.The sets are just wonderful. Seaview itself is quite the marvel, and is visioned as being very big. Rousing music by Paul Sawtell and Bert Shefter is another very enjoyable aspect. There are some twists thrown into the mix (like a saboteur on board), and among the obstacles that our intrepid crew must overcome are undersea mines, an attack by a (rather tired looking) giant squid (*and* an octopus!), and a potential mutiny. The special effects are, all in all, pretty good. The fairly large cast is full of solid actors, with Pidgeon extremely engaging as the sometimes domineering hero who believes that he *is* doing the right thing. He has palpable chemistry with Robert Sterling as Lee Crane, the sub captain with whom he frequently butts heads. Joan Fontaine, Barbara Eden (the first shot of her in the movie is most amusing), Peter Lorre, Michael Ansara, Frankie Avalon (who also croons the title tune), Regis Toomey, John Litel, Howard McNear, Henry Daniell, Mark Slade, Charles Tannen, and Robert Easton all do good work.Equal parts exciting and suspenseful, this early example of the disaster movie genre is well worth watching.Wanting to get more use out of his sets, Allen subsequently created a same-named TV series that starred Richard Basehart and David Hedison.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"On the verge of Vietnam, a chilling insight into the American mentality","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea, released in 1961, is an unintentionally chilling allegory into the mind of at least one major American film maker (Irwin Allen) on the verge of the most disastrous, divisive conflict in American history (Vietnam.) The plot is simple and the acting competent. The Van Allen radiation belt has caught fire and the world will be cooked to a crisp and all humanity killed unless a nuclear missile is launched into it. This solution is arrived at by American Admiral Nelson, a brilliant man of science who is going by his own calculations. He sets out on his submarine, the SeaView, to fire the missile from a spot in the Arctic. The subplots are the interesting facets of the film. Michael Ansara plays a religious man resigned, in his own mind, to the world being destroyed and that it's God's will. Joan Fontaine plays a doctor who also has reservations about what Admiral Nelson, played by Walter Pidgeon, is doing. Robert Sterling is Nelson's second in command who increasingly thinks the Admiral is crazy for going rogue. There are near mutinies by the crew who want to go home to their families against the unwavering belief by Admiral Nelson in what he's doing. The movie's final message is an ode to the persistence of Admiral Nelson, one man proceeding against all opposition. He represents the righteous man, the individual American, who doesn't need the consensus of the world community or even his own president (who Walter Pidgeon says is the only authority he need listen to anyway)to stop him from doing what's right. The movie portrays reasonable thinkers as the real villains. Religious men don't provide comfort. They're defeatist, insane, and even criminal. People who try to stop Admiral Nelson stoop to villainous means to do so. They're the real bad guys. They get theirs in the end. The only one that gets it is Nelson, the intelligent military man that saves the world with a weapon of mass destruction. American military power. That will save the day. One can picture a power mad LBJ seeing the movie and remarking how the one that truly counts and makes a difference is the American of vision that fights and continues fighting, not backing down, not listening to anyone else or admitting defeat until a mission, whatever it is, is complete. The movie, Crimson Tide is almost an exact remake with a completely different ending. There is a potential world catastrophe, radio silence, differing views among the crew and a (crazy?) submarine captain that may or may not be right. Unswerving loyalties are questioned by a reasonable interloper (Denzel Washington.) The captain's second in command thinks the captain insane and takes command from him. Lessons learned from 1961 write the different ending. The captain is mad and blindly firing weapons of mass destruction will destroy the world, not save it. The heroes are the thinkers and the skeptics and their sense and sanity save the day. If Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea preaches he who hesitates is lost, Crimson Tide preaches only fools rush in. Both movies show where we, as Americans, are in a given age with our views. "}{"Title":"Not bad, but badly dated","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" VOYAGE TO THE BOTTOM OF THE SEA was an early disaster outing for head genre honcho Irwin Allen, who later developed the idea into a successful, cult TV series. The story concerns the crew of a state-of-the-art submarine who must battle to stop the world being destroyed by a burning radiation belt, or some such nonsense.The resultant film is watchable but hardly gripping. It doesn't help that it's overlong and lacking in action and drama; despite the end-of-the-world scenario, everything feels very lacklustre and matter-of-fact; I don't think admiral Walter Pidgeon (FORBIDDEN PLANET) bats an eyelid, even when the future of mankind's at stake. Instead, the movie has a staid and laidback feel, descending into boredom at regular intervals.It's not all bad, because there are genre elements to heighten the interest, from the saboteur sub-plot to some fun, dated, special effects work. There's also a remarkable cast, including an ancient Peter Lorre and an ageing Joan Fontaine, along with singer Frankie Avalon and old-timer Henry Daniell. But while I'm predisposed to enjoy sci-fi movies from this era, even I have to admit this isn't one of the best. "},{"Title":"Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea","Date":"26 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film that kick started the long long long TV series that was basically Star Trek under the sea. So the success of this film of course lead to the TV show which in turn was a big success and encouraged the creator Irwin Allen to go ahead and make other sci-fi TV series that all had a similar look and feel about them...'Lost In Space' 'Land of the Giants' and 'The Time Tunnel'. So this original film was the spark that ignited a whole genre of classic TV.Yet despite all that...holy crapenstein this film was errrr...crap!. Now I've seen a lot of these old fantasy flicks from the 60's but this has to be the most boring sci-fi I've ever seen I kid you not. The plot is nuts, something about a meteor shower that is on fire threatening the Earth with an extreme rise in heat temperatures. So the Captain of this fancy ass submarine comes up with a plan to extinguish these flaming meteors by firing a nuke at them on a certain day and at a certain time. It has to be this exact time and day so the nuke will put out the flames and blast the meteors back into space. Wut?? say again? repeat all after the plot is nuts.The 'excitement' comes from the fact that this plan is rejected (really?) and only the US President can authorise it. So the devious Captain ignores this, gets his sub into position and tries to get in contact with El Presidente before the time slot is missed, of course there is a saboteur on board which makes things even more exciting!.I mean seriously there is nothing happening in this film! the plot is too stupid for words and makes no sense. When you watch the film you do agree with UN that the main plan is nuts and its probably best to leave the meteors alone. So you spend the entire film thinking this bunch of sailors on this fancy sub are doing something really really dangerous and stupid...without permission!. Of course we all know it will work but you still know its utterly stupid.There are various issues the subs crew must battle against to try and complete their illegal mission, typical stuff like under sea mines, debris, a mutiny, equipment being damaged blah blah blah, oh and a giant squid attack too. Yep that's right, you can't have an underwater adventure without a giant sea beast of some sort attacking the main vessel. So right away that compromises the films semi realistic approach, at first I thought it was sort of serious, outlandish sci-fi but kinda serious with sensible elements. The giant squid kinda turns the whole thing into complete fantasy and ruins that feel, I mean what next? mermaids saving the crew?.I think one of the main issues for me was the fact the film just looks totally dull, the action is lifeless and visually its just bland and plain. All the sets are clearly sets (they used the same sets for the TV show), the colours are stale, the costumes are drab, the sub model looks like something you'd see in 'Flesh Gordon' (a dildo with a windscreen) and most of the film is set within this monochrome tin can. I get the feeling the sub has been designed like a spacecraft, sleek, smooth and intimidating like a shark, as apposed to the steampunk-like design of the classic Nautilus. A wondrous and fantastical craft ready to set sail into unknown deep sea adventures...so what happened?. There are a few scenes outside the sub but nothing much inspiring goes on, the only sequence with some life is the squid attack naturally...but don't go expecting anything of Disney standards now.Imagine the original Star Trek show but without any planet hopping or alien encounters, just the crew on the ship having mechanical issues and chats...constantly. Yep well this is pretty much this film to a tee, a tonne of blokes on a sub with the obligatory blonde female sidekick doing virtually nothing but talk, with the odd shaky cam action sequence for good measure (with obligatory red flashing emergency light). I don't think any of this film cast star in the TV show, but it really doesn't matter as even the likes of Peter Lorre can't make this film any better.The films title sounds awesome and thrilling, how wrong could it be!. I was straining to get through this, I do recall the TV show being pretty boring when I was a kid but I hoped this would be much better seeing as it was the acorn that spawned the oak tree. I can't see how this was popular I really can't, there were so many other better fantasy/sci-fi films out around this time and this film totally pales in comparison.3.5/10 "},{"Title":"Voyage to the Bottom of Fun","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Enjoyable and entertaining film with a strong likable cast. The story is not for people who like to over-think things. It's one of those movies you have to sit back and enjoy for what it is a silly sci-fi adventure about a crew aboard a super submarine that are out to save the world. Vets Walter Pidgeon, Peter Lorre and Joan Fontaine are all immensely enjoyable. Movie stars back in the day had a certain something extra I think. Speaking of Joan Fontaine, one thing I don't see mentioned enough here is how lovely she looks at this point in her career, well past her leading lady days. Another beauty is Barbara Eden, one of the prettiest actresses of her era. She doesn't get a lot to work with but she does fine. The only character I found myself disliking was Lee Crane (Robert Sterling). His seeming failure to grasp the situation at hand and gripe over every decision Admiral Nelson made was a little annoying. But this was more of a problem with the script than Sterling's acting. Anyway, this is a fun, colorful movie I would recommend to anyone whose rear is sans stick. "},{"Title":"Good movie for the time, a nuclear sub saves the world.","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nuclear subs only came into use in the late 1950s, so this 1961 release may have been the first movie to showcase that theme. This one was an experimental model which also had, as the admiral explained, more bomb power aboard than was exploded in all of WW 2. The second feature of this story involves the Van Allen Belts, radiation belts that surround our Earth from about 600 miles and higher. Little was known about them back in the early 1960s, and this story uses the premise that a meteor shower could ignite the belts and pose a threat to the whole world. Today we know this is impossible, but it does make for a good story. And especially in 1961, I'm sure many people who saw the movie became concerned.However I was a teenager in 1961, and I don't remember any particular concern in my little rural corner of the south. Walter Pidgeon was in his mid-60s, as Adm. Harriman Nelson, commander of the sub and ultimately the one who would make the big decision, because communications with the President were cut off by the catastrophe.Joan Fontaine was a psychiatrist, Dr. Susan Hiller, whose area of specialty is how people react under stress, and this was about as stressful as it gets.It was nice seeing a young (29-ish) Barbara Eden just a few years before she became a household face on her TV series, I Dream of Jeannie. Here she is Lt Cathy Connors aboard the sub, and her role is just to add a love interest for one of the officers.Also of note (pun intended) is singer Frankie Avalon who did the title song, plus has a part as Lt (j.g.) Danny Romano. He looks like a kid here, and was probably 20 or 21 during filming. He seemed a bit out of place at times.Good movie for the time period, I enjoyed it. SPOILERS During its shake-down cruise, going under the polar ice cap, they surfaced after being bombarded with chunks of falling iceberg fragments. (NB - Ice floats, partially submerged, so those ice chunks couldn't really be falling through the water as depicted.) They find the sky red, on fire after meteors ignited the matter in the Van Allen belts. Scientists calculate it must be extinguished by a date 12 days away, otherwise all life on Earth would die out from the heat. The admiral decides that if he fires an atomic warhead into the fiery belts at a precise time, from a precise location half-way around the world, the fire will be extinguished and the world will be saved. Many sailors threaten mutiny, they want to go home and see their loved ones if the world is about to end. But in the end, averting a number of mid-trip issues, including a giant octopus that tries to eat the sub, the missle is fired just in time, it works, everyone is happy, the world is saved! "},{"Title":"Inspired The TV Series.","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Irwin Allen directed this Sci-Fi adventure yarn about a newly commissioned, state-of-the-art nuclear submarine that is suddenly called into action when a global crisis occurs(the Van Allen belt in outer space has somehow caught fire, endangering the world, though how such an implausible thing happened in the first place goes unmentioned!) Cast includes Walter Pidgeon, Joan Fontaine, Peter Lorre, Barbara Eden, Michael Ansara, and singer Frankie Avalon. Though elaborately produced for its time, this film is far too unrealistic to succeed, from the far too large submarine(especially the interior) to the basic science shown, to the ultimate solution to the crisis. Watchable on a kid level, but that's all. "},{"Title":"One of the lesser Sci-Fi classics worth seeing","Date":"9 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I admit it may not be a SF classic to everyone, but this film is a favorite of mine. Also, it spawned the TV series which was a big fav when I was a kid. I even built a flying sub model once. 'Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea','Lost in Space' and 'Star Trek' lead to my life long love of that genre. Yes, 'VttBotS' and 'LiS' had their extremely silly episodes in later seasons when they were running out of ideas, still their original concepts and earlier stories were good sci-fi. I should probably add 'The Twilight Zone' and 'Outer Limits' to that list, they were more constantly good IMO as was 'Star Trek'. BTW-I loved 'Fireball XL5' too.The movie takes global warning to the extreme. It's pretty silly really, but fun none the less. All it takes is one nuclear missile launched by the Seaview at the precise date, time and location to save the world. Admiral Nelson is determined to launch that missile with or without permission to do so by the worlds governments. Many obstacles pop up to stop him along the way. All of his precise calculations to save the world are double checked by Admiral Nelson and Comm. Lucius Emery using their trusty slide rules. Does anybody besides me remember those gadgets? PCs are for wimps.The stars Walter Pidgeon and Peter Lorre add to the films magic. Walter Pidgeon plays Admiral Nelson like Dr. Morbius in a navy uniform, which to me is a good thing. Once again he plays a genius to perfection. Overweight and slow moving Peter Lorre pretty much sleep walks through his role, still he's fun to watch in just about anything. Especially when he's in the water tank working with the big rubber shark or defending the Admiral. Barbara Eden never looked better, except in her 'I Dream of Jennie' outfit hidden belly button and all.The other star of the film is the Seaview itself. I can't think of a better sub design in SF, movies or TV. The coolness of the sub was even added to in later years when the flying sub concept arrived on the TV series. What I liked most about the Seaview design was those unique large front view windows with metal crash shudders.Anyway, I see this post is getting way too long and I've probably already lost most of you. I'll close by saying, I enjoy this film every time I watch it. If you haven't seen it you should. "},{"Title":"Irwin Allen was the Michael Bay of the 60s","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a painfully silly Cinemascope Blockbuster from the 1960s. The premise is that the Van Allen radiation belt circling the Earth has caught fire, and this fire is gradually incinerating the Earth. The polar ice caps are melting, New York and London have been evacuated, and pretty much everyone thinks that it's the end of the world. We don't see any of that however, because we are on board a submarine traveling around the world underwater -- which, you must admit, is a clever way to save on a special effects budget.This movie is replete with almost every cliché from the era. It's premise (the Van Allen Belt catching fire) is made even more laughable by its attempts to sound scientific. Nevertheless, it's all good, stupid fun.Walter Pidgeon stars as the Admiral of the submarine. I'm not too familiar with the actor, but I was thrown by how much he looks like Walt Disney, and I found that very distracting. It's somehow worrying to think of Uncle Walt having access to nuclear missiles.Frankie Avalon was in the film, apparently, but for the life of me, I can't remember his character. Peter Lorre was there also, trudging through his lines with an entirely forgivable world-weariness. I was in 'M', you can almost hear him say, 'And now they give me this garbage.' This was not a very believable movie, but it's fun enough if you like 50s/60s disaster movies. "},{"Title":"Strangely relevant to Kyoto and Copenhagen","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" AMC aired this flick last week, and I tuned in just before the scientific presentation before the Congressional and UN delegations. Stereotypes abound, but Howard McNear (Floyd the barber on the Andy Griffith Show) is dead-on as a Congressman). Commander (Peter Lorre) Emery's calculations are scribbles that take up all of one page of an artist's tablet.The takeaway scene eerily foreshadows the Global Climate Change debate and scandal now ongoing there is controversy over Nelson's plan to blow up the radiation belt, but he argues Of course we don't know if it will work, but we must act NOW! If we don't, the whole planet will die!Life imitates art. "},{"Title":"Comfort food film-making","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea is a film that seems to have had a bit of a voyage itself in terms of perception taken fairly seriously in 1961, regarded as cheesy ever since the TV series hit syndication but now suddenly looking somewhat pertinent again as its take on global warming no longer seems quite so fanciful even if it is not terribly convincingly thought through. It's also interesting to note that Michael Ansara's explorer turned religious fanatic after a bad case of sunburn who threatens the mission is a far more convincing character than his equivalent in Danny Boyle's recent supposedly profound but ultimately very cheesy indeed Sunshine. For the most part it ambles along relying on the banks of flashing lights and studio tank shots of its impracticably stylish submarine to distract you from the predictable plotting &#150; probably just as well considering how unintentionally amusing Walter Pidgeon's You goldbricking little pipsqueak! Patton moment in the sickbay is &#150; before throwing everything and the kitchen sink into the last 15 minutes as if suddenly remembering all the stuff they meant to put in the picture earlier. Yet it's strangely impossible to dislike this is the movie equivalent of comfort food, safe, undemanding, not really good for you but easy to consume, especially if you're in a lazy mood. "},{"Title":"All in all a decent sci-fi - Spoilers","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie maybe 10 years ago and the most destinctive part was the unmistakable voice of Peter Lorre. Not that he's brilliant or anything in this, it's just fun to watch an antiquated submarine flick and say Hey! There's the guy from Casablanca! But there is one major plot hole I have not been able to figure out. Nelson says that his plan will work if the temperature raises at the same temperature as it has been so far. The evil Dr. Zucco claims that the belt will burn itself out, Nelson protests saying that the window for his plan will have already passed by the time Zucco's burnout point hits. Here's the catch, on the way to the marianas, Nelson has the crew keep a chart of the rising temperature. At one point near the end of the film, the temperature is read aloud and Nelson notes that Zucco was wrong. There is no burnout point How could this temperature have been reached if Nelson's plan still worked? The temperature must have begun rising faster, thus making Nelson's plan worthless. But anyway. A decent way to spend a Sunday afternoon. "}{"Title":"Fiction - yes!  Science - no!","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm sure that any legitimate submariner would happily ship out on the USOS Seaview (yes, SOS...) Why, you could play full-court basketball in the torpedo room, it's so large. And how 'bout the bay windows in the bow, the better to see giant squids or minefields that appear out of nowhere? Did I mention the colorful mess-cook with the parrot on his shoulder? And the Admiral's stateroom with what appears to be a loft? Big bleeping sub...OK, OK...it's never gonna win any prizes for authenticity. And if the sub is laughable, the plot is even worse. Somehow the Van Allen belts of radiation, hundreds of miles in space, have caught fire are going to make global warming look like a weenie roast. Pompous Admiral Nelson (Walter Pidgeon), along with his sidekick Lucius (Peter Lorre, looking suitably uncomfortable) hatch a scheme to put out the fire by firing a missile into its midst.There's plenty of intrigue (sic) along the way, with a born-again survivor (and his little dog, too!) two dames who can never leave well enough alone, a passel of red shirts who are expendable, and plot holes big enough for Godzilla to walk through. Thrill to the Seaview being chased at what looks like 60 miles per hour by another sub -- no need for advanced sonar when you can follow from 100 feet astern.The movie careens from one cliff-hanger to another; the payoff is so anticlimactic as to be pointless, certainly not worth the 1 hour and 50 minute wait.The technical adviser for this shipwreck must have been a 14-year old boy with a stack of Popular Mechanics magazines. Worth watching, if only to riff upon. "},{"Title":"A Passable Watch For Kids","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This outing dates to a time when sci-fi was just beginning to be taken seriously as a genre. The trouble is, back then, movie moguls weren't sure how seriously to take it. Here, I suppose the submarine is really the star. An awful lot of money was spent in creating a plausible and futuristic model with endless panels of flashing lights and dials. Walter Pidgeon had already proved his worth in the classic 'Forbidden Planet', but this adventure was based on Earth and had a lot of historical baggage to contend with, not the least of which was '20,000 Leagues Under The Sea'. The ring of fire arrived without warning and little explanation, and I personally have no problems with that bit of hokum. You might just as easily ask of that other movie 'how could the 'Alien' ever evolve by natural selection? It couldn't. Or how could anything as big as 'Godzilla' walk on dry land? Again; it couldn't. Apart from Mr Pidgeon, there's an adequate cast including Frankie Avalon - who also sings the theme tune and plays trumpet - and Peter Lorre, who's own face resembles something you might encounter in the deeps. If you can get your head around the hokum, survive the giant squid (the same one that attacked the Nautilus, I believe), and draw a veil over the plot holes, it'll give you an untaxing ride. Run the trailer and judge for yourself. 'Red October' it isn't. For me, any problem stems from the TV series that followed. The endless rocking back and forth, the crew running this way and that, and the computers blowing-up and burning every week reduced the whole format to a cliché. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest movie but still worth watching.","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie definitely is not one of Hollywood's better sci-fi flicks. It has its drawbacks. The story is weak, the props seem cheap (I'm certain they weren't) and some of the performances border on the embarrassing. But ... BUT ... this movie is still worth watching for one reason Joan Fontaine. When considering who are some of Hollywood's greatest actresses, Joan Fontaine must be included on that list. Now this movie is not one of Ms. Fontaine's better works, but so what? That she is in the movie is enough to at least give notice about the movie. And let's not forget another great actor, Walter Pidgeon, who is also in this movie. This movie certainly has it weaknesses, but at least it features two of Hollywood's better actors, so for that reason it's worth watching. "},{"Title":"Voyage To The Bottom of Sea...or toilet ??","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I suppose for 1961 this film was supposed to be  cool  , but looking back now ( 45 years ) it's charm was just as silly as it's entertainment value ! Granted , the special effects do well on T.V. with the Series that started in 1964 , but for the BIG screen ?? I once had a fish tank that was equally as exciting ! I must agree about the Octopus scene near the end where it attached itself to the Seaview. Obviously not well staged...or trained ! Overall , it's pretty bad acting with shoddy special effects and I still do recommend it - for fun laughs sake. This was probably one of Irwin Allen's Biggest films and I think he thought a lot of it . Barabara Eden went on to play  Genie  on T.V. Micheal Ansara was her Husband . Now that is a cool part about this film ! I always enjoyed seeing real life Husband and Wife teams star in the same movie . Neat ! "},{"Title":"That Sinking Feeling...","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Only a very small child could overlook the absurdities in this bomb; the first difficulty faced by the submarine Seaview is what appear to be chunks of--rock? falling down through the water and crashing into its hull. But it's not rock, they're under the North Pole--it is ICE! Everybody, except possibly hitherto mentioned small children (and even some of them) know that ICE FLOATS.Then, disaster strikes--that darn VAN ALLEN RADIATION BELT around the Earth catches fire! No one knows how this happened, we are told, which is understandable, because it is utterly impossible for radiation to catch fire, and even if it could, there is NO AIR IN SPACE for it to burn.There is literally no good reason to overlook science concepts basic to 2nd grade school textbooks when making a film; however, Irwin Allen manages to do it again and again; perhaps we are meant to focus on the people instead, which is pretty easy, as they are CARDBOARD.The cast tries very hard not to look embarrassed in this ridiculous sub-kiddie romp, much like later episodes of his Lost in Space TV series, the concept of which was swiped outright from writer Ib Melchior and then rushed into production.The sub looks pretty good, though, which is why this one gets a 2. "},{"Title":"Doesn't get it done.","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think Walter Pidgeon was badly miscast in this film. Just not believable in the role. Barbara Eden was beautiful, and acted her part well enough. No one else was at all memorable. I remember the TV series spun off from this movie when I was a small child. I even think I had a plastic Seaview that would submerse and was great for playing with in the bathtub. Long time ago.As for some of the other criticism I've read for this film It's certainly unfair to judge special effects or science knowledge of 4 decades ago by today's standards. The effects were OK for 1961. Not great, but OK. As for the science, that was ludicrous even for 1961. There's no excuse. Also, the sub was awfully roomy. I understand that the navy refused any help at all for this film, so maybe the filmmakers just had no idea.Overall, the film bored me. (And I'm a sci-fi fan.) Can't recommend this one. Grade D- "},{"Title":"Sub-standard kiddie romp belongs at the bottom of the sea...just awful...","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's hard to work up any enthusiasm for this awful cartoon-like epic that for some reason has become a cult classic. It certainly can't be because of the totally artificial look of the set designs or the limpid acting of an all-star cast. These days it's shown much too frequently on Fox Movie Channel or AMC.It pains me to report that veteran actors like Walter Pigeon and Joan Fontaine are even cast in this muddled science fiction travesty, none of which rings true. It's like watching an expensive budget being spent on a Saturday afternoon kiddie show full of cardboard characters and unconvincing dialog. It's a comic book version of the Jules Verne novel.The maturing Fontaine was still attractive but wears a pained expression on her face, perhaps regretting that she had accepted the role of the psychiatrist before reading the script. She contributes absolutely nothing to her cardboard role but an imperial and uncomfortable presence and looks totally out of place most of the time. Faring no better are Robert Sterling, Barbara Eden and--most of all, Peter Lorre--as well as Frankie Avalon, who gets to sing the title tune which--it's safe to say--did not become anyone's favorite title tune.An awfully frustrating experience to sit through a film like this which wastes an attractive cast and is an insult to almost anyone's intelligence. Totally unconvincing from start to finish. The film, as well as the fantastic submarine, sinks to the bottom of the sea long before the fight with a rubber octopus brings the film to a dreary conclusion. "},{"Title":"Huge motivation contradiction","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In addition to the many scientific absurdities cited by others, for me what makes this film truly stupid is its careful avoidance of a speech along the following lines by the admiral Men, I know you'd like to be home with your relatives, but we'd never reach port before they have all died. By risking your lives just a little longer and trusting to my judgment, you have a good chance of saving their lives. That's what being in the military is all about. It's so obvious that this is the sort of speech that would turn the crew around that the scriptwriters tiptoe around anything that approaches it.Was the gotta go home to die theme borrowed perhaps from On the Beach? It turned up earlier in The Martian Chronicles by Ray Bradbury, illogically extrapolated from the experiences of expatriates in Europe who fled back to the U.S. as World War II broke out.And was cigar-smoking allowed on board submerged submarines, even by admirals in the early sixties? Surely not.  "},{"Title":"Grumpy old men save the world!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The main thing wrong with this movie is that it was made in color with too much money. Some nice grainy black and white film stock, a cast of relative unknowns, and it would have been just about right. But in full-color widescreen with all those big-name (if aging and relatively inexpensive) performers it's just embarrassingly overproduced. The film's only really graceful element is Peter Lorre, giving his patented demonstration of fifty different ways to smoke a cigarette as Walter Pidgeon vigorously emotes besides him. Questions has anybody ever looked into the eerie similarities between this movie's theme song and An Octopus' Garden? And what exactly IS that octopus doing to the Seaview?  "},{"Title":"Simple-minded kiddie fantasy","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Irwin Allen, past master of cinematic schlock, pulled out all the stops in VOYAGE TO THE BOTTOM OF THE SEA. A badly aged Walter Pidgeon, who actually may have been dead when he played this role, is the commander of an atomic submarine that must be the size of the Empire State Building. Every room is gigantic and some even appear to have no ceilings. You could bowl and hold a formal ball simultaneously in some of these rooms. The sub, called the Seaview, is on its maiden run when all hell breaks loose the Van Allen radiation belt catches fire and the Seaview must launch a missile into the belt by a certain time or the world will go down in global warming flames! Along for the ride are a bunch of truly terrible character actors, many borrowed from TV. This makes them TV hack-tors. The worst is probably that poor man's Stella Stevens, Barbara Eden, as a naval secretary, squeezed into too-tight clothes, sporting high heels and acting like she's appearing in a beach party flick. Maybe that's because Frankie Avalon is also along for the ride. A badly aged Joan Fontaine, almost unrecognizable here, plays a visiting doctor with a big bad secret, but in truth who cares? VOYAGE is a truly bad movie obviously made for small children, but what child is going to sit still for endless shots of a miniature Seaview model moving over and over again from right to left across the screen in what is obviously a studio tank? There is not one scene where we believe these folks are actually aboard a sub. When the Seaview shakes, the actors fling themselves about, sometimes in opposite directions to one another. Just like on the good old STAR TREK TV series, when the bridge shakes. If I remember correctly, not one fish or sea creature is seen -- except for an octopus that momentarily latches onto the sub, a nod to 20,000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA. The octopus, if it was real, was probably about a foot long and it shows. Worse, when folks are standing at the Seaview's glass nose, the ocean they are supposedly watching is obviously a closeup involving an unseen air hose spouting bubbles, probably filmed in a fish tank. You have never seen bigger bubbles in your life. You'd think these bubbles alone would smash the damned sub to pieces. Sadly, a badly aged Peter Lorre is also along for the ride. Near the end, when the missile is entering the flaming belt, Lorre is seen enthusiastically congratulating Pidgeon while everyone else is still waiting for their cue to start shaking hands and embracing one another in victory. A one-take scene if I've ever seen one. What a stinker. It's not even good for a laugh. Stick with SILENT RUNNING. "}{"Title":"I Thought The Premise Was Good ....","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" .... And the execution bad I first saw this aged about eleven years old and thought perhaps I might be watching a cold war thriller similar to ICE STATION ZEBRA . You can see where I am coming from since both films feature a submarine traveling to one of the poles  We're getting bombarded with a metorite shower  warns one character , the submarine surfaces and I remember being shocked on first viewing at what the crew see - The sky is on fire I found VOYAGE TO THE BOTTOM OF THE SEA compelling and slightly frightening as a child , the thought that the Van Allen belt might catch fire seemed possible to me at the time since Britain had been treated to a wonderful Summer in 1976 . I saw the movie again a couple of years later and again sometime in the late 1980s which was the last time I saw itI was far from impressed with my last viewing , yes the special effect of the burning sky was convincing but what let the movie down was the ropey script and the rather poor production values elsewhere in the movie . Adm Nelson of the Seaview turns up at the UN debating chamber . Forgive me for being pedantic but isn't the UN chamber very , very big ? The one shown hear seems to resemble a cupboard ! Oh and if the world's leading scientists come to the conclusion that the Van Allen belt will eventually burn itself out how come the Seaview crew take it upon themselves that the experts are wrong ? And regardless of who's right and who's wrong surely the outcome to both solutions means the Van Allen belt will be destroyed meaning there's nothing to protect the Earth from solar rays meaning everyone will eventually die from the sun's rays ? So after this the movie follows a mechanical path of the Seaview getting into position to fire its nuclear rocket from a certain point in the ocean and the crew meeting obstacles like a giant octopus , UN pursuit subs and a couple of traitors . I guess this might have been exciting in 1961 but in 2004 audiences are more sophisticated which means you'll be able to nitpick something in nearly every scene Still it's probably better than the TV series it spawned "},{"Title":"Movie vets share the screen with burgeoning newcomers in ho-hum sci-fi...","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Irwin Allen put all his talents behind this one he's co-screenwriter, producer and director of this cartoonish epic about an atomic submarine and its efforts to reduce a ring of radiation circling the Earth. Potentially exciting story fails to take off, despite an eclectic cast. Varied players from Walter Pigeon and Joan Fontaine to Frankie Avalon and Barbara Eden are interestingly intermingled and provide a dash of color, but this soggy sci-fi is pretty cheesy. Good for a few stray laughs, but Allen didn't seem to know the difference between strong, solid adventure and campy nonsense. Later a popular TV series. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Dated but worth watching","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a pretty good Sci-Fi film for 1961 but can't cut it with today's films.  The script is very poor and the acting by a lot of fairly big names is very sub par.  Looks like they filmed this in a few days and just talked the words rather than acted.  Barbara Eden and Peter Lorre however are worth the viewing effort.  I rated this 5.  "},{"Title":"Voyage to the bottom of Mystery Science Theater 3000","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Voyage was entertaining as an example of Science Fiction written by someone who knows nothing of Science. The story is a train wreck of ideas. The opening titles make you thing you are going to see a teen surfer movie. So, we get a scene with Barbera's butt and Frankie Avalon playing trumpet. The rest shows that Irwin Allen is only slightly better than Ed Wood as a screen writer. The Van Allen belt catches of fire? Everyone should sit on their thumbs while the planet burns up? Half the crew leaves the ship, but the troublesome civilian on board can stay? What killed the people on the derelict ship? Do the deserters want to join them? As someone else said, plot holes a submarine could sail through.  "},{"Title":"This film is an embarrassment","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Granted that it was 1961 and that special effects were not what they are today; this film is still one of the most inane science fiction pieces I have ever seen. From the first scene when the diving sub's rudder jerks rapidly (in the manner of a small plastic model), to the preposterous notion that the VanAllen belts could catch fire, to the absolutley BIZARRE notion that they still have 3 1/2 weeks left until the earth's temperature climbs from 135 DEGREES to 170 DEGREES and wipes out civlilization, this film just could not be any more ridiculous. Even from the opening credits, when a fairly comic style of title font was overlaid with a Love Boat type theme song by Frankie Avalon, I could tell this was a film that had absolutely no idea what it was or where it was going. Pity poor Walter Pidgeon, saddled with a lame turkey like this one at the end of a distinguished film career. And even though Barbara Eden had no more business on a submarine than my Aunt Tillie, she was still a delicious bit of eye candy that (just barely) redeemed an otherwise unwatchable film. Do yourself a favor and skip this one; jump right to the TV series with Richard Basehart. At least the TV show had enough sense not to actually take itself that seriously. "},{"Title":"Nobody has panned this thing badly enough","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are spoilers in this commentary, as if that matters.I'm beating a dead horse because this movie is so old, but it's been re-broadcast a number of times on the non-commercial channels recently, giving me the opportuniy further to appreciate how atrocious it is.The irony is that the premise is really great, even credible by sci-fi standards.  An astronomical anomaly ignites the Earth's atmosphere, and only a precisely timed and placed nuclear explosion can snuff it out.  There is one super-submarine capable of this.  The admiral who is the creator of and senior officer on that sub (he is not the captain) takes it on himself to do this against his authorization.Ok, now, where do I start?  Anywhere.The admiral slaps a sailor a la Patton and gets away with it (his alleged problems are more subtly psychological, apparently).The captain relieves the admiral, then that situation is ignored.The captain doesn't want the missile fired, but then, without explanation, makes sure it happens.Alvarez just happens to find a bomb lying on a shelf in the admiral's cabin so he can terrorize the ship.They tap into the Atlantic cable and London, whoever he is, answers.There is not one, but two attacks by a giant octopus.There is a stray old mine field in the middle of the Pacific Ocean.The only female crew member, the admiral's secretary, is openly the captain's girlfriend and calls him by his given name.There are rock formations at 1000 feet or less in the Marianas trench.A nuclear missile can be fired at the behest of a single person acting at will.A research vessel carries such weapons at all.The temperature outside is in excess of 170 degrees Faehrenheit and the crew sweats like it was a scene from South Pacific instead of just dying.Peter Lorre plays a useless part I suppose just to have Peter Lorre in the cast (maybe Walter Pidgeon or the producer owed him a favor?)It is never explained why in the scene with the admiral's cabin on fire there is gas coming from somewhere.Everyone says aye aye, when naval custome is just aye.A civilian visiting psychiatrist has access to and knows how to sabotage a nuclear reactor.The shark eats the doctor but ignores the captain's arm dangling in the water.In short, a laughable, cartoonish movie that could have been much better. Irwin Allen can be thought of as a more successful Ed Wood.  I can just hear him saying, we need a giant octopus scene; two would be better. Points one out of ten because of lost potential.   "},{"Title":"Earth assaulted by a burning ring of fire","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This absurd fantasy had enough holes in it to send the Seaview to the bottom of the Marianas Trench where it belonged, I might add. Obviously this sub was a movie set I've never seen a u-boat with such spacious accommodations; red leather upholstery, nice wide hallways, huge rooms, beautifully painted walls, and gleaming stainless steel equipment. What I really appreciated was those dual Chevy steering wheels. One could call this dud a poor man's Deep Impact without the comet. And what would any undersea adventure be without the requisite giant squid attack? I'm glad I saw this dog so close to Thanksgiving, now I won't have to buy a hen because this turkey provided an overabundance of the holiday delicacy. "},{"Title":"Funny Re-Cap From Danny Brown","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I tried to watch a restored letterbox version of the movie Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea. Remember that or the TV show? The movie had the same fake sub with 1961 Chevy tail fins as the TV show! After the really long credits ran over an obviously fake north pole miniature set the submarine comes popping out of the slow-motion water! Same footage as the TV show.It starred Walter Pigeon, who made the movie look like they were using left-over scenes from Forbidden Planet because the sub's set designers created a low-budget version of the Martian. Lots of blinking lights and set pieces that looked like those Columbia Pictures Voyage to the Moon or Mars rocket-ship interiors. There were some very convincing circular windows in the  nuclear reactor that had blinking orange lights behind them. They looked just like a nuclear reactor, too!The other cool touch to the set was the doors that were sometimes those oval submarine or ship doors and then sometimes regular, rectangular, industrial doors with a sprinkler system pipe and cut-off valve. Yes, that really looks they were in a submarine guys.... or in a corner of the sound-stage possibly? Who could tell? It fooled me!Next we see Peter Lori walking an obviously fake shark in a tank of water. I'm sure he had a big role later in the movie as the submarine shark trainer. I'll bet that shark got loose, too! I guess that they contemplated using a real shark and Peter wisely said, No way!Suddenly while guiding the under sea guests who comprised of a Congressmen and a Congresswomen along with the original don't squeeze the Charmin guy who was a reporter we hear a wild, blues trumpet solo. Cut to a full frame shot of Barbara Eden's ass wiggling wildly in a tight navy dress. Next we see that it is non other than Frankie A pretending to play the trumpet that we hear. Suddenly it's like an Elvis movie except with Frankie in it!Barbara Eden is the only woman on board so says the second-in-charge guy. He takes Miss Eden out into the hall and asks her to explain her actions (the wild dancing) and suddenly they fall into a serious lip lock. Oh..... they're  secretly in love. Was Elvis supposed to star in this in it's original form? All we need are those fake band guys instead of Frank and it would be ready for the King to make an entrance. I'd watch that!I gave up at this point and watched an AC/DC concert on VH1.  "}]