[{"Title":"The film that stopped the sun","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"47 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  How incredibly appropriate if not downright eerie that the sun should turn on a full eclipse during the filming of BARABBAS that was captured by the Technirama 70 cameras for the crucifixion scene.Arguably the forgotten epic when talk of the 60's blockbusters brings inevitably mention of BEN HUR, KING OF KINGS, FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, SPARTACUS, LAWRENCE OF ARABIA, GENGHIS KHAN, CLEOPATRA, SODOM AND GOMORRAH, etc. Many see in this film an individual depth and emotion, lacking in other such works. Quinn in fact brings (despite the poetic license taken with historical confirmation) to Barabbas, a portrayal of a man tortured by his past, his reason to still be alive and his destiny. From the claustrophobic escape from the sulphur mines to his gladiatorial deeds in the arena, Barrabas is a driven man of open-ended religious conviction. He embraces Christianity but does he understand it? He saw Christ die in his place and lived his life to find out why!Palance whose face has been his career, was the ONLY choice as Torvald the head gladiator who lives only to kill! It was one of his best ever roles.I saw this film in London at its premiere in 1962. It received luke-warm critical reception at the time but had a successful run in the West End of some six months or so. Has had far less screening on television and cable than other epics of its ilk which is a pity as it had a lot to offer the discriminating viewer. "},{"Title":"Just Where Do Some of Those Peripheral Bible Characters Go?","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"36 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I've often wondered at times from a literary as well as religious point of view what happens to some of the peripheral cast of characters in the Scripture. I'm sure that's a question that more than a few have pondered on, whether they are believers or not.Case in point is Barabbas. All we know about him is that he was the guy that the mob shouted for when offered a choice between pardoning him or Jesus of Nazareth. Some tradition has him as a common bandit, others have him as a rebel against Rome. As played by Anthony Quinn, Barabbas is a troubled soul. As the message of Jesus of Nazareth spreads, Barabbas is unsure of what his role is. He's realized he's been a participant in something historic to say the least. But people treat him differently. The early Christians view him with some resentment. To Pontius Pilate, played by Arthur Kennedy, Barabbas is still a no good bandit. Of course Barabbas gets himself arrested again and begins his odyssey.The movie is an adaption of a novel by Swedish Pulitzer Prize Winning writer Par Lagerkvist and a Swedish film adaption had already been filmed prior to this international cast epic. Might be interesting to view it side by side with this one. I'm sure the Swedish film didn't have half the budget this one did.The movie fuzzes certain issues as films of this type generally do. Pacifism is a tenet of the early Christian faith of those hiding in the catacombs. Turning the other cheek is a big thing. But Anthony Quinn isn't a Christian so his modus operandi isn't exactly turning the other cheek.Some top flight professionals are in this cast. The aforementioned Arthur Kennedy as Pilate, Silvana Mangano as Barabbas's girl friend who becomes an early convert, Vittorio Gassman as Sahek who is Barabbas's martyred Christian friend and most of all Jack Palance in a scene stealing performance as the top gladiator in Rome. You should watch this film for him alone.The message the film tries to convey is that Barabbas in and of himself wasn't important. Jesus's life and death were pre-ordained and it could have been Barabbas or any of hundreds of others who could have been where he was. But the way certain folks enter into biblical stories does give writers a whole lot of license to construct wholly fictional lives around them. This is as good a film as any for that purpose. "},{"Title":"A Quinn triumph","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"27 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Having been an Anthony Quinn fan for many years, I came across this video recently and rented it. I wasn't sure what to expect, but was pleasantly surprised to see quite a different performance from Quinn. While he had moments of gruffness, for the most part he tackled this role as the confused, tormented Barrabas with a great deal of inner work. The most impressive moments where when his face reflected the conflicts of belief, choice, and commitment. As one of the most famous individuals in history it was an imaginative characterization of Barrabas, much like the other enigmatic individual in Christianity  -Judas- as characterized by Ian McShane in Jesus of Nazareth (1977).Wonderful music score, and cinematography. Notice especially the care given to the staging of the scourging of Jesus in the beginning of the film  -silence except for Heaven's angels screaming in anguish. Breathtaking. "},{"Title":"An Intelligent, Sane, Thoughtful, Moving Film Mel Gibson Had Nothing To Do With It","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"31 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a first-class, reverent film that doesn't fall into Hallmark-card empty kitsch on one hand, or Mel Gibson's sado-masochistic porn on the other. This movie does not insult the subject-matter or the audience, and that's rarer than we might like. Special credit goes to Aldo Tonti's Rembrandt lighting, consistently a joy. Mario Nascimbene's musical score rises above his usual brutality to real eloquence. The acting is without weakness, Quinn, Borgnine, Jurado and Andrews putting aside their sometimes numbing predictability for this special occasion. Richard Fleischer's direction is punchy without being vulgar, serious but not ponderous.There are some awful religious films out there. This is thankfully not one of them. It's definitely worth the viewing for Christians and non-Christians alike. "},{"Title":"Among the best of all Biblical epics","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Richard Fleischer was a good jobbing director but there were occasions when he seemed inspired. The Vikings is one of the great genre movies and The Boston Strangler is one of the best police procedural films ever made. This is very much in the same class and has much to commend it. It's biggest drawback is that the early scenes never quite shake off the enforced piety that engulfed Hollywood movies that centered on Christ. Is it any wonder that Monty Python lampooned such movies in their Life of Brian? On the other hand, coming as it does from a novel by Nobel prize-winning author Par Lagerkvist and scripted as it is by Christopher Fry, the film is more intellectually challenging than we have any right to expect, (for example Barabbas has a discussion with Lazarus on what it was like to have died and then to be raised from the dead), while at the same time not skimping on the spectacle, (the gladiatorial scenes are superb).It begins with the freeing of Barabbas in the place of Jesus, then follows him on his own journey of redemption as he realizes that it was through Christ's death that he came to live. It's a theme, of course, as old as the Bible itself and as religious movies go it's a bit simplistic but it does work on a primitive, intellectually jarring level and it doesn't thrust it's religiosity down our throats. Barabbas' journey of discovery is long, slow and painfully questioning and is consequently quite moving.No one in the large, international cast gets to rise above being a Biblical or gladiatorial cliché with the exception of Anthony Quinn in the title role. He is excellent and had yet to give way to the bombast of Zorba the Greek. Still, neither Quinn's performance nor the film have ever been given their due. Perhaps a movie about the man who lived so that Christ might die proved unpalatable. Nevertheless, it is certainly worth rediscovering. "},{"Title":"Give me Barabbas!","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"    BARABBAS rocks. We saw it at the drive-in in the early 60's and the whole family loved it, all nine of us. I'm not always enamored with Anthony Quinn. Sometimes he seems conceited. But as Barabbas he is brilliantly humble, yet powerful. This is by far, his best movie ever. His faces say a thousand words a thousand times. It's as though he was transformed and really became the character, not played it. He is stoic and disturbed, tortured by the crisis within his soul.   Barabbas is the man the crowd chose over Christ and this is a fictionalized account of his life after Christ was crucified. Jack Palance gives the second greatest performance of his life as the man who trains, and sometimes kills, gladiators. That evil laugh. That face. What corner of hell gave birth to this man? It's almost as good as his Jack Wilson gunfighter role in Shane. Palance is so mean in Barabbas that all sorts of pacifists would gladly kill him if they had the chance.   There are a couple of slow spots but the sets are fantastic and the story is great.   How did Jack Palance sleep at night?    "},{"Title":"The man who could not die...","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Through Barabbas, complex themes of faith, spirituality, violence, peace, morality, human dignity and cruelty were examined in the guise of a Biblical epic directed by a competent filmmaker of action pictures... His film vividly captured the panoply of Rome, the stultifying sulfur mines, the savagery of the Roman arena, the gladiatorial sadism, Nero's fire in Rome, and the persecution of Christians&#133; Despite a lamentable weak script, the acting was often comfortable, and the action very entertaining&#133;Anthony Quinn made his best as the confused man of violence, the common thief and the assassin... Vittorio Gassman was good enough as the brave gladiator who stood on his faith... Silvana Mangano was beautiful as Barabbas' former lover who knew that Jesus was, for her, the true substitute...Jack Palance was, as always, great as the cruel and sadistic gladiator&#133; "},{"Title":"Interesting parallels","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The story of the man whose place Jesus took on the cross is told here with power and imagination. Quinn gives an excellent performance in the role of a man who becomes blinded by the light of Jesus, figuratively descends into the tomblike hell of a salt mine, is resurrected to become a gladiator, and finally dies, knowing what Jesus had done for him many years before. The interweaving of parallels between Barabbas' life and that of Jesus are intriguing.Jack Palance is deliciously evil as the villainous sadist in the arena. Mario Nasimbene's score is haunting, using experimental musical approaches to describe the pain of Barabbas in conflict with the glory of Rome and the ultimate victory of the spirit over evil and death. "},{"Title":"An intelligently subversive Biblical epic SUBTEXT, people!","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I'll leave the plot summary to the others who've done it well, so far. But a plot summary doesn't begin to show how this one differs from the other Biblical epics of it's time. The difference lies in a script that wonderfully reflects the double-edged attitudes of Par Lagerkvist's powerfully brilliant short philosophical novel. Unimaginitive believers can see what the plot summaries indicate. But underneath it all, the adapter-screenwriter Christopher Fry, and the director, Richard Fleischer, manage to successfully walk an ironic tightrope , in which the too-good Christians and the ordinary sinful Barabbas are constantly contrasted during conversations long and short. Barabbas thinks Christianity all bosh, the world is not what Christians believe it is, but then why can't he die or be killed? As the King of Siam would say, the fact does make a puzzlement.I must apologize for the following spoiler, but how anybody who is thinking at all can blithely assume that Barabbas is beyond doubt saved into the fold of the blessed is way beyond me. Even as a kid in the days of BARABBAS's first release I knew that something unusual was going on as soon as I heard Barabbas final words from the cross Darkness...I give myself up to your keeping... It is Barabbas. I haven't left anything out; the dots just indicate pauses in Quinn's delivery. Prior to this line Barabbas has complained that he can't tell whether it is night or day and asks what time it is and remembers that it was at the sixth hour that.... I love this film as wonderful dramatic exploration of the modern dilemma of faith. I expect I'm biased in loving it because it helped develop my abiding interest in philosophy; But I don't think that that bias has pushed me into a mistake when I call BARABBAS one of the most thoughtful and intelligent movies of its time, in spite of its being a sword and sandal epic. "},{"Title":"The Mighty Quinn eludes the cross...for a while.","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Whatever happened to that guy who was let off the hook when Jesus was crucified? Here is a fictional account of his life after he was released in Jesus' place. Quinn plays the title character, a thief and rabble-rouser who is set to be crucified when a technicality allows one prisoner to be released due to a holy day. It is brought up in order to free Jesus, but the crowd instead calls for Barabbas' freedom and stay of execution. Quinn spots Jesus briefly through piercing sunlight, then finds himself touching the blood that he's left on a post. He shakes it off and returns home only to find that his lover (Mangano) has fallen under Jesus' spell and won't play anymore. Soon, he has returned to his old ways and when he's arrested, he discovers he can't be killed due to the same technicality that freed him the first time! So he's shipped off to a harrowing sulfur mine where he is chained to man after man, each of them dying in turn until he's paired with an ideological Christian (Gassman.) Circumstances then lead this pair to the Roman Coliseum where they are trained in the art of gladiatorial combat and must face down the deranged and powerful Palance. As the many years go by, Quinn finds himself tempted to believe in Jesus, but always wavering until finally he must make a choice. The film is epic in story and scope with several memorable sequences including a solar eclipse, a stoning execution, a cataclysmic cave-in and a spectacular visit to the Coliseum. The film must be seen in its wide-screen format in order to appreciate the magnitude of its composition. Quinn gives an understated performance with surprisingly little dialogue. His grunting, mumbling approach near the beginning fortunately gives way to a more comprehensible, accessible performance later. The film has a parade of famous actors each of whom is billed in order of appearance except for Mangano (who unfairly gets special treatment due to her marriage to the producer!) It's really Quinn's show, but several others get a chance to shine. Gassman is given a heroic and dignified role, Andrews adds weight to the film with his surehanded presence and Palance is quite notable as the unbeatable gladiator. With his ear-to-ear, snarling grin and his stony stares at his opponents, he presents a formidable foe in the arena. The production is quite eye-filling and visually arresting, but also relentlessly downbeat. Jurado, as Quinn's second favorite bed-mate, adds a little earthy humor to the proceedings, but is dispatched without much ado. There is a tad of unintentional humor along the way thanks to some of the conventions of film-making at the time, but mostly from the entire sequence featuring Lazarus, recently risen from the dead and not looking too great for it! The hysterically wan and creepy looking performer does little to encourage anyone's desire to be resurrected! It's an oddly under-appreciated film, though, which can stand proudly aside its cousins such as Ben-Hur and Spartacus. "}{"Title":"piece of art - a classic","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The struggle in our hearts between good and evil, the ways of man in general, various historical elements, the values of christianity, all these given in a truly beautiful movie. Anthony Quinn shows once more that one must born to be an actor of his magnitude. The other actors are very convincing, the scenery is great and so is the sound track. There is also enough food for thought in this film because of its nature, and it can create intense emotions. SPLENDID  "},{"Title":"Outstanding religious spectacle with marvelous scenarios and excellent acting by large cast","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Barabbas (Anthony Quinn) , a thief and killer , is set free by Pontius Pilatus (Arthur Kennedy) in place of Jesus who is condemned to die crucified . Then , Barabbas suffering living anguish by this deed for the rest of his existence . But again he's detained and sent to horrible sulfur mines in Sicily , including terrible work conditions ; there he meets a kind Christian named Sahak (Vittorio Gassman) . Later on , he is brought to a school of gladiators run by cruel Torvald (a sadistic Jack Palance) . In Rome Barabbas meets other Christians (Ernest Borgnine) and Saint Peter (Harry Andrews) .This epic film contains spectacular scenarios , lavish production and terrific performances . Second movie version of the renowned story based on popular novel by Lagerkvist (Nobel's prize) and previously adapted (1952) in Sweden by Alf Sjoberg . Interesting screenplay by Christopher Fry (who wrote ¨The Bible¨ by John Huston also produced by Dino De Laurentiis) . Top-notch performance by Anthony Quinn , he plays like his previous characters , a Zorba style, adding a little of Quaimodo , though sometimes overacting . Jesus is played by Roy Mangano , brother of Silvana Mangano , Laurentiis's wife . Extraordinary support cast , including prestigious players such as Arthur Kennedy , Katy Jurado , Ernest Borgnine , Arnaldo Foa , Norman Wooland , Douglas Fowley and even Sharon Tate was an extra in the amphitheater scene . The overwhelming circus scenes were shot in the arena of Verona . Impressive sets produced in high budget , such as the scenarios of the mines and the Roman circus . Magnificently climatic gladiators fights , featured by hundreds of extras and stunning effects . The breathtaking gladiator combats is still one of the best screen fights today , along with ¨Gladiator¨ by Ridley Scott . The Golgota crucifixion scenes were actually shot in a sun eclipse and filmed in Niza . In fact , the solar eclipse that takes place during the crucifixion scene was the real thing, an event for which director Richard Fleischer delayed shooting in order to capture the ethereal nature of the phenomenon . Problems lingered on the set and at a cost of over ten million of dollars , it was one of the most expensive pictures of its time and took long time to finish . Colorful cinematography by Aldo Tonti and evocative musical score by Mario Nascimbene . Firstly , the producer De Laurentiis thought in charge direction to Federico Fellini , though he appointed to Richard Fleischer who realizes a quality film-making . "},{"Title":"BARABBAS  Synopsis/Analysis with SPOILER at end.","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Intriguing concept... a what-if account of the thief/murderer set free by Pontius Pilate, when the crowd had chosen him over Christ. Anthony Quinn is even more selfish, brutal and dog-like than he was in Fellini's LA STRADA.As Pilate ceremonially washes his already-clean hands, Barabbas washes Jesus's actual blood from his own hands (he had touched the whipping post). ie, Pilate is very conscious of his act and ritually `cleans' himself of the responsibility, in contrast to Barabbas who wipes himself off without a passing thought. Yet he cannot keep his denial in check and follows to watch the condemned man's crucifixion. He sticks around to see him buried, returns three days later to find the stone moved, and chases down the disciples to accuse them of stealing the body -- only to find them as perplexed as he is. (Peter's conversation with him is meant to bolster his companions as well as Barabbas.) All the while the brute remains mocking. When he eventually returns to his corrupt profession, he is again arrested, only to find that they cannot crucify him for legal reasons... This scene is astounding; Quinn is baffled as he reasons it out, mumbling, `He took my death. I cannot die. No death for Barabbas. He took my death.' Barabbas' own personal legal redemption is almost word-for-word Pauline doctrine about spiritual redemption. The symbology of light and blindness run throughout the film, as does his identification with Christ although the brute cannot put the pieces together. Just as he's about to reach an astounding conclusion about `the Dark, and the Light,' they throw him into hard labor -- and into deep bitterness.Act 2 Like Christ in hell, Barabbas is sent to the underworld as a slave in a sulphur mine. He blindfolds himself to avoid acidic burns, effectively blinding himself to avoid becoming blind. When catastrophe hits, he rises from this hellish nightmare into the sun for the first time in years... he must remain blindfolded at first.Act 3 With Barabbas, the only other survivor is a Christian. They journey to Rome with their new master and are enrolled into Gladiator training (This is a weak and unexplained plot point, but it sets the stage for the greatest gladiator scenes I've ever seen -- Ridley Scott should have taken note.) Jack Palance is coldly vicious as the psychotic superstar-warrior above all the other gladiators; my favorite performance of his entire career. Still confused about the true teachings of Christ, Barabbas believes the reports that the Christians are setting fire to Rome. To his eyes the entire world is being destroyed, and a new kingdom is fast approaching. Ironically, when Barabbas finally chooses to believe and to join -- he is very mistaken He grabs a torch and then is caught. Imprisoned, he meets Peter again after all these many years. Unconcerned about his own imminent doom, the disciple ministers to the condemned man -- who ironically joins Christ on the cross after all.The theology of this film is subtle and the treatment not ham-fisted as DeMille's epics, et al. And it's miles ahead of the artless works of TBN. Unfortunately the Christians still have too much religiosity about them. But this is the only mainstream production I can think of that didn't stop short at the death of Christ, dealing with the Resurrection as well. The production values are first-rate; the crucifixion filmed during an actual solar eclipse. The gladiator fights are the most historically accurate ever filmed and include an astounding stunt of a fighter being run down by Palance's chariot. Last but not least, the musical score is psychologically textured and rich without ever being cloying. (9/10) "},{"Title":"The forgotten biblical film?.","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Pontius Pilate asks the people of Jerusalem whom they want freed, Jesus Of Nazareth or Barrabas?, the former has been tagged as a King of the Jewish people, the latter a thief and a murderer, they choose Barrabas.This is a pure work of fiction based around the 1950 Pär Lagerkvist novel of the same name. It has basically taken a passage in the New Testament and extended it to ask what became of the man who was freed instead of Christ? We open of course with the people choosing Barrabas, and the subsequent Crucifixion of Christ that is now scripture legend. This event doesn't at first seem to bother Barrabas, but as the story progresses it becomes clear that he himself has his own cross to bear. We follow him as he witnesses a barbaric stoning of someone close to him, this turns him bitter and a return to a life of crime is his only response. Once again arrested, he is sent to work in the sulphur mines, here he ages fast and hangs on desperately to his life and sanity. He forms a friendship with a fellow inmate and after both men get sent to gladiator school, he finds that the faith surrounding Christ looms large and bright in his life story.Richard Fleischer directs, producer is Dino De Laurentus, Anthony Quinn takes the role of Barrabas, and Jack Palance and Ernest Borgnine add weight to the acting roll call. There is some very good work to be sampled here, Quinn manages to put a bit of sincerity into the lead role; for as Barrabas' perspective alters, Quinn convinces with a nice show of depth. Palance is decently nasty as Torvald, and although Ernest Borgnine is wasted as Lucius, he does however leave a very decent impression due to a good show of acting restraint. There are some lovely shots here as well, particularly around the sulphur mines sequences, whilst both the sets and costumes are suitably on the money.Barrabas is a film that is rarely mentioned when talk of biblical epics arises, and the small amount of user comments here suggests it's largely forgotten. That's a shame because it holds up considerably better than the likes of The Robe. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Well done fantasy based on a novel","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This film is not purely a Hollywood production since this was made in cooperation with the Italian producers. Nevertheless, it can be categorized to all classical movies, like CLEOPATRA, QUO VADIS, BEN HUR, or SPARTACUS. What is there that makes this film so similar?It is a fantasy faithful to history. These two worlds, the historical and the fictitious one, integrate together. The story of Barabbas is strongly linked to the times of the 1st century, the beginnings of the Christian faith and the cruel reign of Caesars, esp. Nero. Par Lagerkvist, the author of the novel BARABBAS, which got the Noble Prize in 1951, showed Barabbas as someone who does not believe, but the light of Christ is present in his soul from the moment he was set free and Jesus sentenced to be crucified. The spiritual content of the movie cannot be skipped. Barabbas experiences the struggle within his heart, though he mocks Nazarenes in the beginning. Love one another somehow unconsciously rings in his mind from the moment of Christ's death (the imagery of Jesus's crucifixion is one of the most powerful I have ever seen on screen). This is showed beautifully and faithfully to the book by Richard Fleischer in the movie.Another aspect that makes the film similar to great, classical productions are the monumental scenes, particularly the arena moments. Lions, gladiators fighting on arena remind me of SPARTACUS (1960), THE SIGN OF THE CROSS (1932) or DEMETRIUS AND THE GLADIATORS (1954). Barabbas also fights as a gladiator with the bravest man of Rome, Torvald (Jack Palance), and wins...And the cast... Great Anthony Quinn as Barabbas is very memorable. He beautifully presents his change of heart from a bad guy to the Christian. Silvana Mangano also does a good job as Rachel whose meeting with Christ changed her life forever; Vittorio Gassman gives a memorable performance as a Christian, Sahak, whose sole aim in life is following his Master to martyrdom; and Jack Palance is absolutely gorgeous as a cruel, unconquered Torvald.I like this movie. It is a profound film, with a wonderful message. Even if you are not much aware of Christ, He is within you. The story of Barabbas, if true or not, also proves the fact that everything in our lives has a MEANING! NOTHING IS MEANINGLESS! Good movie! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Jesus of Nazareth was killed instead of me! There must have been a reason!","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Murkily-developed Biblical epic is long though not lumbering. Anthony Quinn goes through a grueling series of events as Barabbas, a hard-drinking thief and womanizer in Jerusalem who was spared death when Jesus Christ was chosen to take his place on the cross. Soon convicted on other charges, bad-tempered Barabbas slaved for decades in the hellish sulfur mines before being thrown into the gladiator arena, still spiritually torn over his religious vocation. Based on the Nobel-Prize winning novel by Pär Lagerkvist, this (rather melodramatic) 'expansion' from the Gospel of Mark is robotic instead of robust. Still, the momentum here for each new chapter in Barabbas' life is presented with tacky grandeur, and the picture manages to sweep the audience up in a theatrical fervor which is entertaining, if gaudy. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"It wasn't for nothing that Christ died. Mankind isn't nothing. In His eyes, each individual man is the whole world.","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Now if the makers of Gladiator would have watched this film, they would have known how to build an arena that was fascinating, with lions and fiery lakes for the losers. They even had their own version of rodeo clowns.But, this is not just a gladiator story, but a story about a man's redemption. Barabbas (Anthony Quinn) stands in for all men who are thrashing about with doubts and half-beliefs.Based upon a Nobel prize winning novel by Pär Lagerkvist, with screen play by Christopher Fry, considered the 20th Century Shakespeare, this is a story for the ages. Sure, there is no evidence for this, as there is no evidence that Barrabas even existed; it is just one man's imagination, but it makes for a good story.Barrabas does win his freedom in the arena against an over-the-top Jack Palance as Torvald, while Sahak (Vittorio Gassman)gives his life rather than deny his God. Lucius, (Ernest Borgnine) rejects Barrabas for killing to gain his freedom and then trying to find God.But, in the end, he makes a decision. "},{"Title":"the Higher Criticism in a nutshell","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Many Bible scholars are of the opinion that the story of Barabbas, the thief who was freed in place of Jesus, never happened. There is no record of such a custom being observed in Jerusalem or anywhere else for that matter, the name Barabbas makes no sense (it simply means son of the father in Aramaic), and the whole point of the story seems to be part of the Evangelists' attempts to place the whole blame for the death of Jesus on the Jews while Pontius Pilate comes off smelling like a rose (the early Christians were eager to reassure the Roman authorities that they were harmless, and that Jesus' execution at the hands of a Roman governor was all a misunderstanding). I do not necessarily agree with these arguments myself, but I think they need to be considered. Barabbas is a troubling film on many levels, not the least of which is its apparent endorsement of the ancient idea of collective Jewish guilt for the Crucifixion. Perhaps this was unavoidable in an Italian film. Barabbas in many ways seems a symbol for the Jewish people, the Wandering Jew who can never die because he must bear witness to the Saviour. Barabbas (played in a typically larger-than-life performance by Anthony Quinn) is not necessarily the Anti-Christ, but he does come across as a sort of Counter-Christ whose life parallels Jesus' in haunting and often unexpected ways. For instance his death on the cross his final words, commending himself to the darkness. Barabbas is on a decades-long search for meaning, seeking to understand why he was spared instead of Jesus, but at every step of the way he gets it wrong. When he does espouse Christianity he makes matters worse by playing into the hands of the Romans seeking to brand the new faith as terrorism. Barabbas has obvious similarities with other Biblical and gladiator epics--Spartacus, Ben Hur, Gladiator, but stands on its own merits. It benefits from superb widescreen photography and bold, dramatic lighting reminiscent of Caravaggio and Rembrandt, and capable direction from action-film veteran Richard Fleischer (Tora, Tora, Tora.) Arthur Kennedy has an interesting cameo as Pontius Pilate, here seen as a rather long-winded bureaucrat. The Christian characters all come across as insufferable know-it-alls only too ready to rub Barabbas' nose in the dirt, and the lovely Silvana Mangano, as Rachel, is little more than a feminine stand-in for Saint Stephen, the first Christian martyr. A thought-provoking film that raises more questions than it answers. "},{"Title":" If as you say, there is a God for  Christians, why does he not make himself plain ","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Throughout the several texts of historian Josephus, there is scant evidence as to whether there ever was a character named  Barrabas  which is the title of this movie. Roman scholars argue, there were several individuals identified as the notorious criminal, rogue, thief and highway bandit. Further research indicates he was supposedly such a threat to society, they branded him a revolutionary who murdered several people in the course of his crimes. He was caught, charged, found guilty and sentenced to death by crucifixion. The gospels then state, that instead he was exchanged for another trouble maker, one Jesus of Nazareth. Once the Gospels proceed with the death of Christ, Barrabas disappears from record. As a result, contemporary authors are free to speculate on whatever happened to him. One such story, based on the novels by Par Lagerkvist or Khent Hreshtak, Barrabas (Anthony Quinn) returns home and once again takes up a life of crime. As unsuccessful as he always was, he is once again arrested, tried and convicted by Pontius Pilate (Arthur Kennedy) and sentenced to life in the sulfur mines. However due to a revolving fortune, he survives the mines and sent to the gladiatorial arena where he is trained for mortal combat. His school companions include Sahak (Vittorio Gassman), Lucius, (Ernest Borgnine) and the late Jack Palance as Torvald. Although a historical route for the character is lacking, Barrabas is subsequently given one by default and thereafter absorbed by the new Christian faith where he is once again caught for setting fires to Rome and consequentially sent to die on the cross. Plauable, perhaps, but for Quinn, he might have entered the Roman army and become a Tribune for all we know. Based on the movie, the drama is standard, the action canned and the cast acceptable. But one has to detach himself from reality and accept it at face value. As a result this movie has earned enough credit to become a Classic, which it is. Recommended to all. **** "},{"Title":"At long last, a notable epic comes to DVD, presented in an exceptional widescreen transfer.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Richard Fleisher's BARABBAS is an Italian-American co-production, from the early sixties, much like Robert Aldrich's epic, SODOM AND GOMORRAH. Fleischer does a surprisingly good job turning Par Lagerkvist's preachy novel into a picturesque, character-driven epic, and Anthony Quinn is particularly good as the brooding, boorish lead character.  There's some of the traditional ham-handed, Hollywood handling of ancient Christian martyrdom, but, as with most Biblical epics of the time, this is offset by better casting of the non-Christian and Roman characters (the script, much like that of QUO VADIS and BEN-HUR, always tends to make the Romans more interesting and memorable).  The production design by Mario Chiari is exceptional, as is the subtle, effective music by Mario Nascimbene; and all of this is perfectly captured on Columbia/Tri-Star's new DVD version.  The Technirama picture is presented in high-definition anamorphic widescreen and doesn't attempt to compromise the earth-toned Technicolor of the original film prints.  The sound is mastered from the original 4-track magnetic elements and retains the localized dialogue of the theatrical mix.  This is a quality costume epic, ranking with the best of it's kind, for fans of the genre.  Too bad a disc version of the film is too late to allow commentary from it's star the late, great Anthony Quinn.       "}{"Title":"big old Hollywood production","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Pontius Pilate releases the violent criminal Barabbas (Anthony Quinn) instead of Jesus. Barabbas returns to his drunken friends to find his lover Rachel (Silvana Mangano) has become one of Jesus' follower. He goes blind for awhile as Jesus is crucified. Rachel gets stoned to death for blasphemy. Barabbas is arrested again for robbing a temple caravan but Pilate tells him that he is not allowed to sentence him to death again. Instead he is sentenced to the sulfur mines in Sicily. He is chained to a Christian Sahak but he still refuses to believe in Christ. After many years, they are brought to Rome and become gladiators under the famous champion Torvald (Jack Palance).Nobody can claim that the film went cheap on the production. This is a big scale movie of Old Hollywood. The acting is very broad at times. I really didn't like the constant referencing to Jesus in the first half. It becomes too much when he meets Lazarus and the Disciples. Rachel and Sahak are much better conduits for the message. I do like the sulfur mines as a substitute for hell. I would have liked him to find salvation down in the mines. It would be poetic and make the movie shorter. "},{"Title":"Couldn't Recapture the Book","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I, of all people, know that it is unfair to compare a movie to a book. Since this film was viewed as an extension of a book study, it's hard not to do so. So I will try to be fair. I believe that Par Lagerqvist's work has an overwhelming existentialist vent to it. Barrabas witnesses the Crucifixion. He can do this because he has been spared his life due to the fact that once a year, a prisoner can be pardoned. Of course, the people call for him and reject Christ. All this follows the plot and Barabbas find himself back in his old ways. He is a subversive, but really all about himself. The book was written in 1951 by a man who had rejected Christianity. The problem with the movie is that it sucks so much humanity out of its main character. The subtle moments that show he is on a course of self discovery, don't, for me, match the book's character. I also found the whole gladiator thing, which never appears in the book, to be strictly fodder for the lowest common denominator. It is probably because this was competing with the other Biblical epics of that time. I will give Jack Palance credit. He is about as mean spirited as anyone ever in film, a true psychotic presence with his almost maniacal grin. I think at that point the subtleties went out the window. It's not a terrible movie (it's quite decent in its own way), but I think with a director and some writers that could have embraced the novel a bit more (and kept the original characters as they are described) and not bowed to popular culture, it would have been much better. "},{"Title":"Welease Bawabbas!","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The success of films like The Robe (based on a novel by Lloyd Douglas) and Quo Vadis? (based on a novel by Henryk Sienkiewicz) had Hollywood producers scouring the libraries and the bookshops for other novels about the life of Christ and the early Church that could be turned into quasi-Biblical epics. Lew Wallace's Ben-Hur must have seemed a natural for this treatment, and the resulting film is one of the greatest epics ever made, but there were some more obscure entries in the cycle such as the eccentric The Silver Chalice. Barabbas was based on a novel by the Swedish writer Pär Lagerkvist, a winner of the Nobel Prize for literature. The gospels do not tell us very much about Barabbas, the man released by Pontius Pilate in preference to Jesus, except that he was a criminal of some sort. The four evangelists cannot even agree on the nature of his crimes; Mark and Luke accuse him of rebellion and murder, John of robbery, while Matthew simply calls him a notorious prisoner. In Lagerkvist's account he resumes his criminal career after his release, is recaptured and condemned to work as a slave in the sulphur mines of Sicily, and later becomes a gladiator. (And what Roman epic would be complete without gladiators?)When Monty Python's controversial Life of Brian was attacked for allegedly ridiculing Christianity, the Pythons claimed that their satire was not aimed at Christ's teaching but at grandiose, excessively reverential religious epics. Their critics may have dismissed this claim as disingenuous, but Barabbas strikes me as precisely the sort of film the Pythons were sending up. The script was written by the then-famous dramatist Christopher Fry and although it is not in verse, unlike most of Fry's stage plays, the dialogue often seems heavy and ponderous. As a practising Pythonist of long standing I kept hearing echoes of Brian throughout; during the release scene I was expecting the crowd to shout Welease Bawabbas! He's a wobber and a wapist! When Barabbas' ex- girlfriend Rachel, who has become a Christian, is stoned to death for blasphemy, I wondered if she had committed the sin of remarking That piece of fish is good enough for Jehovah!And yet, despite its tendency to slide into unintentional self-parody, this is not altogether a bad film. It was directed by Richard Fleischer, a director whose films varied in quality but who could generally come up with something original. He worked in virtually every movie genre known to Hollywood, and when he made two films in the same genre was careful not to repeat himself. Thus his two science-fiction films, the steampunk 20,000 Leagues under the Sea and the psychedelic Fantastic Voyage are nothing like one another, and his The Girl in the Red Velvet Swing and 10, Rillington Place are about as dissimilar as it is possible for two based-on-fact historical crime dramas to be. Fleischer had made a previous epic, The Vikings, but this mediaeval adventure story is very different to Barabbas. Many epics were noted for their brilliant colour- by the fifties a black-and-white epic was virtually unthinkable- but Barabbas is sombre in tone with dull, muted colours. It does, however, include moments of spectacle, including a splendid duel in the arena and a crucifixion scene shot during a real eclipse of the sun. The film's other great strength is the performance of Anthony Quinn in the title role. As conceived by Lagerkvist, Barabbas is a man troubled by the implications of his unexpected reprieve from death. He recognises Christ as somebody special but does not, except at the very end of the film, fully accept the truth of Christianity, even though he is befriended by a Christian prisoner while in the mines. Quinn plays the role with a blazing sincerity which sets him apart from many leading men in films of this nature; Paul Newman, for example, gave one of his worst performances in The Silver Chalice, and Richard Burton is hardly at his best in The Robe. Jack Palance, who was about the only watchable thing about The Silver Chalice, is also good here as the arrogant and sadistic gladiator Torvald who fights Barabbas in the arena. Torvald fights from a chariot, in a scene obviously influenced by the chariot race in Ben-Hur.(Incidentally, I wonder why Lagerkvist gave the common Scandinavian Christian name Torvald to one of his characters; this struck me as the equivalent of a British novelist calling a Roman gladiator Bill or Harry. Admittedly, the name, which incorporates that of the pagan god Thor, could have been used in pre-Christian times, but it is unlikely that someone from Scandinavia, to the Romans a little-known land far outside their empire, could have made his way to Rome).Barabbas is not the best-known of the quasi- Biblical epics, although it has been kept in the public eye by occasional showings over the Easter holidays. It cannot compare in quality with something like Ben- Hur, but Quinn's acting and Fleischer's directorial touches give it a certain quality which lifts it above the likes of the ludicrous Silver Chalice. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Barabbas' eyes","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" In one of the first scenes Barabbas steps out of his dark prison cell to find the peculiar glinting figure of the man who's going to take his place on the cross and rubbing his eyes says he's not used to the light. So here we have both facets that make this interesting. It is, more so than Ben Hur and perhaps even Spartacus, less grand in the cinematic brushstroke but more troubled and honestly so about the spiritual picture it paints, more human.It starts with what we know as a spiritual narrative, Pilates' trial of Jesus, but approaches it in the historic light. It follows only the last legs of that narrative from the crucifixion on but does so through Barabbas' questioning eyes. We assume divinity because it's that story but the body could have been stolen, the eclipse natural; it all might just be a story about god.The spiritual question that looms is why doesn't god make himself plain? If this is a spiritual narrative as the newly devout insist throughout, why is it so hard to discern its truth?Barabbas finds it hard to believe so returns to his banditry which opens up a cycle of sinking deeper into a life of meaningless toil and punishment, seen most clearly in the sulphur mines where each subsequent year the slaves are lowered to a deeper level as their eyes become accustomed to the dark, again eyes tied to light. It isn't so just for him of course, Christians suffer next to him so what difference does it make, faith or god?There's a scene where a Christian lectures gladiators that their pagan gods are fictions that will be sure to amuse modern viewers. But this was the powerful reality of early Christianity, the only time it truly mattered. Christians could point to a specific time and place where god appeared as part of history, I can only imagine the invigorating urgency. It had all become clear, linear. They did joyfully expect to see his return within their lifetime.There is something powerful to be gleaned here; life isn't any better for the believers than Barabbas, the whole difference has nothing to do with the material facts, it's all about the light in which you choose to see. The tragic irony is that when Barabbas chooses to believe it is only out of guilt, a madness that is the fire he sets to things (this is during Nero's fire) that is his belief that the anticipated return would be fiery like this.So forget that it's a religious spectacle we watch during Lent and carries that form, this is more erudite than usual and deserves to be seen next to Stromboli about the difficulties of faith. "},{"Title":"The struggle with sin, guilt, redemption, people, belief, suffering and God","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Barabbas is an Italian film released in 1961 and directed by Richard Fleischer (The Vikings). It's a sword & sandal epic that begins where more popular biblical epics leave off, like Ben-Hur, King of Kings and The Passion of the Christ. THE STORY Anthony Quinn plays the titular character, a murderous lout and insurrectionist condemned to die at the time of the trial of Christ. Barabbas' first name was Jesus, so Roman governor Pilate was essentially asking the crowd to choose between Jesus Barabbas and Jesus Christ, the guilty or the innocent, to be put to death or set free. They of course choose to condemn the innocent so Barabbas is set free. Throughout the rest of his life Barabbas is haunted by Christ's sacrifice and struggles with guilt over his unmerited salvation. His ex-girlfriend is stoned to death for her Christian beliefs, he spends twenty years as a slave in the notorious sulfur mines and then becomes a gladiator. His life is a constant struggle -- with himself, with others, with his beliefs, with his various predicaments and mostly with God Himself.No one knows what really happened to Barabbas after he was set free; this is a fictional account based on the novel by Par Larverkvist.WHAT WORKS The picture was filmed entirely in Italy, including Sicily, and the locations & sets are great and very authentic-looking. The Colosseum scenes were filmed at real Italian amphitheaters, so these sequences have a genuine feel as opposed to the fake-looking CGI Colosseum scenes in Gladiator. The stoning scene is heart-wrenching. This is the first and only film I've ever seen that; it shows what a real-life stoning was like, and it's not pretty.Silvana Mangano plays Barabbas' ex-girlfriend Rachel. Unfortunately her natural beauty is played down here. Be sure to catch Silvana in Kirk Douglas' Ulysses (1954) where she plays both Penelope and the witch/siren Circe. Silvana's beauty is absolutely captivating in Ulysses, which has more pizazz than the comparatively boring The Odyssey (1997).The sulfur mine sequences have a realistic feel. So much so it may occur to you that, no matter how bad you have it, at least you're not a slave in a sulfur mine.Jack Palance plays the lead gladiator. He lives for one purpose only to entertain spectators by killing people in the arena. He thrives on the accolades he receives. What will happen when Barabbas faces him in a duel to the death? The gladiatorial scenes are pretty much on a par with similar scenes in Spartacus and Ben-Hur (although, of course, nothing can ever top the spectacular chariot race).Ernest Borgnine is also on hand in a small role. You can never go wrong with Borgnine.The score by Mario Nascimbene is solemn and potent.WHAT DOESN'T WORK The picture starts off slowly and doesn't really capture your full attention until the stoning sequence, which is a full 40 minutes into the story. In other words, be prepared to persevere for about 45 minutes or so. At the 50-minute mark the mine scenes start and the story finally becomes compelling (the film runs 2 hours and 17 minutes).FYI The Almighty (apparently) provided an actual total solar eclipse February 15, 1961 to enhance the eerie scenes of darkness, which mysteriously fell across the land after Jesus' crucifixion. The score during this scene is simple, almost non-existent, but very ominous.FINAL ANALYSIS Barabbas successfully depicts every man or woman's struggle with sin, guilt, redemption, suffering and the search for ultimate reality or truth. This is not a fun, adventurous or action-packed film, although there's some good action in the gladiatorial scenes. Barabbas' journey is torturous at best, but worthwhile if you're in the proper brooding mood for such a picture.COMPARISON Although Barabbas isn't as great as other biblical epics like Ben-Hur or The Ten Commandments or sword & sandal epics like Troy, it's better than the melodramatic The Robe (a horrible film) and the ridiculously boring The Greatest Story Ever Told (how about The Boring-est Film Ever Made?). It's roughly on par with films like Samson and Delilah, King of Kings and Spartacus, even though I give Samson and Spartacus the edge.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"His Story.","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Richard Fleischer directed this epic biblical account of Barabbas(played by Anthony Quinn) a thief who was spared death in place of Jesus Christ after the people were manipulated into choosing him to be pardoned by Pontius Pilate(played by Arthur Kennedy). Barabbas is conflicted and spiritually torn over his life being spared in favor of such a loved man, whose teachings are spreading across the land. Barabbas will drift along from becoming a gladiator to being a prisoner in the salt mines, to an eventual follower of Jesus, which many years later leads him to his ironic fate... Well-acted by Quinn, with good direction and production, though film is also ponderous, and never quite as inspiring as it tries to be, yet it is still interesting. "},{"Title":"Biblical epic with some outstanding moments","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" A Biblical epic that today seems forgotten amongst its bigger counterparts (BEN-HUR being the most obvious example), BARABBAS proves to be a rewarding visual experience. And it certainly deserves the 'epic' tag; sometimes it's slow, sometimes it drags out endlessly, but at other times it provides just the kind of spectacle you'd expect from one of these movies.The first half of the film, once the Christ stuff is done with, is a little slow. Anthony Quinn's titular character is a man difficult to like, and he doesn't seem to do much. Once he gets thrown into the sulphur mines, things change for the better and the film impresses with one massive sequence after another.Such highlights culminate in the gladiator scenes, which are on a scale to rival those of SPARTACUS or even GLADIATOR. There are moments in the arena, involving lions, elephants, and chariots, which are truly spectacular and incredibly impressive to this day. The presence of Jack Palance as a psychotic trainer is the icing on the cake. Things then move rapidly and inevitably to the moving climax.Director Richard Fleischer reaches a career peak early on by incorporating a real-life solar eclipse into the crucifixion scene to excellent effect. He also rounds up a busload of stalwarts (including Arthur Kennedy, Harry Andrews and Ernest Borgnine) to enhance the experience. While BARABBAS is a little too ponderous to be considered a true classic, fans of old-fashioned epics will find little to dislike. "},{"Title":"Give us Barabbas!","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** The film Barabbas starts where the New Testament left off with petty thief bandit and womanizer Barabbas, Anthony Quinn, having his life speared by Roman Mayor of Jerusalem Pontius Pilate, Arthur Kennedy.This was done as a as a good will jester by Pilate to placate the angry crowd,mostly members of the Pharisees, that wanted the other person scheduled to be crucified the innocent Jesus of Nazareth, Roy Mangano,to be executed instead. It's from that point on without of the holy scriptures that were treated to what happened to Barabbas since his escape from death. And we soon see he was more or less the same nasty uncouth and unfeeling person as he was up until then.In fact Barabbas was infuriated when he found out that his girlfriend Rachael, Silvana Mangano, had become a Christian and follower of Jesus! The very man that was crucified in his place! This had Barabbas try to find out what exactly this new religion was all about by getting in touch with some of Jesus' disciples hiding out in Jerusalem ! Finding out that Christianity has to do with loving not only your neighbor but enemy as well had the very disappointed Barabbas go back to his old ways of womanizing robbing as well as murdering which he felt quite at home with. Captured and sentenced to work in the Sicilian sulfur pits for life had,since having his life speared by Pontius Pilate prevented him for any future execution, Barabbas finally finds God with the help of fellow prisoner newly converted Christian Sahak, Vittorio Gassman, just to be able to survive his ordeal. Later released from the pits, together with Sahak, for good behavior a what looked like in his 60's Barabbas was recruited by the Roman Emperor Nero to fight in the Colosseum as a gladiator against men young enough to his sons or even grandsons! It's when Sahak refused to denounce his Christian faith and was executed for doing it that a sudden change of heart came into Barabbas head and he himself accepted Jesus' teachings and became a Christian. Still Barabbas had some unfinished business to take care of by battling the head of the gladiator Torvald (Jack Palance), who killed his good friend Sahak, in a fight to the death at the Roman Colosseum. Being a lot more formidable then Trovald thought he was the haggard and out of shape looking Barabbas made short order of him by using his head and outmaneuvering and outsmarting Torvald at his own game! Trovald who was so sure of himself in him winning the death match against Barabbas that he got himself good and gloriously drunk before the festivities even began and kept on drinking in his early matches, that he won hands down, and even during during his battle with Barabbas when he could barley stand on his feet!***SPOILERS*** Now a free man and what he thought practicing Christian Barabbas later makes the fatal mistake of eagerly taking the blame for setting Rome on fire when he sees thousands of Romans fleeing the city. Thinking that was what his fellow Christians, who were totally non violent even to their abusive Roman masters, wanted he ended up where we first saw him nailed to a cross for what in this case turned out to be a crime that he didn't commit! It was the mad as a hatter Emperor Nero who set the city on fire not the luckless and confused,in him thinking he was doing the right thing, Barabbas! With all the breaks Barabbas got throughout the movie he never realized that his life was speared for a reason. That was to give him a second chance in life by becoming a decent God fearing law abiding and and honest human being. Instead Barabbas who has a cross to bare in his new life resorted back to his old and evil ways that put him right back to square one, nailed to the cross, where we last see him as the film finally ends. "},{"Title":"Nicely Done","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie was a pleasant surprise. I'm an atheist but if you grant the story whatever you grant other stories you can take it as it is; a better than average narrative. Choosing Barrabas as the protagonist allows this movie to avoid the simpleton, heraldic treatment of good Christians vs. bad pagans. Though it certainly falters here and there. As with all Biblical epics the movie does have one or two Christian dullards who are mad at the Romans for killing Christ. Well yes, and if you're a believer, his death is the foundation of your religion and man's salvation. How could you not understand something so fundamental? How could you miss the point so completely? Well... because people can't reason to save their lives.Barrabas takes forever to figure it all out. He is a true dullard, as his character would be. And Anthony Quinn keeps his performance in check (No hamming). The movie is shot beautifully/naturally, without a lot of arid prettiness to let your mind stray from the point. In the end, it is admirably true to grave matters of theology. Rather than vanquish some two dimensional baddie (which means zero in the grand scheme of things) the real finish of this movie has to do with the condition of Barrabas' tortured, oblivious soul. As I viewed the ending I was quite surprised, since as I watched I was thinking, ten to one Hollywood and the writers miss the point and off some irrelevant villain. You will not be whistling a happy tune, and ordering a pizza after the final images. "},{"Title":"A bit naff, quite frankly","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Winner of Jerusalem's Favourite Convict (33AD season), Barabbas - who has led a worthless life - goes in search of meaning.Starting with the decision to free Barabbas rather than Jesus, this 1961 Biblical epic charts Barabbas' (fictional) life after being freed, based on the 1953 novel. Quite nicely staged (even going so far as to feature an actual eclipse at the crucifixion) and with a good central performance by Antony Quinn, Barabbas has a number of faults. Back in 1961 they may not have been fatal. 2013 is not so forgiving.It is slow, dull, and overlong.It is badly dubbed throughout.And perhaps it is just the print which was aired on TV, but it was grainy and out of focus.I do like me a good Biblical epic, but I was unimpressed. "}{"Title":"Fantastic and touching !!!","Date":"5 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I will give 9 out 10 because this film was well presented. Anthony Quinn, as usual, was a good actor. I do not know how accurate is the historical events regarding Barabbas in this film, but I believe that Barabbas was more a rebel against the State...the State which was and it is up to nowadays million of times more evil than Barabbas.At the end we have some doubts were Barabbas was repent in the cross while Rome was burning.Forgot to mention Jack Palance, another good actor and Ernest Borgnine.I have this film in DVD and I recommend for those who like history and cinema. I will compare this film with Ben Hur, Spartacus, Eld Cid, King of kings...and many classics from the 60's. "},{"Title":"A speculative Bible story","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" A what if story from the Bible. What if there was this lowdown, dirty bad guy and for the briefest moment he was held at the same level of Jesus Christ. Who would the people go for and why? I appreciated the fact that this movie seems to be made specifically for skeptics and agnostics. Stipped down and hard boiled. Existential and quotidian but the spiritual still emerges and commands the narrative. The death of Christ coinciding with the real solar eclipse has immense visual power with Barabbas observing both events. From there the film keeps asking the audience is the Jesus Christ figure one that a man this hardened ever find worth following and strive to follow his teachings. There's a lot besides Quinn's performance to enjoy here. The gladiator section is extremely well done as and seems to be a bonus movie within the movie. Jack Palance in full dangerous he-man mode with his trademark scary/funny quality. "},{"Title":"An invented Barabba","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" ..and a very good sword and sandals,one of the best of an era which produced many of them.Like the robe which used an anonymous character of the gospels (one of the officers who crucified Jesus) ,it deals with what could have become of Barabba after the Christ days.It's based on a novel,not on historical facts.Funny how the evolution of Barraba looks like that of the hero of the robe .The beginning of the film is well known;it's interesting to have introduced a female character (Sylvana Mangano,whose appearance is too short),some kind of repentant Mary Magdalene.Anthony Quinn is well cast as the thief who will make his way to the kingdom of Eden through an eventful initiatory journey.From the salt mines to the catacombs via arenas (Jack Palance is featured as a gladiator),this is another successful effort in Fleischer's brilliant career whose eclecticism was remarkable. "},{"Title":"Anthony Quinn is Barabbas!","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The gladiatorial training scenes are thrilling. The sulphur mines are claustrophobic and frightening. The crucifixion of Christ is amazingly real. The stoning of Barabbas's girlfriend is viciously horrific and cruel. The burning of Rome is a whirlwind. The struggle of the Christian faith is amply etched in your memory by Anthony Quinn's vivid portrayal of the choice we all face in life, whether to choose Christ in our lives or to reject it. Barabbas's struggle with this proves his acceptance of Jesus in his life - that God has touched his soul as his life is spared while Christ is crucified in his place. The times of Christ are penetratingly revealing. This is a truly great film. I enjoyed it immensely. I saw it for the first time at 7 years of age and I never forgot it. And I never will. I highly recommend this one. The love interest shows a subtlety in film-making rarely seen. The character of Barabbas is beautifully portrayed by Quinn as to be the definitive rendition of the role. A great movie. "},{"Title":"A Hollywood Story","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This was a very entertaining film about the man who was a crook and obtained his freedom when Jesus Christ was crucified on the cross. Anthony Quinn, (Barabbas) gave an outstanding performance and the role suited him perfectly. The story showed how Barabbas suffered greatly after his freedom and wound up in salt mines doing the worst kind of work and then having to fight as a gladiator against a powerful threat, Jack Palance, (Tovald) who gave an outstanding supporting role. This is a good film to show around the Easter season, however, this is pure fiction about the life of Barabbas and Hollywood present a good film along with the great actor Anthony Quinn. "},{"Title":"Great Performances","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Anthony Quinn gives an outstanding performance as BARABBAS a lifelong criminal  who was set free in the place of Jesus Christ. Through the film you see the changes in Barabbas life as his conscience  begins to wonder why he was spared a miserable death in the place of a good man. Jack Palance also gives a good performance as a ruthless gladiator in the arena as well as the rest of the cast. A great film all around. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary peplum about  the biblical story of Barabbas.","Date":"4 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Barabbas Fleischer poses as an inducement primordial vision of those early years of Christianity through the objective and skeptical eyes of a thief, murderer, and quarrelsome, Barabbas. A man who saved his life at the expense of Jesus Christ, and whose fate would be inextricably linked to the progressive spreading of the word of Christ.Unlike other films of a more sobering, Fleischer commitment to focus their story on the terrible stigma that will support lifelong Barabbas, who along with spectacular sequences such as the collapse of the sulfur mines, and gladiator fights is essence of this film.Richard Fleischer, epic and adventurous, this film used for the Fabien Pär Lagerkvist novel, winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1951. Lagerkvist, of deep religious tradition, focuses much of his work, as Zarathustra twentieth century, the question of good and evil, to face this dichotomy through the eyes of perhaps the most famous outlaw of the Holy Scriptures,The fantastic thing about Fleischer's film, in my opinion, is the transformation that occurs in the first Templar of world history. Barabbas, an uncertainty passes first day on which Jesus' death allowed him to save his life, a definite rearward impulse that takes part in the burning of Rome in the belief that Christians are those who are perpetrating the sad action. The poor Barabbas with hard and wild head, only death is enough to finally understand the message of Jesus and the profound difference that separates good from evil. Formidable Anthony Quinn, the great Gasmann memorable (criticized for his atheism), playing the most Christian Sahek immense evil Jack Palance as gladiator and beautiful Mangano "},{"Title":"One of the best Biblical movies I've seen...","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" 1st watched 2/6/2009 - 9 out of 10(Dir-Richard Fleischer) One of the best Biblical movies I've seen even though it's based on a very small character in the actual text. The only thing mentioned about Barabbas in the Bible is that he is let go instead of Jesus by the Jews during their holiday and Pontius Pilate went on to kill Jesus on the cross. This movie follows the story after Barabbas was released and the path he goes down after being haunted by this incident. Instead of being grateful, he thinks that he is something special and initially just returns to his normal life of crime. He then is picked up again for a crime of murder and thievery and sentenced to the salt mines for a long period of time. Anthony Quinn is excellent as the anti-hero who then meets a Christian in the mines and doesn't warm up to him initially, but eventually then saves him from a mine incident and watches him killed for his beliefs. This makes him think a little more seriously about this Jesus character. Quinn is excellent even when he doesn't speak because you can see from his face what he's thinking and feeling. The rest of the cast is capable except for a slightly hammy performance by Jack Palance as a prideful gladiator. The core of the movie is watching Barabbas react to all the episodes in his life and his slow recovery from his dark side. Again, this is an excellent movie that really tells the story of how Jesus affected people even after he was killed. "},{"Title":"Barabbas (1961) ***","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a captivating but fictionalized story about what may have happened in the aftermath of the hardened criminal Barabbas being released to freedom in place of Jesus Christ, who was the one chosen by the people to be crucified in his place. As the thieving and murderous Barabbas, Anthony Quinn is perfectly cast for the part.Barabbas becomes a free man only temporarily, as it's not long before his old ways get him imprisoned again, landing him twenty years hard labor in the deadly sulphur mines. He is consistently tormented by repressed guilt and confusion for being freed in the place of Jesus and when he meets up with a Christian prisoner at a time where it's considered blasphemous to hold such beliefs, Barabbas begins to tread on the path of acceptance of his part in history and his discovery of Christianity. Along his journey to self-realization, Barabbas becomes a gladiator who must come face to face with the most sadistic warrior of all, the dreaded Torvald (a deliciously sinister performance by Jack Palance) as they confront each other in the arena in a life-and-death duel.My favorite sequence in the film is one which rarely gets mentioned. It involves a former love of Barabbas, a woman named Rachel (Silvana Mangano) who had begun to follow Jesus during the period where Barabbas was incarcerated. She is now a holy disciple and prophet for Christ, and when the citizens catch her spreading his word, they call for her to be stoned to death. Rachel's brave plight as she is lead down into a great pit and sits solemnly still as hundreds of sinners hurl their rocks at her face from above, is a truly powerful scene. Her faith carries her through the horrifying ordeal, and she reaches confidently out for the hand of Christ, oblivious amidst the flying stones. Just a beautiful moment. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Imaginative plot, great acting, fine action scenes","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  If you have any appreciation for big-budget epics set during the days of the Roman Empire, you won't be disappointed by this film.  The gladiator training outdoes SPARTACUS, and Anthony Quinn gives one of his finer performances.  The writing--or Quinn's improvisation--gives him plenty of good, understated lines as he goes through his torturous odyssey.Jack Palance is a special treat.This film offers an even-handed, sober treatment of budding Christianity--it is not out to appease or make converts, just tell a story about the man the mob preferred over Jesus.Suitable for most of the family except maybe the youngest members who might get shaken by some of the violence.  A stoning scene is quite disturbing.Rent, zap a bag of popcorn, and enjoy.   "}{"Title":"Poetic, and inspirational","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  What epics of olde they once did weave to nearly return this wretch to again believe;From freedom, to searching From Sulphur mines to inner mind;A stirring rendition, To rival Perdition!A crafty man who deftly craft this work of ancient draft!From confounded release at mankinds loss To redemption for the simple loss of a man.From a modern legacy of Barabbas's fate To the forlorn movie that lifts my spirit in times      of Woe.    Excelsior! "},{"Title":"below par","Date":"30 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Spartacus and Ben-Hur this ain't. I don't understand the references to lavish spectacle. Everything in this movie looks cheap. And director Stanley Fleisher is no Bill Kowalchuk (Ben-Hur) or Stanley Kramer (Spartacus). As far as the score, Mario Nascimbene is no Miklos Rozsa either. As far as the red/orange tint referred to I strongly suspect this is due to the aging of the print. The movie has not been restored like others of its day, which is understandable; it's not worth restoring. Anthony Quinn and his colleagues do the best they can with a ponderously leaden and clichéd script (Work, you crazy dogs!). The pacing is glacial, and the long passages of monologue that are more appropriate to a pulpit than a soundstage are tough to take. I was going to stop watching halfway through but I forced myself to watch the whole thing so I'd feel qualified to comment on it. Just because I suffered doesn't mean you have to. "},{"Title":"Quinn is fine, the story not really","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Barabbas is an American/Italian English-language movie directed by Academy Award winner Richard Fleischer, member of the famous Fleischer clan. The screenplay is by Christopher Fry, who adapted Pär Lagerkvist's novel for this movie here. The film is listed on IMDb as a prequel to John Huston's Oscar-nominated The Bible In the Beginning..., maybe because Fry wrote that one as well? I am not sure. Story-wise, it is not really a prequel. Anyway, the version of Barabbas I watched runs for 2 hours and 12 minutes, so it is a pretty long film, even if not as long as its sequel. In my opinion, the only real reason to watch Barabbas is Anthony Quinn, He played his role convincingly, but the story simply could not keep me interested for long, especially not for over 2 hours. Pretty disappointing.I would recommend this one only to great fans of historic and religiously themed movies, maybe also to fans of Quinn. Then again, I like him too, but was rather underwhelmed watching his film here. The rest of the cast includes fairly known names too from its era, people who had won and been nominated for many awards during their long careers, but this film is another example of how even the greatest cast cannot make an uninteresting script work really. I certainly hoped this would be better judging from its IMDb rating. But it really is not. Watch something else instead. Not recommended, unless you are a Quinn completionist. You also do not need to see this one here if you play on watching the sequel I mentioned earlier in my review. That one does not even include Quinn, so connections are almost non-existent, story-wise as well. "},{"Title":"Overlong and dully paced at times, but still among the better biblical epics out there","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Who cannot resist seeing a film with a cast like Anthony Quinn, Jack Palance, Ernest Borgnine and Harry Andrews? The cast and my general interest in biblical epic films were my reasons for seeing Barabbas. It's imperfect and could have been better, but there are also a lot of fantastic things. And when it comes to biblical epics, while not definitive or masterpiece status Barabbas is towards the better end of the spectrum.Barabbas is very grand in scale visually. The sets and costumes are very lavish, the use of amber-orange gives the film a very soothing look and there's some truly breath-taking cinematography. The music score is incredibly powerful and the very meaning of stirringly epic. Also in terms of how it's orchestrated and recorded it's quite innovative with its experimental sounds. The script has its foibles but is a vast majority of the time intelligent and thoughtful, Richard Fleischer directs with a fine sense of period and an understanding to using the action and set pieces to their fullest potential and the story has many compelling moments. Especially true to this are the crucifixion set against a real eclipse of the fun, easily the most striking image of the film, and the climax in the arena, which is the most dramatically compelling and entertaining Barabbas gets.Rachel's stoning(a heart-wrenching moment), the burning of Rome and the sulphur mines collapse are equally unforgettable scenes. The action is very exciting, so much so that it outweighs the film's dull stretches, and emotionally Barabbas is genuinely heartfelt and sincere. The cast is a uniformly talented one and all performances(despite the characters varying in how well-written they are) range from solid to great. Anthony Quinn portrays titular character Barabbas as a tortured, guilt-ridden soul and portrays this very movingly and with a great deal of intimacy. Not many actors succeed in bringing humanity to a criminal but Quinn manages to do that. Of the supporting cast, the standout is Jack Palance, whose performance as the snarling villain Torvald is an evil-incarnate powerhouse.The film is let down chiefly by its pacing however. Not all of the time, mind, but the first half in particular is very stodgily paced and not always very eventful before properly coming to life in the stoning scene. There are a lot of references to Jesus which were dealt with rather heavy-handedly at times, some speeches ramble on a little too much and lose flow. 137 minutes is actually reasonably short compared to other biblical epics, but because there are some very draggy and not so eventful parts Barabbas to me did feel a little overlong in places. Barabbas is hardly the first biblical/historical epic to have these problems though, and others have done them much worse this said, and I'm usually tolerant of slow pacing and long lengths dependent on the execution of everything else.And while a lot is done right in Barabbas, other areas are patchy. Also as gently sincere and pretty Silvana Mongano is, she has very little to do in a particularly clichéd and thinly sketched role in a film where only Barabbas has any proper development. To the film's credit, the idea of people being brought up and living life in tumultuous times is portrayed with much riveting realism, so while development is sketchy it is easy to get emotionally engaged and empathise with what the characters are going through.Overall, overlong, at times heavy-handed in the script and with its dull spots, but with the wonderful production values, powerful music score, emotional resonance, some visually striking and dramatically compelling scenes and strong acting Barabbas still manages to be a good film and one of the better biblical epics. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The Romans Inspiration to the Nazis?","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is both a powerful film about a man's moral development and a crushing indictment of man's cruelty.We tend to look back at the Roman Empire as a pinnacle of civilization, but we forget their sadism on a personal level -- that they could free a criminal like Barabbas, only to whip almost to the point of death and hammer nails through the hands of Christ. Jesus plays a heart-wrenching but minor role in this incredible film, shown brutally scourged -- to the shrieks, presumably, of angels -- before his mortification during a total eclipse of the sun.We follow the inveterate criminal Barabbas (Anthony Quinn) from his days as a never-learning predator through his slavery in a Hades-like sulfur mine -- only to see him gird for battle as a gladiator in the Coloseum. One wouldn't have believed it, but over time and with age Barabbas learns to think of someone other than himself. He grows pensive to the point of inscrutability as we wonder just how far he will take his growing wisdom.Barabbas is necessarily passive when his erstwhile lover Rachel, an early Christian convert, is stoned to death for discussing her faith. He stands a grim watch, during a lashing rainstorm, as his friend Sahek (Vittorio Gassmann) takes a spear, in his own kind of crucifixion,for refusing to repudiate his God. How will he behave facing another unfair fight, this with the gruesome charioteer Torvald (Jack Palance)? This movie is extraordinarily difficult to sit through in parts. To watch the Roman throngs cheer like Superbowl fans, to see men ripped to shreds, is repugnant. At times I found the tension to be near-unbearable. (Thank goodness for the pause on the remote!)This is, literally, one hell of an epic production. "},{"Title":"Barabbas A Strong Achievement","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" While at first you could possibly be forgiven for thinking Barabbas might look like a cheap Italian epic, it is far, far from being so. The person I saw it with described it as a sword a sandal epic with some religion thrown in to cash in on the genre. If you also thought so, then maybe you need to look again. This has to be one of the most literate screenplays given to a 'Biblical' (yet non-Biblical epic). Bristol born Sceenwriter Christopher Fry, regarded by many as the Shakespeare of the 20th Century, has crafted a perceptive adaptation of Swedish Nobel Prize winner Par Lagerkvists' novel of the same name. The film wreaks of stunning atmosphere. Striking images created by award nominated Cinematographer Aldo Tonti conjure up the best art of the dark age masters. Pay special attention to the Crucifiction scenes, these were filmed during an actual eclipse of the Sun, as it occurred on 15th Feb 1961! The production design by Mario Chiari was also award nominated, and deservedly so, leaving you gasping for air amid astoundingly realistic sets. The National Board of Review awarded Barabbas the Best Foreign Film of it's year.Mario Nascimbene caps the eerie moods with an innovative haunting music score. While the action scenes are violent in their recreation, they serve to force us to realize the shocking inhumanity of the Roman Arena, a severe denouncement of the repugnant, decay riddled Roman Empire. Anthony Quinn, Vitorio Gassman, Harry Andrews, Silvana Mangano, Ernest Borgnine, et-all, give convincing performances that should sweep the discerning viewer along a tour de force journey. Jack Palance is truly menacing in a larger than life performance as the arena's maniacal killer. While it's mostly impossible to fully translate a novel into a screen play, it seems Fry has worked hard to keep much of the poetic prose of Lagerkvists' 50's original intact.American Director Richard Fleischer (son of famous animator Max) demonstrates full command of this difficult project and infuses it with the same intensity he imparted to several of his other gripping works Compulsion '59 ~ 10 Rillington Place '71 ~ The New Centurians '72 and Edward G. Robinson's impressive 'swan song' Soylent Green in '73. If you can patiently follow as a tortured soul journeys into self discovery, then you should be rewarded by the experience of Barabbas. Recommended for the viewer who can 'read' a film like a book. It seems Columbia have recently re-mastered this film on DVD, I look forward to seeing it. "},{"Title":"Quinn Excels As Barabbas","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Barabbas is a religious epic film that tells the story of Barabbas based primarily on the gospels particularly that of the Gospel of Mark.It stars Anthony Quinn in the title role together with Silvana Mangano, Katy Jurado, Arthur Kennedy, Harry Andrews, Ernest Borgnine, Vittorio Gassman, and Jack Palance. It was adapted from the Nobel Prize-winning 1950 novel of the same title written by Pär Lagerkvist.Barabbas is the thief who was pardoned in place of Jesus. For the rest of his life, the guilt-ridden criminal tries to go through life by trying to find his way in the world as he encounters the self- righteous pomposity of Pontius Pilate and experiences the gladiatorial sadism of Torvald and the burning of Rome.The movie is a movie spectacle that will definitely be comparable to those biblical epics released in the 50's and the 60'.It includes great and spectacular scenes such as battle of gladiators and the crucifixion shot that was shot during a real eclipse of the sun.Added to that,the portrayal of Anthony Quinn was nothing short but excellent.That alone makes it watchable and entertaining despite its somewhat slow pacing. "},{"Title":"Haunting epic","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Of all the epics made during the 50s and 60s, this is one of the most memorable and certainly the most unusual &#x96; it hasn't dated all that much mainly because of its almost surreal quality.The film is based on Pär Lagerkvist novella, which tells the story of Barabbas, the bandit the people of Jerusalem chose to save instead of Jesus Christ. It is a haunting work; a chronicle of survivor guilt as Barabbas comes to terms with why he was spared.The screenplay by Christopher Fry, the playwright regarded by contemporaries as the 'Shakespeare of his time', follows the novel to a point the crucifixion of Jesus, Barabbas meeting with the disciples in Jerusalem, his time in the mines; and finally, his anguished days in Rome.However, the filmmakers added other elements, especially the brilliant scenes in the arena and the gladiatorial sequences. The film also changes some of the characters. The emaciated woman referred to only as 'the girl with the hare-lip' in the novel, whose fate so troubles Barabbas, becomes the beautiful Rachel played by Silvana Mangano, but her end is the same; stoned to death for her beliefs.Despite the changes, the film captures the strangeness of the novel and adds a surreal touch that even Fellini would have approved of. In fact, it was Fellini who first thought of making the film, and felt that Anthony Quinn would be right for the part. However this is director Richard Fleischer's film. He made some good ones including The Vikings, but this film is far removed from others such as Ashanti. Barabbas is his masterpiece. Somewhere along the way he tapped his inner Fellini.Many factors give the film its power. Anthony Quinn is hardly off the screen and brings his unique intensity to the role; you feel his torment as he believes his death has been stolen. Harry Andrews makes a thoughtful Peter, Arthur Kennedy likewise an erudite Pontius Pilot, but Jack Palance just about steals the film as the psychotic gladiator, Torvald.One of the most powerful aspects of the film is the music. This was the era of impressive epics with monumental scores to match &#x96; Tiomkin's Land of the Pharaohs, Rozsa's Ben Hur, North's Spartacus; all brilliant, all employing massive orchestras. However Mario Nascimbene's score is different. He was experimental and combined orchestral instruments with sounds created electronically, gongs recorded at half speed etc; standard stuff these days but right off the wall in 1961. Anyway, the score he created still sounds avant-garde &#x96; just listen to it during the whipping of Christ or accompanying the scenes in the mines. This was also Mario's masterpiece, because a lot of his other scores sound pretty ordinary in comparison.The art direction and costumes were also off-centre for this kind of movie. The Romans with their plumed helmets and furled cloaks smack of paintings of the Neo-Classical or Romantic periods of art rather than the functional realism of Spartacus or Fall of the Roman Empire.All those talents combined to make this the most haunting of epics; it has another quality above spectacular sets and scenes. It's a film that is hard to forget. "},{"Title":"Palance takes the cake","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The story is already told by those before me, but it is Anthony Quinn in one of his better, less full-blooded performances, to put it nicely. The real powerhouse performance in this film, however, is Jack Palance as Torvald, the gladiator from Hell. I saw this film when I was 12 years old and had never heard of Jack Palance. Well, I never forgot him after this. He scared the hell out of me. A similar thing happened that same year when I saw Lee Marvin for the first time in The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance. The scene where he viciously whips Jimmy Stewart for being a nice guy was too much. How can you even think about whipping Jimmy Stewart? "},{"Title":"Boreabbas.","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Asked which condemned man they wish to set free, the people of Jerusalem vote for thief Barabbas (Anthony Quinn), leaving Jesus of Nazareth to be crucified. Barabbas returns to his life of crime, is arrested and sent to the sulphur mines, and eventually becomes a gladiator, but slowly begins to believe that Jesus might have been someone very special and probably deserved to live more than he did. Needless to say, he feels a bit guilty.Several years back I posted on IMDb's I Need To Know' board, asking whether anyone could identify a film featuring a scene set in a mine where the main character could be seen 'riding' large containers of molten metal transported by a pulley system. Someone suggested 'Barabbas'. Being a fan of sword & sandal/epic biblical adventures, I bought the film on DVD, thinking 'What have I got to lose?'.Now I know time and money.Not only is this NOT the film I was looking for, but it's incredibly dull as well. Made just two years after William Wyler's multiple Oscar winning blockbuster Ben-Hur, Barabbas clearly hopes to emulate that film's success with an impressive cast, lavish production values and wonderful cinematography, but fails thanks to a dreadfully miscast lead in Anthony Quinn (who looks old and unfit), a ponderous, heavy-handed script which labours the religious angle, a dreary pace and a lack of decent action.Ben-Hur might also have been guilty of over-doing the melodrama at times, but it had Charlton Heston in his prime, a compelling story, and&#x97;most importantly&#x97;that chariot race (the pathetic gladiator fights in Barabbas simply cannot compare, despite Jack Palance making for a great 'boo hiss' baddie).3.5 out of 10, generously rounded up to 4 for the brutal stoning of Barabbas's ex-lover Rachel (Silvana Mangano) and for the camel that keeps shaking its head while making funny noises. "}{"Title":"great","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I do not have the words to describe what i felt when i saw this movie. It is a masterpiece, and it is made in a way that nowadays at Holyywood they do not make the movies anymore.I mean they do all this, with a lot of soul, and the players really know what they are doing.And, of course they know because it is about an Anthony Quinn that is spectacular, also a Jack Palance that could not be chooses better in the role of that cruel killer.I am not very much of a specialist in commenting movies, but i tell what i feel about what i saw.Important is what you remain with, at the end of seeing a movie, what you grasp out of the things that you see, and at the end of this movie, the feeling is that thee is nothing hard for Lord to accomplish.Barabas, the villain, is changed. If he is changed by the power of God, that means that everything is possible to God.And, yes, we are in His loving hands, no matter what the direction in which the world is heading to. "},{"Title":"Baroque nonsense","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" As a fan of Sword & Sandal films, with over 250 films in my collection, I have to say how disappointing BARABBAS is. It's overproduced baroque nonsense that takes a real character from history and then creates a wildly speculative story, which is an overlong and cluttered symbolic one at that, and for what? The film's first big mistake was casting Quinn who was all wrong as the titular character. At 46, he was too old for the character. How many 46 year old gladiators would survive in the arena? As incredulous as that was, the combination of the busy cast of known and unknown actors populating the landscape, most of them overacting as if their lives depended on it, the episodic story, of Barabbas stumbling from one forgettable clichéd roman storyline after another, within its numerous big, elaborate sets, with almost all of them not even remotely believable, looking like massive papier mache monstrosities (the uninspired lighting and camera-work don't help them look more than sets), gave the film a needless baroque atmosphere. The film was less biblical, more spaghetti western. In many instances this would actually be a plus but in this case, the baroque quality simply overwhelmed everything to a point of being gag inducing. The overwrought sulfur mine moment is a perfect example of it being too much.Director Richard Fleischer was obviously not interested in any of it, probably thinking that if one could keep the fake story busy no one would notice that not much of it makes any sense. Of all the biblical/Sword & Sandal/Peplum epics, this one is as bad as SODOM & GOMORRAH.As a side note, for fans of S&S flicks, you'll enjoy spotting many familiar faces, including Joe Robinson (from the Thor/Taur movies), Vittorio Gassman and Salvatore Borghese (the mute from the Ten Gladiators films) and many others. "},{"Title":"The Religious 12 Step Program","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Mega-producer Dino DeLaurentiis saw the windfall reaped by biblical epics in the late '50s ('The Ten Commandments', 'Ben-Hur', and 'Spartacus') and wanted a piece of that pie too. So he paired director Richard Fleischer with star Anthony Quinn and they all gave us 'Barabbas'. It's not a very original take on the thief and murderer who was set free by the Romans on the same day of Jesus' crucifixion. This story is ripe to be taken in tremendous directions. After all, the tagline says, he's the man of violence in whose place Christ died. That's a heavy burden for any man's conscience and I was happy to see Quinn give him some dimensions. I wasn't happy that most of those dimensions were the same kind of ungrateful/unchanged/heroic/enlightened 12 Step Program progressions we see in so many movies about redemption.This film rehashes the ABCs of religious conversion. Yet in this case, it seems false that a man with such bad moral character would ever change. Is that the point of Christianity, though? No matter how bad you've been, you too can be saved? Barabbas is a tough study, as Bible-based characters go. Play him too unrelenting and audiences wonder why they paid to see a man with no redeeming qualities. Too soft and audiences wonder why he was such an infamous criminal in the first place. No one in the cast stands out, although Quinn is fairly solid in the title role. I don't know if he was quite as conflicted as he should have been, but the spectre of Christ always hangs over Barabbas...and even the entire movie.I was expecting more of the film to focus on the day Jesus died. Not many movies have given us much about the immediate aftermath without first highlighting Christ himself. The early scenes contrasting Barabbas' elation at being inexplicably released with Jesus' torturous death are rather powerful. But the failing of 'Barabbas' to streamline its story destroys any impact. It knows the general idea of how to tell a religious epic (liberally borrowing from other scripts), but nothing in this movie compares to the power of those other three Biblical flicks I mentioned earlier. Both the man and the movie just don't measure up. "}]