[{"Title":"A fantastic movie about alcoholism that rings true","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"52 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was first a television play performed live and then went on to Hollywood for a slightly glossier production. This is NOT a bad pedigree, as shortly before this the TV movie Marty was also brought to Hollywood and became one of the best movies of the 1950s. Both the TV and Hollywood versions are excellent--see either or both if you get the chance.To me this movie is the antithesis of The Lost Weekend. The Lost Weekend was not a very realistic portrayal of alcoholism in many ways--particularly the ending where the lead suddenly just kicks his addiction and everything is hunky-dory. Get real! Days of Wine and Roses instead does not pull punches. It refuses to give in to sentimentality and take the typical Hollywood approach to films. There is no happy ending, there were surprises and heartbreak--much like dealing with alcoholism in real life.Because it would spoil it to give too much information, I will only briefly discuss the plot. Jack Lemmon is a business man who slowly goes from the two martini lunch to alcoholism. His acting was very convincing and gut-wrenching. Equally compelling is his wife, Lee Remick, who puts on the performance of her life as the long-suffering wife who slowly goes from co-dependent to alcoholism herself. I've worked in a chemical dependency program and I've got to tell you, all the excuses and bargains and excesses in the movie were exactly what my clients had said and done as well. It is obvious the writers were doing their homework, as the movie delivers on every level.UPDATE Since this review, I was able to see the original teleplay--which, along with a few other teleplays of the era, are available through the Criterion Collection. See this in its original form. While not nearly as glossy, it still packs a huge dramatic punch! "},{"Title":"Two Drunks Afloat in a Sea of Booze Make One Heartbreaking, Powerful film.","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"41 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When one describes a romance film, it is normal to use the classic line, 'Boy Meets Girl, Boy Loves Girl, Boy Loses Girl... It would be easy to use that formula for any love story. But this is no ordinary love story. It's tragic, it's surprising, and above all, it feels so real. It's not a story this cynical teenage film buff will forget anytime soon, if ever.Joe Clay (the Great Jack Lemmon) is a public relations man who doesn't really like his job; we see his boredom and frustration in the very first frame of the film, when he's trying at the last minute to round up some call girls for a party. We also see how he deals with this by shouting to the bartender, Hit me again! multiple times. He soon meets Kirsten Arneson (the incredible and incredibly underrated Lee Remick) and they detest each other, but after a dinner and a walk around Fisherman's Warf where they bare their souls, they soon fall in love, get married and have a beautiful baby girl. Everything seems perfect. But when Joe's job puts added pressure on him, he feels the only way to relieve himself is to get drunk. In one sad and memorable scene, he comes home late and, because she cannot drink due to breast feeding, degrades Kirsten for not being fun anymore. The pain of the things Joe says stings both of them, and us as well, and before long Kirsten is taking up the bottle herself. Years later Joe really looks at himself and has a moment of clarity; They *have* to sober up, for both of them and we the viewers know it can only get worse unless someone does something. But when they both fall off the wagon multiple times, and it becomes clear that love will not conquer all, Joe is faced with the nightmarish decision to choose between sobriety and his love for Kirsten. While I was watching this film, I kept on comparing it to other addiction films like Trainspotting, Requiem for a Dream and The Lost Weekend. While they are all great in their own right, they can't really compare because the core of Days of Wine and Roses is the love story that quickly turns into a love triangle between Joe, Kirsten and booze. It's the love story and the full realization of the characters that makes Days so heartbreaking. Another thing is that we know that Joe and Kirsten are both good people; After Joe accidentally mistakes Kirsten for a call girl, he is the one who brings a peace offering and tries to make ammends, and it is evident to the viewer that during their sobriety, they have a powerful love for their young daughter, which makes their drunken turns all the more powerful. Blake Edward's direction is spot-on; This was his first big drama after being recognized for his comedic work, but he works wonders and gets brilliant--albeit unsurprisingly brilliant--performances out of Lee and Jack. Edwards also has the magical touch of reeling the viewer in, thinking this will be a breezy romantic comedy, then slowly revealing the destruction of two lost souls through the bottle. The luscious black and white cinematography was a great choice to make in a time when color was dazzling the audiences, for it works as a symbol for the darkness and bleak world of alcoholism. Henry Mancini's music is minimalistic and affecting; in the old days of cinema, it was easy to overuse the strings for a dramatic scene, but the score was perfect and not once overdone. The chemistry between Jack and Lee was genius; I couldn't believe they weren't a married couple in real life. Great performances can get you far, but a love story loses half its power unless its two stars makes the love believable, and these two really did. And the audience can clearly see that the two are in love, drunk or sober, good times or bad. This makes the last scene all the more heartbreaking. And I can't praise the two lead actors enough. Jack Lemmon, like Edwards, was known more for his comedic work. Some have complained that he was too over-the-top in his performance, most notably the infamous greenhouse scene, but an actor deserves to be known and praised for his overall work, and in the long run, Jack deserved an Oscar for this role. Every move he makes he makes believable and gets deep into the head of an alcoholic. He makes Joe a sympathetic character, and he really makes you care for him. Jack once said when he was doing Glengarry Glen Ross that You don't have to like a character, but it's an actor's job to make you care about him. I don't think there's a person on this site who didn't care about Joe Clay. This is Jack's role of a lifetime. And I'm ashamed to say I had never heard of Lee Remick before this film, but now she's one of my favorite actresses. She was a very sharp actress and the camera loved her. Whether she was a smiling young secretary or a lonely drunk, you bought the transformation and every moment in between. She had a killing smile but she could break your heart with just a look of her eyes. When the alcohol reveals a vulnerability and a need to be loved she only thinks she can hide, Lee is there, making the performance believable and utterly heartbreaking. When the last scene comes around and Joe and Kirsten are faced with a life-changing decision, the two actors are so good and so into their roles you can easily forget that they're both acting. The love is still there, but it's changed so much. The last shot, like the whole film, will leave you breathless. One of the greatest films I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Sobering Drama","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Have you ever been at a party or gathering where you are the only sober person?  It's an experience that is hard to describe.  Everyone that is moderately to heavily drunk thinks that they are so clever, funny, entertaining, and so on.  It has a certain surreal aspect.There are several scenes in this film which bring back that feeling to me.  When Jack Lemmon and Lee Remick are at their most slap-happy rip-roaring state of drunkenness and having a great time, it gave me this odd sensation -- these people are not funny, not clever, and not entertaining.  This is at least one of the points made in this very well made film.The story is well told, and answers the question that many people have about alcoholism, and perhaps addiction in general (How do things ever get so terribly out of control?).  It happens slowly, and it happens for a multitude of reasons.  The reasons that this film deals mostly with include loneliness, wanting to please others, wanting to do one's job without compromising one's integrity, childhood abandonment, low self-esteem, and just the fact that in the social world everyone drinks.Lemmon and Remick do a fabulous job as your ordinary young couple who get started slowly but surely going down the wrong track.  Charles Bickford as Remick's father has little screen time, but makes every moment of it count.  Jack Klugman is also very good as Lemmon's Alcoholics Anonymous friend.Some things are wonderfully telegraphed.  Lee Remick has this thing about chocolate (addiction potential). There's just a moment when you see a smoldering cigarette in an ashtray, and you get the feeling that something bad is going to happen (it does).  When Jack Lemmon, in a drunken state comes home one evening, he impetuously picks some flowers for Lee Remick.  The elevator door closes on them, cutting off the tops of the flowers.  (When he arrives home, the couple have their first really big fight.)  Also, I think it is interesting that every time that Lee Remick is watching the television, she is watching cartoons -- an interesting statement.The cinematography is realistic, sometimes downright gritty.  Filming it in black and white helped to enhance this mood, especially in the greenhouse and the psychiatric ward scenes.Perhaps the most important point of the story is that addiction, be it alcohol or other things can happen to anyone.  Sometimes you just don't realize it until it's too late.The Days of Wine and Roses is a fine message movie that gets its point across without getting preachy or self-righteous, with believable performances by all. "},{"Title":"The last great film about alcoholism.","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"35 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Actually, I think it's only the second, after The Lost Weekend in 1945.  I apologise if there's any others I don't know about.  But it's certainly true that the made-for-TV movie has ruined the genre.  Today's alcoholism movies are dreary considered as movies, and offer no pleasure except indulgence of a feeling of moral superiority - which, it seems, is enough for some.  It was just this dull moralising that The Lost Weekend and Days of Wine and Roses broke away from.Forget about issue-of-the-month TV.  Edwards wanted a film that was realistic AND worked as a story, and he found one.Indeed this is his finest work.  He gets great performances out of his two stars - here he was considerably more lucky than Wilder was, although there's nothing wrong with Wilder's cast.  The story appears to wander but is really quite tight.  Some scenes are fun; many dig into you like small knives.  Perhaps there's one too many premonitions at the beginning (this is a problem Wilder didn't have, since his central character was an alcoholic at the start); and some may find that the guy from Alcoholics Anonymous near the end is a bit too good to be true.  I also wish that Henry Mancini had stood firm against the temptation to write a smoozy bubblegum theme song for the opening credits.  None of this matters, though.  Your eyes will be on the central characters the whole time. "},{"Title":"A Poignant Love Story from a Simpler Time","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"28 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I always saw this movie more as a love story than one of a couple trapped in alcoholism. Joe and Kirsten had that chemistry that drew them to each other through good times and bad, and I have never seen another film that depicted enduring love like this one. I can still recall the  characters' honest, plaintive statements to each other and how they reminded me of how it feels when you're with someone who truly fulfills you. Joe to Kirsten on their first date Short story? Boy meets girl...beautiful girl, nice, the only kind of girl a guy should bother about....Kirsten to Joe, desperately trying to hold on to what they have after her infidelities I never gave anything out of myself to them....love is the only thing that stops you from being lonely, and I didn't have that...Joe to the AA counselor, who warns him about what alcohol can do to a marital relationship  You don't understand, there's no trouble between us....we're in love...Joe, in the depths of alcoholism, tremors, shaking...I have to find my wife....I love her...I love her...This movie is sad and somewhat draining to watch, but also does provide useful insight into the insidious disease of alcohol addiction, along with being a very moving, romantic drama of two people haunted by troubled childhoods, struggling to keep the sincere commitment they have to each other alive. "},{"Title":"A nightmare view of the dangers of alcohol","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a shocking film. From the moment we see Joe Clay in a crowded   bar telling the barman to Hit me again and whispering Magic time!   before taking a drink, we realise that out of all the people in that   room he is the man with a problem.    Sadly, as in all these cases Joe is the last person to see that he   needs help. Doubly sadly he takes someone else with him. Marrying a   bright, non-drinking Kirsten, Joe introduces her to the pleasures of   social drinking. Reluctant at first, after her first few Brandy   Alexanders have made her giggly, Kirsten admits that having a drink   made me feel good.    Unhappily their drinking doesn't stop there. Frustrated at work Joe   feels the only way he can relax is to have a coupla blasts in the   evening. Then he is frustrated because his wife is stone cold sober.   Wanting to demonstrate her love for Joe, Kirsten joins him in nightly   sessions which find her drinking more and regularly getting drunk. As   Kirsten develops a liking for liquor, bottles go missing from the   drinks cupboard…     When Joe is demoted and sent out of town Kirsten finds the best way to   ease her loneliness is to drink it away. Drunk in the daytime she sets   fire to their apartment and almost kills herself and her young child.    Joe is fired and the next few years are a series of short-lived jobs   and increasing addiction to drink. It certainly seems to be usual for   Kirsten to be fairly drunk by the time Joe comes home.    At last Joe has his moment of clarity and tries to dry out. The   attempt fails when he and Kirsten fall off the wagon and start getting   very drunk again. Their only hope is to join Alcoholics Anonymous. Joe   can see this, but now it is Kirsten who refuses to believe she has a   problem.    Ultimately Joe has to make the nightmare decision to reject his wife   who is now unable to face life without being drunk.    Watching this shattering film is like being trapped in a nightmare   where something horrible is happening and yet you cannot look away. A   sense of doom hangs over this tragic couple who are unaware of the fate   they are walking into. Thankfully the performances and direction are   more than capable of delivering on the promise of this uncompromising   story. "},{"Title":"Degradation of Booze","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In San Francisco, the public relations Joe Clay (Jack Lemmon) drinks everyday to socialize with his clients. After an incidental meeting with the secretary Kirsten Arnesen (Lee Remick), they date and sooner they get married. When they have a baby girl, Joe becomes alcoholic, Kirsten begins to drink to follow her husband, and both become alcoholics. Joe loses his job and they destroy their lives. After many trials, Joe is treated, desintoxicated and supported by the AA, while Kirsten remains a chronic drunkard.Days of Wine and Roses is a realistic sad drama that exposes the life of a drunken couple from their top to the bottom of the well. Together with The Lost Weekend, I believe these are the two best movies Hollywood properly and seriously produced about this important subject. The sad story has no final redemption or commercial conclusion, and is a must see. The gorgeous Lee Remick and the excellent Jack Lemmon have magnificent performances and deserved their nomination to the Oscar. The wonderful cinematography and the magnificent unforgettable song of Henri Mancini complete this high-class classic film. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) VÃ­cio Maldito (Damned Vicious) "},{"Title":"Essential!!","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Let me tell you something to watch such an intense and heart-rending performance like Jack Lemmon's in Days of wine and roses is one of those exceptional things we bump into our lives. OK, Lee Remick does an outstanding job, but Lemmon's performance is simply supernatural. We got Picasso's Gernika, Bowie's Ziggy stardust, Wilde's Dorian Gray... and characters such as Joe Clat. Pieces of art, my friends.Most of the people link the name of Blake Edwards to the high class comedy (Breakfast at Tiffany's, Pink Panther, The Party), but I'd dare to state that Days of.. is his best movie by far. Step by step, Edwars shows us each and every stages an alcoholic gets through from the party days to the delirium tremens.Ageless, universal, perfect... ESSENTIAL *My rate 10/10 "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Like standing on the edge of a black hole, this movie tantalizes the audience in the beginning, then plunges you into the dark, vast horror of alcoholism. Jack Lemmon has always been a personal favorite of mine, especially for screwball comedy. But, just like Robin Williams, Lemmon is capable of turning heads w/ his dramatic roles.  The Days of Wine and Roses is a showcase of that dramatic talent.  And along with Lee Remick, this film's performances exceed all expectations.  The direction and cinematography utilizes the black and white medium to it's fullest extent, while the script is earthy, human and most of all, believable. This is a tour de force in the craft of modern filmmaking.  And an absolutely essential requirement for aficionados of the dramatic genre.  How Remick and Lemmon managed to be past up for the best actor/actress Oscar for their phenomenal performances never ceases to amaze me.  Twenty years later, their performances are just as fresh, relevant and just as powerful. There was no sugarcoated ended.  This film sought to depict alcoholism as the demon it truly is, and that sometimes, people just don't get well, despite all the love and support that's offered to them.If you've never seen it, rent it.  Just be sure to rent it in letterbox, to maintain the movies original ratio.  A film this beautiful needs to be seen in it's best form.  Take someone you love along with you for the ride. "},{"Title":"This film made me want to attend a AA meeting....and I never drink","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Started off a little slow but turned into one of the hottest dramas I've ever seen. Remick and Lemmon were sensational as the two drunks who couldn't control their actions after a few drinks. I had to laugh at some of their antics, but the greenhouse scene and especially the pitiful, horrible DT's in the rubber room were sobering indeed. Great picture showing the ravages and uselessness of booze.  "}{"Title":"It's as true to life as a vodka martini.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The above quote is from director Blake Edwards, it's taken from the highly recommended commentary track he provides on the DVD for this excellent and compelling piece of work.Joe is a social drinker but he's social all the time, during one of his arranged parties for a client he meets and falls in love with teetotal Kirsten. They get married and changes start to dominate their marital bliss, he is stressed from work and drinks daily to forget the rigours of the job, she being the loving wife chooses to drink with him to help ease his pain, but soon the joyous days of wine & roses will turn to something dark and terribly turbulent, and this will threaten their own respective sanity.The film begins with Henry Mancini's academy award winning title theme tune, it's a truly beautiful piece of music that perfectly sets the tone of the film for its first third, it lulls you into this couples love, the bond they share is a truly wonderful thing, it really is all sweetness and light, but then the bottle becomes part of this couples life, they become a threesome from which only dark horrors will form. Containing emotionally shattering scenes that once viewed can not be forgotten (witness Joe's soul destroying search for liquor in a greenhouse), Days Of Wine & Roses still manages not to force feed the viewer a moralistic stance, it lays down the facts of alcoholism and the perils of co-dependency with honest appraisal, we as the viewers are left in no doubt that it is us, and us only, that can make of it as we see fit, the ending especially is a particular poser of which we ourselves seek clarity.Wonderfully written by the talented hands of J.P. Miller, Days Of Wine And Roses boasts marvellous direction from Blake Edwards and two academy award nominated performances from Jack Lemmon & Lee Remick, it's a testament to all involved that come the finale the viewer feels drained, yet strangely...not at all thirsty for the amber nectar.Quality drama. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Remick and Lemmon mesmerize","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Days Of Wine And Roses should have garnered the two leads Best Actor/Actress Oscars, but unfortunately it was a year with stiff acting competition and perhaps was one of the most competitive Oscars in the top acting categories in Oscar history. Unfortunately, that went against Lee Remick and Jack Lemmon. This was the performance of both their careers, in my opinion, and they absolutely mesmerize with their performances as alcoholic husband and wife Joe and Kirsten (Arnesen) Clay.I haven't seen it in about five years, but have seen it on television about half a dozen times. Each time I watched it I was riveted. Some reviewers have said that it started off slow and took a while to get to the meat of the story, but I enjoyed that it took a while to get there and that it didn't happen all of a sudden. I enjoyed the courtship of Joe Clay and Kirsten Arnesen and how Kirsten did not like Joe at first after he basically mistook her as a call girl, and how she eventually warmed up to him and fell for him.I think it was first clear that Joe had a drinking problem when they were by the San Francisco Bay and Joe was swigging a flask and then tossed it into the bay. I mean, one probably got the idea he was fond of the drink before that point, especially considering that people knew what the story was about beforehand, but it was really apparent to me that he had a problem when he was chugging back the flask on his first date with Kirsten after they left the restaurant and after she had her first Brandy Alexander, at his insistence.The love story of Joe and Kirsten was as wrenching as their eventual battles with the bottle. You knew they were mad about each other, but the bottle became a stronger force than love for both of them. It was quite a sad transformation to see Kirsten go from a good girl to a haggard, out-of-control alcoholic wife and mother. What acting by Remick.And Jack Lemmon was no slouch. We knew that he (Joe) had a drinking problem before he got Kirsten hooked, and his descent into alcoholism was no less shocking and harrowing. The two scenes that are the most dramatic with Joe, and perhaps in the whole movie, are the greenhouse scene where he flips out looking for his hidden flask, and the scene in the sanatorium where he is in a straitjacket and detoxifying. Rarely has there been a more searing dramatic portrayal on film.Charles Bickford lends incredible support as Kirsten's hard-working, loving father who is truly saddened (and not so much venomous as perhaps he should be, especially after Joe destroyed his greenhouse) at what his daughter has become and what her husband got her into. Jack Klugman is also fine as Clay's (Lemmon's) AA sponsor.It is truly sad at the end that Joe gets his act together while Kirsten does not. I was thinking throughout the movie, up until the end, that Kirsten would be the one to pull through while Joe would be the incorrigible drunk. The final scene with Kirsten telling Joe that she can't get sober at that time and not even for their daughter is truly heartbreaking. You can see the heartbreak written all over Joe's face, and Kirsten's. She tells him that there were detours (affairs), but that they meant nothing and she was under the influence when she had them.When she says that the world looks dirty to her without booze, quite like the San Francisco Bay, that is powerful and shows just how in the grips of her addiction she is. You think Joe might convince her to stay and try to work it out and try to overcome her alcoholism, but when she says she can't and leaves, it is devastating both for Joe and the viewer. (And undoubtedly for Kirsten herself.) And the flashing neon light of a neighboring bar reflected in Joe's window as he watches Kirsten walk down the street, is a powerfully enduring image. We are left hanging, as Joe is. What will happen to Kirsten? What will she do? Where will she go? Will the Clay family survive? How long will it take Kirsten to get sober? We don't have the answer to these questions and the movie does not end happily ever after. That makes it even more effective as a drama/tragedy and thankfully they did not re-shoot the end, as Lemmon later said they considered doing. It is a classic and often is cited as such in the drama genre. I think it is Jack Lemmon's finest performance, as it is Lee Remick's. "},{"Title":"Tragic love story destroyed from within","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The tragedy of this love story is that of unkept commitments. The emotional, financial, and child-rearing commitments of marriage are discarded for a primary relationship with alcohol. And other obligations too, such as daughter to father.The character development of Kirsten is well done. We are privileged to skip years at a time, seeing her going from having fun with alcohol (where most people stay) to it consuming her, a little at a time, with the snapshots spread over years. We see Joe wander unhappily for half a lifetime before finding himself. We see his initial shallow love becoming real, and we see it tested. At one time or another, both Joe and Kirsten's love is real, which makes the ending so powerful.The most heart-wrenching scene for me is the confrontation between Joe and Kirsten's father in the greenhouse. After many years of denial, we get to see a sample of Kirsten's father's intense emotional pain, with the final acceptance that his daughter will never be the same. Even worse, his age indicates that this is near the end of his life. Even if Kirstin could turn back, it will be too late for her father.After I saw this movie, I found myself analyzing what human relationships are about, and the expectations that come with those relationships, so I could figure out exactly what went wrong. Is the movie just about a partner leaving, as with infidelity? It is much worse than that. This is about theft and destruction of identity and purpose, choice and control. Dulled by the pleasure and escape, Kirstin doesn't even know what is being taken from her. Even though everyone she hurts loses much, her loss is even greater.This movie counters the popular belief that alcoholics are just partyers or problem drinkers. This may be where they start, but it's not where they end up. Even with the most powerful of reasons to stop drinking, the love for their daughter, Joe and Kirsten are unable to stop; they drink because they are addicted.The portrayal of the AA meeting isn't as good as it could have been. I suppose it may match the world's perception, with overtones of a religious tent meeting. Go to one, and you'll find that they aren't about swearing off addiction, they are about self-acceptance and seeing yourself objectively. Somewhere between the denial that you are not an alcoholic and self-disappointment / guilt is a realistic view of who you are. By accepting yourself and having the support of peers, life's challenges can be met without alcohol. Hope for internal improvement is given to a higher power, rather than trying yourself, then being disappointed.Having loved an alcoholic at one time, I can tell you that the pain portrayed in the film is all real. It is not just that alcoholics can't stop; smokers can't, but only hurt their families financially.The pain comes in because alcohol causes loss of emotional identity. Alcoholics have no idea who they are anymore. They cannot love, they cannot even be very good friends. They push everyone away to love their addiction, then become emotionally needy, so use those around them emotionally. (The worst way to be taken advantage of.)Thankfully, most people are genetically predisposed to get sick when the alcohol dosage gets to levels that can cause real addiction. Those that can drink may never have opportunity to sustain that dosage long enough to get addicted. But for the rest, this movie is a warning of what alcohol has waiting for you -- the destruction of any kind of normal life.See When a Man Loves a Woman for a more modern setting for this type of story, though it is not as good. "},{"Title":"Timeless, timeless, timeless","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS - BEWAREI will not bother repeating what others have said so well about this  movie.  The two things that struck me in particular about this movie were (1) the surprisingly graphic references (for its time) and (2) the amazing similarity of a 39 year old movie to things that went on in my late nineties life. I was surprised that the movie makers were allowed to be as candid as they were back in 1962.  For example, Kirstin holding her breasts and telling her husband she can't drink because she is nursing.  But the most astonishing scene was when in a drunken stupor she slips into her father's bed and tries to seduce him!  Nobody talks much about that scene when discussing this movie.  Maybe because it is too painful to fathom, the fact that one could lose that much control on alcohol.  Are there any other movies about alcoholism that feature such a scene? I was in a marriage that had basically the same trajectory as the Clay marriage (no kids fortunately) except that alcohol was not the only partner (ahem).  Seeing this movie made me see very clearly that alcohol and people never really change, regardless of any advances on behalf of the human race we make on the way. One last thing I believe this was one of the first movies to make use of one of my favorite cinematic devices, that in which cartoons are playing on a television in the background of a scene in order to convey the insanity of the situation.  It is put to good use particularly the second time when Joe finds his wife in a seedy motel room and the picture is completely distorted.  12 Monkeys, The Twilight Zone, and Close Encounters of the Third Kind used this trick but, pray tell, are there any early, early movies  "},{"Title":"Very uneven - sometimes embarrassing, sometimes fantastic","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A very uneven film about the horrors of alcoholism. The problem seems to be Blake Edwards' and Jack Lemmon's penchant for comedy. The story, at its base, is pure tragedy, but it's like Edwards doesn't want it to be too dark, so he cast a clown in the lead. Lemmon sparkles during the scenes where he's supposed to be charming, but he's not very convincing during the more dramatic sequences. Oh, and he can't do a drunk act worth a damn. I guess that's the film's biggest problem, really. No one in the classic era could play a convincing drunk. They always seem to overact terribly, and Lemmon in particular is bad at it. His co-star, Lee Remick, isn't quite as bad, but during her big drunk scene she comes off as not that good, either. In fact, she's pretty bad at it, but does seem fairly excellent in comparison with Lemmon. Remick is actually very good in the non-drunk scenes. The biggest flop of the film is the big, dramatic sequence where, after having been dry for a while at Remick's father's farm, Lemmon sneaks in a couple of bottles which they share. Cut to Lemmon jumping up and down on the bed with the two of them giggling like school children. That's the film's idea of alcoholics they get goofy like kids and then throw tantrums like kids when they finish up their booze. Jesus, Lemmon's scene in the greenhouse, where he's tearing it to shreds trying to find a bottle he hid and freaking out, it's just embarrassing. Contrast that with the film's final sequence. You can see just how good the film could have been if it didn't go so over-the-top. The ending of the movie is heartbreaking. "},{"Title":"Misery Loves Company","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Days of Wine and Roses was originally a live broadcast original drama from Playhouse 90 and starred Cliff Robertson and Piper Laurie. Both they and the drama got great critical reviews, but sad to say they were not considered any kind of box office, so when the film version was done, Jack Lemmon and Lee Remick were cast instead.I've seen both versions and I'd hate to say which is the better. In terms of casting the part of Joe Clay fits right in with Lemmon's Mr. Average man roles. Imagine his character of C.C. Baxter if instead of taking his doctor's advice and becoming a mensch, gave in and turned to drink. That's what you have in Joe Clay.Misery does love company, the most miserable drinkers are the solitary ones. Lemmon's job in public relations occasionally calls for him to supply some lady friends for his boss's party. So who could blame him when he mistakes Lee Remick, his boss Jack Albertson's new secretary for one of the hired bimbos.Naturally the uptight Ms. Remick resents it at first, but she sure does warm up to him and eventually joins him in his boozing. They even marry and have a daughter. The rest of the film is their joint descent into alcoholism and the effort of one who eventually joins Alcoholics Anonymous to help the other who simply won't be helped.Charles Bickford repeats his role from the original Playhouse 90 broadcast and is a stern father figure for Remick who can't see why his own sternness may have helped drive her to Lemmon and booze. Look also for a very good performance by Jack Klugman as the counselor from Alcoholics Anonymous.Remick and Lemmon were both nominated for Best Actress and Actor, but lost to Anne Bancroft and Gregory Peck respectively. Days of Wine and Roses did win an Oscar for Best Song with the title tune for the film. Andy Williams sold quite a few vinyl platters in his day with his version and their are good versions of the song by both Frank Sinatra and Tony Martin.Days of Wine and Roses is still a powerful drama about the terrible evil of substance abuse. It hasn't lost anything in 46 years, in fact I'm willing to bet we may see a version for the new millenia. "},{"Title":"Alcoholism could care LESS about love !","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Aside from the unbelievable acting, this film ranks as the best Hollywood has to offer on the subject of alcoholism. Jack Lemmon is in a class by himself with this picture. It has the stereotypical slide of drinking. But Lemmon pulls you right into that slide of terror with a performance of a lifetime. Lee Remick, who is always beautiful even when drunk, shows her chops as well, especially in the final scene. The movie portrays the real consequences when facing alcoholism. Exposing the truth that this disease doesn't care how much these two leads love each other. The usual, but unfortunate, excuses of denial in Remick and Lemmon that keep the downward spiral gaining speed. But also the gut wrenching decisions they have to make in order to live the life promised by sobriety. Two scenes in particular will have you riveted. The nursery scene and the final confrontation at the end. Jack Klugman play a supporting role and is excellent as the A.A. guy. He reveals the blueprint these two need for happiness THE TRUTH! "},{"Title":"You and I were a couple of drunks on a sea of booze, and the boat sank!","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" (Some Spoilers) Herrowing and at the same time touching film about the evils of alcoholism that grips you now just as it did back in 1962 when it was first released. Locked up to dry out in a padded cell and tied into a straight-jacket Joe Clay, Jack Lemmon,has seen his world collapse right before his eyes. His job long gone and not being able to hold one for over five years. With his wife Kris, Lee Remick, as helpless an alcoholic as he is. Joe gets just one more chance to get back on his feet and again become a welcomed member of the community A hospital visit from Jim Hungerford, Jack Klugman.A successful public relations executive at a major San Franciso firm Joe met his future wife at a party for his boss not knowing that she's his boss' personal secretary. The movie Days of Wine and Roses then starts off like a light comedy with Joe & Kris at first not liking each other then falling in love and ending up married with a little girl Debbie, Debbie Megowan. With everything going fine it's not until the partying and drinking, that was part of Joe's job as a PR man to entertain his clients,catches up with them and destroys Joe & Kris' lives.It turned out that that tea-toting and chocolate loving Kris was far more effected from the evils of alcohol than the party going and fun loving Joe was. Meeting and getting to know Jim Hungerford, when he was at the nadir of his existence, was a life saver for Joe since Jim was a former alcoholic himself and member of AA, Alcoholics Anonymous. It was there, at AA, that Joe found the courage to stand in front of a room full of strangers and tell them I'm a Alcoholic. Thus start the painful process of getting his life back that he lost in a bottle of booze. It was Kris' inability to do the same thing, that Joe so bravely did, that almost drove him back to drinking himself, as well as Kris, into an early grave.It takes a lot out of you to sit through Days of Wine and Roses seeing the ravages of what booze can do to people. Both Jack Lemmon and Lee Remick give unforgettable performances as the two helpless alcoholics Joe and Kris Clay that leave you exhausted and almost in tears by the time the movie finally ends.Joe after losing almost everything he had his job his friends his ability to support himself his family and most of all his dignity gets himself cleaned and sobered up. Only later to lose himself again in order to keep Kris from leaving him for a bottle of booze. It takes a lot more strength for Joe to tell Kris that there's only room for two, in his new life after alcoholism, him and her and the bottle is out if she wants him to take her back.The last ten or so minutes of the movie is both powerful and heart breaking with Joe and Kris meeting for the last time in Joe's apartment, and their daughter Debbie sleeping in the bedroom. Trying to come to some kind of agreement in going back to the lives that they once had, before booze got in between them, Kris just can't bring herself to beat the bottle. Kris not able to come to terms with her alcoholism and Joe not willing to sacrifice his, and Debbie's, life in placating her go their separate ways. The movie ends with Joe seeing a poor and helpless Kris walk out of his life for good with the local bar sign reflecting sadly and eerily on his apartment window. "},{"Title":"Jack Lemmon at his Best","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the finest films I have ever seen. The use of visual art in terms of light and shadow, symbolic pieces scattered throughout the film, dialogue, music, character movement, etc. all give this film the ability to transcend time and generation to endure. Jack Lemmon gives his best role ever in this film. He is known for his comedic excellence, but in the film his portrayal of Joe is both heartwarming and terrifying all in one. I recommend this film to anyone and everyone because, simply put, it is a public service announcement concealed in a work of cinematic excellence. It should be included on every list of the movies to see because it fulfills the criteria of both giving the viewer the pleasure of a great story but also leaves you with a message that remains with you when the film is long completed.  "},{"Title":"A film like a sledgehammer to the gut(possible spoiler)","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie, and I'm feeling similar to what I felt like when I watched American History X. This movie is so real that it almost makes you sick with emotion. You cringe when the characters reach for that teensy bit of drink because you know what will happen. This is the best performance from Jack Lemmon I have ever seen. The direction of the movie is so masterfully handled that you never notice that the movie has changed from a romantic comedy to a terrifying drama. "}{"Title":"A hard-hitting film.  Lemmon and Edwards are a surprise.","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For most if not all if his career before Days Of Wine And Roses, Jack Lemmon was known for playing comical nervous nelly types (And he's still most famous for that characterization).  But he proves in Days Of Wine And Roses how affecting and believable he could be in an unfailingly serious treatment of a sensitive subject- how alcoholism can destroy your life and relationships.  The much-praised almost delirious desperation he shows in the scene in the greenhouse and especially his expression in the haunting final shot are just two examples of the range he shows in this film. Likewise, Blake Edwards, best known up till that time for directing light comedies like Breakfast at Tiffany's (and still best known for the wacky Pink Panther movies) was a surprising choice to direct this movie, but he handles it with taste and sensitivity and never makes the treatment heavy-handed.  I can't believe I said in a review of Darling Lilli (Under my former IMDB screen name of Tommy-92) that that was the most serious film he ever directed.  I hadn't seen this movie but knew of it then; obviously this one is almost certainly the most serious film he ever handled and he does a great job.  Lee Remick is very good as Lemmon's wife and the fate of her character is heartwrenchingly ironic to watch.  Both she and Lemmon won richly deserved Oscar nominations but unfortunately seem to have gotten lost in the competition (Which included Gregory Peck, Laurence Harvey, Peter O'Toole, Anne Bancroft, Katharine Hepburn, and Bette Davis). In another year, surely... Great performances also from Charles Bickford as Remick's father and Jack Klugman, who handles potentially preachy dialogue with intelligence and restraint in his role as an Alchoholics Anonymous regular.  Maybe it could've gone even further than it did but had to be held back because of the restrictions of the time it was made in (1962), but it still is just as powerful, if perhaps maybe a little less shocking, as it was when it first came out.  Important not only in its subject matter but in showing the range of two of the most beloved but perhaps under-rated people in movies. "},{"Title":"Blueprint for alcoholism and the tragedy it fosters.","Date":"3 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jack Lemmon, an up and coming Public Relations man and a budding alcoholic, meets Lee Remick, who doesn't drink, but likes chocolate. Jack introduces her to Brandy Alexanders and they soon embark on the downward spiral into alcoholism. Several years and several jobs later, Lee nearly burns down their apartment with their young daughter in it. Jack looses another job. Realizing they have lost control, they move in with Lee's father (Charles Bickford) and work in his greenhouse growing and delivering flowers and trees. Soon Jack gains Charles' trust and sneaks 2 pints of liquor into their room. After making short work of the 2 bottles, Jack nearly destroys the greenhouse drunkenly looking for the third bottle. Waking up in the mental ward with the DT's, Jack meets Jack Klugman, who introduces him to AA. After becoming sober and returning to work, Lemmon tries to woo Remick to join him in sobriety. At the close of the film, we know that Lemmon will remain sober, and can only hope that Remick will eventually join him in sobriety. As a Recovering Alcoholic (sober over 19 years) I can tell you this is a VERY plausible portrayal of the heartbreak that is alcoholism. I try to watch this film at least once a year just so I don't forget what I am. In addition to the wonderful writing and tremendous acting by both Jack and Lee, the theme 'The Days of Wine and Roses' by Henry Mancini weaves and haunts the entire film. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Painful...but in a good way","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm in my 20s and I love classic movies, I love Jack Lemmon, and I'm increasingly becoming a Billy Wilder fan. I've seen this one, Breakfast at Tiffany's,Irma La Duce,The Apartment, The Pink Panther, Double Indemnity, Sunset Blvd, and a couple others. So for me, Days of Wine and Roses was a twofer. This was a well-told, well-directed, well-acted film. I watched it on TCM and got a bit of the background of the story from Robert O. I went in with expectations and I was not disappointed. Without going into the plot really, watching the transformations of Lemmon/Remick's characters into alcoholic 'bums' (as Lemmon called them), was quite powerful. By the end of the movie, I was happy for Lemmon's character (he goes to AA and has been sober for a year), but his wife, who he introduced to social drinking has not climbed out of the pit. Lee Remick was great at the end appearing to want to change, but not wanting to see how dirty the world really was. It was really pitiful. When she left at the end, I felt Lemmon's character's pain bc his eyes sort of had hope that she would get sober, but at the same time, felt just as strongly that she was lost forever. For a set of actors to be able to convey conflicting emotions w/such ease in one scene is quite rare these days, so while it was painful, as a movie viewer, it was a joy to watch. "},{"Title":"Harrowing but Uneven","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An alcoholic couple struggles to overcome the disease and lead normal lives. This was the most notable film to look at alcoholism since The Lost Weekend nearly two decades earlier. As with Billy Wilder's Oscar winner, this one paints a harrowing picture of the dangers of drinking. However, it feels at times like a public service announcement, which is not a bad thing except that it does not necessarily make for a compelling film. Lemmon and Remick turn in generally good performances, although their depiction of inebriation rings false at times. Bickford and Klugman are effective in small roles. Edwards's direction is uneven, as he seems to be laboring to make his points. "},{"Title":"Wine & Roses  Many Days Of Yesterdays","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So let's see,only 1 person out of all these reviews,pretty much hated this movie.Did they watch the same film as I? I watched it for the very first time and was so engrossed in it,I literally didn't leave my seat because i was afraid I'd miss an important moment. This role for Jack Lemmon was a sure 360 from what he'd normally play,Remick as well. It's way too simple for one to say that Remicks taking on a gritty role like this, was premeditated by only her to show her diversity.Any good actress whose serious about her craft,needs to do a role like this every once in a while,unless they want to end up typecast in the same kind of role. ...and women needed to do it even more than good looking male actors back then.If one finds their 1962 portrayal of alcoholism dated,well,the subject even at that time was still not being taken seriously by society itself. Hollywood (of all places)every now and then would put out a film about the subject and would do an admirable (down to laughable) job of it. Truth is,drinking and being drunk in comedy movies & TV were always played for laughs. Rememebr Otis from The Andy Griffith Show? TV drama and movies tired to tackle this subject but people overall, weren't ready for it.Starting from where Joe & she go out and he talks her into having a Brandy Alexander,there were some pretty amazing story turns for the time that this was made. Kirsty (Remick) accidentally falling asleep drunk with a cigarette and burning their elegant apartment. Then she & Joe boozing it up in her father's home while he's right in the other room and the fact that it's Lemmon (not Remick) who ends up sober first. Joe's first giant collapse,after losing all that he'd worked for in his Father In Law's greenhouse is just downright gut-wrenching and very sad to witness. If i saw that for real I could only look upon Joe with first fear and then pity.The D.T.'s as they're called,a constant shock to one's system once alcohol is not being given to it,is demonstrated incredibly and near perfect by Jack. (His is only one persons example though,it looks different for each victim). I don't know if they still put severe alcoholic cases in solitary with a straight jacket though,although it wouldn't surprise me.Kirsty's leaving home and checking into her own place to drink, her own refusal to help herself and be there for her daughter and her resentment of Joe were things i certainly did not expect to happen. It's usually the male we expect to act this way. For 1962,it's certainly more original. Yes,some of the things people knew about alcoholism 48 years ago are not necessarily potent today but let's just be glad that the world does know far more now than it used too.Lost Weekend won Best picture in 1945,for being a ground breaking piece of movie making that told a story no one had yet touched. That and The Days Of Wine & Roses are the best for this pictures ever made for this topic.10 stars for a movie that,if AFI updated their 100 best,I feel should certainly be included. (END) "},{"Title":"Or leave a kiss but in the cup.","Date":"27 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Henry Mancini wrote the musical score for this drama about alcoholism. In the days when he was known primarily for his user-friendly treatment of jazz themes, Henry was known as Hank. Here, in addition to the incidental melancholy of the chords that accompany some of the events, he's built in a sad tune suggestive of love and loss. The song constantly hovers in the background and was turned into a pop song with lyrics suggesting that happiness is ephemeral. You can hum it, whistle it, sing it, and cry to it. (Sob.) Not that Mancini was stuck on melancholia. He did the peppy and funny Walk of the Elephants music for Hatari too.It's just about the exact opposite of the scores Bernard Hermann used to write. Hermann, another one of those child prodigies that Hollywood tended to hire, wrote for some very well-known films, including Citizen Kane, Vertigo, and a couple of Ray Harryhausen's monster movies. But try to whistle a tune that Hermann wrote. It can't be done. He didn't write songs. He wrote themes that were appropriate to the situation. Leitmotifs, if you want to get elegant, that vary from one character or mood to another.Now that I've gotten my assessment of the score out of the way, I'll get back to the movie. What was the movie anyway? Oh, yes. Okay. Thank you.Jack Lemon is a public relations man in San Francisco, so we know right off the bat that he's troubled. All public relations men are troubled, except those that aren't. He meets the virginal Lee Remick and they are married. Remick takes him down the Peninsula to meet her father, the stern but not unkind Charles Bickford who runs a floral shop and landscaping service. The distressed Lemon begins to drink and is demoted. Remick joins him in boozing.It goes from bad to worse, and, skipping the details of the plot, Lemon winds up in Alcoholics Anonymous while Remick refuses to believe that she needs help in conquering her demons. The marriage breaks up. Lemon remains sober and one night Remick shows up at his apartment begging for them to start over again. But Lemon knows it's impossible and the last shot is of Lemon staring from his apartment window, down at the rain-wet nighttime street, into which Remick has disappeared. The slick street slopes downhill.It's a tragic picture about a non-glamorous social problem. Compared to the social and economic cost of alcoholism, being a heroin addict is minor stuff. And that's just the cost to society, not to mention the suffering of the afflicted individuals. People make jokes about pink elephants but delirium tremens is a horrifying experience with a substantial mortality rate. Mark Twain captured some of the symptoms well in Huckleberry Finn.It's interesting to compare Days of Wine and Roses with The Lost Weekend, Billy Wilder's 1945 movie starring Ray Milland. Lost Weekend begins in medias res. Milland is already a career juice head and the movie takes us through one event-filled weekend into which all the usual stuff associated with alcoholism is packed -- the slight euphoria following the first couple of drinks, the shakes the next day, and a genuinely startling visual hallucination involving a mouse and a bat.Days of Wine and Roses gives us a developmental point of view. Lemon and Remick are seen as relatively normal people who slide insensibly into a state in which alcohol is their primary concern. There are a couple of extensive time lapses but they're not disorienting. Thank God no simple-minded explanation of the condition is offered. Nobody abused Lemon or Remick when they were kids. True, Lemon hates his job, but who doesn't? Nobody is ever described as in denial. The film ends on a note of realism. Some can pull out of it and some not.Lemon and Remick are both professionals and they do their jobs well. Lemon is a more believable drunk than Remick, but neither is very convincing, partly because the script doesn't seem to have much of a handle on the behavior of alcoholics. Locked in their room together, the couple go through a two pints and at the end they act like two kids giggling and capering in a sand box. They're not nearly sluggish and slurred enough. It isn't until Lemon exits through the window in pursuit of that third pint that he begins to resemble a real drunk, stumbling, falling into the mud, and so forth. The scene also gives him a chance for a wrenching enactment of a man desperate to find that nepenthe hidden in the greenhouse, whose location he's forgotten. He wrecks the joint.Blake Edwards, better known for his comedies like Ten, has effectively directed this spooky tale of chemical dependency and despair, enough to drive anyone to the bottle. "},{"Title":"great movie... quite moving and real","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i didn't watch this movie by choice... it was shown to me as part of my D.U.I. class. So needless to say i wasn't interested in it at first. however i soon got into it. the characters are believable with their struggle with alcohol. you see how it can affect people from different backgrounds - city and country life. i feel that this is a very good movie, and that the 2 main characters are very well played and i especially enjoyed jack lemmons performance. i would recommend this film to anyone, both as a purely entertaining film and also as one that does some educational value as to much of societies problem with alcohol and addiction. This film does a very good job of portraying the terrible effects and the various stages of addiction as well as the grip that it can have on a person who otherwise is a standup citizen. "},{"Title":"A devastating look at the effects of alcohol","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Days of Wine and Roses is directed by Blake Edwards, is written by J.P Miller and stars Jack Lemmon, Lee Remick and Jack Klugman.Joe Clay(Jack Lemmon)is a hardworking man who drinks loads but thinks he can handle it and it doesn't affect him. One day he meets a young secretary Kirsten Arenesen(Lee Remick)he falls in love with her and takes her out for a meal and introduces her to alcohol.They get married have a daughter called Debbie and get a big apartment.However there's a catch, Kirtsen(who has never even tried booze before she met Joe)becomes a secret alcoholic and drinks loads at home when he's not there. Joe eventually sees that he is a mess and goes to Alcoholics Anonymous.He finds salvation in the form of Jim Hungerford(Jack Klugman)a former alcoholic who now chairs his local meetings.He starts to clean himself up and tries to get Kirtsen to go as well but she won't,clinging to the delusion that nothing is wrong with her.The rest of the film centres on Joe trying to help her and staying off the booze. If your looking for a happy and romantic film then don't watch this.Days Of Wine And Roses is a bleak and hard hitting look at the devastation alcohol can cause and how some people change for the worst when drinking.Featuring one of Jack Lemmons best performances and a great cast and script this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Very Well Done Portrayal Of Alcoholism","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie opens with Joe Clay (Jack Lemmon) in a bar, soliciting girls to attend a party being thrown on a prince's yacht. It turns out that Joe isn't really happy with his job, effectively - as he himself puts it later in the movie - acting as a pimp for his firm's clients. He drinks because it's a part of his job; he also drinks because he doesn't much care for the job. On the prince's yacht, he meets Kirsten (Lee Remick) - his boss's secretary. She doesn't drink, and the two get off to a shaky start, but eventually they fall in love, and Joe manages to suck Kirsten into his world of drinking. They seem to be in love, they have a not bad marriage, they have a daughter, but the drinking gets more and more out of control and we watch as their lives unravel, to the point at which Kirsten almost kills herself and the daughter when she sets their apartment on fire after passing out while smoking.It's a different kind of role for Lemmon, who at this point in his career - and later, for that matter - usually played in lighter stuff, but he pulled the part off magnificently, as did Remick in the role of Kirsten. The scene that I think will stay with me is Joe rolling around on the floor of his father-in-laws' greenhouse sucking on a liquor bottle like a baby would suck on its mother's breast. That was truly unsettling.The movie starts off a bit slowly, although that's probably deliberate, since the point is how easily (and, in some ways, innocently) one can get into this mess. The second half of the movie, which introduces Jack Klugman as Jim, becomes in some ways a barely disguised commercial for Alcoholics Anonymous. Jim is a recovered alcoholic (almost TOO recovered in fact, and almost TOO good a guy to be believable) who's active in AA, and he rescues Joe from the drunk tank and sets to work at setting him straight. AA is a great organization that's helped a lot of people but somehow the promotion was too overt for me and it took away from some of the drama of the movie. The ending of the movie was appropriately ambiguous, offering both hope and despair, as Joe and Kirsten seem to take opposite directions in life.Having grown up in a family in which alcoholism (not to this extent, but still very real) was common I've always marveled and been grateful for the fact that I managed to avoid it. This movie made me even more grateful. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Tragedy of a Family Torn Apart by Alcohol","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the most tragic aspects of Blake Edwards' DAYS OF WINE AND ROSES is that Lee Remick's character wasn't even remotely inclined to drink alcohol, and she's the one who winds up homeless and unable to escape her addiction in the end. This is a very harrowing movie about lives spinning out of control (although the movie who would trump this would be REQUIEM FOR A DREAM) due to a dependency (which only masks an inner emptiness, something vital missing). Jack Lemmon and Remick both sink their teeth into their roles, playing against type, making their characters not only believable but painful to watch. A deceptive title, this is not for the faint of heart because it offers little hope -- the last image being that of Lemmon, worriedly observing his estranged wife walk away into the darkness of the San Francisco streets, as the reflection of the word BAR paints itself over his face. "}{"Title":"Love & Alcholism","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is a love story as much as it is a story about the dangers of alcoholism. The mutual dependency towards each other and the bottle engulfs Lemmon and Remick in this powerful film from Blake Edwards.Lemmon is very convincing as the the executive with a serious drinking problem. His relationship with his girlfriend/wife Remick is so tightly wound up with drinking the two cannot sort one from another. Known as a comedic actor, Lemmon goes over-the-top in a few scenes, but he very realistic and dynamic in most. Remick's performance is perhaps the better of the two, and indeed her demise into alcoholism is more shocking. The blonde, sweet, freckled face of Remick becomes ravaged by the effects of the bottle and her own hopelessness, and we are both shocked and transfixed. This film certainly deals with the problem head on, placing the actors in dire, desperate situations. The black-and-white cinematography suits the bleakness of an alcoholic's vision, and aside from a few early problems with pacing, the film flows very well.This suffers in comparison to the great 'The Lost Weekend'. It perhaps overdoes the alcoholic angle in a number of scenes. Things look a bit obvious and forced, as if their drinking problem is being thrust into the viewer's face. Sometimes less is more, and 'Days Of Wine And Roses' slips into melodrama a tad too often. However, it has many redeeming aspects and the performances by Remick and Lemmon are sublime.9/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having grown up in the sixties, I knew and love that beautiful song but never saw the movie until last night on TV. What a great movie. It gets you glued to your seat for the whole duration. Both actors were really convincing in their performance. They were excellent at conveying their despair and misery. From the middle of the movie on, I cried a couple of times...some scenes were hard to watch  when Lemon is in the nursery breaking the pots, when he has a rechute in the motel with Remick. Also, I found very touching the part when he came back to Pa to repay the $500. This movie is a classic that is as good in 2006 as it was in 1962. It is a must-see, and should be aired more often on TV. "},{"Title":"Realistic Story About Two Alcoholics","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As long as I can remember, I have always known and liked the song called Days Of Wine And Roses that was written by Henry Mancini for the movie of the same name. Also, as long as I have been interested in movies, I understood that DAYS OF WINE AND ROSES was the story of two alcoholics as portrayed by Jack Lemmon and Lee Remick. However, I never got around to seeing the movie until just a few days ago when I rented it. Having watched the movie, I plan to buy it on DVD. For those readers who have not seen the movie, the story itself is as such Jack Lemmon plays Joe Clay, a public relations worker who enjoys a drink to relax. Almost from the beginning, it is apparent that he is more than just a social drinker, hence his constantly saying Hit me up! He meets a woman named Kirsten, played by Lee Remick, who does not drink at all. As they get to be friendly, she relents and finds that she enjoys alcohol. It starts out fun and social as the title would depict. They eventually marry and have a daughter. However, it is not long afterward that their downward spiral begins. After several mishaps including Joe losing his job, he realizes it is time to get sober. They get clean but then fall off the bandwagon. At this point, Joe realizes he is an alcoholic and joins Alcoholics Anonymous but Kirsten fails to admit that she too is an alcoholic. After yet another relapse, Joe sobers up and about a year later, he says to Kirsten he would take her back if and ONLY if she will admit she is an alcoholic. She still is not able to admit that she has a problem with alcohol too and the movie ends with Kirsten walking down the street while Joe watches her from his window.While viewing the movie, it started off rather slow but then it really got my attention and was quite shocking. I especially felt that way about the scene where Jack Lemmon, after having a relapse, destroys his father-in-law's greenhouse while searching for a hidden bottle of liquor. I also felt it showed the guilt Jack Lemmon's character had about his drinking problem as well as the fact that he turned his wife onto drink too. The scene in the latter part of the movie where he tries to make peace with his father-in-law shows how he wants to make up for all the damage and sorrow he had caused. What was also realistic, I felt, was the depiction that although drinking was fun and social for the couple at first, it became a hardship that caused problems for both of them. The portrayal was realistic in that both characters, especially Jack Lemmon's, had trouble staying off alcohol and relapsed several times. I would like to comment about the ending. While Lee Remick's character was not ready to admit she was an alcoholic, in the final scene, she DOES NOT stop in the bar down the street. That gives me hope that perhaps she will eventually acknowledge her problem and also, seeing that her husband has been without a drink for almost a year might give her the incentive to do the same. "},{"Title":"Lemmon and Remick at their best","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All your comments are great about this film. I'll be brief. Have seen this film many times having recorded it years ago and pull it out when I want to see just good acting since there is so little of it lately in film. I like when the commentators quote directly from the film like Hit me again and Magic time. Favorite is from Remick..you goody goodies with your hot coffee and cold feet. Just really admired both actors' abilities and can only hope Jack had to do the greenhouse scene just once as it takes a whole lot of energy. I do have one question, though, not much is mentioned of their child and how this whole lifestyle affected her. Thank goodness for her grandfather played poignantly by Bickford. Having grown up with an alcoholic father I was just wondering why the director didn't waste any time on Debbie's plight. But I guess it was a story of Joe and Kirsten's drinking problem not their child. "},{"Title":"REALITY PERFECTLY PORTRAYED","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is as modern a portrayal of alcoholics struggling against the disease with the help of AA as you'll ever get, especially if you are an experienced AA attender. The characters were played out with excellent skill, and present day realism.The delivery through black and white cinema had the same profound impact on me that CITIZEN KANE did, and a bit more than did LOST WEEKEND, which I also rated excellent.Any active alcoholic wanting, but not quite ready for, an AA meeting should rehearse with this masterpiece. It showed the way it REALLY IS (and will be!)RATING 5/5  10/10 Bill Schaefer Berwyn PA ephraim@chesco.com  "},{"Title":"Lemmon's acting masterclass.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jack Lemmon is my favourite screen actor of all time. For me there has never been anyone so able to convey comedy or pathos to an audience. In Blake Edwards film, Lemmon gives a superb, touching performance as the man teetering on the edge of alcoholism. He is so good that even an excellent performance by Lee Remick as his initially naive wife is overshadowed by his sheer range. While Edwards' direction is uninspiring and the film sometimes slips towards sentimentality, Lemmon is always there to drag the movie back on track. He has been better when given better material to work with, but this is an utter masterclass in how to make the most of what you are presented with. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies Depicting Alcoholism","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Everybody knows a little about the sypnopsis... on the outside a happy man marries a pretty goody-two-shoes girl and are deeply in love but he's a drinker and soon she gets into the habit as well.  Joe Clay, played geniusly by Jack Lemmon, is a PR man who says of his job, ...I want to be in public relations, not a pimp...  He's the one who has to get the girls for everybody.  That's when he meets a secretary named Kirsten, also played wonderfully by Lee Remick.  At first the two don't hit it off well but then they fall in love.  Joe is a social drinker in the beginning but when he gets stressed from work and hates himself more and more he drinks more because it makes him feel good.  One night he comes home to his wife and new baby drunk and tells Kirsten she should drink to so they could have fun together.  Reluctantly she does.  She becomes even more of an alcoholic from it, drinking day in and day out since all she does is stay home.  Soon, Joe loses his job and takes a good look at himself and says, ... I saw my reflection in the window and I wondered 'who that bum is'...  This is when they go to stay with Kirsten's dad to stay sober and borrow money from him. Things backfire after the two have been sober a few months, Joe sneaks alcohol into their room and they get drunk, when they run out, he goes to the greenhouse to get more only he can't remember which pot it's in.  The scene when he has a mad outburst in the greenhouse is probably Jack Lemmon's best dramamtic work.  Soon he ends up in an hospital ward suffering from deliriums and sweating out the alcohol.  He wakes up and goes to AA meetings, only his wife leaves because she feels he crossed a line going back to sober, which she can't do.  The movie is definitely a great classic and both actors were nominated for Oscars which they should had won.  This movie  has some of the best depictions of flat out alcoholics and some of the frightening things they go through is just sad.  You find yourself caring for Kirsten and Joe even when they did it to themselves.  You feel bad for Kirsten's father who blames it on Joe and for their daughter Debbie who wishes they could be togehter again.  And once Joe is clean it's up to Kirsten to get the family back.  It's a heartbreaking story that is still known today as one of the best films ever  made. "},{"Title":"a must see for anyone with an alcohol problem or anyone who knows one with an alcohol problem","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is excellent.  One of the most powerful movies of all time, it deals with the difficult subject of alcoholism.  It portrays the difficulties of addiction through two likeable characters, and demonstrates the devastation that such an addiction can cause.  A must see for anyone who would like a little insight into the issue.  No other movie since has dealt with this topic with such grace. "},{"Title":"So good I can't watch it too often!","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of those films that works so well on so many levels that I'm often afraid to watch it!  It's quite a change for Blake Edwards, who is probably best known for comedy and, earlier, cop shows on TV.  Let it be known right off the bat that this is a serious drama.  While it does have a few spots of comic relief to lighten it up, it still remains serious. While the film does work as a statement on alcoholism, I remain more fascinated by the film as a character study, seeing how the lives of the main characters change as the movie travels its course.--POSSIBLE SPOILERS TO FOLLOW--We start out with Jack Lemmon as the boozing, corporate-ready Joe Clay. He could be considered a heavy social drinker at this point.  He quite accidentally meets the girl of his dreams (Lee Remick as Kirsten Arnesen) during a company function.  They date, they become friends, he convinces her to take a drink, which is something she's never done before.  Before long, she starts to enjoy drinking as much as Joe.  We watch as their high-flying lifestyle slowly degrades as Joe's increased drinking begins to affect his job and his home life, and both begin a downward spiral.  They first try to dry out together, but that fails.  Joe is finally confronted by Alcoholics Anonymous, finally gets himself on the road to drying out for good, but still can't convince his wife to rejoin the family (and reality) and turn herself around.  At this point we realize that we've had a complete role reversal in the film, and we're as sorry for Kirsten's seemingly irreversible condition as we are for Joe's guilt over what he's done to his wife...now that he's sober enough to realize what he's done.Mancini has another good score on his hands for this film.  While the musical accompaniment is spare, the film's title theme is a masterpiece. Accompanying the lonely melody is a simple, two-sentence Johnny Mercer lyric that sums up the entire attitude of the movie.  Lemmon's acting is one of his finest performances, and like his performance in the excellent film The Apartment, he proves his versatility in acting beyond the comedy genre. Remick is also masterful in transforming the shy Kirsten into the washed-out shell of her former self that she becomes at the end.This movie is, in a word, sobering, and one of Edwards' finest.  Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Words can't describe Jack Lemmons DT scene.","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If for no other reason this film should be viewed for a particularly riveting yet very disturbing scene by Jack Lemmon. He is confined in a straight jacket in a detox center while suffering delirium tantrums.  His performance in this film is superb but this one scene is something that will grab the viewer's attention.Other films have come out about Alcoholism but this one, The Lost Weekend and Come Back Little Sheba seem to hold up over the years as the best. The late Lee Remick was a very fine actress but seemed a little miscast in this film. She tries but doesn't come off as a convincing alcoholic.  "}{"Title":"Gritty and Realistic","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorite movies.  It's well-written, has outstanding acting and is thoroughly engrossing. I found Charles Bickford performance as Lee Remick's father particularly heart-wrenching.  The pain and love show clearly. It's the realism of this movie which makes it so good.  Anyone who has ever known an alcoholic can identify with the lies, the real losses, and the disgusting behavior.  I really like Henry Mancini's musical score; it amplifies the emotional tone.The original live tv production of Days of Wine and Roses occasionally shows on television.  It's also worth one's time and effort to watch. "},{"Title":"Lemmon is Magnificent!!","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The scene that sticks out is the famous tank scene where Lemmon practically has a complete mental breakdown when he is confined to a detox-center tank, wearing a straight jacket. The look on his face is horrific and gruesome. It is the finest piece of giving oneself to a character that I have ever seen. It is the finest dramatic performance of Lemmon's career. I absolutely love Remick in this film. Her transformation from sweet and virginal Kirsten to the never ending drunk is an absolute masterpiece of characterization development. Director Edwards stands back and lets it all happen as Lemmon and Remick ignite the screen with their amazing performances. Jack Klugman also appears.     "},{"Title":"This is a great film, but try to catch the live TV version...","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love this film. I love the script. I wish I could have married Lee Remick. Anyway, a few years ago I bought a copy of the original live TV version, with Cliff Robertson and Piper Laurie. Wow.As great as Remick and Lemmon are, Robertson and Laurie are even better. And the production is even more serious, as directed by John Frankenheimer. The comedy is gone. It was never there in the first place.I always tell people that the finest acted film I've ever seen is East of Eden. Or some Elia Kazan production A Face in the Crowd or A Tree Grows in Brooklyn. But the finest acting I've ever seen (and it was live, of course) was in the TV production of Days of Wine and Roses. You've got to see it. Devastating ending. Truly. "},{"Title":"the eve of (personal) destruction","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" During an era when he was mainly known for comedy, Jack Lemmon took a serious role in Days of Wine and Roses, as alcoholic San Francisco PR executive Joe Clay, who goes into treatment while getting his wife Kirsten (Lee Remick) addicted to the drink.A previous reviewer said that the movie comes across as preachy, and that it seems as though the people involved had never been alcoholics. I guess that it now does seem that way (I wouldn't be surprised if the people involved in it wanted to think of it as a message movie), but it's still a great movie. The things that Joe and his family experience are likely to make your skin crawl.For the record, Donovan's song Writer in the Sun had a line about days of wine and roses, although I don't think that he was referring to this movie.Weird to think after this, Blake Edwards did an about-face and directed The Pink Panther. "},{"Title":"Source of the Title","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie recently at a screening of Films of 1962 (a very good year for films). It moved me and I felt tears in my eyes. But I didn't get the chance to explain to the audience and the guest speakers (film critic Stephen Farber and the film's producer) the source of the movie's title. They knew it was from a poem that Lee Remick recites in the movie but they couldn't remember who wrote it. The poem is Vita Summa Brevis Spem Nos Vetat Incohare Longamby Ernest Dowson. The title translates as The shortness of life prevents us from entertaining far-off hopes. The same poem was also quoted in Laura by Waldo Lydecker on his radio show. Dowson's other famous poem Cynara was recited in The Chapman Report, one of 1962's less notable movies. Seems 1962 was a good year for Ernest Dowson. He was himself an alcoholic who died at the age of 32. "},{"Title":"A disturbing and deep look into the destructive nature of alcoholism","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  With an actual budget and the ability to  move around, the second version of this  film proved to be a cinematic masterpiece.  Jack Lemmon was exceptional as Joe Clay, a  performance that was worthy of an Oscar.  Clearly, this film was far superior to the  original, mainly because of the depth the  cinematography and sets added to the  story. While the original was good, this  proved how creative a filmmaker can be  with a little more space and money. A  strong film to say the least. "},{"Title":"DON'T DRINK!","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Blake Edwards and Jack Lemmon surprised us in 1962.They made a non-comedy movie.Lemmon plays Joe Clay who has an alcohol problem.Lee Remick plays Kirsten Arnesen who Joe falls in love with.Kirsten doesn't drink.They get married and have a baby together.Joe gets Kirsten into drinking too.After that they both drink together and they both drink a lot.Days of Wine and Roses is incredible drama movie about alcoholism.It has some very dramatic and touching scenes, like the scene in the greenhouse.Lemmon's performance is amazing and Remick's performance isn't bad either.They both had oscar nominations. The movie has a message and that message is don't drink.I don't and I'm damn proud of it. "},{"Title":"a couple falls under the influence of alcohol","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The evils of 'demon rum' are explored here, in a chilling presentation. Lemmon and Remick shine as the couple that fall into the abyss of alcoholism thru 'social drinking' situations. One can easily feel the frustration Lemmon's character feels as he tries to pull his love from the seduction of the alcoholic  quicksand she so readily accepts. 'nuff to make you lock the liquor cabinet...well, almost! "},{"Title":"The Face On The Bar-room Floor - 60's style","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is generally regarded as a great film about alcoholism. A great many of its ideas and assumptions seem to me to be very dated.I have known and worked with people whose drinking was excessive and who could be described as 'alcoholics', but their lives and careers haven't automatically followed the descending spiral shown here. They have continued to function adequately enough to maintain their social position and lifestyle.In this film, as soon as Kirsten joins Joe in his drinking habits, she is doomed. She becomes a neglectful mother, she changes from being a smartly dressed housewife to a careless slattern swilling beer from the can, and finally takes up with any man who will buy her drinks.Joe, meanwhile, loses job after job and continues drinking until he is raving in a straitjacket.These ideas stem from the days of Prohibition when alcohol was *the* social evil whose conquest would put the whole world to rights. The plotline of the film actually seems to derive from the Nineteenth Century melodrama depicted in George Cruikshank's The Bottle. If you view these old engravings you'll see Joe and Kirsten in 1830's London.Yes, the performances of Jack Lemmon and Lee Remick are terrific, but what is needed is a more balanced view of middle-class alcoholism, showing the *real* cost of what goes on behind our respectable front doors. "},{"Title":"The Days of Wine and Roses","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie when it was in the theaters in March, 1963. I was 17 and naive. I wonder if it affected me. It is certainly a blueprint of how not to live. Jack Lemmon and Lee Remick become alcoholics and separate after having a child. Lemmon sobers up. Remick does not. I went on to have a drinking problem through my 20s. I should have given this movie more thought. Jack Lemmon was a great actor. He always played the average businessman struggling to make it in the city. He was funny and tragic at the same time. The movie's title was taken from a poem by a 19th century British poet named Ernest Dowson. The poem was Vitae Summa Brevis Spem Nos Vetat Incohare Longam in which Dowson lamented the brevity of life. Lines 5-9 read, They are not long, the days of wine and roses Out of a misty dream our path emerges for awhile, then closes within a dream. Dowson's life was brief. He died at 33. "}{"Title":"Days of Wine and Lemmons","Date":"17 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Days of Wine and Roses is one of those films where we know what is going to happen to the characters, but we still cannot bear to watch it happen. You want to shout out to them not to take a drink, not to succumb to the pressure. But as they do and inevitably fall back into alcoholism, even as we are angry, we also sympathise. It is a hard film to watch because there are no easy answers and the characters cannot be honest to themselves. Lemmon is of course great, as always. He splutters out his lines as though he is not sure personal relations is really all that he signed up for. There's a brilliantly awkward meet-the-father scene where he is made to actually think of the motives of his line of work for perhaps the first time and he can barely justify it, stuttering and buying time. There's the drunken stupor in which he dances merrily and reveals hidden bottles like a magic act, and then infamously destroys the greenhouse plants later when his stash is gone. If you are sipping a non-alcoholic, of course it seems like overacting. And of course we must be indebted to Lemmon for steadfastly believing in the true ending and preserving its integrity by refusing to reshoot. And the stunning Lee Remick is radiant, and then heartbreaking. Her first drink, a Brandy Alexander, is still with the nerve and complexion of a teenager, who cannot believe how good it actually tastes. And then slowly they both fall into the threesome. After a sober period of two months, they fall off the wagon and as Kirsten pours the drink, she is positively shaking with anticipation, and we know that it has taken over their lives. The alcoholic Kirsten does not look much different from normal apart from a few make-up tricks, but Remick sells it because there is so much pain in her words. Even as she tries to hide it we know she is on edge after only 2 days - the jerks of the head, the stuttering, the teary inability to admit the storm that would stir up if they got back together. Take care of yourself, Joe tells her as she leaves. The heartbreaking thing is, we know she won't. "},{"Title":"Two very gifted players in an excellent  film that is hard to watch","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had never seen this side of Jack Lemmon before. He was a very gifted and versatile performer. In this film, Lemmon, an alcoholic, but at first fooling himself that he is just a two martini lunch businessman, meets the very sober Remick. He ends up taking her out on a date and asks if she wants a drink. Remick states that she would rather eat chocolate than drink. Lemmon tells her he has just the drink for her and mixes her up a Brandy Alexander that contains creme de cacao--basically making Remick a chocolate flavored cocktail. This is the beginning of the end for Remick.Lemmon and Remick fall in love and marry. They spend their days drinking and drinking. Lemmon's alcoholism spirals out of control and he ends up being demoted and is sent away on business. Bored, Remick's alcoholism gets worse as she fills her empty time drinking. Lemmon is later fired due to his alcoholism and spends the next few years drifting from job to job.Lemmon and Remick realize that they have a problem and try to sober up together. For awhile, they are sober and working together in Remick's father's landscaping business. That all ends later however, when Lemmon ends up destroying Remick's father's greenhouse looking for stashed booze. The scene of Lemmon crawling around on the ground in the rain is particularly sad and pathetic and shows just how bad he and Remick's problem has gotten. Lemmon ends up joining AA in an effort to sober up. Jack Klugman plays Lemmon's sponsor.Lemmon appeals to Remick to join AA with him, but she won't. She doesn't feel she has a problem and feels that she can handle it herself when she wants to. Her father later tells Lemmon that his daughter has started disappearing for long stretches of time and is even picking up strangers in bars. This is a great scene between Jack Lemmon, and, by that time, old pro Charles Bickford in a very late performance in his career.The most bittersweet moment of the film is at the very end. Remick returns to Lemmon and appeals to him to make things the way they were. Lemmon says that he doesn't want things the way they were, he wants to be sober. Remick states that she likes her life better when she's drinking than when she's not. Lemmon is essentially forced to choose between his sobriety and being with her. He lets her go and Remick walks out the door, leaving her daughter and husband behind. Their daughter, seeing her mom leaving asks her father Will mommy ever get well? Lemmon responds I did, didn't I? He looks out the window to watch Remick walk down the street - right toward a lit neon Bar sign.This film was so tragic and so sad, but it was also very compelling. Lemmon and Remick did an excellent job portraying two alcoholics and I liked that the film ended on a somewhat uncertain note. It seems that Lemmon will be okay, but what will become of Remick? Based on her actions in the film, things don't look rosy for her. You get the feeling that drinking is helping her hide from the fact that she IS an alcoholic, and the buzz helps her forget. "},{"Title":"Hated the anti-alcohol vibe of the film .....","Date":"19 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Dear Alcoholics, Days of Wine and Roses (1962) is yet another film that portrays us in really bad light. The moronic ex- alcoholic protagonist (played by the great Jack Lemmon) gives up alcohol and goes back to being a square while his intelligent alcoholic wife (the achingly beautiful Lee Remick) does the right thing and walks out on him to continue being an alcoholic.How predictable right? Whats so great about the world that you need to stay sober? Parties without alcohol are the most boring on earth.Most humans are boring or vicious people.Alcohol on the other hand is a nice person. Alcohol never lets you down. Alcohol is always there. Alcohol does not have bad days. Alcohol does not switch off. Alcohol is my best friend. It can be yours too. Mans best friend - alcohol and not smelly dogs. Though dogs are OK. If you want a friend buy a bottle of JD - Godron Geeko.There aren't enough alcoholics in the world.Movies and religious fools portray alcoholics as people who need help. No. It is the non-alcoholics who need help - you with your stupid agendas and your careers and your religions and your stinking rules.How about prohibiting religion and not alcohol? Alcoholics never flew a plane into a building.Alcoholics never dropped nuclear bombs on anyone.If anything, the world needs more alcohol.Many a life has been rendered dull and meaningless due to lack of alcohol.Those dull and hot nights. Those Monday mornings. Those Sunday evenings.Those boring jobs. Those horrible people. All those bad movies.All of this can be endured with a little alcohol.So repeat after me.Alcohol for the whole of humanity.Coming back to the movie, it is not too bad. They do get some things right. Like how the corrupt jobs that decent people have to do attracts them to the bottle. Lee Remick's short speech at the end also hits the spot.It is definitely a flawed film. There are some serious plot holes. Like what happened to their kid while mom and dad were drinking. Lol! Who brought up that kid? Or did they slip some whiskey into her milk too? Hohoho! They did not show that part.Anyway, I love movies about alcoholics, whatever the message at the end might be.Best Regards, Pimpin.(7/10) "},{"Title":"Brilliant portrayal of the disease of alcoholism","Date":"21 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Most of us think of Blake Edwards as a director of comedies. After all, his Pink Panther series provided us with some of the funniest movies ever made, and his Dudley Moore comedies (Micki And Maude, and particularly 10) are classics too. But Edwards was also capable of churning out more serious fare. The best of these films was a hit in 1962, but has long since been forgotten.Days Of Wine And Roses begins innocently enough, as young public relations director Joe Clay goes on a first date with Kirsten Arnesen. While Kirsten is young and innocent, Joe makes his living in post-war corporate America. When my dad first began his sales career, during this same time period, his best friend warned him he had joined a drinking fraternity. Sure enough, Joe introduces Kirsten to social drinking, they have lots of fun, get married, and have a daughter.As the Clay's casual drinking descends into a life of full-blown alcoholic despair, both Jack Lemmon (as Joe) and Lee Remick (as Kirsten) turn in the best performances of their careers. Joe eventually loses his top-notch sales position, then bounces around from job to job, before reluctantly going to work in his father-in-law's landscaping business. Joe and Kirsten manage sobriety for a while, but the lure of readily-available alcohol is simply too strong. Joe eventually gets sober through the then fledgling organization Alcoholics Anonymous, while Kirsten (a teetotaler at the film's outset) does not.Simply put, this is a film about alcoholism. Not the closet alcoholism portrayed by Ray Milland in The Lost Weekend, nor the death wish alcoholism of Nicholas Cage in Leaving Las Vegas. No, this is a warning-shot about the fine line between social drinking and disease. This may not sound like entertainment, per se; but consider it a very well-acted and well-written monition. While certain time-and-place aspects of Days Of Wine And Roses are dated, its message carries as much heft today as it did over a half-century ago.Lemmon should have won a Best Actor Oscar, if for no other reason than his scene of futile anguish when he breaks into his father-in-law's greenhouse one night for a hidden bottle of alcohol. The personal torment he conveys here is a heartbreaking plea for help &#x96; to no one in particular, save for himself and his creator. As a side note, Gregory Peck won that year's Best Actor Oscar for To Kill A Mockingbird. It was one of those congratulatory Oscars, where the academy honors a longtime great, more for his or her body of work than the specific performance in question. Ironically, Lemmon himself would win such an Oscar eleven years later for the less-impressive Save The Tiger. Screenwriter J.P. Miller adapted Days Of Wine And Roses from his own Playhouse 90 teleplay of 1958. Miller added some new material, Jack Lemmon in the title role, and voila! A classic was born.One of the enduring ramifications of this picture was the explosion in popularity of Alcoholics Anonymous. Founded in 1935, AA was still in its germinating state when Blake Edwards released Days Of Wine And Roses. The timing couldn't have been better. The end of prohibition in 1933, coupled with the return of the often hard-drinking WWII soldiers in 1945, and a new economic and cultural prosperity in America in the 1950s, resulted in an outbreak of alcoholism never before witnessed. Many Americans searched for a cure, yet coveted anonymity due to the social norms of the day. Because of its relevance, and again because of Jack Lemmon's masterful acting accomplishment, I believe Days Of Wine And Roses should have won the Best Picture Oscar for 1962 &#x96; rather than David Lean's beautiful, yet long and somewhat draggy, Lawrence Of Arabia. As our local newscasts never tire of reminding us, alcoholism (and drunk driving, in particular) is still a problem over 50 years after the release of Days Of Wine And Roses. Even if you've seen it before, it certainly deserves another look. And that's why it's this month's Buried Treasure. "},{"Title":"So very sad","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We know what happens to alcoholics if they relapse and start drinking... But this movie portrays everything so starkly, it is awful to watch.Joe (Jack Lemmon) is in public relations. He meets the beautiful Kirsten (Lee Remick) who is the secretary of one of Joe's clients. He tries to get a date, but she ignores him. He tries again, and again. Eventually she goes out with him, they marry, they have a child.But he has got her drinking. Seriously. When she sets the apartment on fire, they both realise they need to do something about it. They go and stay with her father who runs a plant nursery. Everything seems to be going right, until Joe smuggles in bottles to celebrate(!) their cure. Kirsten's father Ennis (Charles Bickford) is great too. I was half expecting him to say he was a recovered alcoholic, but no, he is just a quiet and loving dad.It would be hopeless filming drunken actors, but how does an actor act drunk? Lemmon does, brilliantly. Remick too, but not as often.The best scenes are at the beginning where Joe is talking to Kirsten. She doesn't say Get lost, mister, doesn't need to, the look says it all, and she walks away. Such subtlety seems to have disappeared from modern American films. Pity, it is so meaningful.One slight negative is that the story has a six or seven year span, but both Joe and Kirsten look exactly the same from start to finish. Could the director got them to alter the hairstyles maybe? "},{"Title":"Heart-rending and surprising","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Both Jack Lemmon and Blake Edwards have done some great work in their careers, but it's work that couldn't be any more different to the serious subject of alcoholism that Days of Wine and Roses approaches, whereas both are known for their comedy work. The work for both Lemmon and Edwards however in Days of Wine and Roses is a great example of being successful for doing something different to what they usually do.Edwards very wisely restrains here and he brings to the film and its story a surprising amount of poignancy, for someone who directed the Pink Panther films that is not something that you'd expect from him and it's remarkable here. Lemmon was a very funny and likable actor, and in a role that is unlike anything else he's done he's heart-wrenchingly powerful. Did he deserve his Oscar nomination? Yes, but because of the competition that year(Gregory Peck and especially Peter O'Toole) it wasn't a problem that he didn't win. Lee Remick, also deservedly Oscar-nominated(while perhaps the weakest of the nominees, which is in no way a dump, just comparatively), is beguiling and is also very moving. Their chemistry is altogether riveting. Charles Bickford and especially Jack Klugman give excellent supporting turns.Visually, Days of Wine and Roses is sumptuous and gritty, suiting the subject matter very well. Henry Mancini's music score is stylish and appropriately understated, he also penned the haunting Oscar-winning theme song(a deserved win and one of his best). The script is honest and uncompromising, with some irreverent wit to start with, but mostly very poignant and hard-hitting with plenty to say and exposing it very truthfully. The story is still very powerful and affecting(for back then also pretty progressive), especially the Greenhouse and ending- which was the perfect and only logical way to end the film- scenes, and is as relevant today(with alcohol still very much a problem) as it was then, the message making its point without being preachy or sugar-coated. It also paints a mostly plausible and realistic depiction of alcoholism, with the mood swings and the denial for examples and I did like that it did touch upon Kirsten's addictive personality, but what could have been depicted more was the desperate need for alcohol and the guilt when giving in.To conclude, a heart-rending and surprising film, and one of the better films to depict alcoholism. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"I don't really get why she goes with him","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joe Clay (Jack Lemmon) is the new public relations man and drinking is just part of the job. He doesn't make a good first impression with secretary Kirsten Arnesen (Lee Remick). He eventually breaks her down and gets her to drinking. They marry and have a daughter named Debbie. Their jobs and their lives suffer under the addiction. After several attempts, he finally get better with Alcoholics Anonymous and Jim Hungerford (Jack Klugman) as his sponsor.My biggest problem with this movie is that I can't imagine why Kirsten relents and goes with Joe. It kind of sticks out and makes no sense. I'm not necessarily saying Lee Remick is too pretty for Jack Lemmon. She really hates him at the beginning and he doesn't do anything special to win her over. I guess this is more of a given in the story rather than something to be dissected. Alcoholism has been done before. This has some interesting moments but I'm not sure it's special or anything original. The acting is good but I expect nothing less from Lemmon. "},{"Title":"Blake's Best - He understood addiction and it really shows.","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I would nominate Days of Wine and Roses as being one of the finest films ever made. It is a haunting depiction of addiction - a journey from the joys of finding true love to the desperation and degradation of alcoholism. It is a study of co-dependency which is the most dangerous form of addiction as first one, Joe Clay, and then his wife seduce each other into binging in scenes that are almost unbearable as you anticipate the inevitable. You are shown how good their lives could have been as they enjoy a roll in the hay after a period of abstinence and then the seduction of Kirsten as Joe does a symbolically mock strip tease to reveal the smuggled bottles of booze taped to his legs. The thunderstorm rages as the pair lose control. Lemmon transforms Joe into a simian creature as he goes on the hunt for the bottle he has hidden in Kirsten's father's greenhouse. He swings and falls from the tree outside the window and shambles towards the greenhouse with ape-like limbs.His confident anticipation of finding the bottle is turned to frustration and then wild desperation as he initially cannot find the pot that contains the bottle. When he has been reduced to a degraded beast, writhing in mud and making noises that are at once pitiful and irksome, Joe finds the bottle and greedily sucks from it. It is a scene that should have won Lemmon two Oscars. Equally shocking is the scene in which Joe finds Kirsten in a fleabag motel after she has binged with a series of men with whom she has traded sex for booze and drinking companionship. To see such a sweet and beautiful person transformed into a degraded and sexually manipulative hag is one of the most heartbreaking scenes put on film. I have detailed two scenes but every other scene is as brilliantly thought-provoking and unforgettable in its staging. And Edwards does not allow the audience the easy solution of love being the final answer.Isn't love, love? pleads Joe when trying to grasp how Kirsten has abandoned him for a binge. He is reminded by his A.A. mentor played by Jack Klugman that the bottle to an alcoholic is god and its power supersedes even love. The flashing bar sign that repeatedly reflects on Joe's face as Kirsten walks away from her two great loves, Joe and her own daughter, is the final reminder that there is no such thing as an end to addiction, just the ongoing battle to be fought. Watch this film and you will never forget it. "},{"Title":"Life is very unfair...to women some times.","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lost Weekend got men talking about alcoholism Days of Wine and Roses was positioned for women. It wasn't fair, but diseases like alcoholism are not fair either. Many women did get into drinking via the men in their lives. (It's a habit I picked up from men-Mildred Pierce) Women love chocolate to boot. Talk about a seemingly innocent gateway drug. He is finally strong enough to battle his own demons but not strong enough to live with her. She loses her child, her home and heads off for the next drink. Or so my father explained it to me all those years ago when it came on the late show one evening. Powerful movie with a message that might be lost on us today. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"No Hollywood Ending","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For the 1960s, this was a courageous ending to a tragic picture. How many viewers were wishing for Ms Remick to return from the street into the arms of Mr. Lemmon with a vow never to drink again. But rather we see an ending where the husband character knows that the only way to save his own life,and in a sense hers, is to watch her walk across the street from his window. Love is not diminished with the ending, it is enhanced. The picture deals with the alcoholic differently that most movies before it. More realistically, the drinker in older movies is shown as a loner outside society drinking for only one reason to get soused. Here we have two codependents in a marriage,drinking because they find it exhilarating, great sport and an escape from the dismal world they both find themselves in. I did think that the giddy swinging of bottles in the air was way overdone and more should have been made of their compatability as drunks by showing more affection for each other during these scenes. However, he scene of Mr Lemmon tearing up the green house was startling, although his alcholic rages were also taken a little too far. "}{"Title":"Leaves you with an ironically sober feeling","Date":"12 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The 1960's saw a change in American cinema. Producers seemed to be moving away from the conventional approach of ham-fisted delivery and super fast-talking, and going for something altogether more realistic. The Hays Code was losing power with the influx of foreign films that weren't bound by any strict ruling, and audiences were obviously striving for something more challenging and confrontational. Blake Edward's Days of Wine and Roses, a powerful portrayal of a marriage crumbling beneath alcoholism, is a clear example of this. Alcoholism had been depicted before of course, but never in such a downright distressing manner. Billy Wilder's The Lost Weekend followed writer Don Birnam (played by Ray Milland) as alcohol destroyed his very soul. But that was back in 1945, when the Hays Code was at the height of its power, so it would always be restrained. It is undoubtedly an excellent film, but Days of Wine and Roses gets under the skin of the 'disease', and although it is ultimately a poorer film in comparison to The Lost Weekend, it is certainly more profound and powerful.Public relations man Joe Clay (Jack Lemmon) meets and falls in love with teetotal secretary Kirsten (Lee Remick), and after a whirlwind romance, the couple quickly marry. Skip forward a year, and Joe has turned into a full-blown alcoholic, frequently returning home late from work and behaving erratically. When his drinking starts to effect his job, Joe is demoted, causing a strain on home life. The couple slump into addiction, sharing the joys and struggles of succumbing entirely to the bottle. After Joe loses his job, they quit drinking, identifying it as the reason their marriage is struggling and potentially losing custody of their daughter. But unbeknownst to them, they are locked in a three-way marriage, and a drink is always around the corner.Based on screenwriter J.P. Miller's own teleplay, Days of Wine and Roses is shot in stark yet beautiful black-and-white, pulling no punches and avoiding romantic sentimentality. Jack Lemmon is superb as Joe, a man who confronts his problem yet also sees it as the glue that binds his marriage together. It is the only thing they can share equal joy with, yet for their marriage to work, they simply must get sober. But Kirsten (an equally superb performance from Remick) refuses to let go, lost in her addiction so much she is willing to lose her husband and daughter to it. The film is depressing yet emotional, complex yet simple, clinically done by Edwards, who engages with unfussy and suitably minimalistic direction. Although it does to get a little bit too stagey sometimes, it is a joy to behold, leaving you an ironically sober feeling.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"People just like us","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" (Spoilers in final paragraph only)Alcoholism is not an easy subject to tackle, especially in a medium where drunken bums tend to be figures of fun. Over the years you can see an evolution in how Hollywood has treated the problem of drink as sensibilities have changed. DW Griffith's The Struggle in 1931 was a nice try but appallingly poor taste, with am unconvincing, comedy drunk act. The Long Weekend (1945) went for harrowing realism and was for the most part effective, but it fell at the last hurdle and ended up being the very thing it tried not to be &#x96; a surreal melodrama that was unintentionally comical. Days of Wine and Roses however avoids this trap by being mostly realistic, whilst adding a light a sprinkling of comedy to offset the serious moments and make the tragedy run deeper.Days of Wine and Roses is rarely laugh-out-loud funny, but the first half-hour or so has a light air of irreverence. The JP Miller screenplay gives us dialogue that really sparkles with both wit and familiarity. Take for example the Corporation x conversation between Jack Lemmon and Charles Bickford. It's vaguely humorous but also a credible of the kind of talks people have, and gives us a concise and engaging introduction to Bickford's character. It's also important exchanges like this actually have nothing to do with alcoholism, they are just building layers of reality and interest to give the main story its human backdrop.Miller's words are brought to life by a note-perfect cast. Jack Lemmon's performance has a slight comic edge to it, without quite being the comic-relief drunk act. He has a hint of silliness about him even when he is sober and the implication is that he has a rather crazy personality which gets exaggerated when he drinks. It works very well. Co-star Lee Remick matches and if anything surpasses him. Her portrayal of drunkenness is more realistic; appropriate because her story is really the more tragic. Charles Bickford and Jack Klugman give some perspective with two powerful &#x96; but very different &#x96; performances which are completely sober and serious. In Bickford's case it's one of the last of an incredible career, in Klugman's one of the few opportunities he really got to shine.Director Blake Edwards was a minimalist when it came to style and technique, keeping things simple to focus us on the performances. That's not to say he can't do some clever visual arrangements. One of his trademarks is the party scene, and the example here is realistic, vibrant, but never enough to upstage the characters in the foreground. In most scenes Edwards keeps his camera fixed and pans to follow the actors as they caper about, making the backgrounds a blur but the characters continually in our attention. He often lets the players take their time over a scene, allowing for moments of contemplation or protracted outbursts. The greenhouse scene is a real masterstroke. We know exactly how this one is going to pan out, and we feel powerless as it unfolds before us with painful slowness.Of course, the origin of such powerful moments is JP Miller's screenplay, his structuring and clever little vignettes. Which leads me onto one final point that makes Days of Wine and Roses stand out above its predecessors. This picture takes the step The Lost Weekend didn't dare to. It refuses to give us a happy ending, and instead leaves the story hovering in ambiguity. Why is this so important? Quite simply we could not accept it. We know Joe has already recovered and relapsed several, and his happily-ever-after is not guaranteed. To finish the story happily would seem false, and make everything that went before it just a little pointless. As it is, we are left with a chilling, lingering feeling of doubt. "},{"Title":"Life is an Ocean made of Wines ... A Garden of Roses full of Spines ...","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The true essence of addiction is masterfully depicted in Blake Edwards' Days of Wine and Roses, a movie starting with a misleading comedic mood reminding of Bill Wilder's Apartment. Indeed, Jack Lemmon in another role perfectly fir for him, portrays an average Joe whose name is Clay, a Public Relations manager. The big corporate world again and the corrupting effect of urban life in the early sixties &#x85; Joe perceives his role as one of a 'legitimate pimp', a lucidity shared with Kirsten Arensen, the young office secretary, tired of playing the same motherly role for her boss who just needs her to be there. Kirsten, the beautiful Lee Remick, drowns her frustration by benignly nourishing her body with chocolates and her mind with encyclopedia books and contemplating water, trying to find parcels of beauty in the world &#x85; the film's darker tones are almost imperceptible.Mutual frustration creates mutual attraction and the whole starter of the relationship between Joe and Kirsten is their aversion for their lives. As viewers, we are so enchanted by Lemmon and Remick's growing love that we unconsciously overlook that there is something already corrupted, not in the love's sincerity, but in the medium that drives this sincerity. The first time Joe declares his love, he's drunk and Kirsten euphoric after a chocolate-based cocktail drunk for the first time. They do love each other, but not in a disinterested way, Joe needs Kirsten to express his jolly side and let the entire bad mood get out of his chest. He's natural, and she likes that, she who used to live with strict parents, and couldn't communicate with his father after her mother's death. Kirsten found in Joe, the positive pole of a depressing life, a true complicity poignantly incarnated by their inspiring toast meaning Together in Heaven in Norwegian, words that Joe's too drunk to utter correctly ... premonition?The pivotal part of the film opens when Joe's transferred to another client, not to be the pimp delivering girls for yacht parties, but a follower whose new associate's drinking habits will disastrously affect his life to the point he will always go back home drunk. One night, after finding Kirsten quietly rocking their daughter Debbie, to sleep, singing a quiet lullaby, he cracks up. In a heart-breaking monologue, Joe shouts his need for finding Kirsten on the same wavelength. Like her previous boss, he needs her to be there. Kirsten's acceptance starts the infernal spiral leading to their downfall. This part crucially mirrors the predispositions of both Joe and Kirsten to alcoholism, and the movie is incredibly ahead of its time in the transparent way it tackles the subject.Indeed, Kirsten accepts less out of love for Joe than for alcohol, her drinking in order to please him is as convenient as his dedication to his job is 'zealous' and this mess inevitably leads to the Kirsten accidentally setting the house on fire and Joe being fired. They become bums, boozers and losers with a realistic touch I didn't even found in Leaving Las Vegas where the romantic aspect prevailed despite the tragedy. No romance here, only the tragedy of addiction devouring the body and the mind of Joe and Kirsten, together ... in hell. And the movie shines in the acting department as both leads literally blew me away. I rank Jack Lemmon's performance as equal to Ray Milland in The Lost Weekend or Ellen Burstyn in Requiem for a Dream. The part where he's looking for the hidden bottle, going from joy, to confusion, to anger, to rage and despair, such a wide range of emotions in one single scene should have earned him the Oscar in 1962, despite the competitiveness of the year.The movie is a powerful illustration of both addictions' devastating effects and its unsuspected roots. And by powerful, I mean intelligent, because it showed a subtlety too often ignored, that sometimes, we enjoy a drug within another habit. When you can't have a coffee without smoking or enjoying something without a 'starter', a substance to accompany you&#x85; believing these consumptions are indispensable to drive the enjoyment or the pleasure. And this is the sad originality in Joe and Kirsten's relationships; they needed each other to shamelessly express the dependence inhabiting their lives. The perversity is that they ended up only loving themselves as drunkards, as Joe said, they were not a couple, but a threesome.This could be highlighted by the painful rehab scenes where Joe shouts for his wife. We wonder if he's missing Kirsten or booze. The movie is audaciously violent and concludes in a mood in total opposition with the start. Joe tries to recover, inspired by a powerful desire to provide a good life for Debbie. He's helped by Jack Klugman as Jim Hungerford from the Alcoholic Anonyms, a performance I would have appreciated to see nominated, along with Charles Bickford as Ellis, Kirsten's unfortunate father who witnesses the decline of his little girl.Speaking of Ellis, the ending of the film is a clever reminder of one of the questions he asked Joe, what would he do if a X Company did something bad and Joe almost implied that he would try to hide it or makes it look good. Ironically, this perfectly sums up what addiction is about finding excuses such as enjoying life, forgetting the problems etc., while all you need is the strength to admit your dependence and the guts to fight it. Joe is almost cured but Kirsten still can't imagine living without alcohol. She still needs it not to be depressed by the world's ugliness.The fight is not over Kirsten, not even for Joe, not even for Jim, not even for all of us who try to fight our inner demons and say Life is beautiful without the bitter taste of booze in our mouths &#x85; "},{"Title":"One of the Great Films About Addiction","Date":"16 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Somehow I had managed to make it to this point in my life without having seen this. It certainly deserves its classic status. Though of course it's not as explicit in terms of language as later films, it's as riveting, harrowing, and truthful as any addiction film I've ever seen. Jack Lemmon and Lee Remick give a pair of utterly superb performances--every moment of their plummet into alcoholism is believable and frighteningly realistic. The character arc unfolds like a great play, with every step of the slide building on the previous. Remick's final two scenes in the motel and back in the apartment are as quietly chilling a depiction of a lost soul as you're likely to see. Lemmon's freak-out in the greenhouse may be the stuff of melodrama, but it's an absolutely accurate, wrenching portrayal of a someone at the height of desperation and frustration.The story covers a long arc and moves forward in big steps, but the story reveals are presented in such a way that they're a series of narrative jolts pulling the audience along down this rabbit hole. I've never been such a huge fan of Blake Edwards as a director, but his work here is exceptionally strong. Just an excellent film. "},{"Title":"The subtle lure of alcohol, explained and heartbreaking","Date":"14 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Agree with an earlier review regarding this ranking as one of the better films on alcoholism and substance abuse. Very timely and still relevant today. This story is so common today in Hollywood yet celebrities STILL get PR people to cover it up in the press. This doesn't help the matter.Jack Lemmon as up and coming PR man falls for the lovely Kirsten Arnesen, well-portrayed by Lee Remick. She is a young receptionist, he asks her for a date, and the first dinner while he is drinking she begs off, but he finally gets her to drink a chocolate brandy Alexander, which she loves. The realistic way this occurs is very telling. At first it is merely a social past-time.In time, Lemmon, stressed from climbing the corporate ladder finds solace with his wife when he gets home from the office. He complains when he loses a job, then is demoted. They attribute it to office politics, nothing more.Eventually,she becomes bored sitting at home watching cartoons with her five year old. It is making her stir crazy. She begins drinking alone while he is at the office. At first it is just to pass the time, but then, while Lemmon is away on business in Houston, she falls asleep after a day long drinking binge, and accidentally sets the apartment on fire.At one point Lemmon is hospitalized, and he meets Jack Klugman, portraying Hungerford, an advocate for Alcoholics Anonymous. He gets Lemmon to attend a few meetings where reality is faced. Kirsten, however, does not see her few drinks as a problem. She still loves her husband, but cannot stop. While Lemmon begs her to get help, he finally lets go. Will not spoil the ending of this excellent and sad story. It is a must-see for anyone who has issues with their friends or family, or who wants to learn the subtleties of this illness.Overall this is an excellent film because of its true life narrative, how they spiral down to a cheap apartment, no ambition and depression. The key is that as Hungerford tells Lemmon, some do not hit bottom the same, some never realize it till they are airlifted from a car crash. It is a lottery he says... but people still have a choice before it's too late.If you enjoy this you will certainly like Ray Milland in The Lost Weekend, as well as the more recent My Name is Bill W. with James S. Woods. Also When A Man Loves a Woman with Meg Ryan and Andy Garcia. A sensitive and important subject which is rarely accurately portrayed by the real Hollywood machine. "},{"Title":"Old Wine Trying to Pour Itself into a New Bottle","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What makes Days of Wine and Roses effective is the vast and striking transformation that occurs throughout it. Joe Clay and Kirsten Arnesen are completely different people by the end, even by the middle, than they are at the beginning. It's a dark drama on alcoholism by the last working studio-era Hollywood director, Blake Edwards, who barely lets on that alcohol plays a central role in the relationship of these two people until it begins to take a toll on them. It's human nature to try to make sense of what happens in the present by noting what went before, and Lemmon eventually does that, and only then do we really begin to see how drink elusively kept them dependent on one another.It is fascinating and painfully absorbing to follow most of the time. The rest of the time, the Jenga tower starts to wobble. After a very slow, natural decline into chemical addiction by Jack Lemmon as Joe, he and the script begin leaping from the railings of the stairwells down, and we find his life in a nightmarish disarray that very few people reach after living the first thirty-some years so comparatively well, most likely even the biggest failure you know. It's when he climbs out of the firepit that he becomes convincing again, and yet that's when Kirsten is found to be twice the horrific shambles he was, with a jaw-gaping lack of concern or even apparent thought for their very young daughter. As strong as the great Jack Lemmon's acting always was, I find Kirsten better served by Remick than the script, and Joe alternating between overacted and overwritten.It is sensationalist in its relentless, shocking depiction of its subject, but it is also a purely human story, a chronicle of two people's relationship with one another, a very emotional one. It angrily ponders the indignant question of why if people love each other can their being together be poison. It can give you a knot in your chest seeing how it can feel so much like love, and still not be. As well, Days of Wine and Roses indeed had a lasting effect in helping alcoholics face their problem. Today the movie is apparently required viewing in many rehab clinics. And I enjoy it. I only wish I enjoyed it a little more.But there is lots to enjoy in this classically presented story. Both leads always had the distinct ability to create a texture all their own to their performances, where we aren't just listening to the dialogue and admiring the visuals but enjoying their timing and behavior all by itself. Jack Klugman joins the fold, and we see several great comic talents pouring themselves into a heartfelt tragedy. One of them, Edwards, gives the movie a bluesy urban life, a bustling, engrossing one that becomes a ghost as the story moves along, and even after the period of sanctuary at her father's rural stead, it becomes as if these two souls are more or less alone, rejected from the invigorating social life they once knew. "},{"Title":"Tragic","Date":"26 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Alcoholism isn't a topic explored enough through the medium of cinema. Days of Wine and Roses is an extraordinary film depicting the effects of alcohol abuses and AA meeting.The movie title is romantic and lovely, and when people are indulging alcohols that's the feeling they would get. There were already enough deserved praises about Jack Lemmon's performance. The amazingly beautiful Lee Remick is equally outstanding as well. The way she delivered those monologues is magical. The scene of her drunk on gin and being delirious in the motel room is heartbreaking and it's one of the bleakest scenes I've seen.Days of Wine and Roses shows the destructive nature of boozing unflinchingly. This film does not lose its edge after forty years. "},{"Title":"Co-Dependence Day","Date":"16 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Blake Edwards directs a film starring Jack Lemmon as a disgruntled public relations rep in love with the secretary of his biggest client. Sounds hilarious. It isn't. Joe Clay, the flak played by Lemmon, is an alcoholic and he slowly turns Kirsten, the secretary played by Lee Remick, into a drunk as well. With histrionics, monlogues and water metaphors galore (Joe and Kirsten first meet on a boat), we watch this attractive pair descend into a hellish, fairly believable co-dependence years before that words was in common use. Sounds melodramatic. It is and it isn't. Two comic geniuses like Edwards and Lemmon could never make Leaving Las Vegas, so before the DTs kick in there are hints of farce and romantic comedy -- one of Lemmon's clients is a pretentious chicken-fat magnate, and Joe and Kirsten's early flirtations follow the standard rom-com schtick of insults and taunts. But all of these lighter elements vanish completely midway through the film, and I don't know if it's amateur screen writing or a depiction of how alcoholism destroys everything else in your life. Whatever, brace yourself for a bleak conclusion.The film-making and acting are interesting, but almost distracting. Edwards litters the early scenes of this film with outlandish comic elements -- a surreal, quick-cut extended scene of Kirsten's neighbors complaining about the roach spray in her apartment, and a cocktail party with a jazz band dressed as farmers complete with barnyard animals. It might be making the subtle point that alcohol (or another intoxicant) is a way of coping with the absurdity and randomness of modern (for 1962) life. Or it might just be comic relief from the depressing storyline. Also, water means danger in this flick. Every time it's raining, or there's a large body of water nearby, you can bet the main characters are about to get drunk and do something stupid. A couple of Kirsten's monologues hint at the allure of drowning, plus, Edwards et al have set the film in San Francisco instead of Lemmon's more natural milieu of New York City, maybe since it's surrounded by water on three sides. Speaking of Lemmon, he's not all that different here than in his more manic, comedic roles, which is to say, he's overacting. But it's appropriate overacting that fully explores the rage and pain behind the whiny, charmingly unpleasant neurotics that he usually portrays. Speaking of neurotics, Lee Remick's fragile-but-beautiful act got old by the late 70s when she played her, say, 50th Troubled Woman, but here at least she gets to be charming and sexy as well as anxious and depressed, so she's playing a genuinely complex character, not just a victim. To paraphrase the Go-Betweens, in this film, you'll love Lee Remick. Finally, Jack Klugman shows up midway through this picture as the Voice Of AA. As film actors go, Klugman was a great TV actor, and if you think the arrival of his cardboard character means the end of all the fun and games, you're absolutely right. Still, Klugman's dry, unironic sermons and speeches were probably necessary to lecture early-60s audiences on the true nature of alcoholism as an illness, not a moral failing. Rent it, then watch something funny afterwards. "},{"Title":"Best movie about co-dependent/destructive love, alcoholism & detox","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What a performance by Jack Lemmon and Lee Remick! If you are not an alcoholic or drug addict, it may be hard to understand addiction, how it can sneak up and take over. This movie also shows how easy it is to fall after going sober, the difficulty choosing between the high road of sobriety, and the intense pull of drugs or alcohol AND loving the wrong person too much. I only wish it could have shown more of the intensity of withdrawals/detox symptoms - maybe it would deter people from drinking & drugs. As a nurse, I have seen so many people going through detox. It makes me terrified of having more than 1 drink per month. As a close friend or family member of an addict - we see all the ugly terrors of any chemical abuse. Watch this movie (and consider watching it with your teenagers) - it is reality and unfortunately, too much of a possibility for many. "},{"Title":"you started her drinking!","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Both Lemmon and Remick deserved an AA.Remick had to fight against Anne Bancroft and her sensational portrayal of Annie Sullivan (the miracle worker) and lost to her.On the other hand ,I think that Lemmon should not have lost to Gregory Peck whose part was much easier.Few actors can play such demeaning parts Susan Hayward (I'll Cry tomorrow ) and Ray Milland '(lost weekend ) ,both gave memorable performances.There are two scenes I'll never forget  Lemmon ,desperately searching for his bottle in the greenhouse and his meeting with Remick in her backstreet .This is a completely anti-Hollywoodian story -whereas the two first works dealing with alcoholism were in a way ,although excellent-.Actually,had Lemmon not met Remick,she could have been a good housewife ,cherishing a little girl , cooking good food for her and rocking her to sleep at night;thus the ending is completely unexpected and I wonder whether a producer would dare such a conclusion nowadays.Days of wine and roses is no bed of roses.It's a harsh movie,sometimes almost unbearable .If you like superlative acting,you must not miss it! "}{"Title":"Powerful Film About Alcoholism and Recovery","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No matter how many times you see Days of Wine and Roses, you'll experience the same powerful message about the dangers of alcohol, and why some people just can't resist its siren call.Joe Clay (Jack Lemmon) is a hard-driving representative for an advertising firm, and he's a heavy drinker, almost to the point of being a drunk. Kirsten Arnesen (Lee Remick) is a teetotaling secretary for one of Clay's clients. They meet, get married, have a daughter...and soon Kirsten is a hopeless drinker, just like her husband Joe. Joe loses his job, and the two try to make a new start at the nursery business of Kirsten's father Ellis (Charles Bickford), with disastrous (and drunken) results. The Clays' lives continue to deteriorate under the influence of alcohol, until Joe finally decides to quit and join AA. Kirsten can't quit drinking, and the two poignantly go their separate ways at the end.I've never been a fan of Lemmon's but his performance is wonderful here. The innocent character of Kirsten Arnesen is played to perfection by Lee Remick. Charles Bickford and Jack Klugman provide excellent support at Kirsten's father and a dedicated AA worker, respectively. This movie is pretty troubling at times, but that's the price it pays for being a very accurate portrayal of two lost alcoholics. Highly recommended, unless you exclusively like movies with happy endings.P.S.--Just a couple more observations. I was horrified by the way the male characters treated most of the females in this movie. Beside the opening party scenes, a good example occurs when Joe Clay comes to work hung over and condescendingly barks at his secretary to get him some coffee. I mean, the guy couldn't even get his own coffee?Also, this 1962 movie was released before the now-accepted health hazards of smoking were known. Everybody puffs away like crazy through the entire film. When Hungerford (Klugman) finds a very sick Joe in a locked hospital cell, he immediately gives him a cigarette. That's just what every ill person needs--a cigarette full of toxins! Sheesh. "},{"Title":"They are not long, the days of wine and roses.","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I can remember exactly the first time I saw this picture, it was February 4th, 1962. Not that it was particularly memorable, but because of the venue. I was eleven years old and In New York City for the start of Boy Scout Week. Our Scoutmaster had this thing for Radio City Music Hall and the Rockettes kicking up their heels, so he brought our entire contingent of Scouts and parents to see the show following ceremonies at St. Patrick's Cathedral. The only thing I could remember about the story today was that it was about a couple of drunks, but the sharp mind of this pre-teen made me question why we were going to see a movie like this. Today, the political correctness police would certainly have gotten that Scoutmaster in hot water, maybe even fired. Funny, but I don't recall any of the parent chaperons registering a complaint, and both of mine were along at the time. I never thought to ask.Anyway, watching it today I had a chance to revisit that earlier time, and the only part of the film I could even remember had to do with the greenhouse scene; I was probably working on my Botany merit badge at the time. I have to say, Jack Lemmon does give one of the best crazed performances in a movie I've ever seen, right up there with Nicholson in The Shining. His drunken jag coming down the tree was an inspiring display of acting talent, and even if Lee Remick wound up playing second fiddle, she's absolutely knock-out in the film. Though I can't say I'm convinced she would ever consent to going out on a date with an obnoxious jerk like Joe Clay (Lemmon) in the first place. But how about Jack Klugman as the AA counselor? His introductory scene reminded me of those exploitation films of the 1930's that attempted to warn viewers about the danger of abuse from an array of addictive substances like marijuana, cocaine and yes, even the demon rum.So with the hindsight of forty five years (what??!!), I guess it was pretty cool to hear Joe Clay summon up a back handed tribute to sobriety as he takes on the challenge of going cold turkey - I don't want any of your mealy-mouthed holier-than-thou, do gooder Boy Scouts, with their hot coffee and their cold feet. I don't know exactly how to take that, but it sort of makes you want to go out and work on your Community Service merit badge. "},{"Title":"Comedic artisans creating bleak drama","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Blake Edwards has directed great comedies and Jack Lemmon is considered one of the leading comic stars of all time, but they most definitely teamed up to give us bleak drama this time around. The feel that each have for comedy enhances the film immeasurably. There are scenes, such as the bouquet's flowers being snipped off without the drunk Lemmon noticing, that at first seem funny and then have a sobering effect on the viewer. Through the comedic influence we become painfully aware that drunkenness isn't funny.And then there is the tragic irony well emphasized in the script. The non-drinking Remick eventually becomes a drinker in order to keep him and then he sobers up and has to choose between staying sober or keeping her.This is too bleak and grimly realistic a film to be true entertainment, but it is the ability of Edwards and Lemmon to entertain which turns this into a truly important and effective film. "},{"Title":"melodramatic but heartfelt","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While still featuring some of the hallmarks of 1950s melodrama, this film nicely transitions into the more subtle performances that would dot the 60s and come to full fruition in the 70s. Jack Lemmon plays a public relations man who must, along with his wife, battle alcoholism. Lee Remick turns in another superb performance as Lemmon's mercurial, oft inebriated spouse. Blake Edwards shows a surprisingly nice feel for drama and allows most of the scenes between Lemmon and Remick to play out in long, uninterrupted takes which lends the film an air of pathos and grim inevitability. This story does not pull any punches and the b&w color scheme seems to reinforce the binary nature of alcoholism; no middle path exists with the disease, you either get sober or it destroys you. 'Days of Wine and Roses' puts American alcoholism in the foreground of many scenes by prominently displaying flashing neon signs that say things like 'Bar' or 'liquor' in establishing exterior shots. These signs add tension to the plot because the characters are struggling so hard to maintain sobriety. Lemmon's work as a PR man also bears some significance because he deals professionally with images and perceptions, not the underlying realities of life. These underlying truths will eventually surface and haunt him. The movie inheres the same flaws that one would no doubt find in American culture itself in 1962. Remick's character has very little to do and she finds her housewife routine unsatisfying and empty. Lemmon's character seems arbitrarily stronger and more capable of beating alcoholism, perhaps just because of his status as a man. Their daughter gets very little time devoted to her unfortunate situation, both from a writing and a film standpoint. I found myself wondering if her story might not have had the most potential power. That said, both Lemmon and Remmick deliver some of the most powerful dialogue concerning the struggle against alcohol that I have ever seen. It might be interesting (though it would certainly be depressing) to view this film in direct comparison with Meg Ryan's very similarly themed 'When a Man Loves a Woman.' "},{"Title":"Days of Wine and Roses is Anything But that ****","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Outstanding 1962 vehicle with Jack Lemmon and Lee Remick in the throws of alcohol addiction. This is a terrific film in the genre of The Lost Weekend, as well as Smash Up and I'll Cry Tomorrow.The tragedy here is that Lemmon and Remick marry and have a son. In order to get her into his lifestyle, Lemmon introduces Remick to the bottle and before long she is on par with him when it comes to drinking.Their degradation and ultimate ruin brought on by alcoholism is fully realized here. As Remick's father, Charles Bickford put in still another solid performance. Who can forget his outburst at Lemmon. My daughter never drank until she met you. The ending of this film will forever tug at one's heart where Lemmon has tried to stop drinking but it's off to the bar for Remick. "},{"Title":"A Remarkable Film About Addiction and Relationships","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is remarkable for several reasons. First, it was quite frank about sexuality, babies and their excreta, hints of barely-sublimated father-daughter incest, and nursing mothers for 1962, when the infamous Code still governed what could and couldn't be said about the human body in a mainstream commercial Hollywood film.But these things occur only in passing. What is also noteworthy is the performances, marvelous universally, but especially by Jack Lemmon. Previously he had been a comedic actor, or a somewhat buffoonish one in a serious film (The Apartment). Here he plays Joe Clay, aspiring PR man on his way down due to booze, but still loving his wife and child and looking to stay sober, if only for them. And then there's Jack Klugman the gravel-voiced character actor is most familiar to us as Felix Unger's slob of a roommate in the '70s sitcom The Odd Couple, or perhaps as a forensic medical examiner in Quincy. Here he has to play the part of an A.A. sponsor, who could have been all starch and humorlessness. But his Jim Hungerford is a three-dimensional character, a recovering alcoholic himself with rough edges, who confronts Joe Clay with the deadly abyss he's rushing toward without either sugar-coating or moralizing.The film is also remarkable for its concluding scene. We are given no easy resolution, no guarantee of permanent happiness for Joe and Kirsten, whom we've come to care about and who clearly deeply love each other. I defy anyone to be unmoved by the final encounter between the spouses.Many have mentioned The Lost Weekend, certainly a notable film for its time (1945), but I believe the strongest movie about the effects of addiction on interpersonal relationships, aside from Days of Wine and Roses, is The Panic In Needle Park (1971) about two NY heroin addicts who at several points must choose between their love for one another and their love for smack. Guess which wins. "},{"Title":"The One Movie I Always Remember","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Saw this movie 30 years ago and have never forgotten it.Jack lemon and Lee Remick became favourites and when Lee died a little something went with her.Great Flick "},{"Title":"DVD Release","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a fabulous film.  I see that the DVD is being released in Jan. of 2004 and that it will be in color.  I think that's a crime!  This movie needs to be viewed in it's origional B&W.  I've been waiting for the release of this title on DVD, but now that I see it's in color I'm sure I don't want it.  What were the producers thinking?!!  Please release it on DVD in B&W. -( "},{"Title":"Incredible film dealing with such a sad subject","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Emotional and well-acted character study of a husband and wife who both struggle and cope with a battle of alcoholism in a different way.  May start out slow and almost comedic, soon turns into a brutal portrayal of over drinking and its devastating effects.   "},{"Title":"SHOULD BE IN TOP 250 BEST OF LIST","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a fine classic of romance slowly slyly develops between Joe Clay (Jack Lemmon) & Kristen Arnesen-Clay( Lee Remick) eventually get married. Sadly during the course become alcoholics and forget their responsibilities. Directed by the great Blake Edwards. Find main acting cast Jack Lemon, Jack Klugman, Lee Remick,Charles Bigford.A WORTHY WATCH! least should be 8.3 rating.  "}{"Title":"A FINE EARLY 60's MOVIE WORTHY OF OSCAR","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Briefly, even though the thread in the movie is obvious concerning alcoholism in my opinion this 60's classic with stars Lee Remick, Jack Lemmon, Charles Bickford, Jack Klugman, Great Director Blake Edwards, Jack Lemmon shows a different side to his comedic roles to more serious romantic type.BTW nominated best actor, reveals sadly the real life of Lemmon's struggles with addiction to alcohol. Ironically, how acting roles sometimes reveals a part of the personal life of an actor or actress. IMHO, the fact Lee Remick's role as an ordinary traditional woman of the time reaching out from home to career, then finding Jack Lemmon's role once employed in public relations, both wind up on the  booze wagon.Its Kristen's (Lee Remick) Father (played by Charles Bickford ) rejection of marriage revealed in greenhouse, IS the motive of Kristen, (Remick's role) friend-girlfriend-wife of Joe Clay (Jack Lemmon) turns into an alcoholic, not her dreaming romance falling love with Jack and everything between. IMHO this one should make BEST 300 List 8.5 rating. My first review. "},{"Title":"Edwards, Lemmon & Remick at their career best","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  THE DAYS OF WINE AND ROSES (1962) ***1/2 Jack Lemmon, Lee Remick, Charles Bickford, Jack Klugman, Jack Albertson.  Devastating for its time but still timeless tale of a young alcoholic couple in a downward spiral of doom and despair with noteworthy performances by all but helped establish a new turn in the career of Lemmon as a versatile actor and garnered him a much deserved Oscar nomination (as well as Remick).  The eponymous title song won Best Original Song.  Directed by Blake Edwards. "},{"Title":"Lemmon's Best Work","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Why do people drink?  The Days of Wine and Roses doesn't fully answer the question, though it provides some clues.  Lemmon plays a character who has been rejected by his parents and is unhappy with his job.  He's drinking to obliterate his past and present, the alcohol serving as medication for his self-hatred.  Remick's character's motivations are less clear.  She's a good girl who's only initial addiction is to chocolate, but before long she's three sheets to the wind.  Superficially, she's drinking for love, following her partner's lead, but I tend to think the real reason is that drink gives her a sense of  identity she's never previously achieved.  Alcoholism in effect becomes her niche in life.  For her to say I'm Kirsten and I'm an alcoholic. would be an affirmation, rather than a confession.  I suspect this sort of alcoholism is the most devastating and the most difficult to cure.  Remick and Bickford are good, but Lemmon's performance is out of this world.  I've never liked him and  always felt most of his work was superficial, little more than Jack Lemmon as Jack Lemmon.  But here he shows that there's genuine talent behind the grating, glad-handing veneer we're so used to.  His scenes in the greenhouse and the drunk tank are harrowing and the emotional range he covers during the course of the film is extraordinary.This is an uncompromising look at human degradation and the antithesis of the usual Hollywood feel-good approach to personal disaster.   "},{"Title":"Absolutely Riveting","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I was idly channel surfing when I came across this movie in the spring (2001) and was glued to the couch for the next two hours. I don't have much to add to the incisive comments of previous posters but I will take issue with how convincing Lee Remick was as an alcoholic. I think it was much more effective to show someone as wholesome looking as her fall prey to this disease - I'm sure in 1962 alcoholism still had much more of the skid row stereotype.DONT READ THIS IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW THE ENDING -but I don't think the ending quite rang true. I find it hard to believe that someone who had survived the worst of alcoholism (Lee Remick's character) would choose a life of moderate drinking over her husband and children. Maybe they thought living happily ever after was a compromise of the film's message - but I would think she would at least TRY a life of sobriety in order to be with her children. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Outstanding Movie. Tragic in the way alcohol can become very addictive and the consequences that one can suffer. The movie was sad in many ways but there are people in real life who are actually affected by alcohol and the heartaches it brings. "},{"Title":"I was deeply disturbed after watching this film...","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you're feeling down, don't watch this movie! Blake Edwards, known to most for his great comedy films, takes us on a dark and terrifying journey into the life of two alcoholics. I have never seen a more realistic portrayal of the human condition on the silver screen.Jack Lemmon plays Joe Clay, at once a likeable and dislikeable character. As the viewer, you sympathize with his plight, yet you realize he only has himself to blame for it. And his famous scenes inside the greenhouse and the detox tank were so realistic as to be painful. What I think is most remarkable about his acting in these scenes is he sounds like a boy- a lost, confused, enraged, helpless child.This is a film that pulls you in so deeply that you feel drained by the time it ends. Not to give anything away, but I think the ambiguous ending is the only one that was acceptable here. All in all, a great film, and a masterful performance by one of the best, most well-rounded actors of all time. The role of Joe Clay is is one of those roles, along with Felix Ungar (no disrespect to Art Carney) that only Jack Lemmon could do so well. He is truly a treasure of American cinema. "},{"Title":" A tremendous film that will leave a lasting impression.","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had always thought that Jack Lemmon was one of our finest actors and this film is another showcase for him. Lee Remick is excellent also as her beauty sometimes overshadowed her acting abilities.This film grips you and the scene in the greenhouse will stagger you. It is not an optimistic film, but it does show the reality of alcoholism. It really can knock people for a loop if you are not prepared for a dose of realism.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie? - Maybe","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you want to see an good movie about a serious subject then this is the movie to watch. Although the movie is kind of stagy and the story a little bit melodramatic, the performances are outstanding, the story compelling if somewhat contrived, the cinematography first-rate and the musical background powerful yet subtle. When watching this movie, one realizes that before Meg Ryan there was Lee Remick, whose performance in this movie was outstanding. But the star of this movie is Jack Lemmon. Here Mr. Lemmon gives one of the great portrayals of the acting-out drunk. Mr. Lemmon skillfully conveys the intensity, maniacal obsessiveness and anger of the out-of-control alcoholic who slowly and painfully comes to the realization that he has a problem which not only ruining his life but his wife's as well. The problem with this movie is that it also makes a case for drinking. Let's face it - who would you rather want to be with - the prim and proper Mrs. Clay when she is sober, or the fun-loving, gregarious, laughing Mrs. Clay who wants to party and have a good time when she is drunk? And what about Jack Lemmon's character? When sober, he is a rather bland person, but when drunk, look out! He's a dynamo of energy - he can even climb down trees and trash a rose garden - a get himself hospitalized where he can do all the screaming and acting out he wants. In this movie Jack Lemmon's character is really SICK, while Lee Remick's character is merely acting out in attempt to add some spice to her otherwise humdrum life of quiet drudgery. Isn't it significant that at the end of the movie, it's Lee Remick who leaves? To me, the message of this movie is drinking is bad, but it's a good excuse for acting out and behaving like a child, and so if you want to act out, have yourself one ... or two ... or three ... or four ... or five or more drinks, get soused and then get rescued. It's a lot more interesting and fun than being sober ... and you might hook up with a pretty lady too. "},{"Title":"A little too long and dated but worth seeing","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joe Clay (Jack Lemmon) is a big shot public relations guy who falls in love with sweet innocent Kisten Arensen (Lee Rremick). They fall in love, get married and have a child. But the stress of having a job, a wife and a kid works on Joe and he becomes an alcoholic. Kirsten ends up becoming just like him.This didn't hit me as hard as it hits other people. Basically I grew up seeing a close family member struggle with it--and eventually die of it--so I already know how alcohol affects a person. I must say Lemmon and Remick captured it perfectly on screen. The mood swings, the violent temper, the refusal to admit they're an alcoholic--it's all 100% true. So this movie didn't really shock me and its effect has been reduced by countless other movies that dealt with the same subject. Also the movie moves slowly and it's almost an hour in before we see any effects of the illness. Still it's not a terrible movie at all. Remick and Lemmon are both incredible (and Oscar-nominated) in their roles. It couldn't have been easy to play these roles but they both pull it off. Also it's well-directed by Blake Edwards which was a surprise (he's only known for directing comedies). Also there are strong supporting performances by Jack Klugman and Charles Bickford. A sequence with Lemmon in a greenhouse and the last sequence are very powerful. So it's worth catching but I lived with a person suffering with it so it was all familiar. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Hit me again!","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A very sad movie that beautifully depicts the insidiousness of alcoholism. That Lee Remick saw nothing odd about Jack Lemmon pulling a fifth out of his pocket on their first date nailed the notion of how people often can't see the terror that is approaching. And soon she's drawn into the same addiction, via sweet Brandy Alexanders. Then they can't have a ball together unless they're both soused. The movie is a bit dated with its sexist depictions of women as playthings who should wear peek-a-boo clothes but it is perfect in its portrayal of how drunks will sacrifice all of their precious relationships so they can suck baby-like at the bottle. The Remick character perfectly captures the alcoholic who won't admit there's a problem even once devastation has set in All right so maybe you had too much to drink; it doesn't mean you're an alcoholic. These people are everywhere today!The performances are excellent all-around. Lemmon was great, though in real life his father was dying at the time. Remick is convincing. I enjoyed Jack Klugman as a very attractive and psychologically aware sponsor. And the theme music, with its thorny roses visible through a liquid screen, was hypnotic. "}{"Title":"the saddest story","Date":"27 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To go down in history as a period piece is not the career goal of a director or an actor (or anybody else for that matter), but sometimes, as a kind of (the French call it a pis aller), it yields a poignant reward. THE DAYS OF WINE AND ROSES came out about a year before the murder of President John F. Kennedy and was there any filmmaker more keyed into the ethos of Camelot than Blake Edwards - or more adversely affected by its devastating fall-out? THE DAYS OF WINE AND ROSES stars the lovely Lee Remick (beloved by everyone who knew her and who was tragically cut down at age 55) and, of course, features Jack Lemmoon in his bravest performance as a decent but spiritually shallow p.r. man who hooks himself and his beautiful bride on the booze, destroys her life and nearly wrecks his own.Lemmon was never so affecting again, or as successful at combining his character's desire to please with the self-loathing that bubbles up whenever that need is neurotically imposed.But WINE AND ROSES fell short of an artistic breakthrough for Edwards and soon afterwards came the tragic end of Camelot.In retrospect, it was too brittle to last (Edwards's original vision that is) the vinyl, black and white look (going back to the PETER GUNN days), the lovely, sticky, but not too sticky Mancini melody(ies), the delusionally sophisticated patter between handsome men and women (flirty but respectful), the aspirational materialistic chic of it all.We took it for granted. We were encouraged to feel confident and scoff at our quality of life. We were feeling pretty good about ourselves as a people, as a nation. But now it is gone the days of wine and roses, and some of us, who are in our 50s, who watch it today can't help but mourn the fact that those fragile, easy to feel superior to, days are no more.Rating as a movie 6.5as period piece artifact priceless "},{"Title":"The film shies away from being meaner...","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Acting drunk is one of the hardest things for an actor to do really well. Many have tried and failed. Acting slaphappy-drunk seems to be more difficult than angry-drunk, and this is where Jack Lemmon and Lee Remick have a hard time. It's also director Blake Edwards' fault the drunk highs don't seem spontaneous, and the couple's gaiety as they plan to get their hands on more booze is forced (and Lemmon's drunken glee is accompanied by a maniacal laugh which sounds more appropriate for something like Some Like It Hot). However, this couple's dramatics lows are harrowing (if not always convincing), and Jack's big scene in a greenhouse trying to find his hidden bottle is an amazing actors' feat. Roses is a good-looking film with a sobering conclusion, and many moments do come off successfully, yet overall the picture doesn't take chances, it isn't reckless enough and it doesn't feel natural. This is imperative for films about addicts on the edge. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Pale Shadow of The Lost Weekend","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Days of Wine and Roses can be taken as a good film on alcoholism --- indeed they show it in rehab clinics --- unless you've never seen Ray Milland in Billy Wilder's 1945 Oscar winner, THE LOST WEEKEND. Wilder's film was flawless; can't say the same about ROSES.To begin with, ROSES is a screen remake of a superior Playhouse 90 CBS drama. Jack Lemmon was an overrated actor who always simply played Jack Lemmon; no difference from one movie to another -- even when he wore a dress in Some Like It Hot. Although Ray Milland was no hero in Lost Weekend, Milland was the kind of actor who could immediately involve the audience in his problems, whether booze or women. Jack Lemmon's advertising man is impossible to like, and simply makes a fool of himself --- particularly going berserk in Charles Bickford's greenhouse tearing up dozens of plants looking for a key. The obvious impulse is to think about pushing Lemmon's head underwater till the bubbles get quiet; not the intended audience response.From the annoying, awful Days of Wine and Roses theme song to the final fade-out of the neon BAR sign, there are plenty of flaws here. It takes one to know one, they say. As a Recovering Alcoholic, I recommend LOST WEEKEND --- ROSES can drive a person to the bottle. "},{"Title":"Yeah, but now they're smoking!!!!","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Finally got to see this film having wanted to for sometime. The film is noteworthy for great performances by Lemmon and Remick, but the real surprise is Klugman (Really a breakout performance).Depressing story about additive personalities who claim booze as a buddy and don't address their real problem - poor upbringing, loneliness, and self-destruction. Funniest thing is all the people at the AA meeting in the smoke-filled room, puffing away at their new addiction....smoking. Just trading one death vice for another.When are they going to do a story about the real problem of credit card abuse and living beyond your means?  "},{"Title":"Compelling but dishonest melodrama","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies. Let me begin with that. I've seen it a dozen times. As a child I found it horrifying and compelling. I still find it difficult to switch off, or to watch. But repeated viewings have pointed up glaring weaknesses in the production and screenplay.Begin with cast and characters. Jack Lemmon plays, basically, Jack Lemmon--the same likeable frenetic guy he was in It Should Happen to You and most of his other early films. Somehow or other Joe Clay, this son of a vaudevillian couple, has become a high-flying PR account rep. The job is believable for Lemmon but how he got there is left to the imagination; and my imagination totally fails me. The Joe Clay character needs more backstory. As for Lee Remick, she is a complete cipher. Kirsten Arnesen Clay wanted to be an actress--so what happened to her career? What is she doing in San Francisco? What are they both doing in San Francisco, come to think of it? Shouldn't they _really_ be in New York? Doesn't the 'cockroach' scene really seem to be taking place in a New York building, not a San Fran one?More annoying is the sudden narrative gap that appears a third of the way into the story. We jump ahead five years and fine Joe and Kirsten and their little daughter living in a squalid flat near Union Square. We learn Joe's been fired from five more jobs. It seems to me that whatever happened in those five years, it's a lot more interesting than anything that happened before or after. Did they first go to another high-rise while Joe found himself another PR job, which he then lost for being too convivial? Did he work steadily for long periods, then go on sudden benders? Did they slowly descend down the social scale, or was there a sudden rupture from which Joe and Kirsten have never recovered? Has he been effectively unemployable?Surely there must be a history of various small loans made to them over the years by Mr. Arnesen, made with the understanding that Joe and Kirstie would cut back on their drinking. Wasn't gramps around to give Christmas presents to his only grandchild? We have to believe he was.So when Joe tells Kirstie it's time for them to turn over a new leaf, and go ask Arnesen for a grubstake, he's really interested more in survival and getting another handout than he is in giving up the bottle. Sure they'll quit drinking; Arnesen had let them know time and again that would be part of the deal. But it's a deal made dishonestly, so that after a month of rehabilitation they're ready to fall right off the wagon again.This binge at Arnesen's Nursery may be their worst drunk ever--how often does anyone get a chance to smash up the greenhouse?--but we know it has to be the culmination of five years of similar rampages. And upon seeing the movie for the tenth or twelfth time, I feel really cheated that we didn't get to see any of those binges and their disastrous consequences.The screenwriter's intention was to telescope Joe and Kirstie's fall by making the leap from the luxury high-rise to the ugly fleabag. But for me that leap is too sudden and too severe, and in the end unbelievable.I haven't seen the original 1958 TV production with Cliff Robertson and Piper Laurie, but I understand that it is told in flashback, with Robertson giving testimony at an AA meeting. It must have been difficult to transform this impressionistic case history into a straight-ahead narrative, and no doubt those difficulties account for the clumsiness I see in the film script. "},{"Title":"The DULL days of WHINING and SELF-INDULGENT POSES!","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had heard of the rave reviews this film gets, but never seen the production until a few nights ago. I could not disagree more w/ all the favorable reviews. This movie starts of well ... w/ a Billy Wilder-feel to it and I was expecting major stuff, but then ten minutes into the film we as an audience are supposed to buy hook, line & sinker that a morally responsible, smart-head-on-her-shoulders woman like Lee Remick's character would instantly change her confident and correct opinion of the slimy Lemmon character and 'voila' accept his dinner invitation! PUHLEASE!!!! that one improbable, implausible action RUINS the entire rest of the movie.It's like the mid-film scene in Tom Cruise's MI 2 when the Thandie Newton character who up-to-that moment is a realistic, opportunistic thief then suddenly sacrifices herself to save Cruise's Ethan Hawk by injecting a poison into her arm! It really irks me as a screenwriter to witness the little respect so-called major film-makers have for audiences that they assume we will accept highly implausible character about-faces for the sake of advancing their lame script's lame premise.Back to this turkey, another point of contention I have with the story is (assuming the audience accepts and goes along w/ Remick's character's totally implausible about-face regarding even being seen w/ Lemmon's slime-ball PR man) then we have to endure a constant and strong misogynist attitude whereby Remick's value-driven woman becomes this hopeless WEAK alcoholic while Lemmon's despicable Joe Clay morphs into the STRONG hero of the story as he valiantly marches off to AA meetings. I found this truly offensive to all women, and I'm a woman-loving man, and worse just further evidence of the writer's conceit w/ respect to what they can throw at the audience.Overall, this film plays like some afternoon soap (which I remember my cousin always watched) with truly non-sensical scenes like Remick's accidental burning of the furniture, Lemmon's show-up-at work when he wants attitude, and the over-the-top greenhouse destruction scene. I did welcome the introduction of the Jack Klugman character and enjoyed each scene he was in, although they were too few and TOO LATE in the story, BUT even then the writer's lobby another implausible twist at us when Klugman gives Lemmon the keys to his car KNOWING FULL WELL that Lemmon is going to visit Remick during her motel drinking binge! Can you spell D-I-S-A-S-T-E-R coming! I know I will never watch this turkey again. The so-called sad ending whereby Remick can not join Lemmon in sobriety was so-leaden w/ total implausibilities that I just fast forwarded to the credits and told myself good riddance to a truly awful movie that some how inspires rave reviews. Go figure! "}]