[{"Title":"A superb Western and an excellent Oedpial drama","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"52 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  One-Eyed Jacks not only is a superb Western, one of my all-time favorites, it is also an excellent Oedipal drama that moves beyond the bounds of genre into the mytho-poetic. Brando and Karl Malden both turn in outstanding performances, and the supporting cast, featuring Slim Pickens, Ben Johnson and Katy Jurado, is wonderful. Incidentally, the featured user comment The Lost Eye, The Lost Ear by tedg is erroneous Stanley Kubrick was fired from the picture, tentatively titled A Burst of Vermillion, BEFORE he was called on by Kirk Douglas, who had an option on his services as part of the contract for Paths of Glory, to replace the fired Anthony Mann on Spartacus. Kubrick, who had increasingly become fed up with the snail-pace progress on developing the script due to Marlon Brando's eccentric work methods, had wanted to cast Spencer Tracy in the role of Dad Longworth, but Brando was adamant about Karl Malden filling the role. According to one account, a frustrated Kubrick has asked Brando Marlon, I don't know what this picture is about.It's about the $400,000 I've paid Karl Malden.Kubrick, according to the account, said he could not work under those conditions and quit the picture. (Another account holds that Brando overheard Kubrick tell one of the producers that they'd have to keep Brando away from the script if they were ever to make the shooting date. Brando then fired him.) Officially, the press release said that Kubrick had resigned in order to work on Lolita, the then infamous Nabokov novel he and his producer partner James Harris (also under contract to Kirk Douglas) had recently acquired.One-Eyed Jacks began shooting in late 1958 (whereas Spartacus began shooting in early 1959) and went months over schedule and millions over budget, being shot in the expensive VistaVision process that cost 50 cents a foot in late 1950s prices. Brando reportedly shot hundreds of thousands of feet of footage as he sought inspiration for both himself and his actors, particularly the emotionally fragile Pina Pellicer, the  young Mexican actress who had just set out on her tragically abbreviated career. It is said that Karl Malden always calls his beautiful Los Angeles home The House That 'One-Eyed Jacks' Built due to the small fortune in over-time he made from the film.Incidentally, Sam Peckinpah wrote the first draft of the screenplay, based on the novel The Authentic Death of Hendry Jones, a fictionalized retelling of the life of Billy the Kid. Later, Peckinpah would incorporate similar material such as the jailhouse scenes into his retelling of the Billy the Kid legend, Pat Garrett & Billy the Kid. In a PLAYBOY interview, Peckinpah explained that he was fired by Brando as Peckinpah had written Rio, the protagonist, as a killer as Billy the Kid was a killer in real-life and Brando would not play such a character. The film took over a year to edit after principal photography ended in 1959. Eventually, the studio took the film away from Brando and recut it to their own tastes. Brando reportedly did not object, becoming fed-up with editing after spending so much time trying to perfect his film. He did complain, after the fact, that the studio cut took away the moral ambiguity he sought for his character. Brando said that all the characters in the film but Dad Longworth, the ostensible heavy, are two faced -- one-eyed jacks, with one face on top, the public face, and another face that is hidden. Although Rio accuses Dad of being a one-eyed jack, to Brando, Dad was the only one who was honest in the film. In Brando's cut, Dad's last shot meant for Rio hits his step-daughter Louisa instead, killing her and thus leaving Rio with nothing in the end. The studio used the alternative ending where Rio and Louisa have an emotional parting at the beach, and Rio promises to return to her.In a development that seemingly foreshadows his future personal life, Brando had an affair on-set with Pina Pellicer, who later committed suicide. Their scenes together are quite affecting as they are emotionally true. "},{"Title":"Very tough, realistic and softly romantic...","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"49 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" 'One-Eyed Jacks' might be considered the most self-consciously Western of the sixties, and possibly of all time... It contains undoubted visual attributes, gorgeous photographic sequences of an immense sandy desert, and panoramas of the spectacular California coast... Not often does one get to see the sea in a Western... Another of the film's great assets is its beautiful music...'One-Eyed Jacks' is slow, but very tough, realistic and softly romantic... The picture has excitement and violence... Brando summons all the reserve of anger, inner ambivalence, and emotional complexity in his nature... As a cowboy, he is tough, cunning, soft-spoken, sentimental, vicious, and occasionally masochistic... He plumbs dark reserves of desolation and revenge with an inner ferocity that had always been a part of him but had never before emerged full-force... As a director, he is meticulous, with a keen eye for spectacular outdoor cinematography, and an instinctive sense for the visual expression of inner conflicts...Karl Malden, whose surface friendliness and affability usually concealed either weakness or malice or both, is excellent as the ambitious, determined outlaw, and the volatile, treacherous, arrogant sheriff whose last poisonous spill You'll get a fair trial, and then I'm gonna hang you, personally.''One-Eyed Jacks is largely a story of vengeance... The film begins with two American outlaws operating in Mexico... Rio (Brando), a happy-go-lucky man who considers himself a Don Juan, and Dad Longworth (Karl Malden), a crooked man looking for the opportunity to settle down...They raid banks with real ease and spend their leisure time drinking and courting women... Rio appears as a somewhat cultured bandit with a weakness for aristocratic young ladies... He gives one of them his most precious possession, his mother's ring... The Mexican police trail the pair and almost catch them at their lovemaking, but Rio and Dad fight their way out to the desert... The mounted police follow and the bandits are eventually trapped in the hills with one of their horses shot... Rio determines to stay... Dad promises to return with a fresh horse, but, tempted by two sacks of gold, he never come back... Rio is captured and spends five years of his life in a brutal Mexican prison, until he makes an escape, with the company of a friend called Modesto (Larry Duran).The embittered Rio is now a man bent on revenge... He learns in one Cantina that his ex-partner is the sheriff of a town called Monterey, and has taken himself a Mexican wife with a teen-age daughter... So he goes to visit him...A guilt-ridden Dad finds Rio pleasant and apparently willing to forget past differences... He presents his family, and invites Rio to stay for supper...Rio is in league with two bandits, Bob Amory (Ben Johnson) and Harvey Johnson (Sam Gilman), and they have come to Monterey to steal a bank... They grow impatient, but Rio assures them of his intention not only to rob the bank but to kill the sheriff as well...Obviously, Longworth is not completely convinced about his friend, and becomes uneasy when Rio and his step-daughter show a romantic interest in one another... He well remembers Rio's past amorous adventures and he has no wish for anything that will delay Rio in Monterey... The town engages in a fiesta, with the bank not planning to open for several days... While the respected sheriff joins the townspeople in their festivities, Rio seduces the tender Louisa...The next morning, in a saloon, Rio approaches a drunk mistreating one of the house girls and knocks the man down... The drunk reaches for a shotgun and tries to shoot Rio in the back... But Modesto (as Bronson in 'Jubal') helps save Rio from the blast... The resultant outbursts Longworth to put his grisly double-cross into effect... He takes Rio into the street and arrests him with the help of his deputies... He ties him to a horse rail, flogs him with a whip, smashes his right hand with a rifle butt, puts him on his horse and drives him out of town...Rio retreats to a small fishing village on the coast with his partners and nurses himself back to health... Louisa visits him at his place to tell him she is in love... Rio's eyes are full of hate against her step father... He is entirely blind in his determination for revenge... Louisa wants him to forget, to leave his dark past for a brighter future... She leaves without mentioning she is expecting a baby... For over a period of six weeks Rio practices with his gun in an intent to regain the use of his hand... Amory and Johnson grow impatient, and decide to make their own move... From here the action is carefully builds towards an explosion...A carefully chosen supporting cast augmented the proceedings in fine style- Katy Jurado repeats her role of the loving and understanding mother...- Ben Johnson plays the unscrupulous cowardly thief who avoids Brando's fury...- The gentle Pina Pellicer does her earnest best to temper the intensities of her man... - Slim Pickens plays the revolting deputy intimidated by an empty Derringer..Brando's 'One-Eyed Jacks' comes on as taught and tight, acted with deep feeling and intense concentration... Brando and Malden play largely a stylistic battle... "},{"Title":"Marlon Brando's only directional effort is a masterpiece and one of the best and ORIGINAL westerns","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"42 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Originally a project for Stanley Kubrick and then went into the hands of Brando, this is not your everyday Cowboy yarn. It's very surprising that the direction so well crafted and flawless for a first time director. The film is a kind of Old friends turns true enemies (obvious that this film was the inspiration for Sam Peckinpah western Pat Garret and Billy the kid but Brando's is much much better.) with Brando as the Betrayed Rio and Karl Malden in his most nasty. Also film features the lovely actress Pina Pellicer as Brando love interest. The scenery is a real eye candy and the score is wonderful. It's unacceptable that such a classic known by so few people these days. Watch this underrated classic - you won't be disappointed. I rate this a 10/10.Recommended "},{"Title":"Overlooked little gem","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I found this film quite remarkable on many levels. For one, it was the debut for Brando as director (and his only film direction since). Reportedly, it was taken after Kubrick left due to altercations. Well, this time, Brando has one foot in front of the camera, as well as one behind it. He does a great, solid job. In fact, this film never looked awkward or misguided -- it felt like an intelligent western helmed by an Anthony Mann or Raoul Walsh. To further boost the professional polish of the film, there is cinematographer Charles Lang (Magnificent Seven, How the West Was Won).Within this polished piece of work, the muscle of the film is found in the wonderful character study. Here, the characters, like in many great stories, are complex, dark, tempermental.  Although the film is about the hero's(or anti-hero's) thirst for revenge on a man who done him wrong, there's a romance in the film that is truly tender and fateful.The magnet in this film would have to be Brando. (Karl Malden is great too). Brando's understated performance is of the subtle type, using his famous darting eyes to penetrate the characters and the viewer. He's one of my favorite all-time actors.As with all great films, One-Eyed Jacks is a quiet masterpiece, displaying what every good film needs great script, powerful acting, layered characterization, and be technically-sound.  "},{"Title":"Brando's directorial debut - marvelous, albeit flawed","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" From IMDb triviaMarlon Brando's first cut of the film was allegedly 5 hours long. He was reportedely unhappy with the final product, despite its box-office success. Now, it's a good picture for them Paramount, he said upon its release, but it's not the picture I made... now the characters in the film are black-and-white, not gray-and-human as I planned them.Hand it to Brando to be dissatisfied with a film because he didn't manage to make it as long as he wanted to. Regardless of what Brando thought, this is a really fine Western and a unique one, too - it seems fresh and new, like a Cool Man's West or something. Having Brando (when he was still looking fairly trim) in the lead role certainly gives it a certain glamor and the story itself - and execution - is great.Overall I wish Brando had made another film after this but to the best of my knowledge this is really the only true film he ever made. If he was just trying to prove he could direct, he did - even if the film has its flaws, it's far from bad. In fact, it's very, very good - and extremely entertaining.4.5/5 "},{"Title":"Fans of Brando will love it, others might look at their watch.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Prison escapee Brando (wearing only slightly less eye makeup than Liz Taylor in Cleopatra) sets out to punish ex-friend Malden, but takes time out to romance Malden's step-daughter in this adult psychological western. The film was started by Stanley Kubrick, but when he took a hike, Brando stepped in to finish directing the film (his only effort behind the camera.) Several things about the film are striking. One is the dust/sand. This is a dusty, sandy movie! Even Lawrence of Arabia may not have had this much dust a' blowin'. Also unusual is the setting (oceanside.) Then there is the attention to the psyche. Rare for an early '60's western, the characters' thoughts and motivations are examined quite fully. Another striking feature is the parade of posed, extended shots of Brando merely staring. One might call these vanity shots.....especially if the subject of them is also directing the film! He also has a tendency to stick his behind and crotch in front of the camera. The story has a beginning, a middle and an end, but sometimes getting to them takes a while. The movie is just plain too long. It's not that it isn't compelling, but a few judicious cuts would have made it EXTREMELY compelling. Brando does a decent job (if one can understand all his patented mumbling), but Malden is the revelation. People familiar with him only from American Express commercials and The Streets of San Francisco will be amazed at the range he offers here. He is so much more menacing and sinister than most will remember him having been before. It's neat to see the two former costars of A Streetcar Named Desire square off. Another good performance comes by way of Pickens (who would later reunite with Malden in the deadly Beyond the Poseidon Adventure.) He is a very effective redneck deputy. There's some nice work by relatively unknown actress Pellicer as Malden's step-daughter. Though her voice in her first scene seems inappropriately low, she improves throughout and does a fine job. Jurado has less to do as her mother, but still scores. Brando has a few sidekicks along for the ride. Johnson does well as a ruthless wanted man and Gilman (a costar in no less than five other Brando films) is okay. The film has some great scenery and some strong music. It's worst detriment is it's length which bogs down the sometimes slight story. "},{"Title":"a must see for Brando fans","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This film is essential viewing for Brando fans. Brando directs for the only time . Working from a script that is in part based on the legend of Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid, Brando interweaves themes of betrayal, revenge and hypocrisy into something strangely hypnotic and real. Particularly effective in this respect is the scene with Karl Malden and Brando on the outskirts of Monterey where the two sit reminiscing amusingly about their past together and the viewer is left wondering if at any moment the two of them might end up blowing each others heads off. The other key to this film is setting it on the west coast of California thereby giving it a feel and rhythm that is unique to the western genre. All in all a greatly neglected treasure. "},{"Title":"GREAT western (surprisingly)","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Maybe it's the fact it's carelessly fallen into the public domain, and that people can only see it now on awful quality knock off DVD's, maybe it's because it was directed by it's star Marlon Brando who had never directed before (or since), but I really can't understand why this movie isn't considered anything less than an out and out classic.With the exception of only two or three I cannot stand the stoic American westerns of the 40's and 50's and always preferred the more anti-establishment and infinitely more stylish Italian westerns, but man 'One Eyed Jacks' definitely sits at a fascinating place between the two.I'm not sure how much of Peckinpah's script or Kubrick's ideas made it into what was eventually Brando's film but it's definitely easy to make an argument that their marks (be it directly through the script or just through influencing Brando) are definitely there. It has all the things that makes the BEST Spaghetti Westerns so great, a story that is uncomplicated (it's just a revenge tale) but at the same time takes no easy or obvious turns - rather than shoot his prey straight up Brando's character makes a much more protracted and fascinating game of his 'revenge'. And the reason for this (and this in part where I think Kubrick's ideas may have come in) is that this is not JUST a two dimensional story of settling scores at the end of a gun. The relationship between Karl Malden and Marlon Brando just bristles with possibility (again like the best Spaghetti Westerns and UNLIKE a John Ford western) you don't know where it's going to go. They are, more than once in the movie, allies then enemies and NEITHER of them is stupid.And as far as Brando's film-making ability goes, his struggle behind the camera might be well documented now, and he has even written this edit off as not being the film he intended, but the direction here is not even close to amateurish. I really don't think there are many American directors in 1960 who would hold quite so long and so beautifully on Karl Malden as he considers betraying Brando for the first time. I got chills on Brando's arrival up the road to Malden's estate, and the fantastic hold on Malden's face, again long and perfectly acted, as he watches this potential angel of death draw closer. It is obvious in that moment that this is a meeting he has been in a way anticipating and wondering about for many years - and never known what it would mean. Then there's the meeting between Brando and Malden through prison bars where, with the tables turned, Malden declares he will hang Brando himself. Just cold stuff, taken from the best westerns there ever was, but done with great modern style here.I sincerely hope a proper studio DVD of this film is produced soon and that this great western get's the recognition it deserves.Don't be swayed by the cheap packaging, it's a wonderful film. Especially for those who love the intellectualism of Kubrick's films and the sheer action and cruelty of the Spaghetti Western ) "},{"Title":"A Great Director Manque?","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Possible SpoilersIn the only film that he directed, Marlon Brando stars as Rio, a bandit who is betrayed by his partner, Dad Longworth, and spends several years in a Mexican jail. Escaping, Rio vows revenge and tracks Longworth down to a California seaside town, where he has become the sheriff and, seemingly, a reformed character. Rio's quest for vengeance, however, is complicated when he falls in love with Louisa, Longworth's stepdaughter from his marriage to a Mexican woman. Further complications are caused by the fact that Rio is in league with two other outlaws to carry out a bank robbery. As one might expect, the movie ends with much violence and a bloody shootout.The above plot summary might suggest that this is a run-of-the-mill revenge Western.  That would not be a fair impression. My summary is in fact very much telescoped- the actual plot is a complex one. Although elements of the plot may be drawn from the commonplace book of stock Western clichés, there is much about the film that lifts it above the commonplace. There is some fine acting from Brando himself, who brings his characteristic intensity to Rio, from Karl Malden as Longworth, and particularly from the young Mexican actress Pina Pellicer as Louisa. Pellicer was not a classical beauty, but she gives Louisa, caught between love for Rio and loyalty to her stepfather, a fragile, tragic quality which is one of the most attractive things about this film.The other thing which lifts the film out of the ordinary is Brando's eye for beauty. Despite the name of the genre, most Westerns are not actually set at the westernmost edge of the North American continent- in most, the action takes place considerably further east, and I have even seen the term used to describe films about east-coast states. (Shenandoah, set in Virginia, is an example). One-Eyed Jacks is unusual in its seaside setting, and Brando makes full use of the magnificent Californian coastal scenery to produce what is visually one of the most striking Westerns ever.Although the film can be slow in places, its length allows Brando to build up his characters more fully and effectively than would have been possible in a shorter, faster-paced film. This is one of the new type of longer, epic, character-driven Westerns that were becoming popular in the fifties rather than the shorter action-driven Westerns that had previously held sway. Other examples of this new breed of Western were Anthony Mann's The Naked Spur and William Wyler's The Big Country. Those are two particularly fine films made by two great directors, but Brando's film can bear comparison with them. On the evidence of One-Eyed Jacks it seems a pity that he did not persist with his career as a director. 8/10. "},{"Title":"One of the best westerns ever made","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Although this movie probably suffered as a result of cost overruns/studio shenanigans, I would certainly put it in my top 20 westerns, probably knocking at the top 10. This is the only western I've ever seen that takes place in Monterey. I would *JUMP* at the chance to see Brando's 5 hour version. Ben Johnson and Slim Pickens were excellent as was the whole cast. When Brando gets fired up; watch out !Brando's first effort as a director was excellent. Too bad he lost his taste for it; I don't think we got as much mileage out of his fine talent as we should have in later years. "}{"Title":"The Lost Eye, The Lost Ear","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Spoilers herein.About a hundred years ago Vincent Van Gogh retreated to Arles to paint. He was joined by friend Paul Gauguin with whom he shared lodging and whores. The state of the visual vocabulary was in flux and these two giants were inventing the future. But they had radically different versions. They fought. Vincent lost his mind, an ear and later his life.A new language was being invented. Both used radical colors, flat perspectives with recognition of the medium. Both painted not what was, but what existed in the space between the subject and the eye. Vincent had this notion of energy in the eye, an honest projection of emotion. He projected himself into the world and painted himself. Gauguin had a rosicrucian notion of abstracting the world. His eye transmuted the world into a symbolic vocabulary which he painted.As then, so in the 1960's with film, with battles between two camps forging a new language. Brando and Kubrick.Kubrick had just come off of `Spartacus,' which troubled him deeply. For reasons not of interest here, he was not allowed to make it his art. Disgusted, he started work on a film that would. This one. It had a simple story, and lots of opportunity to place the distance among the major characters in the visual aether. Brando, meanwhile was at the end of his first and only important burst. It had been ten years since `Streetcar,' which reinvented how actors can fill the narrative space between the action and viewer. He had just run through a few pictures with nitwit directors, who neither understood his revolution, nor challenged him to take the next step.Kubrick wanted to use his eye as Gauguin's, to transform the world to establish a narrative. Brando filled the Vincent role, wanting to play the character and also play someone playing the character and so fill the narrative space with emotional mechanics. They fought, Kubrick departed. Brando directed, and never did again. But what he did here is an honest attempt to advance his approach.This is important you must see this film to judge for yourself how well he does. He never was the same again, and in any case the film didn't connect with audiences. It is my opinion that he and friend Karl do succeed, primarily by reducing everything else to the bare minimum, and imbuing emotion in personal spaces. It works as intended, but doesn't connect with us the audience, so all this great acting goes off into outer space. In maybe another few decades before Brando-like actors (Penn?) might make this magic accessible to the rest of us.(Since then, a creole language of sorts has developed. These two approaches still sit uneasily in the same film. The closest marriage came in `Taxi Driver,' then `Snake Eyes.') "},{"Title":"It Happened In Old Monterrey","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The Rio Kid gets double-crossed by Dad Longworth, his outlaw partner,   and spends five years rotting in a Mexican prison. After his escape,   the one sole purpose of his existence is to exact revenge on Longworth.    Marlon Brando stars as Rio, and also directed this handsome western.   Judging by this first-rate piece of work, it is a great shame that   Brando hasn't ever directed another film in his half-century in the   industry.    From the outset, it is apparent that the movie is under the control of   an assured cinematic intelligence. The camera tracks forward, passing   through the gates of a casada, leaving the realm of titles and credits,   and moving into the fictional space of the story, Sonora, Mexico in   1880. We see a bank robbery in progress, and Rio is sitting perfectly   relaxed on the bank counter while all around him is drama and bustle.   This is a man, we feel, who is not subject to the usual human   frailties.    After the robbery, Rio courts a Mexican beauty. This short scene   conveys important character information - we see that Rio can be   charming, but that he is ruthless and manipulative.    It is often the case with westerns that the terrain is almost a   character in the story, and so it is in this film. The two beautiful   settings of the action are filmed in Vistavision. Mexico is arid and   empty, and the wind sculpts the dust into gorgeous shapes. The   barrenness of the land underpins the film's meaning - there is nothing   here for the Rio Kid. When the action shifts to Monterrey, the majestic   Californian surf becomes an ever-present, the constant boom of the   breakers acting like a Greek chorus, reminding us that Rio is elemental   and untameable.    Brando is, as always, an enthralling screen presence. He can be   frighteningly still and silent, as in the confrontation with Harv in   Red's cantina, exuding lethal menace, or explosively violent. Rio is a   fascinating character, both unsettling and attractive at the same time.    Karl Malden (Dad Longworth), Ben Johnson (Amory) and Sam Gilman (Harv)   turn in competent performances as the bad guys. Katy Jurado, with her   sultry hispanic looks, was a 'must' for westerns of this period and   acquits herself well as Maria, Longworth's wife. Slim Pickens is   memorable as the revolting Lon, and Elisha Cook pops up as the bank   teller who fights back. Pina Pellicer was to die by her own hand a   short time after starring here as Luisa, the girl who loves Rio.    Verdict - An outstanding western which stands alone as Brando's one   foray into directing. "},{"Title":"A Film Ahead of its Time","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" For a film of its time (under the censorship of the movie code), One Eyed-Jacks is unusual in many ways. Brando's character, Rio, impregnates his former partner's adoptive (Mexican) daughter outside of wedlock, and the plot allows her to live at the end of the movie. Brando's most trusted friend in the movie is his Mexican prison cell-mate. Indeed the only characters in the movie who don't betray him or aren't indifferent to him are Mexican; this is a rare depiction of support and affection for other ethnicities absent in most American movies of this period.Brando appears in top form in this movie. His physical presence is almost overwhelming. He displays an ease of manner, sense of irony, humor and a quiet confidence that seems somewhat avant-garde for movies of this period. His character, Rio, is clearly an anarchist; not the traditional Western good guy. The fact that his character -an unapologetic bank robber- is clearly morally superior to the town's beloved and trusted sheriff is a refreshing plot twist.I believe that in its own way the movie was a kind of cinematic landmark in its intensity, sexuality, and implied (and expressed) violence. It's not perfect, but perhaps because he directed it, one is allowed some access to the real Marlon Brando; his strength, his passion, and his concern and respect for other ethnicities. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  For years I have been waiting for a good print of this very fine western. Mandacy DVD has a version that is terrible. Then the other day I'm at Best Buy, and I see One-eyed Jacks in a widescreen version from Diamond Video on DVD. For $7.99!!! I figure, what-the-hell. I can always get my money back. It is a great transfer. It is the best money I have ever spent on a DVD. This is one of my favorite westerns. A real brooding film about revenge. Marlon Brando made this his only directing effort. To Bad. This is one of his best performances. If you've never seen it, treat yourself. You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"a masterpiece","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This movie gets better with every viewing. Another poster said that Karl Malden plays sinister very well--also check out Nevada Smith for the same type of performance. Although Brando is Brando so to speak, I think that his direction of the movie ie underrated. It is a much better western, or movie for that matter, than it is credited for. "},{"Title":"Ben Johnson's finest work, often overlooked.","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Ben Johnson is mesmerizing in this picture; his natural ease withscreen acting was well-honed by this time and he has aconfidence, a greasy smoothness, in the part of Bob Amory that hehadn't displayed up to this point. Perhaps it was because he wasworking with two stellar actors from the method school thatspurred him to give them a run for their money. Or perhaps he wasmore relaxed due to his extensive experience working in westerns(or because he was one of the only authentic cowboys on the set).Nevertheless, his contribution is equal to the leads, and far aboveeveryone else. And that's so small feat. Before Kubrick had left theproduction, he obviously installed several of his favorite playersSlim Pickens, Tim Carey, Elisha Cook Jr in supporting roles. Eachsame part makes a significant contribution to the complexity andcharm of the story. But Johnson rises above them all. His snake- rattling Amory is just as pathetic as he is creepy. The scene inwhich he chickens out of a gun duel with Brando is electrifying,mostly due to the ambiguity in Johnson's close-ups. Watching it,you're not quite sure if the character is too stupid to back down orjust plain chilled to the bone with fear.  "},{"Title":"Betrayal and redemption in old California","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Revenge and payback are the central theme in this film and is what keeps a cowboy going in his obsession to track down a former partner in crime. Marlon Brando stars and directs this fine drama as the flawed Rio searches for his erstwhile pal who sold him out to a posse several years earlier. Most of the film's characters are unsavory types and the peace officers aren't much better. This picture has the great natural beauty of the Monterrey peninsula and Death Valley, and Karl Malden and Ben Johnson, among others, do superb work. Brando looks a tad overweight in his tight-fitting Mexican cowboy outfits. The film has plenty of drama and excitement and is accompanied by a wonderful music score by Hugo Friedhofer. Although some critics panned this film, it has legions of devotees. "},{"Title":"Beachfront Western","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This western comes complete with horses, bandits, guns, whiskey bottles, scuzzy characters, and pretty senoritas. But it also has something that's rare in the western film genre ... an ocean. The story begins in the deserts of Mexico, but soon settles into the main setting near Monterrey, California, on the Pacific Coast. It's a quaint setting for a western. Anytime I can find something unusual or unique about a film, I feel like rewarding it in some way.The credit here goes to the writer, in this case Charles Neider, for the original novel upon which the film is based. But, in addition, the screenplay itself merits praise, because the cinematic story is nicely structured with well placed dramatic plot points, good dialogue (some of which is in Spanish for a nice touch of realism), and interesting character arcs.Rio (Marlon Brando) and Dad Longworth (Karl Malden) team up to rob a bank and then make a hasty getaway. But their plans go awry, which sets up the premise in a tale of betrayal and revenge. One-Eyed Jacks is a character study of these two outlaws, one who changes, and the other who only appears to change.Malden is convincing in his role. Ben Johnson, with those heavy eyes, and Larry Duran are quite good in support roles. And I've always liked the engaging Katy Jurado, regardless of what part she played. About the best that can be said for Brando, as actor, is that he manages to mumble his way through the script. But he looks and talks like a young Godfather on a horse, an image I can't seem to shake.In addition to a great story and script, One-Eyed Jacks features some excellent cinematography, courtesy of Charles Lang. Before Rio and Longworth arrive at the coast, they ride through some colorful desert badlands that resemble the landscapes in those 1960's spaghetti westerns, with a marvelous sense of visual perspective.Aside from the casting of Brando as Rio, the only defects are the film's length and its music. Some of the scenes in the fiesta celebration could have been edited out. Also, the intermittent background music tends to be manipulative. But these are mostly minor flaws. Overall, One-Eyed Jacks is an engaging character study of two outlaws. The story is wrapped in an attractive cinematic package, and surprisingly well directed by Marlon Brando. "},{"Title":"You ain't getting no older than tomorrow.","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" One-Eyed Jacks has a ubiquitous presence in all those movie bargain bins at places like Wal-Mart, which is one of the reasons it's taken so long for me to get around to it. I guess I had this preconceived notion that it just wouldn't be that good. It turns out this is one of those greatly under-rated Westerns that fans of the genre turn to not so much for the action, but for the psychological and emotional angles that play out over the course of the story. It also has the unusual distinction of Marlon Brando playing both sides of the camera as star and director.One of the first interesting elements you're likely to pick up on is the setting for most of the story. It's not every day you're going to catch breakers crashing up on a rocky coastline in a Western, but Monterey is where outlaw Rio (Brando) comes gunning for former partner Dad Longworth (Karl Malden), five years after Dad left him to fend for himself attempting to outrun a rurale posse. The conflict is given more resonance when Longworth's adopted daughter (Pina Pellicer) falls hard for Rio, putting her squarely in the middle of Rio's plan for revenge.If you pay attention, you'll catch one of Brando's mannerisms that became a part of the Don Corleone/Godfather persona, the brushing back-hand gesture in front of his face in an early scene. It's interesting how actors will re-use a signature move like that in their films, some more so than others, like Bogart with his facial grimace. For me, it's one of the pleasures to be derived from being an avid film fan.As effectively as the story is told, the one thing that doesn't work in the picture is the scene where Rio tries to bluff Deputy Lon Dedrick (Slim Pickens) with the derringer. To top it off, Lon even explains why it wouldn't work - the worst that could happen is that he catches a non-fatal bullet. That, along with the awkward shooting angle for Rio if Lon were to bolt back down the steps should have made it a no-brainer for Lon to do just that. So what does Lon do? - he opens the cell door setting up Rio's escape. Dumb move. By the way, did you notice how the cell bars moved when Rio yanked on them right after Lon pulled Louisa away? Maybe he could have escaped without the key after all. "},{"Title":"I don't believe you could handle it","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Westerns have a reputation for vapidity that is mostly well-deserved, and if all you've seen is 90% of John Wayne and Clint Eastwood, you'd be right not to expect much. But essentially the format is a Shakespearean archetype, a blank slate for the most direct kind of morality play; the formula works for all sorts of costume epics, from rapiers to broadswords, six-guns to light sabers. John Ford and Howard Hawks, for all their technical mastery, only achieved anything like moral depth a couple of times each. Anthony Mann, Arthur Penn, Sam Peckinpah and, once, Marlon Brando, all turned in grown-up renditions of the old tune. ONE-EYED JACKS is one of the best.Brando flickers, flares and rages as the hell-bent Kid Rio, mumbling and twanging when he isn't destroying furniture or batting his eyes like bullets; and Karl Malden's partially redeemed Dad Longworth glistens with ambiguity in every inch of his gigantic frame. The photography and scenery are more interesting than in most genre pictures, and the dialog favors character while promoting story. ('member that little stick place just outside San Felipe? 'member, you got drunk and killed that lady's goat? 'member?) The script, which Brando famously nurtured over years, with such fine writers as Peckinpah, Kubrick, Calder Willingham and Guy Trosper under his lash, sticks Rio with some of the least chivalrous behavior ever perpetrated by a Western hero - he shoots the sheriff in the back and even more unforgivably impregnates his daughter - and disconcerts us with a challenge to Gary Cooper morality the Kid is justifiably desirous of Dad's death, but Dad really has cleaned up his act and made good with society, and if the Kid hadn't come to Monterey, Dad might have found redemption in repose. Brando's direction is alternately blatant and subtle, depending on the moment - phallic rifle barrels slowly poke open the flapping doors of a whorehouse; seductions are quiet and sexy; violence is sudden and ugly; death rides into the frame through the slats of a porch swing, where the victim snoozes after lunch. He knew which lens to use, and which angles, or at least left such decisions in the capable hands of Charles Lang (though his widely reported micromanagement of the project would seem to obviate this possibility;) and his direction of actors is first rate. If all his directors had shot him as glamorously as he shot himself, he would have eclipsed Marilyn Monroe as the biggest sex symbol of all time, even though he did not leave a good-looking corpse. That he painted himself so prettily doesn't tell as much about his ego as it might seem to do, since he courteously displayed all his performers to best advantage. The mother and daughter scenes, full of shame and pathos, are played out quietly in Spanish, a risk no Hollywood director took in the forties or fifties no matter how many hundreds of Mexicans had been portrayed in how many hundreds (thousands) of cowboy movies. Most of all, though, we must return to the impeccable casting as JACKS' crowning glory. Some of the great character actors of the period excel themselves in interesting little roles that may cost the film its imperative drive, but ultimately make for a mature, considered entertainment. Katy Jurado is spot-on as ever; Pina Pellicer makes her ingénue noble and pathetic; Timothy Carey and Sam Gilman are weird and threatening, and Elisha Cook Jr shows up to perform perhaps the most heroic act of his 200 film career. This is the only movie to feature both real-life cowboy legends Slim Pickens and Ben Johnson in good, meaty roles - neither has enough to do in THE GETAWAY or MAJOR DUNDEE, and THE SWARM just isn't worth it. The more famously comedic Pickens is surprisingly effective as the lascivious buffoon Lon, and Johnson's Bob Amory is more sweaty and unregenerate than any other of his numerous villains, even rivaling that other great bad-guy Bob, R.G. Armstrong's Old Testament psychopath deputy in PAT GARRETT AND BILLY THE KID. Come to think of it, lots of good westerns have a bad Bob - JUDGE ROY BEAN and UNFORGIVEN too. Any others?The film was ultimately taken away from Brando and edited without his approval, but like THE WILD BUNCH, it was so good Hollywood couldn't hurt it. Though they tacked on a stupid final scene that nearly negates the Kid's defeat of himself, we can imagine that he lies to the girl. He won't be back, and he'll end up in hell with Will Munny and Pike Bishop and all the sorry bastards who ever thought they had more rights than the rest of us.What if Obi-Wan betrayed Annakin, giving him an excuse to turn into Darth Vader? And what if Obi-Wan, after his one moment of weakness, renounced the dark side and became a peacemaker, so that Annakin's vengeance and Obi-Wan's self defense cost both Jedi their souls? Kenner wouldn't have sold so many action figures, that's what. "}{"Title":"Brando and Malden at their Best! A Great Western!","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This duster works and is effective. I can watch this film over and over and never get tired of it. The acting is engaging. The slow pace to the film actually helps it grow on you better than if it had a quicker accent to it. Brando is meticulous and methodical in his direction which helps to make this film work.Beautiful scenery near Monterey, California, and a well depicted story of hatred and revenge between old buddies fuses the alter ego of Brando with a fellow cell-mate of Mexican descent in their 5 year sojourn together at Sonora Prison, left there for dead by his former partner in bank robbing crime played by Malden's character (Longworth).Brando's character Rio plays tough in his revenge when he cold-heartedly plots to gain the affections of Longworth's step-daughter in order to shame her by taking advantage of her after a town fiesta. His compassion and growing love for the girl sees a maturing in Brando's character that is natural and unaffected - great acting on Brando's part.This movie is a must see again and again. Simply a Great Western and great entertainment. Thrilling and suspenseful with great characters. "},{"Title":"One of the better westerns of that day as well as now....","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Although not normally thought so, One Eyed Jacks in one of Brando's best works. Maybe because it was a western it didn't get the recognition it deserved. The cinematography was amazing and all else followed from there. It was a subtle, quiet exposition by virtually every actor in the film. The power' of Brando on screen is unmatched by any other actor living or dead. His confrontation with Ben Johnson, Get up you tub of guts! and with that woman abusing cowboy in the bar...'Get up you scum sucking pig...felt like a kick in the chest. The anger was tangible.He did other actually great films that to this day are thought to be mediocre at best. Maybe we'll get to those later. "},{"Title":"Apparently he had everything, but he was a one eyed jack.","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  At a certain point in this film, everything is going wonderfully for Karl Malden. He is the Sheriff of a town, has a nice wife Katy Jurado and a stepdaughter (Pina Pellicer). When Marlon Brando shows up, a runaway from jail, and his old partner, there is a tremendous contrast between him and Malden. But taking away social status, Brando even though he is a bank robber, is  much more of a man of principles than Malden. The story of this film is unusual, specially for a western made in 1961, and you never know what is going to happen, so it keeps you interested. Pina Pellicer is very torn between loyalty to her stepfather and her love for Brando, and the film makes you suffer with her. Brando came out very well as director in this very good western, and one wonders why he never directed again. "},{"Title":"One Eyed Jacks","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" A great film, one of the best westerns of all time....Marlon Brando directs a pure masterpiece....when you think of the great revenge westerns of which there are plenty, this one along with Nevada Smith with Steve McQueen ranks as a pure winner. Brando in the lead role of a bandit with a large chip on his shoulder assembles a fabulous cast of villains, ladies and a solid story.....Karl Malden, a snake in the grass (ala Neveda Smith with McQueen) is over the top as Brando's former gunslinger pardner who deserts him and leaves him to the Mexican federales...the slimy Ben Johnson and Slim Pickens are about as snarly and nasty as they come in a western....solid cast of slimy villains, and the lovely and professional Mexican leading lady Katy Jurado round out the cast...but wait, what about Pina Pellicier, a very young and fresh face, who is a sweet and innocent daughter who falls in love with a mixed up, hell bent for leather Brando...she nearly knocks you out with her performance..... What role couldn't Brando do???? A performer of the highest magnitude...and then there is the lovely Carmel, California seaside which is shown throughout the film....probably a stone's throw from Pebble Beach where they filmed. One of Karl Malden's best villain roles along with his job in Nevada Smith and Parrish with Troy Donahue....what an actor he was....this is a don't miss film for action fans....a pure delight. "},{"Title":"Hamlet Rides The Range","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" In the only film that Marlon Brando ever directed, One Eyed Jacks, he and Karl Malden play a pair of amiable bank robbers who are operating south of the border. During a robbery the rest of the gang is killed and Brando's horse is shot from under him. With the Federales closing in there's no way one horse could carry them both as Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid later found out. Malden elects to go for fresh mounts, only Malden doesn't come back. The Federales capture Brando and he's off to do a stretch in a Mexican prison.Fast forward several years and Brando busts out of prison and goes north of the border. He and his fellow escapee Larry Duran fall in with robbers Ben Johnson and Sam Gilman. Johnson brings Brando an irresistible proposition. A bank in Monterey, California that he says will be easy to rob. And the best part, Karl Malden has gone respectable and is the sheriff there.Malden's not only respectable, he's a married guy now, married to Katy Jurado and stepfather to the wide eyed Pina Pellicer. A good line of talk and the sight of Pellicer ease Brando's resolve for revenge.In this stylistic western that is good, but doesn't quite make it to classic standards, Brando has managed to bring Hamlet out west. It took Hamlet the whole play to finally settle with his intended target and it takes Brando just about as long. His character Rio moves in fits and starts like Hamlet, gets sidetracked a few times as well like the melancholy Dane. Hamlet's target is his stepfather who killed his real father and usurped the throne and it's no coincident that Malden's character is named Dad. Brando wisely cast his film with folks from previous westerns who look quite at home on the range if he sometimes doesn't. My best moment is Brando outwitting that lout of a deputy Malden has, Slim Pickens to affect a jail break. Marlon Brando's legion of fans should find One Eyed Jacks acceptable and other western aficionados will like it as well. "},{"Title":"You'll get a fair trial...and then I'm gonna hang you, personally.","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  There can't be a single western freak in the world that doesn't love this wonderful film. This is what I would call a serious, traditional, kingly western - Classic with a capital C. Karl Malden plays the part of a tough, wicked, treacherous and merciless sheriff. It's highly possible his character influenced Gene Hackman when he played a sadistic sheriff in Unforgiven.Still, Marlon Brando is unquestionably star of the show. Everything about him is so irresistible his manners, style, gestures, looks and the way he gently mutters. He's so stylish, virile, handsome and charismatic it's nearly unrealistic, like Jimmy Dean in Rebel without a cause or young Sean Connery in Goldfinger.His role as a proud, determined outlaw Johnny Rio (what a name for a cowboy, by the way), son of a gun who harbors thoughts of revenge is so cool it's almost unhuman. Classic scene where Dad (Malden) and Rio meet each other after five years is full of electricity.Story is dark but I admit I expected slightly darker implementation and a bit better climax at the end but those are small lacks. Truth is that One-Eyed Jacks is still one hell-of-a western and a powerful part of Brando's film history. "},{"Title":"Marlon Brando one and only directing job","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" It's 1880 in Sonara, Mexico. Rio (Marlon Brando) is a bank robber on the run from the authorities. His partner Dad Longworth (Karl Malden) double-crosses him and escapes leaving Rio behind. Rio is captured but he escapes from Sonora prison 5 years later. He hunts down Dad who is now a sheriff in California.This is most notable for being Marlon Brando's one and only directing effort. It's a simple western with some competent scenes. However there are a lot of amateurish camera work too. There's a reason Brando never became a director. Eventually he lost his overly long movie to be recut by the studio.The movie as it is cut by the studio is a slow disjointed western. It's not anything original or special. Karl Malden and Marlon Brando are both great actors in their prime. Neither characters are simple and the movie is compelling enough to watch. Mostly just to see what these great actors are going to do. There is a couple of nice performances from Pina Pellicer and Katy Jurado. "},{"Title":"Quirky -- Very Quirky.","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is the only film that Marlon Brando directed. It's easy to understand why no producers would let him get near a camera afterward. It's expensive to expose film, and while Brando the director would argue with Karl Malden the actor, the cameras would roll philosophically along, exposing the rehearsals, the arguments, the conversations about the weather, the new styles in men's clothing, and the conundrum of mind/body dualism. It cost a fortune -- and the result is a long, colorful Western with a conventional revenge plot. By conventional, I mean that the usual fallacies apply. Whose gun is faster than whose? A clip on the jaw or a whack on the head renders a man unconscious for as long as the plot requires. A dozen men galloping after two fleeing bandits fire their pistols wildly although they're a quarter of a mile behind their quarry.It's not a BAD movie. It's just hard to assess. The location shooting around the Monterey Peninsula in California is rich in texture and exquisite, as is the location itself -- or was, before it turned into Disneyland. Hugo Friedhofer's romantic score is appealing if overused. Brando must have had the cast improvising all over the place and in every instance it seems obvious and awkward. You'll notice the scenes when they come around.The story, briefly, is that Brando is betrayed by his fellow bank robber, Malden, in Mexico. After five years in the Sonoran pen, Brando escapes and seeks revenge on Malden, who has now become civilized and is a popular sheriff with a nice Mexican wife and stepdaughter in Monterey. They shake hands, both faking. Brando spitefully seduces and impregnates the stepdaughter, Pina Pellicer. And when the opportunity presents itself, with the townspeople behind him, Malden reveals his barbaric side, bull whips Brando, and smashes his gun hand. A final shootout resolves some of the issues, but not all.It's far from Brando's best performance. He says little, glowers a lot, and blinks reflexively. When he's facing someone down, his feet are in the first ballet position, and when he walks he puts one foot in front of the other. He must leave not two parallel sets of footprints but a single trail of two prints, one on top of the other.And when you get right down to it, he's a pretty rotten guy. He lies to most of the people he meets, and for the worst of reasons. In the last scene, he rides off romantically into the white dunes of Monterey, leaving behind a winsome young Mexican girl whom he has knocked up out of spite for someone else. And this in a culture where there are only two kinds of women -- Madonnas, who bring their hymens to the party, and whores, for whom anything goes. I'm off to Oregon but I'll be back for you some day -- maybe, if I find it convenient. So long, baby.Slim Pickens gives a good performance as Lon, you tub of guts, you gob of spit. But the best performances are turned in by Karl Malden and his family -- Katy Jurado as the wife, and Pina Pellicer as the slender and beautiful stepdaughter. Much of their dialog is in Spanish. (Both actresses were from Mexico City.) Pellicer, in particular, is bewitching.The movie may have wasted a lot of money but it's by no means a complete waste of time. You'll have to judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"A classic western which will not disappoint Brando fans","Date":"25 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" A seriously underrated film, Marlon Brando again brings his characteristic masculine energy to the screen with superb acting, playing the part of a bank robber named Rio - another character which stirs the mind into a state of cognitive dissonance, an anti-hero blurring the line between the good and the bad. The supporting actors also give a great performance, and the cinematography is notably good. Directed by Brando himself, the plot presents a variety of characters who have much more depth than they may at first seem to possess. It is a brilliant example of a Western, which not only embraces the genre but excels within it's medium. Sometimes perhaps the pacing could have been better thought out, but overall this is a film that is definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Ben Hur of Westerns","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" See it. Where are all those people who said Marlon Brando couldn't play a cowboy? This is a long epic western, unlike anything you've ever seen before. It's the Ben-Hur of westerns. Believe it or not, Marlon Brando is incredible as a cowboy. And this movie is incredible. The only film Brando ever directed, this is a tale of treachery, anguish, and revenge. It has a great script full of unforgettable quotes that will stick with you forever. And just to clarify, the character's name is not One Eyed Jack. The meaning is much deeper. In a sense, we are all two-faced, and one side is ugly and eye-less. We are all one-eyed Jack's. Pretty deep for a western. Now for the part you really care about. The action is spread out because the movie is long. It is a little slow toward the middle, but there are multiple gunfights and plenty of danger and suspense throughout. This movie really has it all, and I highly recommend it. "}{"Title":"Colorful Western with stunning acting  , intense drama and marvelously photographed","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" In Sonora, Mexico in 1880 , Rio (Marlon Brando , the character of Rio originally was based on Billy the Kid), his pal Dad Longworth (Karl Malden) and a third man, Doc (Hank Worden) are robbing a bank. As the bandits escape from the town with a loot . The bandits flee but the Mexican mounted police trail the bunch to the mountains . The mounted police follow and trap the bandits atop a desert hill (Death Valley that bears remarkable resemblance to Almeria desert where were filmed lots of Spaghetti) , with one of their horses shot . Their only option is for one of them to ride their single horse to a little post down the canyon and return with two fresh mounts . But Dad double-crosses him and flees . Rio is detained and locked in Sonora Prison but five years later he breaks out . Then Rio seeks vengeance against his former friend Dad who lives now as a sheriff married to a Mexican woman (Katy Jurado) and an adopted daughter (Pina Pellicer who sadly committed suicide a few years later) .Riveting Western with psychological tones is stunningly performed , richly photographed and well directed , though overlong . Marlon Brando took over the reigns of filmmaking by first and only time . Very good performances from main duo  Brando as an obstinate revenger and Karl Malden who steals the show as his double-dealing former partner . Superb support interpretations from Ben Johnson , Timothy Carey , and Slim Pickens , Katy Jurado , both of whom a few years later played as an intimate couple in ¨Pat Garret and Billy the Kid¨. Lively and adequate musical score by Hugo Friedhofer . Striking cinematography by Charles Lang , being Paramount's last release in VistaVision and filmed on location in California , the following places  Cypress Point, Pebble Beach,Death Valley National Park, Monterey Peninsula,Pebble Beach, Pfeiffer Beach, Big Sur, Seventeen Mile Drive, Warner Ranch, Calabasas, California, USA.Marlon Brando's inexperience behind the camera was obvious on set , he took the direction from Stanley Kubrick, who originally was slated to direct the film. He shot six times the amount of footage normally used for a film at the time , he was indecisive in his only filmmaking effort and ran extremely overlong in getting the film finished , in spite of the problems , the film resulted to be visually striking and with interesting character study . Marlon Brando's first cut of the film was allegedly five hours long. He was reportedly unhappy with the final product, despite its box-office success , Paramount eventually took the film away from him and re-cut it as Marlon Brando's original cut of the movie was over five hours long . Rating  Better than average despite troubles during filming and the result is a terrific outing in this Western genre . "},{"Title":"Method Acting and Directing by Marlon Brando","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Marlon Brando's first - and only - directorial debut, which was originally slated to be over 5 hours long! I'm glad it was cut down to just a little over 2 hours, and even then that was overly long for a Western movie in my opinion. Kudos to Brando for efforts to create a different backdrop of scenery like ocean waves crashing against the coastline with a beach house in the background instead of the usual dusty and grassy plains or desert that one usually associates in the Western genre. The score by Hugo Friedhofer is fitting, though not of the unforgettable category like, say John Williams' in Jaws or Indiana Jones or Ennio Morricone's soundtracks in The Good The Bad and The Ugly. On the other hand, the plot appears to be somewhat disjointed - it appears that in whittling down the original 5-hour to the present, some vital elements were inadvertedly removed, such as the main character Kid Rio escaping the Sonora prison chained to his Mexican cellmate, fleeing on foot through arid country with the nearest town hundreds of miles away - and the next scene shows they are resting in the shade of rocks liberated from each other. How did they manage to break the leg chain without any visible tools or aid from other people? Brando's method acting is plainly seen, his mumbling sweet-nothings in the ears of pretty women and his animal magnetism that is almost primitive permeates throughout the film, faintly reminiscent of the character Kowalski that he played in A Streetcar named Desire, one can't help feeling some disgust at the way he lies and wheedles his way into women's hearts yet be mesmerized. His amateurish attempts to direct, however, can be clearly seen as in too much time,was wasted on the coastal beach scenes where Rio and his gang relax and recuperate at the Chinaman's beach hut. Also, it is not explained why a sheriff would choose to live in an isolated, albeit beautiful home near the coast away from the main town that he is policing, wouldn't it make /more sense for him to live closer to town for easy availability should emergencies arise? Also how Rio manages to trick the odious yet dimwitted deputy Lon into releasing him from his cell with an empty gun makes for a questionable if comical highlight of the film. "},{"Title":"good movie/ great music","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I have seen this film several times and enjoyed it. I especially feel that the music is awesome, however, I have been unable to find out from any place the name of the title song. I have looked to no avail. Even knowing the author of the score hasn't helped. If anyone out there has a clue, please comment on this. Perhaps it is mentioned on the film jacket. I have been unable to find out what the title is exactly, whether it is One-Eyed Jacks of something else. Once I have this information it may be possible to locate and purchase it. A very, lovely and haunting melody that draws you into the film. Great acting by Karl Malden as always and Brandon is his usual self. Well worth watching and a overall entertaining western. "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This movie has one of the better dry humor vignettes of any I have ever seen. The cowboy is eating a steak and complains to the cook/bartender, Hombre, this horse is still fighting for his life. The cook replies, That's what you got a sharp knife for, cowboy.  "},{"Title":"One of the GREAT Westerns","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" THEATRICAL RELEASE March 30, 1961. DIRECTOR Marlon Brando. RUNTIME 2 hours and 21 minutes. STARS Marlon Brando, Karl Malden, Pina Pellicer, Katy Jurado, Slim Pickens, Ben Johnson, Sam Gilman and Larry Duran. THE STORY Dad Longworth (Malden) literally takes the money and runs as he leaves his young partner in crime, Kid Rio (Brando), behind to rot in a Mexican prison. Rio escapes 5 years later with only vengeance in mind. He finds Dad in Monterey, California, now a respectable town Sheriff with a Mexican wife (Jurado) and step-daughter, Louisa (Pina), living the American Dream on the beautiful Pacific coast. The situation is complicated by Rio's teaming up with two lowlife criminals whose only intent is to rob the town bank, as well as Rio's romantic dallyings with Louisa. One-Eyed Jacks was Brando's only stab at directing and his original cut of the film was twice as long (!). I would love to see this director's cut, which HAS been shown on TV, but this 141-minute cut is fine as is. Not only is One-Eyed Jacks one of the best Westerns of all time, it's also one of Brando's top films. What makes it so great? Numerous things. Brando is at his most captivating here, but the story is entrancing as well, even though it's much more of a slow drama than an action/adventure film. When it comes, however, the action is quick and realistic. There are numerous themes running through the long story. One of the major ones is the clash of the misfit with conventional society. Since society is composed of a bunch of conformist misfits, the misfit must learn to conform if s/he wants to fit in and succeed. In other words, if you want to 'make it' in conventional society it's necessary to hide your problematic past & flaws and put on a front of respectability. Dad Longworth has figured this out and he's not about to allow Rio to ruin it for him. I would like to offer a word of defense for Dad Longworth here. Although it was wrong for him to take the money and leave Rio to be captured, one can't help but empathize with him. If he went back for Rio there was a high risk of capture or death. The safest and most promising route was the selfish one. The good thing is that Dad wisely took advantage of this opportunity and made a good life for himself in Monterey. He was obviously sick of his criminal lifestyle and wanted a real life, a real job and real family. He was getting on in years and knew that this may well be his final opportunity, so he took it. The problem is that one's past always has a way of haunting us, which is another theme of the film; hence, Rio walks back into Dad's life 5 years later and his American dream is seriously threatened. Notice Dad's rage when he whips/beats Rio to an inch of his life; he's doing everything in his power to kill the ugly phantoms of his past, which is why he tries to get Rio hung on false charges later in the story. Another theme is how love is tied to redemption. Both Dad and Rio are criminals, but both desire redemption and a better life. The love of Dad's wife and the Monterey general populace brings this out in Dad, whereas Louisa's love for Rio slowly changes him. Near the end we plainly see that Rio no longer wants to kill Dad, he doesn't even want to see him; all he wants is to run off with his lady love. If Rio remained the same person he was at the beginning of the story One-Eyed Jacks wouldn't be half the film it is. In addition, Dad's love for Katie, his Mexican wife, is what delivered Katie and Louisa from the beanfields, as Dad puts it. Love goes hand-in-hand with loyalty or faithfulness. We see this in Rio's likable Mexican sidekick, Chico (Larry Duran). One of the best qualities of Jacks is that it's refreshingly realistic. There's no goofiness, unbelievable one-liners, over-the-top action or excruciatingly dated aspects. Speaking of dated, although the opening credits sequence and score are dated and boring, the rest of the film isn't. So don't let this sequence cause you to tune out. The rest of the score is great. One-Eyed Jacks was the obvious precursor to the Spaghetti Western. For instance, the protagonist is a dyed-in-the-wool cool anti-hero (like, say, Eastwood). The main difference between Jacks and most Spaghetti Westerns, however, is that Jacks has a truly worthwhile story, which can't be said for most Italio-Westerns; also the anti-hero in One-Eyed Jacks slowly transforms into a potentially positive member of society. The film's influence goes well beyond just the Spaghetti Westerns. Take, for instance, Brando's crucifixion-style beating and long restoration. The film Conan the Barbarian pretty much ripped-off this entire sequence; Arnold Schwarzenegger even admits to it. Pina Pellicer does an outstanding job as Rio's girlfriend Louisa. Spiritually-speaking, she's incredible. Although she commits a foolish error by sleeping with Rio after getting drunk, on a whole she's the epitome of love, virtue and spirituality. Again, this love is the key factor in Rio's metamorphosis. Unfortunately Pina committed suicide a few years after Jacks was released. Thankfully we have this film to remember her beauty and virtue.Jacks was filmed entirely in California with all the coastal sequences photographed on the Monterey Pennisula, including Pebble Beach. This is one of the only Westerns where you'll see the Pacific Ocean. Other locations include Big Sur and Death Valley. "},{"Title":"One Eyed Jacks","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I saw One Eyed Jacks in 1964 at a super wide screen theater and the beach scenes were fantastic. I was getting ready to ship out for the Marine Corps. If I remember correctly the movie did not do that well at the box office, I believe that was because it was so much more mature than westerns of that period.Roy and Gene ran the westerns and grade b westerns except for a few exceptions. I recently bought the DVD. The only problem is that I do not have a large screen hd t.v. and to do justice to this movie the first time you see it you should have access to both. It is not a Searchers but in it's own way it is a classic. Some critics at the time did not like the voice that Brando used. As they did later in Munity On The Bounty. "},{"Title":"Brooding but classic western","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is another film America did so well. A little-known classic, due to not being shown as often as it should be - or is that a welcome effect too - in keeping it under wraps and shown occasionally? For those reasons I'm sure it emphasises what is different from the western genre. As I've said, brooding, long, romanticised and although not pacy, still a worth watching classic. The strangest of backgrounds for a western, constantly seeing Brando and his pals riding up and down the coast 'to town', distancing itself from the usual arid America/Mexico borders. It still provides a lot of good old-fashioned recipe ideas - revenge, romance, the man-who-made-good with the shady past, the gunslinger 'calling' anyone who cares to challenge him, the treacherous side-kicks, the one good one, the slimy deputy, Katy Jurado as the caring mother, all make for a great film. Although a little slow with the on-going romance/emotional scenes, it may have the right ingredient for men and women alike as it combines a 'high noon' attitude too with Brando seeking revenge. This is one to watch whenever it comes round or keep it in the video/DVD cabinet again. If you haven't the time for the emotional scenes, you can always wind on to Brando's scenes. "},{"Title":"Great Movie For It's Time","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Saw this movie in 1962 and had no idea what it was about...I had seen Marlon Brando in On The Waterfront and an earlier movie The Wild One...As mentioned earlier, the musical score is great and I have the LP(Remember those??)What was so touching about the movie which no critic or person has mentioned is, I had never seen a western that incorporated romance, less much a woman get pregnant...To me this was mind boggling as part of the plot and Brando should be applauded for being so bold..Thank goodness there was no profanity as there is today.....There are some actors and actresses I like more than others of course but try to view each one on their merits in a film...Too bad so many criticize the movie as too long, tedious, etc. and see it as it was.....a refreshing movie which provided some laughs such as when Rio pulled the ring off the finger of the lady while courting her when the Mexican police came on the scene...Some people don't like Marlon Brando and of course that is their perogative...For me there were some actors I truly found boring and dry like Gary Cooper but acknowledge and respect that he was a great actor as is Brando..... "},{"Title":"One-Eyed Jacks Is No Masterpiece; An Average Film At Best","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" From what I've read, Brando and Kubrick disagreed on script contents, and Brando, being the heavyweight at the time, gave Kubrick the ol' heave-ho. Whatever Kubrick's version was to be, it had to be superior to the film's final product which can be summed Love conquers all. All the characters are exaggerated almost to the point of absurdity. This is most likely the product of Brando's inexperience as a director. The film lacks any genuine sense of realism and so, there is no amount of intensity to Brando's (Rio) plight. When he's jailed, a day way from being hung, you know it's not going to happen. Great supporting actors of the Western genre such as Ben Johnson, Slim Pickens and Kathy Jurado are essentially wasted. What's good about it? The cinematography is excellent. Cowboys riding horses against the backdrop of the California coastline is an unusual setting, and camera man Charles Lang uses it to maximum effect. I read that the musical score is considered great, but I just didn't notice it. When you compare this Western to the works of John Ford, Howard Hawks, Anthony Mann, Sam Peckinpah, and Sergio Leone, it's just not in that class. Yes, it's a pretty good movie, but not in the same ballpark as the works of the aforementioned masters of the cowboy movie. "},{"Title":"One of the  greatest westerns","Date":"16 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Brando's western is a cut above & significantly more thoughtful than a majority of westerns in the same time period as this was made. It's title 'One Eyed Jacks' & reference to it within the film really goes deeper than first interpreted, by this, I mean to say, every character in the film has an agenda & they show only the face they want to show in order to get what they want or to conceal what they need to conceal.This is of course human nature but in the course of this film it really plays out in an interesting & oft tragic manner. This film is really Brando's but Malden is awesome to behold here as his Dad Longworth is one major SOB & he plays it to perfection. Everyone on screen is superb from Ben Johnson to Slim Pickens all the way down, just excellent throughout.Special mention to the soundtrack by Hugo Friedhoff? it is superb! I hope I got his name correct.Not much to fault about this western, it's more psychological than constant action but it builds & has a lot of tension & the action scenes are excellent & well worth the waits; near perfection on every level! Highly recommended! "}{"Title":"Criterion Needs to remaster this from the original film","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The uniqueness of this film is what separated it from most other films. I first sawit as a young child with my parents on the big screen back in 1961 - when you might say that it was at the summit or the height of Brando's career. As a 5 year old kid, this was incredibly awesome. Brando took over the directing when a young Stanley Kubrick walked out and Brando took over the Sam Peckinpaw script and shot some remarkable scenes and from what I understand, used a Geneis Book of World Record on color film just to get it to his satisfaction. The movie ran over the budget and Brando funded it out of his own pocket because he believed in the movie and making a masterpiece. It is indeed a masterpiece from a character, action, scenic, and plot standpoint. This is a must for any movie buff to watch. I hope someday it is remastered and put on Blue Ray with all of the facts about it. A true gem. "},{"Title":"A solid Western .....","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" One-Eyed Jacks is a solid, violent and melancholic western directed by MARLON BRANDO. STANLEY KUBRICK worked on this movie for a while as a director before him and Brando fell out over the casting of SPENCER TRACY (Brando wanted KARL MALDEN for the role).BRANDO is at his smoldering and mumbling best here. And he is nearly bursting out of his tight clothes in most of the scenes. There is great chemistry between Brando and Pina Pellicer. The scenes between them are very very intense. And Brando's introduction scene is excellent.The film is extensively filmed near a beach - I haven't seen too many westerns with a beach in them. It is a bit long at 140 minutes, but it is pretty gripping throughout.(7/10) "},{"Title":"Very good Western with a different flair","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Other reviews give good background on the making of One Eyed Jacks. And, others discuss the plot and cast in detail. Judging from the problems with Marlon Brando's directing, it's clear to see why he never directed another film. I was curious why IMDb didn't have the usual budget and box office figures for Jacks that it has for most films. According to the Turner Classic Movies Web site, this film ran almost four times over its $1.6 million budget. It finished with a cost of $6 million. The box office was just $4.3 million.This is a good Western, with a different flair that builds audience empathy for Brando's character, Rio. Some critics say this is some sort of a breakthrough or turning point in Westerns. The claim is that the audience identifies with one of the bad guys. Judging from some of the reviews, they may be right &#x96; at least for some. As a viewer, I naturally sympathized with Rio for his betrayal by Dad Longworth, played by Karl Malden. At the same time, I clearly understood Rio's capture and imprisonment as just punishment for a criminal. Rio's escape and search for vengeance against Dad is a familiar plot in movies of various genres. But, his redemption toward the end, albeit for the sake of his love for Louisa (played by Pina Pellicer), is a nice twist. I think Karl Malden turns in the best acting in this movie. He nails his character hands down, with a variety of mood swings. He is pleasing and sweet, affable and friendly, angry and determined, matter of fact and all business. It's not a coincidence that Malden won an Oscar and was nominated for another (and perhaps should have been one or two more times). Malden was an excellent actor, who could play a variety of roles with great depth. He won his Oscar for best supporting actor in another film with Brando &#x96; A Streetcar Named Desire. Malden and Brando also starred together in On the Waterfront, in which Brando earned his first of two Oscars as best actor. Malden was nominated for best supporting actor in that film, as were two other stars &#x96; Lee J. Cobb and Rod Steiger. Waterfront had three of the five nominees that year for supporting actor, and it went to Edmond O'Brien, for his role in The Barefoot Contessa.A couple of the weak aspects of this film were in Rio's character and the story. In the beginning, we clearly see that Rio is a Romeo. The difference between him, Dad and other gang members, is that Rio has taste and manners. While the others go for the bar girls and prostitutes, Rio pursues good girls. But, clearly, with the same purpose in mind. So, with that and even after five years in prison, it's a stretch to have Rio fall in love now. Especially with Dad's new stepdaughter, Louisa. I think the film was heavy in its efforts to build sympathy for Rio, by the number of times he was wrongly blamed or punished for something. Pellicer was a leading actress from Mexico. She had a promising career ahead of her, but ended it at age 30 when she committed suicide in 1964. Slim Pickens, Katy Jurado, Ben Johnson and Larry Duran were all very good in their roles. The scenery and cinematography were excellent. And, the technical aspects were all very good &#x96; even with a couple of noticeable jumps or skips in film cutting. The final editors must have had a real chore cutting back from the 5 ½-hours of film Brando had edited.This is a very good Western that many should find entertaining. But I can't agree with those who think it is the best Western ever. I can only think that they haven't seen some very great Westerns. One Eyed Jacks is not in the top rung of my list, nor is it there in other lists I've seen. Although some spaghetti Westerns were quite good and entertaining, I don't include them among the best of Westerns, primarily for the acting and stories. Among the Westerns that are likely to be found on most lists of the best of all time, are the following. The Searchers of 1956, Stagecoach of 1939, Shane of 1953, Winchester 73 of 1950, Bend of the River of 1952, Hombre of 1967, True Grit of 1969, The Oxbow Incident of 1943, The Cowboys of 1972, Gunfight at the OK Coral of 1957, High Noon of 1952, The Naked Spur of 1973, The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance of 1962, The Big Country of 1958, Will Penny of 1968, Destry Rides Again of 1939, The Last Train from Gun Hill of 1959, Wagon Master of 1950, My Darling Clementine of 1946, Rio Bravo of 1959, Lonesome Dove of 1989, Open Range of 2003, and Dances with Wolves of 1990. James Stewart, John Wayne, Charlton Heston and Randolph Scott were in a number of other Westerns that rank among the best. Several other stars were in one or more outstanding Westerns. And, as for the best film about vengeance, revenge and reform, I recommend movie buffs to check out Nevada Smith of 1966. Steve McQueen is outstanding in his role. And, for real coincidence, a supporting actor in that one is Karl Malden. I wonder if it might not be a Malden touch that brings greatness to many films. Or at least helps bring out the best of others in their roles. "},{"Title":"Brando's ace in the hole","Date":"5 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Although many reviewers mention that One-Eyed Jacks was based on the novel, The Authentic Death of Hendry Jones by Charles Neider, few seem to have read it. If they had, they could hardly fail to mention its brilliance &#x96; a thinly disguised retelling of the story of Billy the Kid, it captured a sense of nostalgia for the passing of the Old West like no other.When Brando's production company purchased the novel and a number of earlier treatments, even more writers went to town on it under the working title of Guns Up, the name of Neider's novel when it was reprinted in paperback. By the time the cameras turned, the story had been passed around like a tube of sunscreen in a nudist colony and had undergone considerable changes. Eventually the film bore little resemblance to Neider's masterpiece. After director Stanley Kubrick quit, Brando claimed that he had little choice but to slip into the canvas chair and pick up the megaphone. Eventually, the five-hour movie he turned in was cut to two and a half by the studio.The plot of the movie sounds fairly routine but Brando brought intensity, and psychological overtones to the party that make it anything but routine.Brando's character, Rio, is out for revenge on his former outlaw partner Dad Longworth played by Karl Malden. Rio teams up with a couple of cowboys and finds Longworth who is now the sheriff of Monterey, and married to a Mexican woman, Maria, who has a grown-up daughter, Louisa. The women are played by Katy Jurado and Pina Pellicer. Rio plans to rob the bank and kill Longworth but he falls for Louisa and his plans for revenge come unstuck. Longworth eventually finds an excuse to run Rio out of town after giving him a brutal whipping and breaking his gun-hand with the butt of a shotgun. Rio's two companions rob the bank. Rio is blamed and is imprisoned by Longworth to await hanging. In one of the best sequences in the movie, Rio breaks out jail with the help of Louisa. Rio and Longworth finally shoot it out. The fadeout sees Rio say goodbye to Louisa, and ride off to an uncertain future&#x96; an ending nowhere near as downbeat as in Neider's book or in the real story of Billy the Kid who after all, didn't make it past his 21st birthday.Despite excesses behind the camera, out in front Brando gave a complex and riveting performance. He broods and holds many profile poses &#x96; there is no shortage of method. He projects the angst driven man beloved of filmmakers of the late 50's and early 60's.Only Karl Malden over-reaches himself in his playing of Dad Longworth, displaying characteristics that today would probably see him diagnosed with bi-polar disorder &#x96; on second thoughts, maybe it is a great performance after all.The film's quality, despite savage editing, rests on inspired direction and performances. Although One-Eyed Jacks rarely appears at the top of lists of the great westerns &#x96; it probably should. "},{"Title":"A Billy the Kid Western Epic","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Academy Award Winning actor Marlon Brando directed one movie during his prestigious 50-year career in Hollywood. Brando's Pennebaker Productions decided a western might generate good box office since westerns had been profitable during the 1950s. The company shelled out $40,000 for the rights to Charles Neider's seminal western novel The Authentic Death of Hendry Jones and several scenarists came and went before One-Eyed Jacks was completed. Among the scenarists were a young Sam Peckinpah, but novelist Calder Willingham replaced Peckinpah. This amoral western melodrama dealt with the themes of friendship, greed, deception, betrayal, and revenge. The troubled production history of this splendid horse opera casts a shadow over its artistry. First, Brando created several legends about his use of six or more takes for a scene. Second, the story goes that the star waited for the most dramatic waves to break on the shore. Brando toiled for six months on One-Eyed Jacks. Initially, Paths of Glory helmer Stanley Kubrick started out as the director, but artistic differences between Brando and he led to Kubrick's dismissal. Reportedly, Kubrick preferred Spencer Tracy over Karl Malden for the villainous role of Dad Longworth. Brando objected on the basis, however, that Pennebaker Productions had already paid Malden the sum of $300-thousand. Afterward, when nobody stepped forward to helm the film, Brando decided he would try. Paramount executives should have had their heads examined for letting a temperamental actor like Brando call the shots on a film. Three American outlaws, Rio (Marlon Brando of Julius Caesar), Dad Longworth (Karl Malden of Baby Doll), and Doc (perennial character actor Hank Worden of Red River) hold up a Mexican bank. Dad and Doc ride off to shack up with prostitutes in a bordello, while Rio heads off to romance a refined lady at her hacienda. Mexican Rurale captain (Rodolfo Acosta of Hondo) leads a posse to the bordello and they kill Doc when they raid the place. Dad slips out by the window with his gun, but he forgets his boots. Dad rides off to alert Rio. Together they light out into desert with the Rurales on their trail. Rio loses his horse and has to double up on Dad's mount. They take refuge on a hill and exchange gunfire with the Rurales. Our heroes decide that one of them must round up fresh horses so they can escape from the Rurales. Rio draws two bullets and grips them in his fist. Interestingly, our protagonist lets Dad win and Dad sets out for fresh horses while Rio holds up the Rurales. Dad rides into a tiny ranch and buys a horse. He is shifting the gold coins around in his fist when he decides to leave Rio to the Rurales. Eventually, the Rurales surround Rio and he surrenders. He spends the next five years in a stinking Sonora Prison, while Dad lives high off the hog in Monterey, California, where he has gotten himself elected sheriff. Moreover, Dad has married Maria (Katy Jurado of High Noon) and adopted Maria's daughter, Louisa (Pina Pellicer of Macario) as his own. He owns a house about 10 miles out of town. Rio and Chico Modesto (Larry Duran of Viva Zapata!) break out of the Sonora Prison. They are in a cantina when Bob Amory (Ben Johnson of Rio Grande) approaches Rio about robbing a bank in Monterey. Rio learns Dad Longworth is the town lawman. Rio visits Dad before Amory and his sidekick, Harvey Johnson (Sam Gilman of The Young Lions), show up in Monterey. Initially, Dad believes Rio has come to kill him for double-crossing him back in Sonora. Rio doesn't want to shoot Dad. Rio explains he gave the Rurales the slip and eluded them. Dad introduces Rio to his family and Louisa takes an immediate interest in him. Later, Rio guns down a drunken man in a Monterey bar, Howard Tetley (Timothy Carey of The Killing), who was abusing a helpless woman. Dad has had enough of Rio. Primarily, Dad is angry because Louisa spent the night on the beach with Rio. Dad's sleazy Deputy Lon Dedrick (Slim Pickens of Rocky Mountain) has had his eye on Louisa and hates Rio. Dad arrests Rio for killing Tetley. Disarming Rio, Dad lashes his wrists to a horse's hitching rack. Wielding a bullwhip on Rio, Dad sends him to his knees. Dad reverses a shotgun and smashes the butt of the weapon against Rio's right hand to destroy his hand. Rio and company flee Monterey, but our protagonist is even more determined to kill Dad. Rio recuperates on the beach and gets back the use of his gun hand. Bob and company ride into town to rob the bank. The robbery is a bust, but a little girl dies during the shoot-out. Rio is riding back to town when Dad's deputies arrest him and prepare the gallows for his inevitable hanging. Rio escapes from jail and shoots it out with Dad in the town plaza. The striking locales set One-Eyed Jacks apart from most westerns. When Brando left the production, he had filmed about five hours of footage and assembled his own cut. Paramount whittled the unwieldy opus down to two hours and forty-one minutes. Financial woes aside, One-Eyed Jacks qualifies a good, often compelling western about two bad men who clash at the outset over stolen gold. One lands in a filthy Sonora prison, while the other one ends up in California with a badge on his chest. The cast is stupendous, particularly Malden who plays a thoroughly treacherous dastard. Ben Johnson, Slim Pickens, Katy Jurado, Timothy Carey, and Pina Pellicer all contribute memorable performances, but it is The Magnificent Seven lenser Charles Lang who makes the scenic Monterey coast with his crashing surf and the rugged Mexican locations look absolutely dazzling. Unfortunately, the studio shots involving back projection detract from Lang's visual real-world composition. Sadly, One-Eyed Jacks never recouped its negative cost, the amount that it took to produce this exotic western. "},{"Title":"My opinion on the 'flaws' of this movie.","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" I wrote this up in the context of a message board topic. I wound up getting a bit comprehensive, so I figured I would post it here, as well. For the record, I really like this movie, but I must be 'in the mood' for it. One of Brandos best performances, equally good are Malden, Johnson and Pellicer. Even the lesser roles and semi cameos (ex., Timothy Carey), are good, and the cinematography....just WOW. Here's where my 'message board blog' begins.....Wow. I've had a good print of this for 2-3 years, and just decided today to watch it 'big screen'. For no reason whatsoever, I decided to attempt to understand what Brando was looking to make, as opposed to what Paramount finished, or Kubrick was involved with. For the record, Kubrick leaving makes this the 'missed opportunity' of All-Time Hollywood, IMO. As others have stated, clearly there are entire chunks of storyline missing. I believe Marlon went in there and tried to fully develop 6-7 characters in this film. (example...the Tim Carey character. He's well known to Dad, and at the 'Chili Scene' he has a nice big shiner...from where?) It seems to me a few of the characters (as edited) enter the film already developed. His Mexican partner, Dad's wife, even Lon. Luisa seems to 'grow' emotionally in between the scenes we see her. I believe Brando's cut of this would have been four hours long. This was because he was developing a common theme for them all. The film is called One Eyed Jacks....plural! What Marlon was 'directing', through all of the scenes, day in, day out, was the idea every character had two faces to show. Take the business of Rio sleeping with Luisa. Luisa (pure) lies to Dad and her mother (also played fairly pure). Dad asks Mom to find out the truth, and tell him. The girl lies to Mom, Mom KNOWS IT, and in turn lies to her husband. Everyone, even the good guys, are full of....you know what. In fact, the film, as cut, purest characters are the gang. Amory, the other guy, and Rio's jail pal. But, as the film is edited, you know there was a ton of back story with Rio's jail pal, as well. I mean, yeah, I grasp that they escaped from jail together, but through their interaction, it is clear there were more scenes between them on the floor. Flawed? How about this train of thought. Kubrick was planning his 'duality of man' theme we saw developed later in Full Metal Jacket. Marlon stepped in and tried to 'flesh out fully' every major character. This would have somewhat contradicted Kubricks style of coldness towards 'dramatic stereotypes'. Also, bare in mind, it has been said that Brando intended the ending to be completely ambiguous. Then, when Marlon couldn't stand the pressure of editing, Paramount had to 'create' a cohesive story out of all this. I think Marlons 4 hour 'drama' would have been a fascinating bit of film history for film geeks, but would have been DOA at the box office. Paramount probably tried to put the ambitious vision together, but couldn't come up with a cohesive version that moved. So what they wound up doing was this They decided to attempt two dramatic character arcs. The Brando/Malden characters are given coinciding arcs, and all the other film/characters become plot aids. The Pina Pellicer character becomes the device that 'changes' Rio, even though her character was probably much fuller on script. And because she is the pivotal change device, she garners more film time then feels right....because there always seems to be something missing, owing to interactions involving the other characters, all of which we don't see, as they've been edited out. Paramounts other choice would have been to edit together a simple revenge movie. This may have even played better at the box office. I'm glad they went the way they did. For instance......here's an edit I can imagine being done. The film opens much the same as it does, up until Rio gets captured. Now spend about another 10 minutes in the jail, where Rio is brooding with his com padre, steaming inside. They plan their escape. He meets Amory, goes up to Monterey. You can do the whole 'Dinner at Dads, Town Party' segue way without affecting the film. Rio seduces Luisa, the following morning, he tells her he's shamed her...and FADE THERE. She has no response. She is now just a plot tool to show Rio getting even with Dad. Now splice in either the bank robbery or the killing of Tim Carey....any reason to put Rio in jail. Get the gun on the table....get a distraction to get Lon out of the room, you can do the whole 'tension scene' involving Rio getting the gun. He gets out, Dad and Rio shoot it out. I'm sure versions were shot with both dying. Or it wouldn't surprise me. No love interest, not much focus on Amory, no whipping, broken hands, recovery. Or maybe get the whippings in there, somehow. But my point is, it seems to me Paramount made an attempt to give us something other than a simple revenge/shoot 'em up, which they could have. OK, my very flawed writing style gives all sorts of 'flaws' in this film. BTW, I love this movie....I really do, one of my favs. Peace "},{"Title":"Before setting out on revenge first dig two graves.","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" After five years in a Mexican nick Johnny Rio cares less how many graves will need to be dug before he gets even with his double - crossing ex -partner Dad Longworth.Now a respectable family man and Sheriff,Longworth tries reasoning,threats and violence,but Rio's implacable hatred is not to be assuaged. Mr M. Brando manages to turn this time - honoured convention into a memorable movie by dint of some wonderful performances - most notably by his humble self - and by displaying an extraordinary sense of awareness of the natural beauty of the environment he has chosen to shoot in.The petty affairs of men are trivial,the land and the business of nature is eternal. If you have only been able to watch One - eyed Jacks on video or DVD you have been denied a great cinematic experience.Great long close - ups of Mr Brando with only the sounds of the Pacific and the sight of the rollers in the background don't come over too well on a small screen,but are electrifying in the theatre.The texture of the sand,adobe and wood all form part of the look of the movie. That great character actor Mr B.Johnson is very generously allowed by Mr Brando to give a performance that is the apotheosis of all his bit - part years.He brings a touch of integrity and self - respect to the role of a man who doesn't actually have much of either quality and makes it seem just right. Mr S.Pickens,usually the comic sidekick of the good guy,is given a chance to show his acting chops - one he seizes with alacrity. Mr Brando gives a splendid Brando performance as the vengeful thief/ seducer,glowering and raging one minute,gentle and charming the next. This is acting with a capital A,no mistake,but impressive nonetheless. The dialogue is so good that if it hasn't been cribbed by Tarantino it soon will be. Miss K.Jurado displays her grave beauty to best advantage as the sheriff's wife,her husband Mr K.Malden keeps up with Mr Brando all the way in the method stakes. The ill - starred Miss Pellice is quietly riveting,making one ponder on the vagaries of fate. One - eyed Jacks was well - liked by Brando fans in the UK on its release,and 47 years have done little to dull its pleasures. "},{"Title":"Jacks or Better","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Well there's certainly a chance this film helped inspire Robert Earl Keen. I have never seen a Western before with a California locale, in this case Monterrey. The move south to mythical Sonora adds to the touch. Beach scenes are atypical for westerns but I guess not for actors who were already On the Waterfront. It works nicely here. Brando is a treat and certainly heals well from a major whipping and hand smash that should make Jimmy Stewart's troubles in The Man from Laramie look like a paper cut. Was it Chinese mustard or herbs that helped? Malden is great to watch as always with or without cards to deal. What a long way these pros have come from On the Waterfront. Look for a cameo by Hank Worden as Doc (Mose from The Searchers). Slim Pickens and BenJohnson are fine and Katy Jurado's eyes and lips are alone worth a look.This is probably the only movie made with Slim Pickens where the term slim pickings is used (By Rio to Dad). "},{"Title":"Fascinating Western revenge drama, with Brando at the top of his form.","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Younger film buffs are probably used to only seeing Marlon Brando as a weird, overstuffed Bizarro (APOCALYPSE NOW, THE ISLAND OF DR. MOREAU), but the fact is, he was once a screen idol and an electrifying talent. After seeing this Western classic, you'll not only have a better idea why, but you'll probably wish Brando had directed more movies. Here he demonstrates a real skill for storytelling, and burns up the screen with the intensity of his acting, matched by old friend Karl Malden as his nemesis. Their rivalry in this melodramatic tale has obvious Freudian overtones (Malden's character is even named Dad), and they both seem to relish the sadomasochistic aspects of their characters. Don't worry, it's mostly done with subtlety, but it's pretty intense nonetheless. Technically accomplished on every level, with a psychologically adroit script by Guy Trosper and Calder Willingham, memorable score by Hugo Friedhofer, and lush cinematography of the Big Sur (yes, this is a western!) by Charles Lang. Good show, Marlon! "},{"Title":"Average Blu Ray transfer","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" I would like to add to publiusdiamond,s thread from May, stating the imminent Blu Ray of One Eyed Jacks. I have purchased and viewed the disc and to be honest it is an average transfer, hence the 5 rating. I know others will slate this disc, OK, it is a bare-bones release, its Region 2, from Germany, with English options, but overall it is reasonably priced and much better than most of the DVD transfers to date. However, the french DVD version is actually the best quality I have seen to date, so I would recommend that over this Blu Ray. I would also like to sum up by saying that consider all options before purchasing Blu Ray discs of movies that you already have on DVD, don't knock it but DVD movies are still very good quality and in some cases as good as the cheaper Blu Ray options.Anyone considering purchasing the Blu Ray or french DVD of this movie, browse the discussions Thank you "}{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"22 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I have not read the novel that this was based upon, nor do I know how closely they stuck to it. This was the first and only time that Brando directed, and it is truly a shame. With this, he proves that he was immensely skillful in the medium of film. Cinematography and editing are masterful. This builds tension so expertly that at one point, I was reminded of Hitchcock. It can also be subtle and underplayed at points. The acting is utterly astonishing, with flawless performances from the entire cast, with the charming leading man, Pellicer and Malden being some of the strongest of them all. Characters are well-written, credible, consistent, well-developed, nicely fleshed out and human. I am thoroughly impressed with how much they allowed the women of this to do, be and say, for something coming out of the early sixties, a time where misogyny was still at sickening levels. The dialog is impeccable, often saying a lot with few, well-delivered words. This is deep and psychologically accurate. The realism is sky-high, with no over-the-top moments, without ceasing to be a Western(it is just not one that panders to the juvenile, romanticized fantasy of that life). I will not detail too much of the plot, but Marlon portrays a rather smooth bank robber. The humor is great, and never tries too hard. I would be most interested in any possibility of a restoration of the original cut, running at more than five hours. There is moderate violence in this. I recommend this to any fan of anyone involved in making it, the genre and/or intelligent, engaging and well-crafted movies. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Generic plot with some good acting makes a decent movie","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I had that deja vu feeling. I swore up right and center that I had seen it before. I was pretty well calling the next scene before it even happened. Of course, I had never seen it before, it is just that the plot is that generic. Stop me if you heard this before Hero gets double crossed, hero comes back for revenge, bad guy makes life unnecessarily hard for hero, hero narrowly escapes death by some improbable action, hero prevails and gets the girl.That's it. No surprise twists, no humorous dialog to carry the characters, nothing. There also is not a whole lot of action in the movie. Not to mention that for such a cookie cut western, the movie was about an hour too long. Much of this can be accredited to the fact it was Brando's first time behind the camera, but to put the blame entirely on him would be unfair. One man (despite being star and director) does not make a movie.I would like to explain further Lechguilla's comment One-Eyed Jacks is a character study of these two outlaws, one who changes, and the other who only appears to change. The term one-eyed jacks, refers to the human nature of being two-faced - with one face on top, the public face or image, and another face that is hidden from public, the private, or real person. To the public, Dad would appear to have repented of his old wicked ways, and turned a new leaf. The people believe him so much so that they even elect him Sheriff. In the privacy of his own home, during the discussions with his wife, we are shown that Dad is still the slimy coward that we are first introduced to at the beginning of the film. In fact, he is so slimy, that he sets Rio up to be executed despite knowing his innocence for the crime that he is accused of. Dad simply wants to remove Rio from the picture before it becomes public knowledge of Dad's betrayal.It is Rio who actually undergoes the significant change in personality.I feel initially Rio's plan was to use Louisa as a pawn in his revenge. This is a probable scenario, given Rio's attitude toward Louisa the next morning on the beach. By taking her innocence, he was showing Dad that not only was he coming for revenge, but also that there was no part of Dad's life that was safe. Once Dad realizes this, he is forced to confront Rio head on, which he does in his typical cowardly way. What neither realizes however, was that Rio would fall in love with Louisa and change his ways for her. The 180 in Rio's personality by the end of the movie demonstrates the ability of love to conquer all, and I think that is the underlying theme at play.To conclude, the movie is slow moving, the plot is generic, but the acting makes it worth watching. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Great film, great cast.","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Here's a short review. This film had a strong emotional impact on me and there were many things I loved about it. The acting is fabulous... Brando, Karl Malden (in one of his very best roles), Katy Jurado (WOW, why didn't she get more credit for being a great actress?), and the young Mexican woman (I don't remember her name) who plays Brando's love interest, all give memorable performances. I loved the photography in this film, it's unforgettable, filmed on location in Mexico and in the Monterey/Carmel area of California, the scenery is spectacular. The continuous waves on the Northern California coast symbolize, to me, the gradual uncovering of the two main characters' real personalities (the hidden side of their one-eyed Jack face). I don't want to go on and on, and I don't want to disclose the plot of this film. It's much better to just rent it or buy it and see for yourself. AN UNFORGETTABLE MOVIE!! "},{"Title":"Brando Directs!","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Not bad at all. This fast moving, beautifully photographed western was Marlon Brando's only directing effort and he clearly learned a lot from the likes of Elia Kazan. The emphasis is on character, not necessarily action. This is a very rare non-Peckinpah western to have a flawed hero. Brando is on the lam after being betrayed by one-time com-padre Karl Malden. Malden is excellent as Dad, a rotten man who now wears a badge. The movie is surprisingly devoid of any self-indulgence and Brando makes good use of the Northern California locations. He also had the good sense to cast the likes of Ben Johnson, Timothy Carey, Slim Pickens and the great Katy Jurado, who's terrific as Malden's wife. "},{"Title":"Pretty decent","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  *One-eyed Jacks*It's almost too bad this is Brando's only attempt at directing because it was attcually better than I thought it would be.  I was expecting another cheap western, but in turn I got a pretty entertaining film.  I also hear Kubrick was set to direct, but pulled out.  If Kubrick directed would it be any better?  I'm sure more people would have heard of it, but I'm happy that this can just be a quiet great movie.  Brando of course, hands in a stellar performance.  None of his 60's movies were very memorable, so I wasn't surprised this won wasn't.  I think this is a very entertaining movie and very original.  Just don't expect too much.*6.5* "},{"Title":"One of the best Westerns ever! 10/10","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Brando is an acquired taste, but One-Eyed Jacks is a wonderfully amazing, cool as can be Western.  Brando directs wonderfully -- contrary to what others and the actor might say.  The story line is a simple one in One-Eyed Jacks -- it's about revenge.  And what a tale of revenge it is!  Brando gives one of his best performances, and Karl Malden is disgustingly creepy as his back-stabbing sheriff buddy.  One of the great Westerns. "},{"Title":"Great Western","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Brando makes this, already great western even better. Malden is the perfect foil for Brando's character. There is such sensitivity and passion. High Noon was a better movie, but not by much. "},{"Title":"One Eyed Jacks Hardly Ace In The Pack, Yet Still One To Watch","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  As a ravishing Marlon Brando fan i was delighted to stumble across the DVD version of his first (and thus far only) attempt at directing, for a measly £5.00, which is about 1/4 of a regular priced disc. I was of course slightly apprehensive about getting it for this price because theres a reason it must be priced so low. Thankfully a lot of this can be given to the fact there are no extras, not even scene selection, and the picture and sound is not as crisp as you would hope in this day and age. Aside from the quality of the disc the film is actually reasonably good. By no means is this as good as a Sergio Leone western, but never the less it will pass a good saturday afternoon.The film is famous for the director changing before production (originally Kubrick but i dont need to tell you that i think ever review mentains this), and for the 5 hour running time which was practically halved by Paramount, which did upset Sir Marlon (thankfully its not 5 hours as that would be pretty torturous). However few i've met have actually seen it, and this is down to the fact that its never on TV and the DVD sucks and is quite rare. Brando didnt direct again and the film has become famous for this one fact, otherwise it may just have been another of his 1960's drivel that noone really remembers like 'A Countess from Hong Kong'.Admittedly the 60's were a dry patch for Brando before the glorious comeback which i need not remind you of, and the man on screen is not quite the man of 10 years prior or 10 years after. Hes less explosive, he almost seems like dare i say, a regular actor, he seems tired and as a result this will not be remembered as one of his great performances. Though this doesnt mean its bad, some of the expressions he makes are as good as ever, its just not a remarkable performance which he's of course capable of, and notable for. Karl Malden on the other had is excellent, i've developed a liking for this guy after his great performances in 'Streetcar' and his even better one in 'Waterfront' both with Brando, but in 'Jacks' the partnership is less good than before.This may be down the the average storyline, its very ordinary and you kind of know whats going to happen anyway. However its not boring as theres enough action to keep you interested, even if the love story wasnt well developed at all. The cinematography is excellent, oscar nominated i add, deservedly so. Brando does a decent job in the chair, though hes hardly the guy he is the other side of the lens. I think it would be very interesting to see the way the method acting worked while he was working the camara. Perhaps the directing duties helped distract his performance in some way, this is not to say its a bad one, just not a great one.Despite the flaws the film does satisfy you, and its certainly above average. Brando fans will be satisfied and its notably one of his 'better' 60's films, though that doesnt speak the world does it. I dont doubt that Brando could have improved on this as a director, and for his first picture it does in part impress you. However i feel that if it wasnt remembered for the director this film may have just easily been forgotten for being regulation, which it probably is to be fair, even if it is entertaining. Not to say theres that much wrong with this film, its not special, its not bad and its not one of the great westerns from the time, but a passable one.If you like westerns and Brando then you'll possibly enjoy it, as i did, but you'll possibly not remember it in a years time. Marlon Brando is possibly the greatest actor to have lived, and has far more up his sleave than this (though its true to say he has much worse).I'm not going to tell you that you 'must' rush out now and buy this film, and to put off your next breath while you search every shop in town just to give it a peek. But what i will say is that if you can find it for £5.00 in your local video store then its definately worth the gamble, just dont expect to hit the 'Jack'-pot.***/***** "},{"Title":"One of the 3 greatest Westerns","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  One of the 3 greatest Westerns ever made. One Eyed Jacks=Revenge. This movie tapped something deep in Brando's soul. Every scene has something innovative; the man looking at the flowers on top of the horse's rail for example. The cinematography is wonderful and it is a beautiful film. Throughout the film we wait for Brando's rage to explode; and it does in the final scenes, with telling effect. "},{"Title":"Flashes of greatness standing out in chopped messy Western.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I was never that smitten with this film many years ago on my first viewing, but now, with the advent of time, I like to think I view film's with newer and wiser perspectives. Sadly I can't say that One-Eyed Jacks has left me anything other than frustrated and cold with disappointment.Marlon Brando took over directing duties from Stanley Kubrick after the two giants fell out about the direction the picture was taking, this let Brando loose to shoot for 6 months on a film meant to be wrapped in two. Now this may be the main problem to me because the film is painfully devoid of major fleshing out of the characters, scenes are not expanded and there are obvious gaps due to mass editing cuts. It reads on the screen that our protagonist gets sentenced to 5 years in jail, two seconds later we see a bearded haggard man escaping prison chained to another inmate, next shot he is clean shaved and it seems we have missed some important chat between the two escapists. On it goes throughout the picture, I'm sure that the final elongated cut rumoured to be between 4 & 6 hours would have been a joyous experience, but as it is we get a cut down 141 minutes of film that rather outstays it's welcome. And to get through it you really need to believe in patience being a virtue.Brando of course holds court and is never less than interesting, and at times he sizzles and dominates the screen in the way that Marlon was want to do. But the whole performance has the reek of over indulgence about it. Making it more about the actor than the actual narrative. Along side him, Karl Malden is solid and gruff as the villain of the piece, but Katy Jurado is badly underused and seems like an afterthought to be an important character. Sadly, too, Pina Pellicer struggles to convince in her only American film, but that is not important in the context that she was to take her own life at the woefully young age of 29 depending on what site you believe as regards age at death. The bright spot here is the cinematography from Charles Lang Jr at various sites in California, it is simply gorgeous, check out the coastline shots and take it all in. I personally feel that this film is one that Brando fans choose to ignore its major flaws with. His name some how making the end product seem better than it actually is. In its longest form I'm sure it could have been a contender in the great Western stakes, as it is it remains average and something of an unfulfilling disappointment. 5/10 "}{"Title":"The Perfect Everything","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This movie has it all and then some. One-Eyed Jacks will trick you in a lot of ways as it will come off as a one dimensional western revenge story(which wouldn't have been a bad thing at all) but as the layers keep getting peeled away as the movie progresses, the viewer will find out that there is much more to this movie than meets the eye. It is a story about finding ones self and finding the best, most longing true love one can imagine. The chemistry between Brando and Pina Pellicer is one for the ages. It's as if you're waking up from a dream where you had a great romance and you long to go back to sleep to find that romance again. That's exactly how the longing feels with Brando and Pellicer(especially when Brando is in jail). And that Jail scene where Pellicer is pulled away by the deputy is one of the best scenes I've ever seen, it was so real, passionate, in your face and gritty. Pellicer fights for Brando in all his flaws in that scene. And Brando has a great scene where he's about to blast away Ben Johnson's character as Brando fights for Pellicer's honor. A great character study, a great love story and a great western. Brando and Malden are in top form. After watching this movie I thought I would find Pina Pellicer to have been nominated for at least 2-5 academy awards with winning one or two. I was very sad to learn she died only just a few years after this movie. In some way, I feel Pina Pellicer was the female version of James Dean without the fame. She was a fantastic actress, and what she could have done on the screen, oh what she could have done, she was unbelievable. This is a must see for her and Brando. "},{"Title":"Marlon Brando Does A Western","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Running from the law after a bank robbery in Mexico, Dad Longworth (Karl Malden) finds an opportunity to take the stolen gold and leave his partner Rio (Marlon Brando) to be captured. Years later, Rio escapes from the prison where he has been since, and hunts down Dad for revenge. Dad is now a respectable sheriff in California, and has been living in fear of Rio's return.What would this film have been like in the hands of Stanley Kubrick? Sadly, we will never know. But I would love to hear more about this, how far along it got before Kubrick backed out. Did he touch the script, cast any of the actors? Or was it mostly just talk? Marlon Brando's cut is said to be five hours. I am sure some people want that to be released. I, for one, am not sure I need to see the whole thing. However, this is definitely a film in need of some cleaning up. Good editions might exist, but the one I watched was not one of them. Where is our Criterion special edition? "},{"Title":"A  Powerful while Nuanced Piece!","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I love this movie very much.It doesn't have those clichés of most of the western movies.The momentum is gradually built up.The characters, every one of them, are believable.Marlon Brando's intensity is nuanced. His rendition wins audiences' sympathy.The love story is moving.Many sceneries are very beautiful.It should be called a master piece.I only hope the DVD could have a better quality.Marlon Brando is a national treasure. All his work should be properly preserved for the future generation to appreciate.(I feel bad if Brando's work is not well-preserved because he is such an unusually talented actor.) "},{"Title":"The only one watchable version","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" It is is Blu-Ray. Not perfect, but 80% superior to the umpteen USA DVD VERSIONS. I own two of those which like all goo were inexpensive, but not free..In the USA public domain means BS. That is why Criterion Collection has very few Americam films, but to be fair nor the main reason... I ignore and prefer not to refer to this version. Just tell you that the source was Paramount France. Do your navigation...It is is Blu-Ray. Not perfect, but 80% superior to the umpteen USA DVD VERSIONS. I own two of those which like all goo were inexpensive, but not free..In the USA public domain means BS. That is why Criterion Collection has very few Americam films, but to be fair nor the main reason... I ignore and prefer not to refer to this version. Just tell "},{"Title":"While the characters occasionally do things that don't make a lot of sense, it's a good western.","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" First off, this was a horrible quality DVD--all fuzzy and washed out and greatly in need of restoration. Fortunately, a Blu-Ray version is being released in a little over a week.This is an unusual Marlon Brando film because in addition to starring, he directed the movie. However, according to IMDb, the studio was shocked when he delivered a five-hour plus film and drastically edited it. The finished edited version is a slowly unfolding film--so in hindsight it's probably good the film was edited. I just can't imagine the film strung out to five hours.The film begins with Brando and his two partners robbing a bank in Mexico. Soon, the law arrives and kills one of them. The two survivors (Brando and Karl Malden) escape into the desert. They are pinned down and Malden leaves to get horses so they can escape. However, Malden appeared to have just run off and left his friend to the authorities--and Brando is sent to prison. Five years later, he escapes and is looking for Malden to exact revenge. Ironically, however, Malden has re-written himself--and is a sheriff. Now this makes for a rather interesting reunion! What's even more interesting is that Malden seems to have Brando fooled--and Malden treats him like a friend. At Malden's home, Brando then falls in love with Malden's step-daughter (Pina Pellicer). Now what is going to happen? While I could tell you more, I don't want to spoil it--but there is A LOT more to this film than this.Generally, this is a very good western. My one criticism is that both Malden and Brando play men who just aren't all that bright. They both have great opportunities to end their rivalry once and for all---yet let their enemy escape. In real life, I just can't see this happening--especially when one vows to the other ...one day I'll kill you---and yet the other guy lets him escape!! Any sane person would have just shot him in the face and be done with it! Also, the relationship between Brando and Pellicer seemed a bit unlikely, as they fall madly in love but their motivation seems a bit lacking.Now these are minor complaints. Otherwise, it's a good film--one of the better westerns of the era. Good acting (particularly by Malden) and an interesting plot make this one worth seeing.By the way, at the end of the film, while Brando is in jail, there's a dog in there with him. I wonder what HIS crime was (I mean the dog)? Also, I saw this film with my wife and she hated the original ending that I read from the SPOILER on IMDb's trivia--I think it sounded great! But, the studio thought this downbeat ending would irritate audiences--and it probably would have--though it would have given the film a nice twist. "},{"Title":"Fascinating anti-western with great performances and subtexts","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" One-Eyed Jacks is one of those films thats so thematically fascinating that the flaws (which there are plenty of) are forgivable. Not consistently satisfying but always intriguing, Brando's directorial debut comes highly recommended. Its a point between the earlier cowboy films (such as those with John Wayne) and the later anti-westerns that dabbled in existentialism (Sam Peckinpah), and its interesting to see how traditional and ahead of its time it manages to be. Also, the subtext of how no man is strictly good or evil but will always degenerate into either is quite nicely etched. Fans of more low-key, character-driven, and overall intelligent westerns will appreciate this. Others may be checking their watch.Marlon Brando's direction is decent but the source of many of the film's shortcomings (his sense of pacing is in particular poor). The film could've been a masterpiece if Stanley Kubrick had stayed in the director's chair. Fortunately, the acting is very good. Brando isn't at his best, but offers a compelling characterization. Always upstaging him though is Karl Malden, in a performance both hiss-worthy yet human. It ranks with his best work. Also, both Katy Jurado and Pina Pellicer offer very sympathetic roles (unlike earlier westerns, the women are the sole voices of reason here). The supporting cast is full of familiar faces, such as Ben Johnson, Slim Pickens, and my personal favorite Timothy Carey. One-Eyed Jacks isn't perfect, but its always interesting. I'd rather watch an interesting failure than successful tripe any day. (8/10) "},{"Title":"One Eyed Jacks is a trio of aces","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Saw it last evening for the 2nd time and was blown away by the fact that it is not like a shoot em up western but allows for the characters to build their stories. One of the most beautiful movies to look at.Brando shines as an actor and does a remarkable job directing the film. there are touches in everyone's performance which seem like they have been made up at that very instant, a typical brando trademark.Brando looks great and his line - dont be doin her like that, in the saloon is an absolute delight. the menace that he conveys by just saying it dead pan, is chilling...The story is that brando and malden rob a bank in Mexico and are on the run, brando stays back to stall the Mexican law enforcement people, while Malden goes to get fresh horses. Malden decides not to go back ( a beautiful scene which shows how money blinds all) and keep the loot for himself.Brando is imprisioned and breaks out after 5 years and goes looking for revenge. Malden has become a sheriff and has married a Mexican and has a step daughter (pinna pellicer - beautiful). Brando comes back and plays Malden saying that nothing happened to him...then the story unfolds.Has a whiplashing scene which has to be seen to be believed. A brilliantly acted and directed western. Was a box office hit but could not be termed so outright coz brando's inexperience behind the camera made the shoot linger on and on...he took time to make the film but it was well worth the time. A great supporting cast - with Ben Johnson delivering a cracker performance.Brilliant!! Its a pity he dint direct more often... "},{"Title":"Marlon Brando's debut as a director","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"     One-Eyed Jacks was the first and the last film Marlon Brando ever directed. First the project was assigned to Stanley Kubrick, but soon he dropped it and went to direct Spartacus instead with Brando substituting him. It's quite a fine Western beautifully shot mainly in California seaside. The film's story mainly concerns the friendship, betrayal and revenge themes thus following the traditional Western story pattern.     Rio (Marlon Brando) and Dad Longworth (Karl Malden) are two friends and notorious outlaws on the run from the authorities after a recently committed robbery. Things start to look pretty bad when they find themselves trapped in the mountains. Dad manages to escape by betraying his friend and letting him to be captured. Rio soon is convicted and spends several years in prison from where he eventually escapes. Striving for revenge, he immediately starts trying to find out the whereabouts of his treacherous friend, very soon discovering that he is no longer a bandit but a very respectable sheriff in a town in South California.   The first half of the movie is smoothly paced and looks quite excellent with a number of good action sequences, touches of suspense and perfect comic moments provided not only by witty dialog lines but also by outstanding performance from Marlon Brando. But as the story draws to its conclusion the film louses its freshness and starts to become a bit too slow. Nonetheless with all its flows it's still a very remarkable Western that provides quite a pleasant and memorable viewing experience. A must-see for any Marlon Brando or Western fan. 8/10  "},{"Title":"Jack of all trades","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Whatever the problems were in making this Movie, certainly they didn't interfere with the out-come, One Eyed Jacks is a great Western. During it's production there seemed to be some running over budget, and others( notably Marlon Brando ) running out of patience, with percieved ideas about where the Movie was heading, particularly in the film's early stages. But the end result is the one we are interested in, and we're not let down by all who took part in it, in particular Brando, who along with many other chores gives us a fine portrayal of Johnny Rio, the betrayed and vengeful bank robber. Karl Malden as always presents us with an equally fine performance as Dad Longworth, who as Rio's friend betrays him then spends the next five years looking over his shoulder. Along with some spectacular cinematography by Charles Lang, the film has it's fair share of action also, as we see Rio's short fuse explode losing his cool with Bob Amory, played by the ever reliable Ben Johnson, and Lon Dedrick, played brilliantly by Slim Pickens. I particularly like the scene when Rio breaks out of his cell after bluffing Dedrick with an empty Derringer. The interaction between them is fantastic, and they didn't hold anything back either with Dedrick getting a smart kick up the backside after he was jammed in the back by Rio forcing him on his knees. The film bogs down a little in the middle stages when the relationship between Rio and Louisa, played by Pina Pellicer, begins to blossom. There seems to be too many shots of Brando giving us dialogue that could have been condensed into something a touch sharper and perhaps a little shorter also. Notwithstanding that however, One Eyed Jacks is a great Western, decorated with the presence of stars Brando and Malden, and one also where we could be forgiven for asking.......just who was the Director?...........Who cares. "},{"Title":"One of the great westerns","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  While revenge is certainly a plot mover, the McGuffin, the title tells what the film is about people are often not  what they seem to be. One-Eyed Jacks, where we see only one side of the two-faced.The photography is beautiful, with exquisite shots of the California coast.Brando proves that his reputation and attitude are appropriate. He knows well what movies are all about. "}{"Title":"The Western genre transformed","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" One-eyed Jacks' is the only film directed by Marlon Brando. A 1961 western set distinctively on the Californian coast. The Big Sur booming away as a fatal ground-note to the drama. Brando is superb and looks devastatingly beautiful and charismatic. Apparently he disowned the studio cut picture. His preferred version, now lost,was five hours long. included a tragic ending and pointed up the ambivalent morality of the characters, including the 'hero'. It is still a wonderful film though I can see what he meant but I think enough of his film remains. Slim Pickens is wonderful in it as a boorish lump of a deputy sheriff. One scene has 'Kid Rio' lashed to a horse rail and flogged with a bull whip by Malden's character, 'Dad Longworth'. This isn't the first time that the Calvary is invoked in the film. I was glad the studio insisted on the upbeat ending. Brando and his girl virtually riding off into the sunset. The actress was a wonderful, young Mexican woman, Pina Pellicar, who had a relationship with Brando around this time but killed herself two years later "},{"Title":"The film as metaphor","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Brando's social awareness came through vividly for me in the scene where his Mexican sidekick, after bearing the greaser insult, reaches for his gun only to find it empty of cartridges and is killed. The gun had been emptied previously by the bad guy. So what we see is today's (1961)Mexican immigrant rendered powerless by the white establishment and when he attempts to respond to violence is unable to defend himself and is killed. I'm not Hispanic but that scene hit me like a ton of bricks. On the other hand Brando resorted to some film cliché as in his girlfriend's wardrobe. When they meet for the first time she is wearing a virginal white dress. Later, when it turns out that she is pregnant with Brando's child, she is wearing a red outfit. "},{"Title":"Hardened criminal falls for senorita","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Good western featuring Karl Malden in his usual nasty, backstabbing role. Brando was good as the brooding gunslinger who was bent on revenge until he fell for a Mexican girl. Not a lot of action, but the little that did occur was realistic and well done, especially for a film made in 1961. A little slow in spots as the love angle was built, but over all this was a fine picture.  "},{"Title":"A Real Look at the Old West","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  A terrific movie that grasps the viewer's attention from the opening frames and  throughout. Both Brando and Malden give performances  worthy of their star status.The character development and the unveiling of some less than honorable human conduct give the viewer a realistic look at the evolution of the old west.From a purely personal standpoint, Slim Pickens has to be mentioned as providing one  of the best character performances seen in a very long time. "},{"Title":"Best Western Ever","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" See, only a drooling moron (or one unfamiliar with the conventions of the Western genre) would call this anything other than what it was and is; a utter masterpiece. Even to this day, One Eyed Jacks stands against the titans of the Western Genre. I prefer it to Tombstone and Unforgiven rolled up in Silverado, True Grit and The Sons of Katie Elder. I don't hold any or all of those movies as I hold One Eyed Jacks....this movie was awesome. Coldest betrayals, Lolita-esquire dimension of sensual tension, multidimensional characters (Brando succeeded at what he feared his producers removed from the movie by cutting it down), true western atmosphere in the 1880's Sonora, San Fellipe, and Monterrey.Complaints of it being 'slow'....what the hell do you mean? It's pacing is one of it's best features! Anyone complaining of Brando mumbling needs their ears checked. This movie accomplishes more in a single scene without a shot to send your suspension of disbelief flying than any western I have ever seen. Tension is taut and even exceeds expectation (if the movie ever got predictable, it was towards only the last 12 minutes, and barely even that, a difficult trick with Westerns.) A note on the 'vain' thing; since Brando had to step in and direct this film, and he has a lot of characters (including Rio, his own) doing stirring, piercing gazes into the camera, he was charged with vanity. So what? Hey, check out Braveheart if you have a problem with this sort of thing. It happens. You will thank your lucky stars to be looking into Brando's eyes as he method-acts his simmering fury. You will sit on the edge of a tornado of impending death.I can't comment on the fight scenes, except to say that they are particularly original and bad ass. Who knew Brando had the moves? This movie was the real, real deal. You are a lucky sum-bitch to get this in your hands, and I'm out looking for the DVD for my collection now. "},{"Title":"Marlon Brando,  directed by Marlon Brando.","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" When I think about westerns and great western actor, Marlon Brando is not the first name that comes to my mind. He did actually star in an handful of westerns throughout his career but it's of course not the stuff that he is know for as an actor. In that regard that movie is already an interesting watch but added to this also gets the fact that this movie got directed by Marlon Brando as well. It's the only movie as well that he directed during his career.And I'm kind of glad Brando sticked to directing just this one movie. It's not like the end result is a bad movie but I just can't really call this movie a well directed one to be honest. The movie is definitely overlong and dragging in parts and the movie and its story don't always flow too well, which is also due to the addition of some needless shots at times.The movie was actually original supposed to be directed by none other than Stanley Kubrick but he left the project after creative differences, which allowed Marlon Brando to take place in the director's seat. And he really shot away, which caused the first cut of the movie to be around 5 hours long. Luckily the end result got trimmed down but it's still being a long watch.With Marlon Brando at the helm, you know that this is not going to be just a typical and average western. And it also really isn't! As a matter of fact, this is a western that is not western like at all. It doesn't have the typical feel or look and it also picks a totally different approach. It's more a character driven movie, that allows all of the actors to shine and the movie to be filled with lots of dialog. When getting more accustomed to this style and approach, it actually starts to work out quite well and refreshing. It's a sort of movie that literally really could had been set at any time, at any place. So calling this movie just a western hardly seems to cut it.It's a nice looking, with not some typical western locations. It actually takes place along the beach-side, which is not a much seen sight in a western. Marlon Brando did really seem to have an eye for detail, which gives this movie also a more or less artistic looking touch to it as well.But the movie still remains a really flawed one, which is mostly due to its overlong story. Not everything that is happening in this movie is very interesting or convincing enough and while watching it you'll notice lots of moments that could had easily been left out. It really makes One-Eyed Jacks a bit of a long sit at times but in the end it luckily is still for most part a rewarding viewing experience. I didn't expected this after the first 30 minutes or so but this is a movie I really ended up liking and I can certainly appreciate it as well, despite all of its flaws.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Erroneous script quote","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The the final line of script quoted for the scene Modesto is attempting to stop Bob from double crossing Rio is erroneous. Bob I'm real disappointed in you, Modesto; pulling' a gun on an old saddle pal like that. Chico One more word and I will kill you! BobOne more word, huh? Let me see if I can think of one. How about g-r-e-a-s-e-r? Greaser? Modesto pulls his trigger and realizes that Bob has unloaded his gun during the night. Bob Lookin' for these, Modesto?- throws cartridges at him Harvey Eat 'em, greaser. Chico Banditos! Bob You had a good life, Modesto. (shoots him) The final line spoken by Bob should read You had a good life, CHOLLO. "},{"Title":"One Eye On the Focus Groups","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" As visually beautiful, as deeply performed, and as daringly gritty, you may walk away from Marlon Brando's One-Eyed Jacks with a sour taste in your mouth, simply because of the Hollywoodized happy ending to an otherwise dark and violent tale of violence, greed, betrayal, and sociopathology. OEJ is a dark nugget of evil wrapped in an appealingly presented western package.I got my copy of One-Eyed Jacks from the dollar bin at Wal-Mart, yet another diamond in a pile of zirconia. With its long and carefully told narrative, and wide-screen visuals, I knew I had a Grade-A movie here. Marlon Brando is rivetingly greasy and petty in his portrayal of a small-time hood who has a score to settle with the prim and proper sadist Karl Malden. Despite Brando's grimy criminality, he carries within his heart an angry desire for justice, first for just himself, and then for the woman he learns to love.There are moments of violent revenge that are stunning and horrifying, considering the movie was made a half decade before the first of Sergio Leone's breakout Spaghetti Westerns. It isn't just bad enough Malden whips Brando to a shredded wreck, he then crushes his hand under his corrupt lawman's boot. I shuddered when that happened . . . and realized how much I wanted this movie to continue being really, really good.With Brando's mutilation comes a need for revenge, and justice. Brando feels more than just the need to kill Malden but to rid the world of Malden. You don't hear him espouse some grandiose reason for training for and then hunting down Malden (he just wants to kill him), yet you know he's toying with the idea of how much better the world would be for him, his girl, and the town of Monterey, with Malden ventilated.The big shootout is inevitable, and Malden dies, frenzied and bordering on the hysterical, but the studio execs decided to end the movie, not with the bitterness of a revenge tale--it's obvious they forced director Brando to end the story with a burst of happy-crappy. The good guy wins with nothing more than an arthritic hand and a bunch of scars on his back.One-Eyed Jacks screams for an ending that is as caustic as its main body, but I guess we're just too dumb out here in the hinterland to tolerate tragedy mixed with victory.It's a small gripe in relation to the whole picture, but you may go away feeling just a bit cheated, you scum-sucking pig! "},{"Title":"Not Brando's best but still very good.","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  As far as acting goes this is a great film as Brando and Malden out do the whole film alone.   The DVD is not the best of all pictures, actually I think it's pretty fair to say that it is bloody awful for DVD quality but still watch able and I do mean watch able.   The landscapes in the film is what stunned me the most and kept my attention as it will you also but you feel Brando spent to much time in front of the camera than behind it and didn't give out the best direction which he could have. It is very powerful film but there are other things which do distract me from the film a lot of the time.  The music when it comes to slow pace moments is very good with the Mexican guitar floating the background but when it comes to fights and other action pieces the music becomes quite laughable and dated and I am someone who has never taken kindly to that type of sound at the time.   Western fans will love this and so will Brando fans as he plays characters he has played before but this time he comes with a horse and hat.  A powerful piece but nothing to get excited about. "},{"Title":"BEST WESTERN EVER MADE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This is true spellbinding stuff. A Great story, depicting the sad tale of Rio (Marlon Brando) and his quest to get even with the evil Dad Longworth (Karl Maldon) for the betrayal of some stolen lute, friendship and trust. The one an only film directed by Marlon Brando, is a film of epic proportions, that twists and turns until you feel eventual sympathy with the Rio character, after all the nastiness of the ill fated outlaw he once was. Excellently shot using panoramic views of the Pacific Ocean as a backdrop, a stirring film score, taught direction, A moody and magnificent Marlon Brando, The sultry Pina Pellicer, (who sadly died shortly after the film) A rousing story...and I just love the script, This film has it all. A follow up would have been super, but alas it wasn't to be. So sit back and enjoy One Eyed Jacks, and don't let the critic books put you off. So go on! Make that saturday night special watch this movie now! "}{"Title":"Pina Pellicer and Brando Aces over jacks!","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  What an outstanding film! Particularly for one I hadn't heard of until I taped it from AMC a while back. As much of a jerk as Marlon Brando always was/is, you can't deny his talent and charisma. His performance here as Kid Rio was total dynamite. Karl Malden was good, but not great as Dad Longworth. Ben Johnson, in a supporting role, was excellent, as usual. This movie is also worth seeing for the performance of Pina Pellicer as Louisa. She totally nailed her role. A few interesting things about this movie. Very rare for a Western to be set along the coast. No real reason for that. The photography was very good, and used the unusual setting to great effect. Brando's direction was perfectly adequate. He got cutesy at the very beginning, with the credits segueing into the town through a window, but after that I never really noticed the direction, which means that it was good.  "},{"Title":"Brando directs.","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Marlon Brando's one-and-only attempt at directing.  It's rather formulaic, but the last 45 minutes are pretty decent nonetheless.  Brando and his best friend, played by Karl Malden, are bank robbers.  They're trapped on a butte with only one horse.  Malden takes the gold and goes to get fresh horses. That's where the trouble begins.  Brando's already starting to look old.  Quite a contrast from Streetcar 10 yrs. earlier. "},{"Title":"One-Eyed Jacks","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This was the only film the great Marlon Brando ever directed, featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, at the time it was seen as a bit of a disaster, both financially and because of its controversial material, but these days it is seen a classic of the genre. Basically a bank robbery is carried out by Rio, also called The Kid (Marlon Brando), Dad Longworth (Karl Malden) and third man Doc (Hank Worden), they are successful, but Doc is attacked and killed by Mexican Rurales, the other two manage to get away, followed by a posse in the desert. They travel across going across danger terrain with the swag bag, but Dad leaves his partner to the mercy of the Rurales, they take Rio and he is arrested, and for the next five years while in Sonora prison he thinks of nothing but exacting revenge on the man who betrayed him. When he is released he finds out where Longworth is, and since the robbery he has since become the sheriff of Monterey, California, when they meet Dad tries to convince him of his reasons for leaving him behind in Mexico, but he again tries to deceive him. With new partners Chico Modesto (Larry Duran) and Bob Amory (Ben Johnson) joining him, Rio plans to rob the bank of Monterey, but when he falls in love with Longworth's stepdaughter Louisa (Pina Pellicer) his plans are sidetracked, and Dad catches him and viciously whips him in front of the entire town. While recovering from hi wounds he struggles with conflicting emotions about his love for the girl and the man he wants to exact revenge, he chooses to go ahead and get his vengeance, but the robbery is carried out without him, Emory kills Chico during it, and the heist goes wrong with an innocent person murdered. Rio is falsely accused of the crime and put in jail by Longworth, who is desperate to kill the man he betrayed to get over his feelings about what he did in the past to him, so he will have him hanged in two days. Louisa visits the man she loves in prison to tell him that she is expecting his baby, and she attempts to smuggle him a miniature pistol, and he manages to bluff his way out, pointing the empty gun at Deputy Lon Dedrick (Slim Pickens), stealing his loaded gun and knocking him out to lock him up and escape. With no choice but to get out of town and run away Rio and Longworth get involved in a small shoot out, Dad is killed in the final showdown, and in the closing scene Louisa watches Rio ride away into the dunes, knowing he is a wanted man, and he says a fond farewell to the town, but to wait for him in the spring. Also starring Katy Jurado as Maria Longworth, Sam Gilman as Harvey Johnson and Timothy Carey as Howard Tetley. Brando, who apparently took over from Stanley Kubrick (who left to do Spartacus) does a pretty good job of directing, and as the lead character set on revenge but held back by love he is suitable, and Malden proves a surprisingly nasty presence compared his other much more laid back roles. The story is just about easy to understand, apart from the political and law related stuff, the concept is not completely original but has the right material to keep you watching, such as sadism and perversity, the picture quality is questionable, but it is a most interesting western. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Cinematography. Very good! "},{"Title":"Dad Longworth and Rio the Kid","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Western outlaws Marlon Brando (as Rio) and Karl Malden (as Dad) are stuck with one horse, after a bank robbery and shoot-out. Instead of sharing, they draw lots to see which will take the horse, and come back with another. After a back-handed contest, the winner, Mr. Malden, decides to bolt. Unfortunately, Mr. Brando winds up in the Mexican hoosegow. Five years later, Brando is out of jail. He finds Malden has become a respectable sheriff and befriends him, while plotting his revenge. Things get complicated when Brando gets down with Malden's nubile stepdaughter, Pina Pellicer (as Louisa).If Brando wanted to direct, he should have considered beginning with a film NOT starring Marlon Brando. Since he didn't, we're left with hours of Brando directing Brando&#x85; spitting, strutting, shooting, and suffering... If any of this were a screen test, he's pass both acting and directing with flying colors. The cinematography, by Charles Lang Jr., is very beautiful. Alas, the film is too long and oblique. The characters seem to versions of the often-filmed Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid, with a tendency more toward the Oedipal than the homosexual. They, and the other men in the cast are all One-Eyed Jacks in that they only show one side of themselves; and, they can only sleep safely with one eye open.Brando calling Ben Johnson, You scum sucking pig! reveals that expression has been around.***** One-Eyed Jacks (3/30/61) Marlon Brando ~ Marlon Brando, Karl Malden, Ben Johnson, Katy Jurado "},{"Title":"Half hearted attempt at trite story","Date":"4 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I love Westerns. Westerns are the greatest genre of films, and they've been perfected by those who knew that Westerns were meant to be escapism with the great scenery.This clunks because of the tired story line.We have the (yawn) Hell bent for Revenge ex con again (yawn), and yes, it was the tritest of all story lines ever since Hollywood began making films. Here, we have Brando playing the main character. Malden is the antagonist.However, Brando's character is such a punk, we stop caring mid way through the movie. He does have some three dimensional regrets, but not enough considering that he'd rather spend his life on revenge instead of have sex with beautiful women. This gay ex con just doesn't hold any credibility to a heterosexual male viewer, and makes the movie look like a Monty Python farce.In fact, it is the more three dimensional character played by Malden that we actually pull for, and that's just because he isn't the super punk played by Brando.Given this, we can't possibly excuse the super powers of Brando in tricking a super stupid character into releasing him. We just don't care enough about these trite circumstances to even be interested, and it makes this look like a farce, too.The film makers do make an effort, and that really makes it worse, because of their failure. "},{"Title":"One Eyed Jacks","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Brando acts and directs in this dull western that has no real plot but revenge. Malden is forced to overacting as Brando's object of vengeance. Poorly edited and shot with something only a step up from a Polaroid.  "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I was surprised to see the 7.1 (as of the time of this writing) rating for this movie. Really, I found it to be just plain bad. The dialog is nothing to write home about. The acting of Brando is ridiculous. The plot is full of holes. The worst part, however, is the editing. The scenes seem cut together haphazardly. There's very little exposition, and the audience is left to infer what they should be feeling based on vague references. The main character is on a hunt for his old-friend because he was double-crossed. It's not served up as just simple revenge, though, there's an implied depth of emotion that is never earned by the protagonist. There's one scene in which Brando's character sacrifices his freedom for his friend, but there's very little explanation as to why he would do such a thing. There's not enough back-story to make this sacrifice believable. We're just thrown into the scene and expected to absorb the understood history between the men. Then his friend leaves him for dead. This would be fine if the scenes prior to that hadn't had him wasting precious time (with him barefoot and on the run) to find Brando, waiting for him to retrieve his ring (let's not talk about the realism of a stuck-up aristocratic RICH female STRANGER suddenly allowing Brando's character to grope her simply because he gave her a crappy ring), and then sticking with him through a chase scene where any seasoned criminal would know it's better to split up.This movie is horrible. "},{"Title":"His only directorial effort, Maybe that's a good thing","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Reading the other reviews of this movie makes me wonder if we've all seen the same show.I can't say much to recommend this one. A weak-to-nonexistent plot, corny dialog (and acting), and editing that's clumsy at best, I just can't come up with anything to praise about it.Wearing more makeup than he had since Teahouse of the August Moon Brando mumbles his was through a disjointed, schmaltzy, depressing, and Boring few hours.If you're a student of Brando you might need to see this, just to get an idea of what he was like at his nadir. Otherwise, don't bother. It's really not worth it... "}]