[{"Title":"Vincent Price is wonderful!!","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I just recently discovered the Pit and the Pendulum after a friend recommended it.  I watched the video on a dark and windy night and I was absolutely chilled!  It was wonderfully atmospheric, beautifully filmed, and the suspense kept mounting right up until the climatic end. >Vincent Price was terrific, bringing such sympathy to this role.  I think any other actor would have easily been over the top, but Price keeps it in check.  John Kerr was properly aggressive as the over wrought brother and the other actors were just as impressive.This type of movie making just confirms to me that you don't need a shameless amount of blood and guts to be terrified.   I know I'm going to have a grand old time checking out Price's other movies! "},{"Title":"One of the spookiest and most frightening of the Roger Corman Poe adaptations. A must see for all horror buffs.","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  'Pit And The Pendulum' sees  b-grade legend Roger Corman ('Little Shop Of Horrors'), talented suspense writer Richard Matheson ('The Incredible Shrinking Man'), and horror master Vincent Price ('The Tingler') try and recreate the success of their first Poe adaptation 'House Of Usher'. And they do so admirably, '... Pendulum' being even better than the excellent '... Usher'. Matheson cleverly expands upon Poe's original tale by also mixing in elements from the earlier movie, 'The Premature Burial' and other Poe classics. John Kerr is the one weak link in this first rate thriller. An actor I'm not familiar with, he is dull and not all that good. Much better is Antony Carbone (who Corman fans will recognize from 'A Bucket Of Blood') as Price's doctor pal, and the underrated Luana Anders ('Dementia 13', 'Easy Rider') as Price's sister. Price himself is wonderful as usual as the tormented Don Medina, and an added bonus is the appearance of enduring cult figure, and one of the most beautiful actresses in movie history, Barbara Steele ('Black Sunday', 'Shivers'). Steele doesn't get as much screen time as one would wish but it's a joy to see her work alongside Price, sadly their only movie together. 'Pit And The Pendulum' is one of Corman's best horror movies, and one that will surprise many viewers today with just how atmospheric and creepy it still is. An extremely underrated film (as are Corman's other 60s Poe adaptations), and one that is a must see for all horror buffs. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the finest Corman & Price collaboration.","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Following the sudden death of his sister, Francis Barnard (John Kerr) travels to Spain to question her husband, Don Nicholas Medina (Vincent Price), son of a notoriously barbaric Inquisitor. Medina openly mourns the death of his wife but Barnard is unconvinced by his story and is determined to discover the truth.Proceeding from 'The Fall of the House of Usher' (1960), director Roger Corman's second film in his now-famous cycle of Edgar Allan Poe adaptations was this delightfully lurid and lavish offering that can at once be both repugnant and resplendent. 'Pit and the Pendulum' is a uniquely and profoundly visual experience. Dazzling colour and abhorrent darkness coalesce to invoke the most unpleasant aura of trepidation. The luxuriant cinematography of Floyd D. Crosby coupled with the artistic eye of Corman merge eminently, ensuring that mood and atmosphere remain constant and that the viewer feels the agony of the events depicted on-screen. Furthermore, Richard Matheson's screenplay is both intelligent and eloquent and Corman makes full use of what he is gifted here. The pacing of the film is superb, constantly moving onwards, never lingering too long and remaining thoroughly enthralling throughout. Truly this film is perfect in presentation and direction.Sadly, there are imperfections in the performances of the cast, most notably John Kerr whose continually wooden, dull and tepid acting is too explicit for a leading role. Similarly, while the linguistical talents of Vincent Price lend themselves to an almost Shakespearean delivery of his lines, he occasionally allows himself to sink into ham-acting which detracts somewhat from the more serious nature of the film. However, minus these minor distractions, the performances of the cast are more than adequate to support what is in essence a strongly visceral experience. Luanne Anders and Anthony Carbone offer masterful performances in their supporting roles and cult-favourite, Barbara Steele, makes short appearances as Medina's deceased wife.If the Corman/Price collaborations are to horror what the Scorsese/De Niro collaborations be to drama then this may well be Corman's 'Goodfellas'. A sublime entry into the genre that offers numerous thrills and chills, inherent beauty and one of the strongest screenplays to grace Sixties horror cinema. What few flaws that there are cannot truly undermine the hard work that went into making this magnificent horror film. "},{"Title":"Another great Gothic horror!","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Right after the success of House of Usher, director Roger Corman wanted to make another adaptation of an Edgar Allan Poe's story, The Masque of the Red Death, however, he felt that it was not the time for that project and decided to make the short story Pit and the Pendulum. Reunited with Vincent Price and most of the crew of his previous film, Corman crafted another brilliant entry in the Gothic horror sub genre and a film that proved that the praise for House of Usher was well-deserved and not a mere lucky strike.The plot follows Englishman Francis Barnard (John Kerr) on his trip to Spain as he has received news of the death of his beloved sister Elizabeth (Barbara Steele). At his arrival, he is informed by Elizabeth's widower, Nicholas Medina (Vincent Price), that she died of a strange blood disease, but strange events begin to happen and both men will discover the strange mystery hidden behind the walls of Medina's castle.Written by frequent collaborator Richard Matheson, the film is not really a faithful adaptation, it is a cleverly written story that fuses many different Poe's short stories in one. The story unfolds nicely and as in the previous film, the characters are the film's soul. Matheson perfectly forms the bonds and relationships between them and none is left without a time to shine. The mystery of Elizabeth's death and Medina's castle is very well-handled and the unexpected climax is a classic horror moment. Once again Matheson delivers a terrific script that captures Poe's obsession with ancient buildings and Gothic settings.Despite the low-budget, Roger Corman manage to surpass what he achieved in House of Usher taking care in every little detail, with the lavish sets and gorgeous cinematography making the film look as beautiful as a canvas. The films of the so-called Poe cycle are almost always labeled as his best and not without a reason, as they prove that Corman was not a mere director of low-grade cheap films. He was truly a daring and inventive artist and this film remains as one of his most powerful masterpieces.The cast this time is superb, with Vincent Price taking the lead role with great talent and powerful presence. With ease he can go from melodrama to utter horror and his melancholic over-the-top melodrama was right at home in Poe's adaptations. John Kerr makes a terrific counterpart and his performance is very believable. As a stranger in a strange-land, his character brings balance to the film and Kerr makes the most of it. The beautiful ladies Barbara Steel and Luana Anders show off not only their beauty, but also their talent. Steel's aura of mystery suits perfectly the atmospheric horror of the film and Anders displays her talent for melodrama.The film is near perfect and a great joy to watch. Never dull nor boring, the film captures the Gothic horror of Poe's stories and gives them homage in a grandiose way. A big improvement over the first of Corman's Poe films, it's hard to find a flaw in it as nearly everything is its right place. From Price's on-screen presence to the wonderful sets, Pit and the Pendulum is a masterpiece of low-budget film-making, a movie that looks even better than most of the big studios productions.Pit and the Pendulum proved to be up to its reputation and it quickly became a favorite of mine. Personally, the discovery of this gems has drastically changed my idea of Roger Corman's work, as this group of films prove that this man is a serious artist who knew how to make a movie that was an economic and a artistic success. This film is another great Gothic horror treasure. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Magnificent Gothic horror masterpiece!","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" From horror's premier team of Roger Corman, Vincent Price and, of course, Edgar Allen Poe comes this menacing, macabre and suspenseful tale of insanity, death and betrayal. This film is certainly one of, but maybe even 'the' finest Corman-Poe film. It's Poe at his most devilishly malicious as it deals with themes of torture, and the most frightening method of death known to man; being buried alive. As usual, Vincent Price takes the lead role as the tortured soul of the piece, this time playing Nicholas Medina; the son of the Spanish inquisition's most notorious torturer. All is not well for Nicholas, as his beloved bride, Elizabeth, has killed himself and the notion that she may have been buried alive has tortured the torturer's son to the brink of insanity. We enter the fray as Elizabeth's brother comes to the castle in search of answers to discover the fate of his sister...Through a great Gothic atmosphere and gorgeous lavish sets, Roger Corman has created a macabre masterpiece from Poe's classic tale. Vincent Price is superb (again!) as the almost insane son of a madman. As usual, he captures the essence of his character and through his stark tone that was made for the horror genre; and he gets his portrayal spot on. Horror fans can thank god that Vincent Price decided to become an actor, as any other actor simply couldn't have pulled off this performance like Price did (as is the case with most of Price's resume). Price is joined by Barbara Steele (of Mario Bava's Black Sunday) and a small cast of unknowns. Steele, unfortunately, doesn't get a lot of screen time and it's a shame because seeing her and price on screen together more would have been a treat.The theme of being buried alive is something that appears to have fascinated Edgar Allen Poe as it appears in a number of his stories and it fascinates me also. It's impossible to imagine the terror of being alone in an enclosed space with nobody or nothing to help you escape and that's what makes it so horrifying, and such a great springboard for a Gothic horror film. This film makes the best of that, with Price's brooding adding all the horror that the subject needs. Corman succeeds in making the subject dreadful as well, as he shows the tomb in which the unfortunate young lady was trapped in, and also through the castle's many corridors and steel doors; it gives the impression that there truly is no escape. The film's flagship sequence - the pendulum scene - is a true masterpiece of horror imagery. For the scene, Corman took out every other frame to give the impression that the pendulum was swinging faster than it actually was. The way the pendulum swings across and gets lower every time depicts another horrible way to die, and through his portrayal of the scene; Corman makes the best of it. The story itself is brilliant, soaked with irony and the bitterness of revenge; it truly is one of Poe's best.I don't need to say it, but I will anyway; see this movie! "},{"Title":"Once upon a time in Spain...","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" One of the many horror flicks that entertained America's moviegoers in the early '60s, Pit and the Pendulum has all that anyone could ask for. In the story, young Francis Barnard (John Kerr) goes to an evil-looking castle on the Spanish coast to investigate the death of his sister Elizabeth (Barbara Steele). Her husband Nicholas Medina (Vincent Price), the son of an inquisitor, has been driven insane by her death. But some questions remain did she really die? And what's really the deal with Nicholas? Of course, the movie's real star ends up being the pendulum. Razor-sharp and menacing as can be, it is one mean mother. Overall, what's particularly neat about this movie is the fact that for a long time, it seems like there's nothing to see...and then they catch you. Everyone likes a Vincent Price movie, but I wouldn't recommend this to anyone who might easily die of fright. It's that good! "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of Gothic horror!","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Pit and the Pendulum is the second of Roger Corman's Edgar Allan Poe's adaptations with a screenplay by Richard Matheson.Vincent Price's performance is an obvious highlight of the film.Legendary horror actresses Luana Anders(Dementia 13)and Barbara Steele(Shivers,Silent Scream,Black Sunday)co-star in this extremely atmospheric chiller.To sum up,The Pit and the Pendulum is one of Roger Corman's finest offerings-it's creepy,unsettling and extremely entertaining.A masterpiece that easily gets 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"One of the Best Roger Corman's Movies","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After the mysterious death of Elizabeth Barnard Medina (Barbara Steele), her brother Francis Barnard (John Kerr) travels from London to Spain and without previous notice he arrives at the castle of her husband Nicholas Medina (Vincent Price). He is received by Nicholas' sister Catherine Medina (Luana Anders) that invites Francis to have dinner with her brother and her.Francis learns that their father Sebastian Medina was a cruel torturer of the Spanish Inquisition and Nicholas is a traumatized man that has witnessed the murder of his uncle Bartolome (Charles Victor) and his adulterer mother Isabella (Mary Menzies) being tortured and killed by his father when he was a kid. During the dinner, the family's friend Doctor Charles Leon (Antony Carbone) unexpectedly arrives and Francis discovers that his sister died of heart attack after visiting the torture chamber in the dungeons. Soon the place is haunted by strange events and Nicholas suspects of his servants Maximillian (Patrick Westwood) and Maria (Lynette Bernay) but Francis is convinced that Nicholas is the responsible for the death of his sister. Pit and the Pendulum is one of the best Roger Corman's movies despite the poor scenario that shakes in many scenes. The last time that I saw this movie was on 16 November 1999 on cable television and today I have just watched it again on DVD. The creepy story of Edgar Allan Poe is still engaging even when the viewer watches more than two times. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) A Mansão do Terror (The Manor of Horror) "},{"Title":"Pit and Pendulum","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A nobleman from England, Francis(John Kerr)comes to an old castle once occupied by a torturer of the Spanish Inquisition, now lived in by his son Nicholas(Vincent Price). Francis is at the castle to find out about how his sister, Elizabeth(Barbara Steele)died and to visit her final resting place. It seems that Francis was informed of his sister's death months after the fact. Nicholas is still grieving in his heart over his wife's untimely demise, but seems to be hiding something and Francis is too intuitive a fellow not to notice. Nicholas tells Francis that his sister died of a blood illness, but once her attending physician arrives, Doctor Leon(Antony Carbone), he says otherwise. Leon tells Francis that his sister died of shocking fright with her heart stopping. There is a torture chamber in the castle once used readily by Nicholas' father Sebastian and he believes that the malignant, benevolent atmosphere took hold of Elizabeth eventually killing her. Nicholas is ashamed and burdened by his father's..and the castle's..past. Before the moment Elizabeth died, she uttered the name Sebastian for which shook poor Nicholas' fragile state to the core. Early in Nicholas' young life(..when he was merely 10 years old)he curiously made his way into father's torture chamber. Hiding in a dark corner when his father enters in with his mother and uncle, young Nicholas witnesses a horrifying sight it has haunted him since. But,to add to Nicholas' misery is some freaky occurrences which offer the possibility that Elizabeth's ghost has manifested itself within the house. Harpsicord playing(her specialty), her voice heard by the maid who was cleaning, Liz's room ram shackled after much noise, etc. Soon, Nicholas will hear his name being beckoned by the voice he believes to be Elizabeth's. But, what Nicholas doesn't know is that there is more than meets the eye and his mental state, which has been severely torn apart slowly over a tormented time, might not can take it. The pendulum sequence when Nicholas has been lost and another identity/personality takes his place placing poor Francis in certain peril is incredibly tense and accomplished with craftsman skill.Corman's lavish, flavorful sets and unique use of color only add to the overall effect of the film. I love how Corman orchestrates flashback sequences. He closes the camera's eye in on a character retelling a past occurrence. The eye opens on the memory as Corman, acknowledging to us that it is of a different time, tints the screen a unique cloudy blue. The film has atmosphere to spare and Price & company are fun to watch. I love the twist at the end, but the pendulum sequence(as I already mentioned above)is the real knock-out of the film. I'd say TPatP has one of the greatest final 20 minutes in horror history. In my opinion, it just doesn't get much better than this. "},{"Title":"It's The Pits!  The Price Is Right In The End, Though!","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Boy, If I hadn't read another review beforehand which suggested hanging around for the end of this film, even if one gets bored early on, I might have given up on it. I'm glad I stayed with it. It's true; the last part is terrific.Once again, Vincent Price, as billed, has the lead and deserves the recognition as he emotes as only he could. The surprise is that Price plays such a wimp in this movie, which is out of character for him in his horror films but then - bang! - his REAL personality comes out. Ole Vinny fooled us all. It's shocking and it's pure Price. You'll love it! Price plays, Nicholas, a guy with a bad family tree. His father tortured people during the Spanish Inquisition and poor Nicholas saw his uncle and mother die, too, in the torture chambers of his father's castle (which is a pretty cool place, by the way)..John Kerr, a horrible actor in this movie, plays a guy (Francis) to comes to the castle to find out what happened to his sister who had recently died. Oh yeah, she was married to Nicholas. That guy just has no luck with relatives.I won't say what happens but involves some neat twists and helps make up for the corny and somewhat-boring dialog of the first hour. Talk about torture, though. The first hour, especially the first 20 minutes, is torture to get through. Then a couple of cool all-blue flashback scenes spiced up things for a few minutes, and then it was snooze time until the last 20 minutes which were great! That last quarter hour is really a hoot for horror fans, especially the last shot! "}{"Title":"A nearly perfect horror film","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Roger Corman's Pit and the Pendulum is simply put one of the greatest genre efforts ever made! This is horror in its purest form with a compelling screenplay, a constant high-tension level and sublime acting performances by a very devoted cast. Roger Corman and Richard Matheson brilliantly continue their ode to Edgar Allan Poe after the fantastic House of Usher with this spooky and uniquely Gothic masterpiece centering on the Medina family. The amazing Mr. Price stars as the tormented Nicolas Medina, a soul torn apart by the fear that his beautiful wife was entombed alive after a frightening acquaintance with the family's vile Inquisition background. The brother of the late beauty travels to the ominous Medina castle and witnesses how insanity and rage slowly comes over Nicolas Medina as he's the victim of betrayal, conspiracies and ghosts from the past. Pit and the Pendulum is a beautiful film that'll impressive you with it's genuine scares and unsettling atmosphere. The photography is astonishing (with a great use of color shades throughout the film) and the scenery made my flesh creep (that pendulum!!). Vincent Price was unquestionably born to play the emotionally devastated Poe-protagonists. Exactly like he gave image to Roderick Usher in the House of... he portrays Nicolas as a weak romanticist, helplessly awaiting his merciless fade. Opposed to him stands the ravishing Barbara Steele who also embodies Poe's typical female character Godly...but fiendish and without faith or loyalty. One of the slight minor points in this film was that I initially hoped to see more Steele screen time. Her role is modest, but remarkable and an excellent successor for her career-highlight Black Sunday. Every film in Roger Corman's Poe-cycle is terrific and probably receives more praise from me than any other horror film, but then still this entry is the most marvelous, alongside the 1964's Masque of the Red Death. This film is a feast for all senses and not one self-respecting horror fan can afford to miss it! "},{"Title":"Matheson's medley","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The movie adapted from Edgar Allan Poe is par excellence a movie made up of sketchesfor instance ,tre passi nel  delirio(Fellini,Malle,Vadim,1968) encompassed three short stories.The problem with Edgar Poe's short stories lies in the fact that they are...short!Here Richard Matheson double-jumped his contemporaries by combining elements from several Poe stories in a single classy film. Some kind of the writer's greatest hits  so to speak.The beloved late wife subject directly comes from Morella which will be filmed by Corman in tales of terror the following year.The doomed house which is slowly sinking down recalls the fall of the House of Usher.Burried alive or premature burial plays a prominent part in the plot too.The walled up character was present in the black cat and the cask of Amontillado.As for the pit and the pendulum,it provides the movie with its final,but it's only a small segment of the whole.The actors are excellent ,the sets wonderfully Gothic,but there's something hollow in these Corman movies.Fellini was able to transcend Poe (eg segment Tobby Dammit in tre passi nel delirio) ,Corman remains a respectful director,and one sees little of the madness which emanates from Poe's best works.The same goes for such works as premature burial or tales of terror.Outside technically,it does not show any improvement on,for instance Jean Epstein's (helped by Luis Bunuel)chute de la maison Usher a silent movie from 1928.   "},{"Title":"Impressive Poe adaption from AIP","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Like most Edgar Allan Poe adaptions, The Pit and the Pendulum only the barely resembles the original text. But if you have read any Poe you could hardly be surprised by this seeing as his stories were very short and had very limited plot-lines. They were more a case of a single horrible idea with a small amount of story surrounding it. In this case, the screenplay was adapted by Richard Matheson who was the writer famous for the novel 'I Am Legend'. He does a good job of fleshing out the story, adding more interesting detail while still incorporating the central idea. It's not until the excellent finale that we really see the material taken from the book but it's well worth the wait as the ending is very strong both in terms of suspense and visual artistry.On the whole, for a low budget movie this looks quite sumptuous. It's consistently nice to look at with great use of colour, including some monochrome flash-back scenes. The sets, costumes and quality of actors are of a high standard. In this sense, it mimics the approach of the Hammer films, whose low budget Gothic horror films similarly had a very polished feel on a similarly low budget. I guess director/producer Roger Corman was intentionally aiming for this and he himself directed a further handful of Poe adaptions for his company AIP; all of which followed the same basic template and were equally impressive productions on a small budget. Of course, it is never going to hurt a film to have Vincent Price on board. He always delivers quality in my opinion and here is no different. He is especially good in the final third once he goes insane and believes himself to be a reincarnation of his infamous father, a notorious torturer from the Spanish Inquisition. Additionally, it can also never hurt a film to have Barbara Steele in it either. She was the queen of 60's Gothic horror and starred in a number of productions. In this one she only has a small role but it's very important and memorable.It's probably a movie that is best defined by its excellent ending though. The first two-thirds build up the tension and intrigue but events spiral to a crescendo in the final third. It's really once we meet the terrifying wonder that is the pit and the pendulum that the movie moves into iconic status. Overall, this is certainly one of the best examples of 60's Gothic horror. "},{"Title":"Another Winner from Corman and Price","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" It certainly is true that they don't make them like they used to. I was blown away by this movie and I think it really does Poe's novel justice. We can only hope that, somehow, movie makers will start to go back to the older styles.Vincent Price does a stellar job as the quiet, yet very creepy Nicholas Medina. There are also great performances from all the rest of the cast. Roger Corman truly knew what he was doing when it came to making movies and adapting Poe's stories to film. This is no exception whatsoever.Anyone who has enjoyed House of Usher, Twice Told Tales, or any other Price/Corman adaptation will find a place in their heart for this film. G check it out already. "},{"Title":"Nice Poe follow-up to House of Usher...Price is terrific...","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Once again VINCENT PRICE is harboring a dark secret about a torture dungeon, a father who sadistically used it during the Inquisition, and a wife who has died mysteriously. JOHN KERR is a young man from England who comes to Spain to find out what happened to his sister.When the story of the Spanish nobleman's boyhood is related to Kerr, you can understand why Price is about to go insane, haunted as he is by witnessing the death of his mother and uncle in the chamber. The plot thickens when it turns out that two of his loyal friends are at the heart of a cruel deception.All the Gothic elements are here in all their clichéd glory the hidden passageways, the steep stairways, the cobwebs and spiders, the handsome castle interiors and all of the interiors beautifully photographed. Les Baxter's music provides an appropriately chilling background score. Roger Corman's direction is a major asset and BARBARA STEELE does nicely as the adulterous wife.Kerr is adequate as the young man inquiring into the death of his sister, but it's Price's show all the way. His mad scene at the end is extremely well handled, a bit over-the-top in many ways, but still effective. The pendulum scene is a nail biter.Summing up Top rate Gothic mystery makes good combination of Poe, Corman and Price once again. "},{"Title":"Terrific Mystery-Horror Classic","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Edgar Allan Poe's 'The Pit and the Pendulum' - it's been a long time since I have seen it - I recalled bits and pieces of the film and remembered it was good, then I re-watched the film recently and I have to say It really is a terrific mystery-horror classic! It's even better than I recalled it to be.Vincent Price is outstanding (as usual) as Nicholas Medina - the tormented soul who witnessed the fact his parents had a dark secret as a child of 10. I cannot say more or I will ruin the film for first time viewers. I must mention the costuming, sets and over all atmosphere - they all are gorgeous! The film feels like a Gothic period piece as it should. The movie is well worth watching if you enjoy Price's films, Poe's stories/poems and a good classic mystery-horror.What an ending! What I recalled most vividly about the movie was in fact the pit and the pendulum. That pendulum is unforgettable!! 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Another excellent Price-Corman collaboration.","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Young Francis Barnard (John Kerr) travels to Spain after learning of the death of his sister Elizabeth (Barbara Steele). There he meets grieving widower Nicholas (Vincent Price), as well as Nicholas's sister Catherine (Luana Anders) and doctor / family friend Dr. Leon (Antony Carbone). Francis is suspicious, and indeed these people don't seem to want to give him too many details. He's determined to get to the bottom of things, but seemingly supernatural occurrences are starting to drive Nicholas mad. As it turns out, Nicholas and Catherine are the offspring of the most sadistic torturer of the Spanish Inquisition.In the second film of his eight film Edgar Allan Poe series, producer & director Roger Corman creates more lavish old dark house atmospherics and visuals with the assistance of his very talented crew, including production designer & art director Daniel Haller and cinematographer Floyd Crosby. He makes this a great Gothic horror in the classic tradition, one that does admittedly start slowly but builds to a hair-raising final quarter. Adapting the Poe story is Richard Matheson, who uses it as the third act in a three act styled script. The dialogue is wonderfully literate, and as always it just flows off of Prices' tongue with the greatest of ease.Most other cast members do fine work, especially Anders, although if one is watching this for Barbara Steele, you must be advised that she doesn't get much to do until that final quarter. Kerr, however, is simply dull and inexpressive most of the time. Fortunately Price does the heavy lifting so passionately that he makes up for that quite easily.Corman begins the film with interesting visuals and it also must be noted that the majority of the credits are saved for the final minutes. The sequence with the pendulum of the title may very well have you on the edge of your seat. The flashback sequences are handled in a very stylish way. And that ending is positively chilling.Highly recommended to all fans of old school horror.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Corman should be truly proud","Date":"24 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Coming second, after The Fall of the House Of Usher (1960), in Roger Corman's six-film series of Edgar Allen Poe adaptations (all but one starring Vincent Price), The Pit and the Pendulum is possibly Corman's greatest film as a director. Shot with a lush, atmospheric mood, Pendulum faces the task of stretching a two-page short story into a credible, 90-minute movie. Working with I Am Legend author Richard Matheson, who helms the script, the film retains the psychological trip of Poe's original, while creating an interesting and ironic plot surrounding a very small group of characters that leads us to Poe's famous pendulum.In 16th century Spain, Francis Barnard (John Kerr) arrives at his brother-in-law's mansion to investigate the unclear and mysterious death of his sister Elizabeth (Black Sunday's (1960) Barbara Steele). Seemingly overcome with grief, Elizabeth's widower Nicholas Medina (Vincent Price) tells Francis that Elizabeth died of heart failure. Francis, however, seems unable to accept this and insists that he stay until he knows the truth. With the arrival of the family physician Doctor Leon (Antony Cabone), Francis slowly unravels the story of the 'heavy atmosphere' of the castle and the torture devices in the chamber, previously owned by Nicholas' father, a notorious torturer in the Spanish Inquisition.Made for just $30,000, the film looks remarkable and the set design is a suitable mixture of the elegant and the grim. The movie noticeably lacks out-and-out scares, and opts for a more thoughtful, psychological approach. You could even go so far as to name the movie a period piece rather than a horror. Although his toes may creep over the ham line occasionally, the film is dominated by the presence of Vincent Price, who delivers a rather hypnotic performance, flicking between creepy, tormented and simply bat-s**t crazy, with relative ease. The only real complaint about the film is the performance of John Kerr, who, although a promising leading man in the 50's, delivers a one-note, forgettable performance, but that is forgivable in a movie so rich in beauty. Corman should be truly proud.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Kinetic and Killer...Early Sixties Horror","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After, some say, a slow start, this is a Creepy Gutwrench of a Film with Director Roger Corman, Cinematographer Floyd Crosby, Writer Richard Matheson, and Score Composer Les Baxter all contributing to the look and feel of this Gothic playground. Of course Vincent Price and Barbara Steele do nothing but enhance this to a Kinetic and Killer early Sixties Horror entry.The Final Act is full of disturbing and penetrating imagery and is bizarre and haunting. The last image on Screen is Legendary. From the opening Psychedelic liquidity, Years ahead of its Time, along with spine tingling Musical Chops, the Audience is Catapulted to another place and Time just this side of the Spanish Inquisition.A brutal and sadistic era of torture and mayhem. The residue remains and has scarred the Psyche of Protagonist Nicolas Medina along with a Freudian Frenzy of Mother and Father Shock. This is the set up and is Disturbing to say the least. It all leads to a Climax of Poetic Justice and for the Time this is Horror Movie Madness at its best. It still holds up quite well and is Low Budget Articism with The Low Budget Artisan Corman Directing this as though it were a Masterwork. Some say it is. The Masque of the Red Death (1964) aside, no argument here. "},{"Title":"Classic Gothic horror  based on Edgar Allan Poe story and  magnificently directed by the prolific Roger Corman","Date":"30 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Entertaining as well as thrilling horror film produced by American International , James H. Nicholson-Samuel Z. Arkoff , with a monumental team of terror , an all-star-cast as Vincent Price and Barbara Steele . Classic Roger Corman picture with eye-popping images and slick direction . When his sister Elizabeth dies suddenly, Francis Barnard (John Kerr) goes to a storm-surrounded stronghold inhabited by his brother-in-law Nicholas Medina (Vincent Price), who lives with his sister (Luana Anders) , to find out exactly what happened to her . Nicholas Medina lives a lonely life since his spouse (Barbara Steele)'s death. In the castle Medina has a torture chamber which was built by his loony dad , whom he now thinks he is . There are various torture instruments such as ¨Iron Maiden¨ and a pendulum (it was made out of wood and had a rubber blade).A stylish and first-rate film , confidently realized , plenty of enjoyable moments and plot twists . This is a true terror movie , it is immaculately staged , stylishly realized , very literate , confidently made and full of attractive scenes . Terror has strangely been more skillfully made than in this agreeable horror Corman directed . The picture packs usual Corman's striking scenarios including mists rise the ground , lugubrious castle , shrieks come from gloomy coffins , waves pound open the shore and vague shapes move behind the dismal mansions gone to the bad . Excellent cast and special mention to Vincent Price chewing the scenario on a loopy screenplay . This standard Corman film was shot in fifteen days and only remotely derived from the classic Edgar Allan Poe story . This was the second of Roger Corman's Poe films . He had intended to do The Masque of the Red Death but felt that it was too close to the content of Ingmar Bergman's recent The Seventh Seal. Several years later Corman would go to England to make ¨The Masque of the Red Death¨ , also following the Poe cycle. The film never had an original prologue. It was added when the film was sold to TV and a further few minutes were required to pad out the running time. Only Luana Anders from the original cast was available so an extra scene of her in a madhouse was filmed and tacked on to the beginning. To increase the pendulum's sense of deadly menace, director Roger Corman took out every other frame during the editing stage making the blade appear to move twice as fast . Frightening and atmospheric musical score by Les Baxter . Colorful cinematography by Floyd Crosby, both of whom are habitual of Roger Corman.The motion picture was well directed by Roger Corman and based on Richard Matheson's screenplay . After his period realizing poverty-budget horror movies such as ¨Swamp woman¨, ¨The beast with a million of eyes¨ , ¨Attack of the crab monsters¨ , ¨Undead¨, then came the cycle of tales of terror based on Poe as ¨ House of Usher¨ , ¨The raven¨ , ¨Tales of terror¨, ¨The masque of the red death ¨ , deemed many of them minor cult . All of them with a great sense of characterization and period , eerily staged , specially in the scenes where heroes and heroines are lured by spirits , spectres or black cats . In these movies repeat the same technicians , assistants as Monte Hellman , musician composers as Ronald Stein and Les Baxter , Daniel Haller as production designer , cameraman as Floyd Crosby , among others . They were realized as vehicles for Vincent Price with the exception of ¨The premature burial¨ with Ray Milland and Hazel Court which was less successful . The last two pictures in the series , ¨The masque of death red¨ and ¨The tomb of Ligeia¨ were filmed in England to combat rising costs . Corman shot some exciting movies after these , but nothing remotely as interesting . Of course , Corman made this undisputed masterpiece , ¨Pit and the pendulum¨ , one of the greatest successes . Rating  Above average, this landmark in Gothic horror is definitively wholesome watching , Corman's achievement to have bent the terror genre with splendid results. "}{"Title":"very creepy and atmospheric","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I loved this movie. Being a Vincent Price fan I bought the DVD which has House of Usher on the other side. I thought Pit and Pendulum even surpassed the very good Fall of the House of Usher. I haven't seen everything Price made, but this is my favorite Vincent Price movie so far. Pit and Pendulum shows why he is a horror icon. I loved the way Corman uses colors especially during dream and flashback sequences. The whole film is very atmospheric and moody. It doesn't look cheaply made at all even though Corman was working on a tight budget. The climatic scene with the pendulum is a real nail biter. I was on the edge of my seat. I wish todays Hollywood could give us a horror movie with this much atmosphere and chills. If you are looking for a suspenseful, Gothic horror movie with plenty of style and chilling atmosphere, this movie is perfect. "},{"Title":"Not too shabby","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It is rare to find a horror movie of yesteryear that frightens you, let alone be taken seriously, but The Pit and the Pendulum succeeded at scaring the bejeezus out of me. A combination of an inventive adaptation of the not-so-scary short story, along with a great score and acting by the cast, especially Vincent Price, made this movie terrifiying and entertaining. If you are ever at the video store, and you see this movie on display, I cannot urge you enough to rent it. 9/10 "},{"Title":"What a SPOOKY movie!!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I just watched this movie in school today and it was fantastic! I thought that Victor Price was great and he is very talented. So was John Kerr and the rest of the actors and actresses. This movie made me get a chill all over. Even my friends thought so. Edgar Allen Poe is a great author! By the way, I'm in junior high. This would be a very spooky movie for Halloween !! "},{"Title":"Can't go wrong with Vincent Price","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" My main attractions to Pit and the Pendulum were Edgar Allan Poe, I love his sense of atmosphere and the fun, haunting writing style, and Vincent Price, who no matter the film or the quality of the script is one of those actors who always delivered. Pit and the Pendulum is an example of both and the genre at their best. Visually, I never really got the sense that it was a limited budget, the Gothic air and the eerie settings worked wonders, and the whole film is directed beautifully. The score is atmospheric, the story, cleverly expanded from Poe's work, is still fun, disturbing and shocking and the dialogue is intelligently arch. The acting is very good. John Kerr is rather wooden, but Barbara Steele is great in her brief appearances and Luana Anders and Antony Carbone are excellent in their supporting roles. Best of all is Price, his distinctive commanding voice, a demeanour that is both scary and sympathetic and almost Shakespearean delivery of his dialogue altogether makes for yet another brilliant performance. Overall, a terrific film, one of Price's best, both in film and performance. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Another rich Poe adaptation","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Vincent Price is once again in his element as Nicholas Medina, the strange keeper of an even stranger castle. This Roger Corman production takes a lot of liberties with Edgar Allan Poe's short story, but the rich atmosphere and excellent cast, including John Kerr and Barbara Steele, make this a memorable classic in Gothic horror. Particularly vivid are the scenes of the castle's torture chamber, a medieval dungeon with all the tools of the trade. The art direction is superb, including liberal use of blood-red, in contrast to the castle's grays. Also noteworthy are the opening and closing credits, which have a psychedelic feel years before such images became a standard. "},{"Title":"What a great setting!","Date":"5 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The second Poe movie was even a better experience for me than the first (The House of Usher). I doubted they could beat the atmosphere of House of Usher but they did. The torture room in the basement with all the gruesome devices covered in dust and spider webs, just great. The story and back story were here also better (deeper more elaborate) than House of Usher. The scenes from the past are shown in flash backs in blueish black and white while the rest of the movie is in color. The time setting is 16th century, the whole interior of the castle and the clothes it all seems true to its era. Those final scenes are marvelous with the elements named in the title being the central point. Not only breathtaking, edge of the seat stuff they are the perfect result of how Vincent Price's character was driven to insanity. Or how bad things that happened in the past get repeated again by future generations. I don't think anyone but Price could have played this role with such charisma as he did. "},{"Title":"The Pit and the Pendulum more than earns its reputation as a horror classic.","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The AIP Poe films are always a pleasure, especially when Roger Corman and Vincent Price are involved. This one, The Pit and the Pendulum, entered production after House of Usher (1960) found unexpected success at the box office. This film is thus more grandiose than its predecessor in both visual scope and action, with Vincent Price turning in a particularly stunning and larger than life performance as both Nicholas Medina and his Spanish inquisitor father. What struck me on my last viewing, and my first with another person, was how subversive the film is by the standards of then-mainstream horror. These Poe films were generally marketed towards a youth audience, yet they contained very mature themes sadism/torture, infidelity, family dysfunction, and childhood trauma. Likewise, Price's grotesque performance in the climax of the film confidently straddles the line between camp and chilling lunacy; his frenzied, almost orgasmic monologue, in which he describes the hellish nature of the titular torture device to its victim, was sure to freak out more than a few kids in the audience. The film may not have been as soul-scarring as the infamous double feature of The Awful Dr. Orlof (1962) and The Horrible Dr. Hichcock (1962), but I'm sure it led to many sleepless nights, and more than a few uncomfortable talks with parents and their children. All that aside, Richard Matheson's script cleverly expands on Poe's original story, introducing both a Gaslight-style plot (or perhaps House on Haunted Hill is a more appropriate reference?) and plenty of Poe motifs, such as premature burial and men haunted by the deaths of beautiful women. Corman's direction is stylish and assured; Floyd Crosby's cinematography is as impeccable as ever; and the Les Baxter score is a strong combination of melodramatic strings, brash scare chords, and dissonant soundscapes. Its reputation as a classic is well deserved. I daresay I like it even more today than I did as a Vincent Price-worshiping child. "},{"Title":"The Pit and the Pendulum (7/10)","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Three legendary figures, one in writing, and one in film-making, and one in acting are responsible for bringing The Pit and the Pendulum to life. It's Edgar Allen Poe's story about a brother struggling to come to terms about how his sister's untimely death happened. He goes to the mansion of Nicholas Medina, played by the magnificent Vincent Price, to look for answers. The Pit and the Pendulum for a 60's movie is attention getting by how powerful and mystique the actors and actresses characters are, and the brilliant story and script that intertwines very nicely. Roger Corman direction was astounding as well, making me realize why he's so acclaimed by his film-making peers. The Pit and the Pendulum is a nice little horror flick that I watched with no expectations and had no regrets spending the time and money to watch it. "},{"Title":"The Razor Edge Of Destiny","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Pit and The Pendulum is an iconic example of what film-makers can do on a relatively low budget. Director Roger Corman's second Poe adaption (he made 8 in all - although 1 was actually based on Lovecraft) is arguably the best of the whole bunch. Edgy, cunningly developed (there are 4 major twists in the plot alone, as well as some minor ones), well photographed and brilliantly directed, Pit builds up to its shocks carefully (these days they'd just throw blood at the screen) and the final sequence is a master-class in how to create cinematic suspense.All this, of course, comes from a story by Poe that runs less than 17 pages - I checked my Penguin edition! What perhaps often escapes viewers, is that the additions to the plot provided by writer Richard Matheson are basically taken from the French 1955 movie Les Diaboliques, which also has a great twist ending (the same twist, in fact!) Yet this movie has 3 more. Twist 1 - Elizabeth Medina really has been buried alive, making her doctor, who stakes his reputation that she wasn't, a bit crap! Twist 2. Aha, Elizabeth is not dead after all, but in league with the dastardly doctor and gunning for her hubby!. Twist 3. Nicholas, supposedly driven hopelessly insane, takes on the persona of his evil inquisitor father( or is he possessed?). Twist 4. Well, it's the final shot of the movie and I'll leave you to discover it for yourself.This is a film that is still frightening today, and of course, where would horror films be without Vincent Price? In truth this isn't one of his best showings, he's over the top in some scenes; but that moment, when Nicholas' comatose expression suddenly takes on an evil smile, is one of the most chilling moments in all movies, and confirms what a great actor Price really was.Pit is a great movie, one I never get tired of watching. It was preceded by House Of Usher and followed by The Premature Burial, Tales Of Terror, The Raven, The Haunted Palace, The Masque of The Red Death, and Tomb Of Ligeia. "},{"Title":"Poe & Price","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The second of Roger Corman's Edgar Allan Poe adaptations stars Vincent Price(again superb) as Nicholas Medina, tormented son of an infamous Spanish Inquisitor who is visited by his brother-in-law Francis Barnard(John Kerr) who demands to see his sister Elizabeth(played by Barbara Steele) He is informed that she has died of a blood disease, but refuses to believe this, and investigates matters himself with distressing consequences...Equally good follow-up to House Of Usher is once again atmospherically directed by Roger Corman and written by Richard Matheson, who create a moody and ultimately tragic tale of fate and madness, with fine production design and a memorable climax and end. "}{"Title":"Classic Saturday night Chiller Theatre","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I grew up on Saturday Night Chiller Theatre that played horror films from the past. The Pit and the Pendulum is a classic.Vincent Price plays the haunted widower who goes mad and is by far the best actor in the entire movie! You just gotta love the cobwebs, candles, shadows,and secret passageways that make up the castle!SPOILER! When you actually see his wife you realize she is trying to gaslight him (another GREAT movie without the Gothic horror element!) you want Price's character to catch her!From 35+ years down the road, I still remember the scene with the pendulum cutting into Kerr's shirt and the last shot of the movie when you see Elizabeth's eyes from within the iron-maiden and hear the words that no one will ever enter the room again. A classic for any thriller movie lover & Vincent Price fan! "},{"Title":"Price, Corman and Matheson, Gothic splendour.","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Upon hearing of his sister Elizabeth's death, Francis Barnard travels to Spain to find out just exactly how she met her end. Arriving at the Medina castle, he finds the Medina family deeply suspicious characters and the castle itself a foreboding place harnessing a deadly past.The Pit And The Pendulum is the second film in the series of Edgar Allan Poe adaptations that director Roger Corman tackled, it's also easily one of the best. Part horror, part dreamy thriller, and of course little dashes of humour, it all comes together so really very well. We open with a beach approach to the Medina castle, a big monolithic structure hulking on a cliff edge, we know from this moment on that unease is about to become our middle name. Once inside the castle it's evident that it is a major player in our story, roaring fireplaces and secret chambers all excellently framed by Corman and his team. A story of madness, deceit and sadistic ancestry then plays out to the full to make The Pit And The Pendulum one of the genres leading lights.Enlisting the brilliant Richard Matheson to flesh out, and extend the Poe short story, the final result is close to being a Gothic masterpiece. Corman again uses Vincent Price as his leading man and he's rewarded with a quite delicious performance from the big man, camp and burgeoning madness going hand in hand like they were always meant to be a team. The rest of the cast are naturally trailing in the shadow of Price's greatness, but a noteworthy mention must go to the good work from Barbara Steele as Elizabeth. Floyd Crosby is again on board for cinematography duties, beautifully realising the lush colour and the doom laden feel of the Medina castle. Corman himself puts in some of his best work here, brilliant use of the camera really adds to the creeping unease that flows within the piece, a stunning POV victim sequence of the pendulum of the title is just one of the many technical highlights on show.A truly smashing and creepy film. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Crown Jewel of the Corman-Price Films","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After the master's wife (Barbara Steele) dies, her brother (John Kerr) comes to find out about how she died. The master (Vincent Price) and his sister give him the runaround. But after a day of questioning and some odd occurrences, the mystery becomes even deeper. What did happen to the master's wife and who is impersonating her as a ghost? Or is the ghost real? This is the second of the many Poe adaptations Price, director Roger Corman and writer Richard Matheson made (after House of Usher) and considered by many to be the best in the series. Horror critics and historians note the influence this one had on Italian horror over the next decade, primarily the works of Mario Bava (who previously worked with Steele) and Dario Argento's Deep Red. In all honesty, the exact source of the influence escapes me. I am not sure what about this particular film caught their attention.Perhaps it was the sprawling set. Huge torture devices, stone staircases, secret passageways. The film had a relatively small budget (requiring sets to be reused from older productions) and short filming schedule, but was able to make do with these setbacks. Or perhaps it is the shocking end shot. Now, I cannot say what that shot is because I do not believe in spoilers... but let us just say the film is pretty tame throughout, but the last second of the movie actually instilled me with a sense of terror. As a horror critic, this is a rare event. Corman saw these films as interior, as happening in the mind rather than reality. He was greatly influenced by Freudian theory both on this film and on the other Poe films. Most of this remains as subtext, and is not visible to viewers. Corman saw the castle as a woman's body and doorways as vaginas, which sounds somewhat bizarre. (He even sees Poe as something of the predecessor of Freud, which is quite a claim!)An earlier scene where a corpse is revealed is a bit of a surprise, but nothing prepared me for what was to come. (There is a foreshadowing earlier in the film, but you will likely miss it during your first viewing.) Price is excellent as always. Some have called his performance in this film hammy and have slammed him for it. And it is hammy at times as his character (Nicholas Medina) begins to go mad. But I feel this works for the film. A bit of comic relief seemed appropriate, particularly from a Poe film (anyone who has ever read The Tell-Tale Heart knows Poe was prone to characters with emotions that are pushed to excess). And the real star is John Kerr, who remains best known for this role. He blends into the character flawlessly, and even accepts the risky task of facing the pendulum in the title. If you think you can get just any actor to have a large blade slice his shirt and risk cutting his flesh, you can think again.The complaint could be made that the Poe series reused a lot of the same ideas. Price plays a similar character in a few of them, and the idea of secret passageways, returning from the dead and premature burial does return. The film has many similarities to Corman's House of Usher (1960), though this is the more grand, opulent and superior film. Both have underground crypts, both have paintings that relate to the characters. The sets are, of course, the same, though slightly expanded. One could question Matheson's ability to diversify his plots, though I do not personally find this a problem. If anything, it helps identify the films as a series and helps them flow from one to the next more seamlessly. If you like one, you will more likely like them all (though some, such as Tomb of Ligeia, are lacking).The brilliant matte shots to make the dungeon and other sets look much larger and more detailed than they really were. Praise must go to Daniel Haller (Night of the Blood Beast) and Harry Reif (whose career goes back to 1936) for this. Haller worked regularly with Corman before going on to become a director himself.Clearly, I endorse and promote this film. Even ignoring the influence this had on the Italian horror subgenre (which will not matter to the average viewer), this is a legitimately good tale with a great cast -- Vincent Price could carry a film on his own (and has on many occasions)... and John Kerr balances him out to provide a teetering of sanity and insanity. If you ever doubted that old films could have the impact or quality of modern films, I encourage you to put this on your list.Now, thanks to Scream Factory, this film is available not only looking and sounding great, but loaded with special features. You want Price himself introducing the film? You got it. You want director and producer Roger Corman providing an audio commentary, giving you even more insight to this already well-documented film? You got it! "},{"Title":"Yikes","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie had me sitting on the edge of my seat. I actually had to turn it off at the pendulum scene. And I LOVE horror movies! However, this movie is terror and not gore. Even though it was made in 1961 I was still frightened by it. Vincent Price is great! What a madman! The other characters were just as good. Although the beginning of the movie took me a while to get into. The movie is not the same as Poe's short story- there are many difference. However that can be expected when a movie comes from a short story. The scenery was great. The costumes were amazing. Now if I can only gather up my nerves to go finish the movie I will be all set. This movie will send chills down anyone's spine.  "},{"Title":"Comments on the DVD","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw The Pit and the Pendulum in 1963 and it scared the hell out of this 14-year-old, just as did The Fall of the House of Usher (still my favourite of the Poe/Corman films).  The sequence that really put a silver streak through my hair and, if we exclude the climatic pendulum scene, the one to stick most vividly in my memory, is when Barbara Steele rises from the tomb and pursues Vincent Price.  She comes out of the tomb and he retreats, she follows, slowly.  She's so close as he stumblingly edges his way down spiralling steps... or does he?  I've just bought the beautifully restored version on dvd, with a commentary by Roger Corman, and she doesn't follow him down the steps at all - instead, he stumbles and falls, landing on the floor of the dungeon.  Is my memory really so bad, or are there two versions of that sequence?Also, neither the packaging on the  box, nor the Corman commentary give any information about the theatrical prologue included on the dvd.  This is a 5 minute sequence that was presumably axed before release.  What was its purpose, who was the actress and who was she portraying? "},{"Title":"Sixties Saw","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Uber-cheap filmmaker Roger Corman found an affinity with Edgar Allen Poe in the early 60s and drummed out this pleasingly Gothic horror, which has actually turned out to be one of this best efforts. Shot in anamorphic Panavision with some lovely matte paintings and composites the film looks more technically sophisticated than his usual fare.Vincent Price plays the sorrowful Spanish nobility mourning the loss of this beautiful wife with gloomy melodrama while the co-actors add to the morbidity with equally glum performances. The castle sets are a bit stiff but have enough atmosphere to make them seem authentic. The nature of the story has a Saw feel to it and is most certainly an inspiration in some regards.At a brisk 81 minutes (and, knowing Corman, probably shot in 81 minutes also) there's no chance of it being boring or overwrought. I even found some of it to be quite innovative, including a clever moment I can see was reused in William Malone's 1999 version of House on Haunted Hill.Not exactly a breathtaking classic horror but it will entertain you if you are stuck for something appropriate on a dark and stormy night. "},{"Title":"One Of Price's Best!","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Vincent Price, John Kerr, Barbara Steele, Luana Anders and Antony Carbone star in Roger Corman's 1961 horror film based on Edgar Allan Poe's novel. Kerr plays Francis Barnard, a man who comes to Spain to visit his sister, Elizabeth (Steele). He arrives at the Medina Mansion owned by her husband, Nicholas Medina (Price) and learns she passed months before due to a blood clot. Francis also meets Nicholas' sister, Catherine (Anders) and friend, Charles Leon who is a doctor. Francis also learns of the torture chamber in the Medina house where Nicholas' father, Sebastian (Also played by Price) inflicted pain and suffering. Soon, Nicholas is haunted by a voice sounding like Elizabeth's and suspects she's still alive. This is definitely one of Price's best with a good cast and eerie atmosphere I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"In the world of Roger Corman's Edgar Allan Poe, beauty is evil.","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" With The Fall of the House of Usher, American International went into the world of macabre through the Gothic world of Edgar Allan Poe, and continued with perhaps his eeriest story. Some of Poe's stories were so short that to make a movie version out of them meant altering the original tale a great deal, and that meant pretty much adding background and characters not included prior. The horrific The Pit and the Pendulum starts off slowly, but like a symphony, gains power as it develops. Vincent Price is a seemly moody, if kindly baron, the son of a man obsessed with torture. As a child, Price witnessed his father kill his own mother and brother by horrific, torturous means, and has desperately tried to destroy that legacy even though the Dante's Inferno like torture chamber remains. He broods over the memory of his late wife (Barbara Steele), a darkly beautiful woman who started off as a loving spouse but slowly changed as the secrets of the castle began to take over her spirit.With his long face and somewhat tired looking eyes, Price was destined to play horrific roles as he got older. Undesputibly the king of horror after starring in House of Wax, Price found his niche when Roger Corman cast him in the string of Poe films. Many of his characters are indistinguishable other than their names and hair color. They all start off as moody rather than obviously evil, but half way through the movie have transformed into a human monster, a bit perverse and possibly sadomasochistic. They are also surrounded by women with ulterior motives, and in this case, the ulterior motive of supposedly deceased wife Steele is to drive her widowed husband mad so she can be with her lover and take over the estate herself.With her dark, steely eyes, Barbara Steele had the look of an evil woman, and nobody could glare with deadly intentions better than her. This was made right after she exploded on the screen in the Italian horror classic Black Sunday, and while her on-screen time here is limited, she makes the most out of it, whether delightedly kissing her lover right in front of the passed out Price, verbally telling him afterwords of how she plotted this from the beginning, and finally, the delightful punishment she gets which is one of the eeriest film endings since Bela Lugosi got his come-uppance in the original The Raven. Of course, there's a less fiendish romantic couple here, Steele's brother (John Kerr) and Price's sister (Luana Anders), but they are not nearly as interesting as the evil characters.American International's horror films dominated the 1960s along with the British Hammer films as the spookiest films since the early days of talkies. They are even more Gothic with the eerie looking color photography than the classics directed by Tod Browning and James Whale, and certainly better than low-budget Universal films which lacked the underlying mystery of the earlier classics and these grand guignol that hold up very well today and have obviously influenced the generation of horror movie directors who came along years after these films were released. "},{"Title":"One of the better Corman/ Poe/Price movies","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is based VERY loosely on the Edgar Allan Poe story. Francis Barnard (John Kerr) goes to visit his sister (Barbara Steele) who has married a nobleman (Vincent Price). He arrives to find his sister has died under mysterious circumstances and Price is racked with guilt. He thinks they buried her alive and starts to go crazy...The story doesn't make a lot of sense but it still works. It's beautifully directed by Corman with great use of color and wide screen. The setting is eerie and it starts to creep up on you. They are a few scary moments--especially the final shot that had people in my audience gasping. Price overacts but in a great way--he keeps the movie hopping. Steele is hardly in it (and she is dubbed) but she's great when she is. The supporting cast is OK except for Kerr who is VERY wooden. Spooky, well-done and lots of fun. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Price's greatest work","Date":"25 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After I saw this movie, I truly agree that this is clearly Price's greatest work and its all thanks to Roger Corman. What I can I say about this movie. The story was great, the acting was great, the sets were phenomenal. Pretty much the ingredients to a masterpiece. Price's performance is what I expected, very refined and always on the mark. The rest of the cast did fairly well. What really surprised me was Barbara Steele. She carried her part out very good and precise as almost of if she was trying to 1-up Price. (Well, no one will ever1-up Price.) There were some shots in a few parts that were a little disorienting on my eyes, but I see where Corman was going with it. He was trying to make a more eerie and dark atmosphere for that part of the story. Despite that lil complaint, overall this one has a good replay value for me. If you are a fan of Poe, Vince Price or horror in general this one is for you. "}{"Title":"Vincent Price is Brilliant!","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Vincent Price plays a distraught widower who believes his dead wife was buried alive. When his brother-in-law pays a visit, he is determined to learn the truth about his sister's death. Then mysterious events start occurring at the cast. Price's Nicholas is going mad and is determined to learn the truth. This story is really influential since it reminds me of the French film, Diabolique. Without giving away too much already, this film is quite surprisingly, shocking, and disturbing all at once about the pain of loss which Poe was quite accustomed too in his sad life. If Poe came back, he could do no better than Vincent Price who was a Poe fan himself. I felt the story was quite interesting and the shock at the end. You have to wonder what was going to happen in the torture chamber and if justice was done. "},{"Title":"better than I thought","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I consider myself a horror expert, and generally believe I have good taste in horror films, especially those from the late 70's. Somewhere in the back of my mind, I always had a desire to see the great Vincent Price in his countless terrific films even though his better ones are earlier than the 70's. I recall seeing Pit and the Pendulum a while back and liking it somewhat, but saw it again last night for the first time in a long while and was more impressed, especially the latter half of the film after Don Medina becomes his father Sebastian, and begins on his personal rampage. I was equally impressed with the colorful sets, and the feel of the castle; the drawings or paintings of the hooded figures with the red eyes looking down at Francis as he was tied under the pendulum was a creepy, but effective scene. Speaking of creepy, the film also stars the strange looking Barbara Steele, who pretends she's dead in order to drive her husband crazy, and then to take off with his doctor. I also just read that because of her thick accent, Roger Corman had all her dialog dubbed by another actress after filming was finished. To conclude, my only qualm with this movie was the accent of John Kerr, who's coming from England to inquire about his sister, yet speaks with no accent at all; otherwise, I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Classy","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Written by Richard Matheson and only loosely inspired by Edgar Allan Poe's story, this 1961 Gothic has young man (John Kerr) trying to find out what happened to her now dead sister. Elizabeth (English-born Barbara Steele, queen of 1960's Italian Gothic) had been wife of middleaged Spanish aristo Nicholas Medina (Vincent Price), sympathetically unstable and tortured son of sadistic inquisitor. Luxuriant colours by Floyd Crosby, lavish sets by Daniel Haller and Harry Reif and gorgeous dresses by Marjorie Corso (the story is set in Renessance-era) has quality written over them. Price is flamboyant and Steele as young, beautiful and corrupted Elizabeth is long way from Cronenberg garbage like Shivers. Not so good than Hammer Gothics (hey, what would be!) but still very good. "},{"Title":"Roger Corman's The Pit and the Pendulum is another great showcase for Vincent Price","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" In this-the second Roger Corman/Vincent Price adaptation by Richard Matheson of an Edgar Allan Poe tale-Price plays Nicholas Medina whose wife Elizabeth (Barbara Steele) died several weeks ago. Her brother, Francis Barnard (John Kerr), has arrived having been just informed of her passing. Nicholas' sister Catherine (Luana Anders) is staying with her brother to help him recover while his doctor named Leon (Antony Carbone) visits for the same reason. I'll stop there and just say while it's not so scary for the first hour, there are hints that things will get a little intense near the end. And compared to the pretty scary pendulum that I saw Bela Lugosi use in 1935's The Raven, the one here is really well paced in suspense moments largely due to Corman's cutting some frames to provide maximum effect. Also, Les Baxter-an AIP mainstay-really does wonders with his score. And then there's Price's reactions to some double crosses...oh, just watch the movie if you want to find out what happens. So, yeah, that's definitely a recommendation of The Pit and the Pendulum. "},{"Title":"The story Sir, in detail...","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I just caught Roger Corman's Tales of Terror and Pit and The Pendulum back to back on Turner Classics. Doing so, one is struck how remarkably similar the films are in tone, content and cinematography. Granted, they are both part of Corman's Poe Trilogy, so one shouldn't be all that surprised. The thing about Vincent Price I came away with in both presentations was how expressive he could be with his facial mannerisms. As I think about it now, he just might have one of the best story telling faces among any actors I've seen, sort of akin to what Bette Davis could do with just her eyes.Now here's something I had to wonder about - imagine growing up if as a kid, you actually saw your own father kill your mother! Not hard to consider that the old boy Nicholas (Price) would be right out there on the edge, even without someone trying to make him think he was crazy. You know, I don't think you could have picked a better dead wife to come creeping out of the coffin than Barbara Steele. She's not on screen too long, but when she is, it's a perfect complement to all the madness going on.The thing that really threw me though was when the marker on Elizabeth's tomb appeared with the dates 1517-1546. Considering the lavish color cinematography, that was a moment of disconnect. All of a sudden I started to do some mental scrambling as to when the story was actually taking place. Realizing that yes indeed, this was the fifteen hundreds, it seemed to me that the principals were a bit overdressed, and way too formal for just hanging out at the old castle. Especially Catherine (Luana Anders) in that neck brace gown of hers - very stiff.But don't let that put you off. The film picks up with some nasty and horrific stuff, climaxed by that swinging blade that would be anybody's nightmare. For sheer irony though, it's hard to top the image of Barbara Steele's eyes, doomed to a certain death after all the machination that ended in a near perfect plan. "},{"Title":"A great adaptation!","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I remember reading the story Pit and the Pendulum some time ago. It was a creepy, well-written story.They made a very effective movie adaptation of it. Vincent Price plays yet another good role in his long list of characters. The other characters in the movie add their own share, but really don't equal the performance of Price. Nonetheless, in overall the acting is still good.It's an uneasy, mysterious movie that stays like that until the very last minute. Good scares and a few creepy scenes add to the film.My one complaint is that the movie at times becomes a little... boring. Some dialogs are unclear or too fast to fully understand what the characters are talking about.Still, the Pit and the Pendulum is a good movie. Certainly watchable for fans of Vincent Price, but also for fans of Edgar Allan Poe stories.7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Corman and Price Serve Up The Next 'POE'-etic Course...","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Proving that the first time was no fluke, if FALL OF THE HOUSE OF USHER was the Poe/Corman/Price 'appetizer', then PENDULUM is the entrée. Working closely with the same team of DP Floyd Crosby, art director Daniel Haller and composer Les Baxter, the redressed sets of USHER, together with some costumes liberated from studio warehouses and coolly clever camera tricks made this movie (and subsequent others) look like they cost four times their actual budgets. It also helped immensely that screenwriter Richard Matheson was on a roll, breathing new life into Poe's classic-if-fusty material, giving it a wicked contemporary spin.The original tale of one man's descent into torture, madness and near-death at the hands of a bunch of terrifyingly faceless tormentors becomes even more creepy as a 'whodunit'. News of the mysterious death of his sister brings Frances Barnard (a game if somewhat miscast John Kerr) to the huge castle of her grieving husband, Don Nicholas Medina (Vincent Price), to investigate the circumstances. Frances discovers that things are a whole lot worse than he imagined. Nicholas, you see, is not a well puppy. Called in to help out with Nick after his wife's untimely death, sister Catherine (the great Luana Anders) fills Barnard in on the demented Medina family history. Seems that as a boy, Nicholas discovered the vocation of his father, Sebastian Medina in a most unsettling way. Sebastian, one of the Spanish Inquisition's most skilled torturers, murdered his adulterous brother Bartholome and his faithless wife, Isabella, while Nicholas watched cowering from his hiding place.Now add to that the equally mysterious death of Don Medina's wife and Barnard's sister, Elizabeth (scream-queen siren Barbara Steele in a very effective cameo), who became obsessed with the family torture chamber and the evil 'presence' of Sebastian. The stage is set for some majorly messed-up happenings in the Haunted House of Medina.Even though Elizabeth's horrific death is revealed not to be his fault, no one could blame Nicholas for going a little fruit-crackers, as suddenly he begins to see her ghost everywhere around the mansion. But is it really her spirit come back from the grave to haunt him? Or is there something else going on? Discovering the truth may well cost poor Nicholas his sanity...and some other people their lives.Once again, a great if not completely accurate interpretation of the Poe tale is still well-done by a capable and energetic cast, led by Vincent Price, who gives his usual lord of the stage performance, but the near-campiness is not out of place here or in most of the other Corman projects that became his hallmark. There were many other entries in the series to come, but very few of them would retain the qualities of this particular movie. "},{"Title":"Holidays to Spain before their time","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I watched this movie knowing nothing previously about the movie and though this is not a great movie, I certainly enjoyed it and would re-visit it without actively seeking it out to watch again. The movie plays like an extended version of 'The Twilight Zone' with the premise being the lead character Francis Barnard goes to unnamed coastal castle in Spain to investigate his sisters death. The story slowly unfolds with the level of macabre and suspense increasing as the movie goes along. I do not know how faithful the movie is to the Edgar Allen Poe tale upon which it is based but it certainly has a Poe Gothic feel to it. Vincent Price hams it up very well as you would expect from a veteran of so many horror movies and in playing Don Medina he is at least not playing the out and out villain for a change. Roger Corman directs well and for the time this is quite chilling thoughtful horror. Give it a go. "},{"Title":"Plenty of Cobwebs & Secret Passages","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was one of Roger Corman's Horror films that was very well produced and had lots of suspense. John Kerr, (Francis) visits a very strange Castle that is occupied by Nicholas/Sebastian Medina, (Vincent Price) and proceeds with a horse and carriage. However, the coachman refuses to go very close to the castle and forces him to walk in order to reach this Castle above a rocky coast and sea. Francis is wanting to visit this Castle and meet up with Nicholas Medina who was married to his sister who had recently died and he had no explanation for her death. Francis did not waste very much time in getting some answers he wanted to know and he was told all kinds of things, but did not believe Nicholas stories. Nicholas had a sister who was visiting him named, Elizabeth, (Barbara Steele) who was very attractive and Francis liked her and she tried to help Francis find out some answers to how his sister had passed away. There are many secret panels that open and close and people are running from one room to another and then there is the Pit and the Pendulum. "},{"Title":"A very loose adaptation of Poe's tale.","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Price shines as always in this twisted tale of madness, based on Edgar Allen Poe's work by the same name. The name is really about all it has in common with Poe's work, but thats beside the point. The point is the film itself. Brooding torture chamber, castle heavy with a demonic air, overseen by a gentleman brought to the brink of madness by a tension inherited from his father. Now THATS what the film is all about. With really good sets, nice score, good acting, good continuity, and good photography, (I find fault only with the past memory sequences, I think they could have been done with better effect) its well worth the Price of admission. And ... dare I say it? It does have it's Poe-etic moments. "}{"Title":"My kind of horror movie","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" When I first saw this film at 10 years old it bowled me over, I've never managed since to recapture that same frisson but to me it still remains, through rose-tinted spectacles maybe, a cheapo classic of its kind. With Masque of the Red Death it was the best Corman/quasi-Poe, like that one a rewriting of Poe's story/stories but still coming out OK in its own right.Wooden inquisitive Englishman visits gloomy Spanish lord Vincent Price's spooky castle to find out why and how his sister died, Price's wife. The tale of woe unfolds cogently with the help of some typical Corman smoky flashbacks and more or less melodramatically from the four leads, my favourite bit being Price as a young boy hiding in the dungeon but having to watch his father killing and torturing. And unlike nowadays, with nothing graphic shown and with all in the mind. But I always wondered why the Englishman didn't challenge the hopeless doctor to a duel for his supposed bungling!Watching it makes me realise yet again just how unique a talent Vincent Price was, the unchallengeable position he occupied in the horror star pantheon with some of his best work still to come, and that we'll probably never see his like again. "},{"Title":"Gloomy, morbidly powerful movie is enough to scare you to death","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" An Englishman travels to Sixteenth Century Spain to find out the cause of his sister's mysterious death. He visits the lavish castle of his in-laws and grows more and more suspicious of Don Nicholas Medina, whose manner seems to suggest a guilty knowledge of his late wife's true cause of death. An atmosphere of secrecy and dread, of things too terrible even to whisper of, hangs over the castle and its occupants. Before he leaves, the English visitor will find the answers to his questions, but at a dreadful cost. This is perhaps the only truly frightening film of the Roger Corman Edgar Allan Poe adaptations made by AIP during the Sixties. It has an unusually somber tone, with ambiguity lurking in every word of Vincent Price's Nicholas. If he gets a little florid now and then, it suits the character and it must be said SPOILERS AHEAD that when he goes completely round the bend at the climax, he is totally and chillingly believable. One could believe that the other actors were actually afraid of him, so intense and maniacal is his performance. Barbara Steele unfortunately has little to do, but she certainly makes for a fine villainess in her usual seductive way. John Kerr is a trifle stiff as Steele's brother, but he manages to become more believable by the end. One of the best performances is by Luana Anders as Catherine, Nicholas' sister. She speaks always in a hushed, quiet voice and with a precise, careful phrasing and a delicacy to her movements that seem perfectly suited to a titled lady of the old Spanish nobility. When she tells the gruesome flashback about Nicholas' childhood trauma, her narration, combined with the creepy visuals and the acting of the other players in their silent dramatization, is incredibly effective. This is one of the best performances of her career, and perhaps has to be seen in contrast with some of her more aggressive and tough gal roles to appreciate the subtlety of her characterization. The other actors are adequate, but it is the cinematography, music, set design and editing that all combine to create a truly oppressive and frightening atmosphere. It's hard to define exactly what it is, but there's a quality about this movie that really gets to you. The dreary setting and the tone of sadness and the crushing weight of a dreadful family history are uncomfortably real. No matter how many times I've seen this movie, it always terrifies me, even though I know everything that's going to happen. There's a sinister power it exudes to trap the viewer into a genuine nightmare. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"One of the scariest chase scenes ever!","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I can't imagine anything worse than trying to open a fifteenth century lock to open a crusty dungeon door to escape from your dead, and very angry, wife that is pursuing you after crawling out of her coffin. The coffin that you put her in because you thought she was dead. Well she wasn't then, but she is now! Yeeps! The mood of this movie and the fright it gave me as a Jr. High student watching it in a school's auditorium as a fund raiser is still with me after 30 years. I could not wait to get this DVD. One of the best directed movies of this genre. Kerr's acting is a little shallow and stiff. But the overall effect in this film is of impending doom, and the final scene delivers the doom in spades. One cannot imagine the total horror of being buried alive or locked in a room to die, but this is one of films best efforts to deliver that feeling. "},{"Title":"Price's best work","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" When you hear discussion about the best horror films of all time, certain titles come up more than others. The Exorcist, Psycho, The Shining, etc. Why this film is not mentioned among them is beyond my comprehension. Vincent Price gives what I would consider the greatest performance of his long and distinguished career. The expression in his amazing voice, the look in his eyes, the sudden reversal of character near the end of the film...only a true genius such as Price could pull it off. Roger Corman does an equally amazing job behind the camera, capturing the essence of the cursed castle perfectly. Rarely will you see atmosphere created so flawlessly, however atmosphere is Corman's gift and he uses it to it's full advantage here. He spins a yarn of deceit, murder, insanity and death into one of the few perfect horror films.10/10 "},{"Title":"Not true to Poe's story","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" but, nonetheless, this is a great horror film. I liked everything about it - the acting, script, sets and photography. Vincent Price is terrific as the tortured Don Nicholas Medina who morphs into the character of his insane father, a notorious member of the Inquisition. The rest of the cast are convincing in their roles. The mood of the film, with good pacing and suitably eerie music, got to me long before the climactic ending arrived. Even the opening credits were creepy! To top it all off, it has Barbara Steele, although her screen time is regrettably short. It's the best of the Corman films based, very loosely, on the stories of Edgar Allan Poe and is probably my all-time favorite horror film. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"old school scary","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i love older horror films.  The combination of Poe's ability to capture true psychological disturbance brilliantly with Vincent Price's unique voice, chilling face and talent for this genre is a perfect match.  This might be my favorite scary movie of all-time "},{"Title":"A great thriller","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've always enjoyed this movie for suspense. It gives you the chills that not many other horror movies nowadays don't. They either have to be too horrifying that you can't sleep, or they're dull. The pit and the pendulum is about a torcher chamber where evil things have gone on. Nicholas Medina (Vincent Price) has just lost his wife Elizabeth (Barbara Steele) due to the chamber. When her brother, Francis Barnard (John Kerr) arrives after hearing that his sister has died, he is shocked to hear that it has been 3 months. Nicholas tells Mr. Barnard that due to obsession with the torture chamber, and being locked in one of the torture devices, it caused Elizabeth to die of fright.  Nicholas's sister, Katherine Medina (Luana Anders), tells Mr. Barnard to take pity on her brother, for he had witnessed their father torture her mother to death in the chamber. But when strange things start to happen in the Medina castle, Mr. Barnard realizes that there's more to this story than meets the eye. It is presumed that Elizabeth is haunting the house, playing the harpsichord, whispering to a maid, and destroying her room. Mr. Barnard thinks that Nicholas is the cause of everything, but he is very wrong. The ending will surprise you so much, you'll be at the edge of your seat the whole time. Vincent Price was very good at the part of Nicholas Medina, very mysterious, always acting the way a husband would if his wife was haunting the house. John Kerr did very well in his part as Elizabeths brother, very well done, very suspicious of everyone. Luana Anders in her full beauty did very well also. Finding out shocking things and did very well at reacting to these parts. Barbara Steele is very beautiful, as usual, she was great as the aldultress and the haunter of the house. Her part looked as if she was having fun doing it. I couldn't believe how beautiful both Luana Anders and Barbara Steele were. Luana Anders just mezmorized me in her beauty. By the way, she's my 3rd cousin. "},{"Title":"Would love to see this one up on the silver screen","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Director Roger Corman and star Vincent Price worked well together to create this memorable AIP cult classic.As with many of Corman's films, the opening credits are interesting. Watching all those different colored paints spill across the glass and mix together could easily symbolize the movement of diseased chemicals moving around the head of a psychotic personality - very much (in fact, PRECISELY) like the one portrayed by Mr Price in this movie.The final climatic scene in which Sebastian Medina goes right off the deep end and tries to 'make breathing a little easier' for Francis Barnard once again showcases the sheer power of Uncle Vinnie's screen presence when he's 'given his head'(or someone ELSE'S as very nearly turns out to be the case in this particular little epic!).I would love to see this one up on the silver screen some time at a nice revival theater. "},{"Title":"Thriller without the spiller","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Who said that your fingernails won't be digging into the arm rest without blood flying across the screen? I first saw this as part of a High School Film Festival 20 years ago. They showed it in two parts (one hour per day). It was the talk of the school and we couldn't wait for the second part the next day. And yes, there were plenty of gasps and screams - without any slasher on the loose. A timeless classic! "},{"Title":"VINCENT PRICE AT HIS FINEST","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Dark dungeons, secret passageways, premature burials, spooky soundtrack, and of course, Vincent Price. What's not to like about this movie? Filmed on a tight budget by the people that gave us the BEACH BLANKET BINGO movies, that doesn't detract one bit from the quality of this horror classic. Just goes to show that you don't need big-budget-blood-and-gore to create an intelligent thriller. Seems they just don't make them like this anymore.Too bad.Rating **** out of ***** "}{"Title":"Waaaaaaaay Scary!","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's Halloween as I write this and I wish 'The Pit and the Pendulum' was on the tube to add to the effect! I remember seeing this as a kid and having the daylights scared out of me! Even the opening scene with the baronial castle in the distance sends shivers up your spine.  Vincent Price's character is both tragic and sinister at the same time.  And the scene of Barbara Steel at the end is enough to give you nightmares for weeks! "},{"Title":"Edgar Allen Poe's story of adultery, torture and madness.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Alright little kiddies, sit down and head back to the classics with us as we tell you a little story entitled The Pit and the Pendulum (1961). This is the version that is strictly based on Edgar Allen Poe's story of adultery, torture and madness. What more could you want in a movie? This 80-minute version was directed by Roger Corman and stars Vincent Price as Nicholas Medina who's legacy in life is closely tied to the Spanish Inquisition. This mobid little tale is wrapped around the death of Medina's wife and keeps you in happy suspense until the very end (that is if you haven't previously read Poe's masterpiece). Superbly written and directed, this film proves that you don't always need copious amounts of gore or T &A in order to put out a fascinating horror show. Highly recommended for those winter afternoons spent lounging under the covers. "},{"Title":"Lots of fun!!!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Great mixture of horror, humor, (and hunky men!) Very wierd mood piece, gives some real chills; mercifully, it was made early enough in the 60's, so its not overly graphic. Art design, use of color, camera  is truly outstanding, tho Vincent Price can chew the scenery in just about any film. Part of the excellent Roger Corman/Poe Series.  "},{"Title":"I love Vincent Price","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this film was very well done. Vincent Price was great as always. The ending of this film was the best part. Nowadays we have movies like scream and I no what you did last summer, this movie was made back in 1961 and it scared me! Sometimes what your mind thinks up is scarier then what you see. Also, if you like Vincent check out The Raven it's on the lighter side but I liked it, good flick. Holly  "},{"Title":"A Classic Horror film in the best sense!!","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw Pit and the Pendulum in 1967 while I was in 4th grade and only 9 years old. It was so well done that I was scared spitless and yet I knew there was something fascinating, even alluring, about this masterwork. I have seldom seen it since (for instance on The Movie Channel a few years back). In this day and age when Horror seems to be synonymous with blood and gore for its own sake, Roger Corman, Vincent Price et al. stand as a monument to what horror films SHOULD be -- scary and yet the type that make you want to come back again and again. A shame the same story was re-made around 1990. "},{"Title":"Nicholassss.....","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Often films never live up to the book it was taken from but there are the odd exception to the rule. Before watching this film I had already read the Edgar Allen Poe story about a mysterious death of a young woman at a Spanish castle whose death is investigated by her brother. The film is directed by Roger Corman who did several film versions of Poe's stories including the superb The Masque of the Red Death. Vincent Price also stars in the film as the sinister Nicholas Medina. One point I will make however is that John Kerr who plays Francis Bernard does look rather wooden at times. But nevertheless this is still a very good film. "},{"Title":"A deliciously atmospheric Edgar Allan Poe adaptation by the unbeatable team of Roger Corman and Vincent Price","Date":"22 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The 16th century right after the Spanish Inquisition. The meddlesome Francis (the hopelessly wooden John Kerr) travels to a remote crumbling castle on the Spanish cost in order to find out how his sister Elizabeth (the lovely Barbara Steele at her most entrancing) really died. He discover that Elizabeth's distraught husband Nicholas (marvelously played with exquisite anguish and intensity by the magnificent Vincent Price) has become seriously unstable in the wake of her untimely passing. Nicholas starts to believe that Elizabeth might still be alive. Is he insane? Or is someone trying to drive him crazy? Director Roger Corman, working from an eloquent and intelligent script by Richard Matheson, expertly crafts a beautifully brooding and absorbing Gothic horror treat that unfolds at a deliberate, yet steady pace and delivers a powerful feeling of gloom, decay and despair that really gets under the viewer's skin. Kudos are certainly in order for the mostly tip-top acting from the able cast Price once again proves that he was wholly worthy of his fright icon status with his spot-on tormented portrayal of Nicholas, Luana Anders acquits herself well as Nicholas' supportive sister Catherine, Anthony Carbone contributes a fine turn as the loyal Dr. Leon, and Steele makes the most out of her regrettably small role. Only Kerr fails to impress with his flat and underwhelming performance. Moreover, there's a dandy surprise twist in the last third of the picture; the final twenty minutes are positively harrowing, with the titular pendulum putting in a memorably chilling appearance. The last shot is also genuinely unnerving. Les Baxter supplies a typically ominous and effective score. The opulent sets and Floyd Crosby's lush and mobile widescreen cinematography further add to the film's overall richness. Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Gothic classic featuring Price","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Pit and The Pendulum is a lot better than it really should've been.**SPOILERS**Receiving notice of her death, Francis Barnard, (John Kerr) travels to the castle of Don Nicholas Medina, (Vincent Price) her husband, to see his sister Elizabeth, (Barbara Steele) dead body. Not satisfied with their explanation, he decides to stay at the castle to find more information, and tries to use his sister Catherine, (Luana Anders) to get some answers. Learning the truth about her death, he blames him for the torture inflicted upon her and that his story about the castle's torturous past can't be true. The longer he stays at the castle, the more he believes that he has prematurely buried his wife and that he is slowly going insane fearing that she is still alive. When signs emerge that this might be the case, the decision is made to see what the case may be. Discovering the real truth behind the proceedings, they are promptly tortured and are forced to desperate measures to escape.The Good News This here was a pretty pleasant surprise. Despite getting off to a really weak start, this more than makes up for it with a spectacular second half. This all starts when the revelation is made about it being possible she's still alive and the torment undergone. That all starts the film and it only gets better from there. The ploys about it being in the imagination, the evidence against the contrary and then it just breaks out. The moment that the group wanders into the crypt is the start, and the shocking discovery is simply the grand icing on the cake. The dead body used is quite grotesque, looking realistic and freaky at the same time. The other really big scene, the resurrection, is completely eerie and creepy, with the bright spot of not revealing everything about the figure until the end. Only the body is shown, with the face kept in the shadows even during the ensuing chase through the catacombs, which is the bright spot about the scene. Not only is there a brilliant resurrection scene that is spine-chilling, but there's also an elaborate stalking chase right after it, and throughout it all, there's a mystery as well where the complete identity of the figure is kept in the shadows and only a small portion seen throughout. It's a wonderfully brilliant scene. The final ten minutes, where the title comes into play, is simply fantastic, as it's done within a pretty creepy location and actually generates some really suspenseful moments. The closer it comes, the more suspenseful it is, and it really drives the scene. The location used for this scene is actually almost as good, comprising of an elaborate crystal design of weird structures along the outer edges and being a similarly beautiful and creepy place. The castle itself isn't that bad, but the catacombs are it's best locations, with the cobwebbed walls, hidden rooms astutely located, and also features some great places within. The second half here is what really saves this one, and really makes it watchable.The Bad News This doesn't have a whole lot of negatives. One of the most apparent is the slow build-up in the beginning of the film. This starts out incredibly slow, as the beginning is full of nonsensical dialog about what the newcomer is there for. It sets up a nice mystery, but the fact is that there's nothing interesting in the characters wandering around spouting dialog about a character's battle with a disease. It tries to set a mystery about what the motive was, but it's not that interesting and never really means as much as it should do to the incredibly boring introduction. The only other flaw is the really needless dream sequences inserted. The blue light used for the scenes don't offer up much other than confusing at what is actually happening, especially as most of the scene is done through shadow. A blue shadow around everything else doesn't make it any clearer to see what's going on in the screen. This makes no sense, as we know it's a flashback to begin with and really doesn't do much for the film. Otherwise, this here was pretty entertaining.The Final Verdict Once this picks up and enters the final countdown, it's far more entertaining, as the first half is a little tough to sit through. This is a good pick for fans of Corman/Poe's work as well as Price fans or of Gothic horror in general.Today's Rating-PG Mild Violence "},{"Title":"Another elegant and atmospheric Corman-Price-Poe production","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Anyone who claims Roger Corman was only interested in making cheap exploitation films is obviously unfamiliar with a lot of his work. Despite being an excellent business man and marketer, he also put a good amount of quality and care into his productions. His 60s Poe series, which he directed, show he was an able craftsmen. Entertainment and thrills were his top priority, but he could also craft extremely atmospheric films with compelling characters. The Pit and the Pendulum is one of his best horror films and is often worthy of Mario Bava at his best. Corman clearly makes the most of his limited budget. If it wasn't for the fact that I recognized many of the sets from other entries in his Poe series, I would've been fooled into thinking this was a much more lavish production that it actually is.As with the other Poe films, as great as Corman's direction is, they wouldn't be nearly as effective without Vincent Price in the lead. Just check out the Poe films without Price, something is clearly missing. Price was an effective villain but also a magnificent actor, and this is one of his most complex creations. During the first half of the film, he is a pathetic and sympathetic wreck, a man coping with great loss. In the second half of the film, his character is transformed into a terrifying and sadistic monster. Its just proof the man had genuine talent in addition to being a memorable cultural icon. The supporting cast is decent at best (including another horror legend Barbara Steele as an unlikable femme fatale), but they're all dwarfed by Price. The Pit and the Pendulum is mandatory viewing for any Gothic horror fans. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Brilliant! A Gothic Masterpiece That Even Poe Would Be Proud Of!","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Roger Corman's Pit And The Pendulum of 1961 starring his greatness Vincent Price is an absolutely brilliant masterpiece and, simply put, one of the greatest horror films ever made. What makes this film one of my personal favorites is not only the fact that it unites my favorite actor, Vincent Price, and my favorite actress, Barbara Steele (the greatest female Horror icon in the history of motion pictures). I love the entire Edgar Alan Poe Cycle directed by Roger Corman and starring Price, and, as far as I am concerned, The Pit And The Pendulum is the most brilliant of these great Poe/Corman/Price films (along with the equally brilliant The Haunted Palace of 1963 and The Masque Of The Red Death of 1964). Hardly another film unites brilliant acting, unspeakable eeriness and an incomparably gloomy atmosphere as Pit And The Pendulum does, and, as far as I am considered, this makes it one of the greatest Horror films ever brought to screen.It should be said that The Pit And The Pendulum is slightly based on Edgar Alan Poe's short story of the same name, but not a simple film adaption of the story, since most of the plot is new. The young English nobleman Francis Barnard (John Kerr) travels to Spain after receiving the news of the death of his sister Elizabeth (Barbara Steele) in 1546. After arriving at the castle of his sister's husband Nicholas Medina (Vincent Price), Francis is first told that his sister died of 'something in her blood'. After some investigation, however, he finds out that his sister death might in fact have different causes, connected with with the gruesome torture chambers which were installed by Nicholas' father, the infamous and sadistic Spanish inquisitor Sebastian Medina. Nicholas, whose sister Catherine is also currently residing in the castle to keep him company, is in the meanwhile more and more about to loose his mind over the loss of his beloved wife.Pit And The Pendulum is creepy and scary as hell from the beginning to the end. Vincent Price's is always superb, and the particularly brilliant performance in The Pit And The Pendulum is definitely one of his best. The rest of the acting is also very good, especially Barbara Steele, who is as scary as she is beautiful, delivers a great performance in her role as Elizabeth. The cinematography is excellent and provides even more suspense in this superbly written and directed film, and the great score by Les Baxter manages to even intensify the spookiness and suspense. The special effects are also astonishing for the time, and the sceneries are very well made, the castle and its chambers look scary as hell on their own.There is no doubt in my mind that Vincent Price was one of the greatest actors who ever lived, and Pit And The Pendulum is one of the greatest horror films that have ever been made. Insanely brilliant in every aspect, and stunningly creepy from the first minute, The Pit And The Pendulum is an absolute masterpiece that ranks high on my personal favorite list, and that no lover of Horror could possibly afford to miss! 10/10 "}{"Title":"GREAT and chilling WARNING!!!!!!!! CONTAINS!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  GREAT and chilling!!! this classic is suspenseful with a terrifying ending it had a great cast all wonderfully acted this is stylishly directed by Roger Corman with a great SPOILER!!!! twist ending that i won't spoil no gore but didn't want any this is very well made and tense with Price playing SPOILERS!!!! mad like no one can it's engaging with cool dialog and beautiful set pieces gorgeous scenery nice look at the water. i liked how the story unfolded and the tense finale was great and i liked all the neat flashbacks of Sebastian. plus the Pendulum swinging back and forth is really unnerving. the acting is AMAZING!!!!! Vincent Price delivers an Oscar worthy performance here he is truly scary in the finale plus he was quite likable and i don't know why critics consider him to be so hammy here he is not hammy he is terrifying and i LOVED it!!!! John Kerr does good but thought he over did at times and i didn't care for his character all that much still he was bearable and delivered a good performance. Barbara Steele is gorgeous and does fine sadly she does not have much to do. Luana Anders did fine in Dementia 13 and does great here and is gorgeous to boot! Antony Carbone is good as the doctor and does what he has to do well. overall a wonderful flick that is a must see! regardless ****1/2 out of 5  "},{"Title":"A must-see for horror fans.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A bit slow going at times, but classy and entertaining Poe adaptation (scripted by Richard Matheson) features Vincent Price as Nicholas Medina, a 16th Century nobleman suffering in his seaside castle after the death of his beloved wife Elizabeth (Barbara Steele), believing she had been buried alive. Guests, including a doctor friend (Anthony Carbone), his sister (Luana Anders) and Elizabeth's brother (John Kerr) show up looking for answers...but some of them are up to more devious things, like trying to drive poor Nicholas insane. An elaborate downstairs torture chamber with a rack, an iron maiden and (of course) a pit AND a pendulum add up to a lively finale when Nicholas finally snaps and believes he's his own father...a notoriously sadistic Spanish inquisitor!Corman knows how to stretch a limited budget with some stylish flashback sequences, a professional cast, good Les Baxter score and effective period sets and costumes as good as anything else you'd see at the time. It was the second in the Corman Poe series (he did 8 of them, 7 starring Price, 5 written by Matheson). SEE HOUSE OF USHER (1960), THE PREMATURE BURIAL (1962), TALES OF TERROR (1962), THE RAVEN (1963), THE HAUNTED PALACE (1963), MASQUE OF THE RED DEATH (1964) and THE TOMB OF LIGEIA (1964).Score 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE VERY BEST FILMS OF THE 1960S","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Roger Corman's Pit and the Pendulum is a fabulous movie. Made on a small budget of 200,000, it looks like a multi-million dollar film. That is a testament to Corman, who had a gift to make a cheap movie look like an expensive one.The film owes little to Poe's story, but in a way, that's a plus. Who would want a wholly faithful adaptation? If you're looking for accuracy, read the book. If you're looking for a moody, atmospheric thriller, this is your movie.It stars Vincent Price (as does most of the Poe films) as Nicholas Medina, a (I guess) conquistador in the 1600s (The film doesn't specify when or where it takes place, but that is my best guess)It is a performance of great restraint and power. He could make it hammy, but he doesn't.The story is a tad slow and confusing, but that is exactly what Corman is going for. He gives this a Bergmanesque tone, similar to that of Masque of the Red Death. But he is more successful here and the film has a kind of suspense I found lacking in Masque. The cinematography (by Floyd Crosby, in Panavision and Pathecolor) is gorgeous and must be seen in the widescreen edition. The sets (by Daniel Haller, who directed his own film Die Monster Die in the Corman mode) are impressive for a low budget film like thisThis may be the best of the Poe films, but more importantly, this is further proof that Corman is an important director and that given a good budget, he can turn out important work. Working here with experienced technicians and strong actors, he makes one of the very best films of the 1960s.**** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Terrible Adaptation, Classic Horror Film","Date":"1 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" My senior year of high school we were discussing Poe and read The Pit and the Pendulum, which is some pretty dark stuff (I recommend it for any and all horror lovers). Then we were shown this film version of it. There were two things our entire class agreed on; it was a truly terrible adaptation, but it was a fantastic horror film on its own.The original story took place almost entirely in a dark prison over an indeterminable period of time. You felt the endlessness of waiting for tormentors to finally end the waiting and just kill you, or at least get on with the torture. The waiting, the sense of all the time you were in this pit was the source of terror. The pendulum was the ticking clock counting away every second of your life; and it was slow. Slow as in it took hours to even get close enough to start causing you any harm. That was the worst part.In the film, there is no pit, and the pendulum doesn't factor in until the very end. That upset us. Still, the film itself is quite engaging and interesting, the characters are well-acted and the plot keeps you hooked. By all accounts, an excellent addition to anyone's horror movie collection. Vincent Price in particular is exhilarating to watch (but then isn't he always?). "},{"Title":"Cool Gothic Horror","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Cool Gothic horror, may appear dated by today's standards, but still worth a look. Vincent Price is in element.. the location, the surroundings and theme sufficiently sinister. Although the film has taken its title from Poe's famous short story, it has nothing much in common with Poe's yarn. In fact, there is a pendulum at the fag-end of the film, but no pit at all. LOL From the goings-on, it appears that the entire film is based on the happenings of a single night. There are just too many discrepancies and loop holes in the treatment, but just as we respect venerable old people, and tend to ignore their follies, so shall it be with this film. A classic in its own right.. enjoyable and certainly watchable, at least once. "},{"Title":"The Best Performance I've Ever Seen From Vincent Price","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have to confess right off the top to not being a big fan of Vincent Price. An icon of the 50's and 60's horror scene he may have been, but most of his movies have never really captured me. They're usually OK - sometimes even pretty good - but they never quite seem to reach the heights I would consider necessary for a truly great horror/suspense movie. In Pit and the Pendulum, though, Price did capture me with his performance. As Nicholas Medina, he showed an amazing versatility and an adeptness in his performance that I don't usually expect from him. He portrayed a huge range of emotions and psychological states and he was quite believable in all of them. He carried the movie and the rest of the cast along with him, and this became a very mysterious and very suspenseful movie that you just have to keep watching, because there's enough mystery involved that you have to find out what the answers are.Based (apparently very loosely, although to be honest I can't even remember if I've ever read it) on the Edgar Allen Poe story, the movie follows the mystery of the death of Medina's wife Elizabeth (Barbara Steele). As the movie opens, her brother (John Kerr) arrives from England determined to figure out exactly how she died. Unsatisfied with Medina's explanation, the movie follows the slow and deliberate unravelling of the tragic and even horrific Medina family history. We do wonder what happened to Elizabeth, and who was responsible for it. The story ultimately leads up to a brilliant climax and to an absolutely unnerving very last scene, which reveals to us Elizabeth's ultimate fate.Price carried the movie. To be perfectly honest, I thought the other performances were at best adequate. If not for Price's performance, I wouldn't have been especially taken with this, but this may have been the best performance I've ever seen from Vincent Price, who displayed a range of acting ability that I had never really seen from him in anything else. Very, very well done. (8/10) "},{"Title":"A vast improvement over House of Usher","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was the second entry in Roger Corman's early sixties Poe cycle, the first being 1960's House of Usher. I'd say that just about every area of this film was improved upon from the previous effort.Vincent Price is back, this time as a man haunted (metaphorically, or perhaps not) by his wife, whose demise he feels responsible for. His performance here is vintage Vincent Price. Thankfully, this time around he has some decent support around him. They may not be master thespians but they're good enough for a horror flick. My only complaint is that there isn't enough of the ravishing Barbara Steele.Corman's direction here is light-years beyond the techniques that he employed in House of Usher. It's nothing to give Hitchcock a run for his money but it's definitely more assured than most directors of horror films. Also, a better use of matte paintings and ornate set design gives the film a more polished look than it's predecessor.The story departs from Poe quite a bit but that's fine with me. Poe's story is not substantial enough to sustain a picture on it's own and would have basically been a one man show. Matheson's loose adaptation is both suspenseful and satisfying.I would probably have rated this film higher except that I'm not much of a horror fan. For a horror film, it's very well done and should be required viewing for horror hounds. "},{"Title":"cool and atmospheric","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  pretty cool and atmospheric flick is entertaining and very well acted Vincent price steals the show again as the crazy man i found this to edge of your seat entertainment and i really dug all the cool visuals and camera angles pretty good flick ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"naughty goings on in spooky castle","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Authentic costumes and sets, a creepy castle with secret passageways and a nice torture dungeon made for a very entertaining film. There was a definite mystery unfolding throughout the picture instead of the mindless slash and splash of a lot of movies in this genre. Moody music and dramatic dialogue kept the show racing full tilt all the way to the satisfying conclusion. Of course, the climax contained the requisite lightning storm. "},{"Title":"The Problem of Vincent","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" These things depend on a few elements. One is color and Cinemascope, new at the time. It actually mattered. Its why we have the goofy swirling paint at the beginning and end of this. Another is Poe. He wrote some scary stuff. But what mattered was the language first, situation second. Its hard to devise a way to transform this into cinematic form. What Corman does is use houses that are supposed to look haunted. And he uses skeletal shocks. That bag of tricks gets old fast. But at the end, they depend on Vincent Price. He's iconic so difficult to extract from the genre. I believe that if we had more of his verbal skill and less of his physical tricks, we would have been better off. That's because Poe's stories are rooted in the words. All the competence is in the words that support the story. Corman's staging and general cinematic sense is thin, so if we had more of British Shakespearean approach we'd have scarier movies, presuming they were written the way Poe wrote.For an example, look at the very last scene. What's scarier? Seeing the eyes of the imprisoned, or hearing the sister say No one will ever come in this room again.?If Vincent had only stuck with the decisions he made in Theater of Blood and listened less to Corman's guidance to move like Lugosi.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}{"Title":"Despite having little to do with Poe, it's a grand story.","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The the rest of the Roger Corman films named after tales by Edgar Allen Poe, this one has practically nothing to do with the original tale--save a few story elements.A young man from England arrives in Spain to find out what happened to his sister. Apparently she recently died and the letter from her husband telling of this was very vague and cryptic. To make matters worse, the brother is lied to repeatedly at the beginning of the film--leading him to doubt everyone. So, he stays and investigates on his own. Soon, really weird things begin to occur--making it seem as if his sister IS in fact, alive. Eventually, they exhume her body to determine once and for all what is happening. There's far more to the film than this, but I'll stop here so I won't ruin the suspense.A problem with the film I initially noticed (apart from its not being a Poe tale) was that there were just too many lies and half-truths. It really looked like sloppy writing and strained the film's credibility at the beginning. Also, in what was clearly a mistake, the wall they need to break through to exhume the wife, it looks as if it were made many, many years ago--not a recent burial at all and the body looks very, very old and dessicated.However, despite these problems, the atmosphere is very good and the costumes very nice. The film, despite being a Corman film, does not look low-budget at all. And, in addition, the film seems brooding and scary--as the mood for the film was excellent. Rats, cobwebs, lighting and the like all worked together to make the film chilling from start to finish. But, what was especially good was the writing (after the confusing beginning). The ending was simply brilliant--and that final scene haunting.Overall, while not without problems, it's perhaps better the story DIDN'T stick closer to the book, as the final product was quite enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Better than average Corman Cheese!","Date":"7 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Probably saved by the fact it had a script by Richard Matheson and a performance by Vincent Price.The plot is an Englishman comes to discover the circumstances of his sister's death after her marriage to a Spanish nobleman (Price). He discovers a secret torture chamber and a plot to drive the nobleman insane by his not-quite-so dead sister and the family doctor.The film was made on the cheap, and it shows in places, but Price does a commendable job.It has very little do do with the Edgar Allen Poe story, but none of American International productions did, other than robbing them for titles and themes. "},{"Title":"Steele Away","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This retains much of the House of Usher glow, but is too repetitive (of the earlier film), and loses story focus. It's really one short story - the ending, basically, stretched way out to feature film length. I didn't like the flashbacks - with the camera lens going down to brick size (foreshadowy, though). They seemed only to pad the film, and didn't expand my knowledge of character motivation. I think the script was sloppily written, with the viewer left to explain away horrific plot holes, like Who was buried in wife's tomb? AND - Why oh why couldn't they let Barbara Steele scream Let Me Out! LET ME OUT! at the end? Still, more fun than not. ****** Pit and the Pendulum (8/12/61) Roger Corman ~ Vincent Price, John Kerr, Barbara Steele "},{"Title":"Am I not the spawn of his depraved blood? Impressive 60's Edgar Allan Poe adaptation from Roger Corman.","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Pit and the Pendulum (there is no 'The' at the beginning of the on screen title) starts in 1546 somewhere in Spain. Francis Barnard (John Kerr) has travelled from England to investigate his sister Elizabeth's (Barbara Steele) sudden death. Francis arrives at a large foreboding mist enshrouded castle that sits on top of a cliff overlooking the ocean & belongs to Elizabeth's husband, Nicholas Medina (Vincent Price). Francis knocks the door and Maximillian (Patrick Westwood) the butler answers. Nicholas's sister Catherine Medina (Luana Anders) also turns up and invites Francis in. Nicholas tells Francis that Elizabeth died unexpectedly three months ago from a condition of the blood. Francis is unimpressed by Nicholas's explanations and feels he is not being told the truth. The only other person in the castle at this point is the maid, Maria (Lynette Bernay). At dinner that night Dr. Charles Leon (Antony Carbone) turns up. His side of events differ from Nicolas's. Leon claims that Elizabeth died from sheer fright as she became obsessed with a torture chamber situated in the bowls of the castle that belonged to Sebastian Medina (Vincent Price, again), Nicolas's Father who was one of the most cruel and feared members of the Spanish Inquisition. Catherine's body has been resting in the Medina's families tomb for months but the distraught Nicholas fears that Catherine may have been buried alive, like his Mother. Strange occurrences start to happen, whispering voices & unexplained incidents that suggest Nicholas may be right and somehow Catherine has returned for revenge! As the night draws on the sinister goings-on are revealed as a thunder storm rages outside, but can anyone survive the ultimate terror of the Pit and the Pendulum!?Produced and directed by Roger Corman I was pretty impressed with this adaptation of the Edgar Allan Poe novel of the same name. Pit and the Pendulum was the second of Corman's Poe adaptations coming after the House of Usher (1960) & before Premature Burial (1962). The script by Richard Matheson effectively mixes haunted house horror & psychological terror with a satisfying twist ending. An ending that may not come quite as much of a surprise these days but is still very good all the same. I also loved the final 'poetic justice' shot. There aren't many characters in the film but the ones there count. The acting is good all round but I did think Price went over the top a little at certain points, although one could argue that this was deliberate and was intended to be relevant to the twist ending. Having said that I wouldn't want any other actor but Price in the role. Forget about blood or gore as there isn't any, but don't let this put you off as a horror film doesn't have to be gory or violent to be good. One thing about Pit and the Pendulum that really stands out is the overall production design, sets, costumes and lighting. The film has a wonderful Gothic look throughout. The castle's cobweb strewn torture chamber, or it's gloomy flickering candle lit rooms and corridors with it's stonework walls. The solid antique looking furniture and props. The whole film is lavish and really looks the part, the evocative sets create half of the wonderful atmosphere on their own. Quite amazing considering that the budget was apparently only $200,000 which probably wasn't a lot even back in 1961. Generally speaking the film is also well made throughout and at just under 80 minutes it never drags and is consistently both interesting & entertaining. On the negative side I'm not too sure I would watch it again now I know the twist ending and when all said and done not a great deal actually happens. But it's still a great character and plot driven Gothic horror/thriller from the early 60's that stands up very well even today & should be seen by all fans of the genre, so what are you waiting for? Watch it! "},{"Title":"So-so Corman film BUT last 15 minutes are astounding","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I grew up on Creature Double Feature but I still know a mediocre movie when I see one. This conflabulation of Poe stories is rather slow and uninteresting until the great pendulum scene at the end wonderful scenery, special effects for the surreal subjective point of view, music, editing and color all topped off with the twist horrific ending. If you've never seen this, drink lots of coffee so you don't fall asleep during the first hour, or better yet, fast-forward to the last 15 minutes. "},{"Title":"Shows that Roger Corman can also do good movies.","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's amazing that he man who has made so much crap movies in his career, in which giant crabs, enormous leeches and other unlikely monsters are threatening the Earth, can also make good movies as well. Roger Corman is sort of the uncrowned king of B-movies but this movie is simply above that. It's the second out of six movies he did based on an Edgar Allan Poe story. Ironicaly those are perhaps also the six best movies that he ever did in his still going on long career of directing and producing movies. Most of his Edgar Allan Poe based movie he made also starred Vincent Price as the movie's main lead.The movie perhaps more looks and feels like an Hammer studio movie but it in fact isn't one. Good to see that not only the Hammer studios had a sole monopoly on horror film-making in the '50's, '60's and '70's. This movie uses the same sort of atmosphere, character treatments and story-telling, completely with the same sort of (fake) looking sets and locations.The movie obviously benefits from the presence of Vincent Price, who plays the mysterious main lead of the movie. Vincent Price was a true Shakespearean like actor, who just happened to like playing in horror. He and others such as Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee truly uplifted the genre at its time and gave the world many enjoyable and great horror flicks. Price starred in many different movies based on Edgar Allan Poe stories and poems. Like usual for these type of movies, all of the other actors in the movie aren't much good and are some big unknowns that never really made it in the business.It's truly an atmospheric movie. The movie its horror spawns from the movie its mysterious and eerie atmosphere. It also features some great stylish done flashback sequences, which adds to the overall horror atmosphere of the movie. The movie further more features some truly memorable horror moments. It's a movie that definitely gets better toward its end.The movie has some great atmospheric music, which really suits the genre. The score is composed by Les Baxter, who spend most of his career working for these such movies, which also explains why he never broke through to the general audience.Wonderful and effective Corman/Price Edgar Allan Poe movie within its genre.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Its Merits Are Slippery.","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I understand this was written by Richard Matheson, for whom I have enormous respect, directed by Roger Corman, an expert at making something out of practically nothing, and stars Vincent Price, King of the B Horrors circa 1960, and Barbara Steele, Queen of Same.But I found it a bit boring, and I nodded out during the sequences dealing with Price's childhood. If you try to really get into the film, the first obstacle is John Kerr. He was fitted for the part of the effeminate college student in Tea and Sympathy but otherwise he's turned in inexpressive performances. Here, he resembles a sullen young guy from Santa Monica.The 16th-century sets are okay and so is the wardrobe. The interiors look like they belong in a crumbling Spanish castle. The set dressing, though, is excessive, with spider webs sprayed over all the surfaces in the basement and torture chamber. (Price walks right into them and grimaces with disgust.) Whoever painted the portraits of predecessors and spouses must be the same guy who did the paintings in Rod Serling's Night Gallery. The faces all look dead -- gray, black, and ghoulish Halloween green. I suspect by now they all hang on the walls of Motel 6.The color photography is lurid and the special effects more distracting than anything else. To create a sense of disorientation due to fright or shock, the photographer, Floyd Crosby, simply splashes the crimson image across the screen at a forty-five degree slant. Les Baxter's orchestra provides an underscore of generic horror music. The pit and the pendulum -- and Barbara Steele -- don't show up until the climax and some suspense is generated as the mad Vincent Price grins demoniacally while slowly lowering the pendulum that with slice John Kerr like a chub of beef baloney in a Jewish deli. Don't worry, though.Others have found these inexpensive efforts more rewarding, both at the time of their release, and now. So don't let my lack of interest stop you from taking a crack at them. "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Horror Movies Of All time...","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Vincent Price is by far the master of horror. He has done a number of Edgar Allen Poe movies and The Pit And The Pendulum is the by far his greatest work. The set on this movie was a  Halloween horror house masterpiece. If you want to get chills just watch the movie in a dark room by candle light. Too bad the Hollywood of today can't compare with the sheer genius of yesteryear. "},{"Title":"Wrong StoryLine","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this is not a spoiler, this movie is absolutely nothing like the original story by Edgar Allen Poe. First off, The original story takes place in absolute darkness until the very ending. Secondly, There is only one character in the original story, whilst in the movie there are three, at least.I admit that I don't like the movie, but only because of that whole plot-change and all. other than that, the acting was great, the Writing was good. and I understand that they couldn't do it just like the original story because most of the original was of the character's thoughts, and emotions.I advise you read the original story instead of watch the movie, if you want real Poe . . . if you want a good horror story watch the movie, but still read the book.either way, read the book! "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I watched House of Usher earlier in the day. I don't understand how these are both rated the same. House of Usher (7/10) is decent - it has good atmosphere (even with garish color), a very good supporting cast, the Mark Damon character being the weak point there and satisfactory dialogue.Pit and the Pendulum is just plain awful which is odd since it came out the next year. The dialogue is very poor (can't believe this was written by Matheson) and the acting awful - even from the generally reliable Price. There's no atmosphere at all in this one. The last sequence of scenes is fairly good for the most part but you have to watch 70 minutes of drek before you get there. "}{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I watched The Pit and the Pendulum after reading it in a book full of Edgar Allen Poe's writings, and I have to say that Mr. Corman made an awful depiction of the story. The plot line didn't match any of that in the story and it had no relevance other than the pendulum. I thought the acting was good though, despite the difference between the story and the movie. They certainly did enough to keep me entertained for 80 minutes. But it seems to me it could have been better considering the fact it was written on the inspiration of one of the greatest writers of all time. It seems to be an insult to him and the story should have been more like the story, rather than nothing like it at all. It should not be able to carry the title of The Pit and the Pendulum. "},{"Title":"And this movie has WHAT to do with Poe's novel?","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After reintroducing myself to Poe's works, I thought it might be fun to watch a film rendition of this chilling story about the horrors of the Spanish Inquisition. My curiosity was even more piqued by the fact that the movie starred Vincent Price, one of the best portrayer's of the 'mad scientist' type of character.Then the movie started.Other than the movie briefly containing a pendulum, it had nothing whatsoever to do with Poe's story. No Spanish Inquisition. No Pit. Not even a hint of following the story.Sort of like sitting down to watch Die Hard and getting The Sound of Music with the Die Hard title slapped on it. "},{"Title":"Why does everybody like this movie?","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie sucks. I hate it. I hate Roger Corman for making it. I hate Vincent Price for starring in it. I hate all the actors and actresses who all dressed the same so you couldn't tell them apart. I hate all the set designers who made the movie look like a complete and total garbage dump. I even hate the year 1961 because of this stupid friggin movie! "}]