[{"Title":"Whispering, Loudly","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"107 out of 124 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A riveting transposition from page to screen. The accomplices are two giants in both fields. Nabokov adapts his own infamous novel for the screen and Kubrick, no less, translates it into images in a way that makes it unique, unforgettable and transcendental without ever putting himself in front of the camera. A Kubrick film can't be recognized by its style. Kubrick never made two films alike but there is something that, unquestionable, makes them stand out. In Lolita's case the mere idea of touching the controversial novel with its taboo subject at its very core seem like a provocation from the word go. Pornography for the thinking man in which the only explicit act is the intention written in the character's eyes. Nothing is excessive and nothing is pulled back. James Mason - villain or victim - is monumental, mo-nu-men-tal! The unspeakable truth never leaves his brow. He is the most civilized man trapped in the lowest echelon of his own psyche. So aware, that it is painful to watch. Shelley Winters goes for it, taking her Mrs Hayes for all its worth and dives into the void of a desperate housewife, craving for sex. It is one of the most entertaining, shattering human spectacles, I've ever seen. But unlike Mason, she's not aware of it. There is a horrible innocence attached to her sickness. Peter Sellers's character from hell, the torturer comes in three riveting characterizations and Sue Lyon's temptress, the child, is the devil incarnate in a performance that defies description. None of them were nominated for Oscars and the film was condemned by every moral group in America and beyond. As film experiences go, this is one of the most provocative, enthralling, disgusting, entertaining and satisfying I've ever been through. Yep, I really mean that. "},{"Title":"Both Lolitas are good","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"145 out of 205 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Someone commented that if you want to acquaint yourself with Nabokov's `Lolita' without actually reading it, the best you can do is to see Adrian Lyne's version.  This is surely true.  And, I might add, if you want to acquaint yourself with Nabokov's `Lolita' without actually reading it - to hell with you.  You don't stand a chance anyway.  Humbert's narration cannot possibly make it to the screen in one piece.  Kubrick, at least, made no attempt.  He even invents his own material, which Lyne is afraid or unwilling to do.Something about Lyne's authenticity is even shocking.  He opens the story in 1947, which is when the story in fact opens - yet everything looks jarringly old-fashioned, whereas Kubrick's indeterminate 1950s setting looks right.  The bulk of the story might as well take place in the 1950s as any other time.  The crucial point is that the story cannot begin any EARLIER than 1947 - we need a post-war America with motels dotting the landscape.  Humbert has little contact with contemporary culture; he only encounters the snippets of music and film that obsess Lolita, and he finds them unendurably vulgar.  Kubrick captures this very well.  There's this boppy little pop tune we never hear the end of - although most of the time we only hear it subliminally - for the first half of the movie, and it sounds like exactly the kind of tune that drove Humbert up the wall.Kubrick's cast is a strong one.  It's crowned by Peter Sellers as Quilty - and before you complain that we see too much of him, ask yourself what scene featuring Quilty could you possibly want to be removed?  Admittedly, since this is 1962, we have a Lolita who is merely sixteen - but maybe this isn't just because it's 1962.  After all, the book does two things at once.  It makes us understand perfectly why Humbert is attracted to Lolita - we see her through his eyes - while constantly reminding us that Lolita is not someone that we would be attracted to, ourselves.  Both are worthy goals, but when it comes time to film the book, the director must make a choice between them.  Kubrick picked a genuinely attractive, but still obviously young, Sue Lyon.  I can't fault this choice.  As for Humbert - well, here Kubrick was actually MORE daring than Lyne was.  Humbert Humbert is a sympathetic character who is also calculating, manipulative and - now and then - shockingly brutal.  James Mason allows Humbert to be all of these things.  This doesn't prevent him from being sympathetic.  The story takes care of that.It comes down to this.  What, exactly, does Humbert do that's so wrong?  Is it that he has sex with a minor?  Considered in itself this is the least of his crimes.  What's really wrong is the way he attempts to be Lolita's lover and guardian simultaneously, and, of course, he makes a hash of both jobs.  THAT is what's essential to the story of Lolita, and that's what Kubrick transfers to the screen at least as well as Lyne.Having said that I must add that both versions are very good.  They're also different enough to scarcely even be competitors.  See them one after the other, if you like. "},{"Title":"One of the must see films in the crop of ultra pitch black comedies about male insecurity and youth","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"115 out of 154 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen both versions of Lolita now. The 1997 version, directed by Adrian Lyne, certainly has it's merits, and is headed by two very good leads in Irons and Swain. But it is this, Stanley Kubrick's adaptation, that I prefer overall. Kubrick said in an interview after the film's release, Had I known what I would've had to cut out, I probably wouldn't of made the film. It's a surprising irony though that what had to be suppressed or changed from the book works to his advantage. Like other works under the master's belt, this has some comedy that is so dark that you almost (or do) feel guilty after laughing. The innuendo, even decades later, is still as provocative. And when it gets disturbing, it doesn't go too far over the line. I have not read the book, but I have heard much about it, what was different, and I think Kubrick at least is most successful at infusing his trademark touches to the material.For starters, there is the acting. Like with for example Full Metal Jacket, the supporting actors somehow outrank the leads. This is not to say that James Mason (Humbert Humbert) and Sue Lyon (Dolores Lolita Hayes) are not highly believable in their parts. But in looking at Peter Sellers in his multiple roles via the curious, insanely oddball Quilty, and Shelley Winters as Lolita's mother, they are simply flat-out brilliant (I would choose a better word if I could, believe me). Right from the first scene, which happens to take the last scene of the story in place, Sellers doesn't have me for a second thinking that he isn't perfectly off-the-wall. As was in Dr. Strangelove, his contributions to the project are incalculable. Winters, on the other hand, finds that balance with Mrs. Hayes as a lonely middle-aged woman looking for companionship, though unable to shake her over-protective tendencies.As for Mason and Lyon, their scenes together are at the least a little overtly melodramatic (which might have been the idea, it may take another few viewings to really grasp the weight of their performances) and at best helps define what the film is about. Mason finds the right notes, if a little anxiously and stuffy at times, in how Humbert is almost like a kid trying to break out of his middle-aged professor image. When he meets Lolita he's awestruck, and falls for her hard, very hard, which sets up what happens to the two of them for the rest of the film. What is even more interesting is how the dynamic is placed with Lolita, who is wiser in ways Humbert is not, and how the sort of idea of mutual youth is tempting, but definitely not everlasting. As the film unfolds it's third act, the film becomes an intense kind of morality tale, where male insecurities are touched upon with Humbert, and even Quilty to a degree. Kubrick, being one of the finest of dramatic character psychologists, hardly skips a beat in making sure not to lose the strange bits (which must be some of the better bits in Nabokov's text) with humor.Then there is the most rewarding thing of all in a Kubrick film, which is seeing how he photographs the scenes and characters. It holds some of the moves and angles and lighting he's held to for all of his career (some shots show as a precursor to Eyes Wide Shut perhaps), and how the camera stays on the characters in many scenes (actually, almost all the scenes) adds that right tension and space between us and them. If anything else, just watch the film for the sake of watching a film moving and staying put and capturing faces in particular ways. Lolita, in the end, may not be one of my very favorite Kubrick films (though only time and repeat viewings will tell), but it's certainly worth a viewing. Some Kubrick fans may come to this after seeing the essentials like 2001, the Shining, or Clockwork Orange, however it could come as being a favorite in some circles. It certainly is, for my money, as enticing and intriguing a sexual satire I've seen in many a moon. "},{"Title":"Humorous, disturbing, and everything in between!","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"100 out of 134 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think Stanley Kubrick was the only director who had any ideas of how to tackle a film version of Lolita. I also believe that he was the only director who could have succeeded, and I believe he did succeed. This film was everything I could have expected it to be, and maybe even a little more.Shelley Winters' performance was wonderful! James Mason delivered a strong effort in a very difficult part to play. Peter Sellers was Peter Sellers, four or five times throughout the movie, but that's Peter Sellers, and that's why I am really starting to admire his work. The real surprise performance in this movie, however, came from Sue Lyon in the title role. Her intensity was incredible. She seemed perfectly natural as a teenage girl enjoying the attention of older men, or just men in general. You could really see the wheels turning in her head as she schemed her way from one situation to the other. Some have criticized that her Lolita was too old in comparison to the novel's Lolita. One could make that judgment, however, what twelve year old actress would have been able to provide the emotional depth required for the part? Let's face it, in literary adaptations, some license must be allowed. All in all, I thought it was a very good movie, and I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys the work of Stanley Kubrick and/or Peter Sellers. "},{"Title":"A Masterwork of Translation","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"73 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A significant part of Stanley Kubrick's genius was his ability to translate a literary style into a visual one.  It is demonstrated nowhere more brilliantly than in LOLITA and A CLOCKWORK ORANGE.LOLITA is perhaps the more stunning accomplishment, in that Nabokov's style is complex and multi-layered.  Yet Kubrick captures the effect of it in camera angles and movements, in timing and point of view.The broadest layer of Nabokov's novel, the parable of the aging culture of Europe trying to revivify itself by debauching the seductive young culture of America, is really missing in the film.  But everything else is there, despite the fact that the film departs from the exact events of the novel.Not to say that the film depends on the novel.  It stands by itself quite easily.  But it succeeds brilliantly in conveying the ideas and feelings that are the core of the novel, and it does so in completely cinematic terms.  If films are to be based on works of literature, this is the way to do it, and the way it is almost never done.  "},{"Title":"A delicious, adult meditation on youth, obsession and sex.","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"69 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film remains my all-time favorite. It's a delicious, adult meditation on youth, obsession and sex. While not entirely faithful to the novel, it captures the book's spirit and is nonetheless a masterpiece on its own terms. To fully appreciate what Kubrick has done, compare this version to Adrian Lyne's anemic remake. Kubrick chose his cast wisely for the most part. James Mason conveys both the tormented inner soul and the outwardly polite gentleman with such charm that you simply can't despise him for his treachery. Shelley Winters was never better as the shrill, man-hungry shrew. Sue Lyon is enormously credible in a complex role - physically attractive, childish at times in her behavior, but quietly calculating and manipulative. The weakest link is Peter Sellers, who Kubrick found amusing enough to let him run on too long. Sellers was a brilliant performer, but just not right for this film. As Quilty, he's fine. When masquerading as others, he's mostly intrusive and tends to alter the tone of what's going on. The need to tread carefully around the censors in 1962 actually works in the film's favor. There's a sophisticated subtlety that counterbalances the lurid subject matter. In fact, I even prefer the edited-for-television version of the scene in which Humbert and Lolita first have sex. Here she merely whispers in his ear before a suggestive fade-out. In the complete version of the film, the scene continues with them discussing a silly game played at summer camp. The less said, the better.Lolita has aged remarkably well. Its topic is relevant today, and the careful craftsmanship that went into this production holds up beautifully. I think it's Kubrick's best film - they tended to get more self-indulgent as time went on. This one's a gem. Not to be overlooked are the aptly provocative title sequence and Nelson Riddle's luscious piano score. "},{"Title":"Cynically romantic","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"60 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having read the Nabokov novel and the two well-known versions of the film, I believe the most accurate way of defining the relations is Lyne´s film is more faithful to the literal reading of the story, Kubrick's one is far more faithful to its spirit and, what is even more important, it isn't drowned by comparisons with the book.Probably what bothers most people who have seen both films and read the novel is that Kubrick gives ample space to cynicism, farce and mocking of all the main (and even secondary) characters it ridicules both the cultured, refined and cosmopolitan Englishman and the pseudo-liberal and fairly tacky Americans (the cultural and behavioral differentiation reminding me of Henry James, just in reverse). The child temptress is here seen more realistically as a sexy however vacuous and irritating teenager and Humbert´s love of her as a noble and real but tremendously stupid infatuation (coming from a cold-headed intellectual like him). Also delightful the portrayal of alcoholic and neurotic Shelley Winters, and particularly of Peter Sellers as a mediocre tv writer enhanced by American middle-class culture. There is a lot of witty sociopolitical criticism here.Adrian Lynne's version, being utterly romantic (and striving really too hard to be poetic) may seem more accurate on the love story but is really Nabokov's intention to tell a love story as such? I can't really appreciate how such wonderful novelist could be so obvious and open to his reader. Not forgetting the romanticism of Humbert's feelings of despair towards the girl, Kubrick doesn't indulge in a simple love story but explores all the most obscure consequences of irrationality and does so with irony and sarcasm (humour is everywhere) but also with a touch of compassionate dramatism when appropriate.We have a classic here, both faithful to the novel and full of innovations. Lynne´s intent is merely a limp follower of its two (the literary and the filmic) predecessors. "},{"Title":"Brilliant--not really the book--but still brilliant","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"63 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a surreal, dreamlike world Stanley Kubrick creates with this intriguing film!    The book, a recognized 20th century classic, is at times disturbing, hysterically  funny, uncomfortably erotic, and heartbreakingly sad.  The film, made in the 60s,  captures many of the same feelings generated by the book--but the censorshipof the time could only allow Kubrick to suggest the more intimate and eroticaspects of the book--which he slyly succeeds in doing.  It is hard to believe now,  but when this film was released, it was considered to be unbelievablyprovacative and absolutely for adults only. The movie becomes its own artistic statement---Kubrick doesn't merely try torecreate the scenes and storyline of the book--although much of it is there--but  he uses the period music, speech, clothes and mannerisms to create his ownimaginative and fascinating world.  At the same time, we sure do end up caring  about the characters.  Within the exceptional cast, note the special performance  Shelly Winters gives--her character is at once funny and so achingly sad andpathetic.  This is a real tour-de-force of acting.  In several instances we go from  laughing at her to really disliking her, to feeling so very sorry for her.  She  creates a truly memorable character.'The film ranks right up there with all of the spectacfular films Kubrick made  during his amazing and very singular career---each of his films was sodistinctive--and Lolita is one of the most distinctive of them all.    "},{"Title":"Tasteful and Entertaining","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"47 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not the two words that came to mind when I first read the book.  This movie nicely handles the taboo subject matter and is tremendously funny as well.  Peter Sellers was warming up for his triumph in Dr. Strangelove, Shelly Winters gave her best performance, and James Mason made us feel his pain.  As Lolita, Sue Lyon is convincing although Kubrick makes her character a bit older (probably to satisfy the censors, which still slapped this with an X rating originally, much to my surprise).  The movie could play on TV today with no edits.  I have not seen the 1997 remake but can only imagine, given its director with a reputation of going over the top, that it's not as classy and tasteful as this one.  Since this was made in 1962, the risque elements from the book were left to our imagination.  And the movie scores highly because of it. The movie's story is stuck in the '60s (that bubblegum music, which played during Lolita's early scenes, will stick with you), and if you are bored with the story, or cannot believe what you're seeing, you can always get a culture lesson  Hula hoops, malt shops, pseudo intellectuals, faulty cots and gas stations where they still pump your gas.       "},{"Title":"One of the finest films of The Sixties","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"48 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  8/10Kubrik's version of Nabokov's tale of a middle-aged professor's self-destructive obsession with a young schoolgirl. Making a film that dealt with underage sex was considered impossible in 1962 due to the strict censorship regulations. Kubrik manages to get round this by merely alluding to sexual encounters and subtle wordplay and symbolism creeps into several scenes. He also raises the girl's age from 12 in the novel to 14 in the film. Lolita is also rich in Kubrik's trademark dark humour.The three central characters of the novel are all portrayed more than adequately in the film; James Mason as the smitten professor, Shelley  Winters as the suburban widow with pretensions of culture and Sue Lyons as the young nymphet. However, it is Sellars' performance as the creepy eccentric Clare Quilty (a relatively minor character in the book) that steals the show and, ultimately, makes the film. The opening scene (which is the ending of the film) is an outstanding testament to his talent and versatility. The said scene gives the film the same circular structure used by David Lean in Brief Encounter.My favourite moments include; Quilty's re-introduction to the film at the school's summer ball as the camera pans across the dancefloor and subtly reveals a look of comic ambivalence on his face as he dances with his lover, Humbert awkwardly trying to book the only remaining hotel-room at the police convention and Humbert again trying to teach the cynical Lolita the joys of Edgar Allen Poe's poetry.I thoroughly recommend this film. My only complaint is the length - the final third seemed to drag a bit. "}{"Title":"All in the Environment","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"35 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Lolita is one of the most remarkable books in the world. It has lovely language in many different ways. But that's not what makes it novel. The cleverness, the art is in the shifting stance of the narrator -- sometimes delusional, often hyperdramatic, continuously obsessed with  unusual elements of the world. You never know where you stand.Almost impossible to translate to film, which of course is why Kubrick was attracted to the project. He had done `Killer's Kiss,' which experiments with surpressing the narrative to the cinematic vision. Then he got roped into `Spartacus,' which he hated. It focused on the characters, and the story was overly expository and preachy.So how to do it? He has to find a place to move the slipperiness of narrative, and he selects to give this job to Sellers. Everything depends on the positioning of the characters. The wife is played by an actress that has the same consciousness in the world as in the film. The kid is a loss, but since we couldn't have a twelveyear old who seduces several, the role is placeholder only. The whole revolves around us believing that Sellers is a sort of god in the machine. This is a noble experiment, which almost works. Sellers introduces himself as Spartacus from behind the curtain. Then we see how he has manipulated the last several years. He is turned into a filmmaker (to enhance the selfreference), who entices poor Loli into making a film, presumably this one.I think it may be a long time before viewers can fully appreciate Kubrick's experiments in shifting the story to the vision by clever narrative folds. It all starts here. "},{"Title":"Best Lolita ever","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"31 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An excellent film that has Kubrik's name stamped all over it.We see how the skillful Director is able to translate and adapt the book to reach a bigger audience and become a timeless Classic.Rather than worry about truly reflecting the book on the silver screen, Kubrik changes and experiments with the screenplay to obtain a refreshing, intellectual and fun version of the boring Nabokov's novel.The Master of Directors shows also great skill in his precise direction of the well selected star cast.Who would challenge that Sellers is precisely the hyperactive, witty character who could undoubtedly seduct a young teen. Could there be a better fit to Lolita's mother than Shelley Winters, who conveys so well the impression of being the desperate, lonely widow?Even James Mason IS the perfect sexually repressed, intellectual pervert, who tries to hide so well his persistent, hypocritical thoughts and desires behind that mask of academic honorability.In conclusion, this is not a replacement for the book. It is also true that to bring the book to life a boring multi-part mini-series would be necessary. This is, however, a better screenplay than the one we saw on the 1997 version. "},{"Title":"'Lolita, light of my life, fire of my loins.'","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having just read Vladmir Nabokov's 'Lolita' for Uni, I instantly wanted to see Stanley Kubrick's rendering of the story. Overall I was impressed by what he had done, but I felt some parts of the film didn't quite work. Firstly, although i think Sellers is a great actor and I love him in everything I've seen him in I just couldn't get comfortable with his role here. When reading the book I had a totally different vision of Quilty, so I found it hard to readjust to Seller's performance. Although his acting is great and hilarious as always, it just didn't fit into the plot for me. I thought James Mason was good, and he played the gradual disintegration of Humbert Humbert with an intensity which i enjoyed. However, i felt that the film did not reveal as much of his character as the novel portrays. The name Humbert Humbert suggests two sides to his nature, and I felt that too much emphasis was placed on his suave and intelligent side, and not enough time was devoted to his burning desire and passion for Lolita. I particularly missed one of my favourite lines that was not used in film, 'Lolita, light of my life, fire of my loins. My sin, my soul.' Although i haven't seen the film in a long time, I think Jeremy Irons from the 1997 version is a much better actor for the role.Sue Lyon made a great Lolita, although she did tremble on the line between looking young enough for the role and looking too old for it. Still, there were times in the film where she looked so young the odious nature of Humbert's act really struck me. Speaking of this, I felt the film skipped past too much of what really went on between Humbert and Lolita. Although Nabokov similarly leaves this to the reader's imagination, I thought a little more could have been done to stress the nature of Humbert and Lolita's relationship.Shelley Winters was brilliant, and her acting added so much to the character of Charlotte Haze. I thought she was wonderful; she really fleshed the character out.Overall, I did enjoy watching this film despite the small niggles I had with it, but I view it as something separate to the novel. In this way it's a more enjoyable experience. I'm looking forward to seeing the 1997 version of the film again (I saw it once years ago!), as I think it is a movie that will benefit much more having been made in a time of a more permissive society, allowing more creative freedom in what can be shown. "},{"Title":"An unsparring and beautiful film","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One year after Lolita was released, Stanley Kubrick cut his ties with producer James B. Harris after starting Doctor Strangelove., thus only making his own films. Lolita is Kubrick's apparent transition from making money type of pictures (Paths of Glory) to art (Doctor Strangelove. It seems like Humbert and Lolita are the only sane characters while everyone else is sane. As the troubled Humbert, James Mason shines, turning in a performance of emotional capacity that even generates sympathy for him. As Lolita's oddball and energetic mother, Shirley Winters also does very well; creating a sort of hate for her. Sue Lynon plays Lolita with a nice sort of childness, yet at the same time she shows a sort of maturity not usually shown done by an actress of that age. And of course there's Peter Sellers as the eccentric Clarence Quilty, who's downright hilarious and very strange. The script provides fleshed out characters, and at the same time not always letting the viewer know what's going on. Stanley Kubrick's direction is beautiful and cold, letting the viewer have emotions instead of telling them what to feel. Stanley Kubrick doesn't come back to these proffesionall and well- spoken characters until Barry Lyndon (1975). Unfortunately, this film ends up getting repeating and dull. The photography provides a sort of gloss to it that few films have, and also the editing is rapid- fire. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Kubrick's film misses the mark","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" While performances in this film were very good (especially Shelly Winters), I was disappointed over all. I don't think a film should necessarily be exactly like the book, because celluloid and text are different media, producing different effects in the audience. However, the differences in this film that mattered were, I think, down to direction. What didn't come across in the film was the emotional and moral ambiguity of the story, and the film failed the story in this respect especially in Lolita's final scene, as Mrs. Richard Schiller. Reading the book, I was impressed with the way Nabokov portrayed Lolita here as a little more grown up, but more fragile than before (ie. less defensive), and so practical. It really underscored Humbert's unconscious intimations of her unhappiness during their time together, and that her vulgarity was a cover for her emotional fragility. Her final scene in the movie presents her as the same scheming Lolita, and fails to convey the tenuousness of her situation, in what she is asking of him.Secondly, I was disappointed with the casting of James Mason who, although a fine actor, was too old for the part. Humbert in the novel was 37 or 38, and I think this is an important factor again in the ambiguity of the story this is not some middle aged lecher, past his prime. Humbert is at the height of his attractiveness, and is a charming man who has virtually everyone fooled--but for Clare Quilty, and this is because he is 'like' Humbert, in a sense even his alter-ego; the 'happier' (or less conscience burdened) face of pedophilia.Thirdly, the scene with the psychologist was not Quilty in the book, but a middle aged (and very serious) woman, and I think that substitution played an important role in distorting the essence of the story. In the book, this scene serves to impress upon the reader the impact of Humbert's dalliance with her upon her psycho-sexual development that she was in fact regressing in her development, and retreating into a sexually latent stage rather than one of sexual awakening. That there were signs like this told a lot about her situation (that, as Humbert himself admits, he had broken her), but also heightens the sense of danger, that people are starting to sense something's not quite right about them. The substitution of Quilty into this role, on the other hand (and especially in the form of farce), detracts from this depth, and makes Lolita seem more calculating and informed than she perhaps was. This again is enforced in the direction of her final scene, where she recounts Quilty's role in a way that humiliates Humbert.All in all, the film makes Lolita look far more like a 'player' than she was, and in this sense reinforces Humbert's interpretation of her, without undercutting his perspective with unconscious slips in the clever way that Nabokov had achieved in the novel. I haven't seen the more recent version with Jeromy Irons, but I have a sense that it has made more of an effort to deal with the moral/emotional ambiguity of the story than Kubrick's version did. "},{"Title":"Kubrick in a subtle mood","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The excellent novel turned into a screenplay by Vladimir Nabokov himself is one of the best movies Kubrick did. Due to censorship some things were let out, the better for it I say. Sue Lyon as Lo leaves nothing to be desired, her confidence and rebellion is convincing. James Mason is perfect as Humbert Humbert, his way of calculating, concealing his intentions and the way he tries to control Lo's life struggles its best with the sympathies you get for his lonely soul.And Peter Sellers provides the comedic element as well as suspense. When confronting Humbert at the hotel it was almost as tense as when Rugosjin confronted Raskolnikov in 'Crime and Punishment'.Kubrick shows his mastering of storytelling here. We don't need background on Humbert as we see his intentions in his actions. And what a way to start the movie! "},{"Title":"Humbert Humbert A Man For All Ages","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having read Nabokov's novel twice and having viewed both screen adaptations its obvious that Kubrick's is vastly superior if not explicitly told due to the time period in which it was filmed however it seems that the later version seemed to miss the point. Its hard not to view the novel and the 1962 version as a metaphor. Cultured,refined,educated if somewhat stodgy European Humbert H Humbert develops an affinity for crass,barbaric, uneducated vastly younger American adolescent Dolores (Lolita)Haze, who embraces a different set of aesthetics and cultural values. His infatuation and lust cause him to go so far as to marry her mother whom he finds detestable but however is just a means to an end. Through an odd turn of events he finds himself in the diametrically opposed positions of being Lolitas guardian and also her love/lust interest. This was quite a challenge for Kubrick to put on screen and the only mistake he made was that he gave us no background whatsoever on Humbert therefor making it difficult for us to sympathize with him whatsoever. It still is a noble effort considering how multi-layered the novel is and to be absolutely true to it would have taken a monumental effort not to mention landing Kubrick in jail on obscenity charges. I highly recommend it as it is a beautiful film. "},{"Title":"Peter Sellers makes the film.","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How wrong The_Wood is about this film... The previous commentator's jibe of dull performances so completely misses the mark I do not balk at laughter! To think he was watching the same film as I, is an odd thought, or more pointedly, the same magnificent performance from Peter Sellers as Clare Quilty.  While I admit the film isn't entirely successful, I would say it is at least reasonable in most regards. Well shot and composed by Kubrick, I don't see how anyone could doubt its mounting. The opening scene, with Sellers riffing off Mason extraordinarily, is one of the greatest, oddest openings to a film ever. All sorts of proto-Pinteresque psychological mind games are deployed in this oddest of confrontation scenes.  Maybe, one might say, the film doesn't generally match this inspired quality in the main body of the picture. The scenes which unquestionably do invariably involve Sellers. His portrayal and embellishment of Nabokov's more minor player, Quilty, is an outstanding success; for all the magnetic subtlety of Being There and high-octane comic mastery of Dr Strangelove I feel this performance to be the most magnetic, unnerving and ingenious of Sellers' career, such as I have seen it. The scenes between Sellers and Mason, the incalculably more sedate, classical actor, are like eras and mindsets shifting, uncomfortably and compellingly. Sellers plays Quilty as an amoral jokester, a daunting genius alter-ego of Humbert, uninhibited and unrestrained in his game-playing. I ought to make mention of the party scene early on, with Quilty dancing diffidently and cynically with some dame or other. Moments such as this scene in the film are pure acting subtlety demonstrated by Sellers, and he practically maintains the compelling interest embodied by this character throughout. Wonderful. Who could forget, or indeed ignore as the two previous reviewers have, the sublimely tense and comic scene at the hotel with Sellers' and Quilty's policeman probing Humbert in a simultaneously precise and absurd manner. Where some critics have said Sellers' Quilty is over-used, I would say quite the opposite; he could have been used even more, although the irregularity and unpredictability of his appearances is tangibly effective.Mason is dependable as Humbert, and this mere dependability proves perhaps insufficient in a film dominated by one of the finest performances. The character's passions and motivations are quelled rather than exacerbated by Mason's mannered English gentleman playing of the part. However, his bearing and style of acting prove an irresistible counterpoint to Sellers. Kubrick evidently realized, on set, Sellers' genius for both precise comedic timing and subtle character acting, and rightly indulged these attributes. Other players in Nabokov/Kubrick/Sellers' comedic human pyschodrama are a mixture. Shelley Winters, an often unremarkable actress, portrays a hilariously unlovely lady very well. A victim, as in the majestic The Night of the Hunter, Winters proves an elusively cursory actress. The scene where Mason is in the bath, and she subsequently dies, without the aid of Humbert is a master class in comedic acting from Mason and Winters. Sue Lyon, importantly, is maybe not quite the Lolita that is required. She's certainly alluring, but never quite the right mix of seductive innocence and dispensed nonchalance. She plays the part with maybe an over-emphasis on desultory petulance. Full marks, though, to Kubrick for the influential shots when Humbert sees her for the first time; brilliantly done. It is however, in the final analysis, a mistake, or cop-out, of casting to have Sue Lyon, a girl of around sixteen, rather than someone of the age Nabokov specifies in the novel. It misses, or rather skirts around, the point of Lolita somewhat.For all the film's faults, it's an entertaining, provocative (more in the sense of Humbert's guilt than in his desires) drama with an irreverent, thoughtful edge provided by the frighteningly good Sellers. As a film it is far from obsolete, as user Hugh comments, it is an essential, if flawed adaptation of a literary classic. And I'm not being in the least bit sentimental in saying that.Rating- ****/***** "},{"Title":"Classic version of Lolita, Sue Lyon may have been playing herself.","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was a senior in high school in 1962 when Kubrick's Lolita was in theaters. I did not see it back then. Now, having lived for an additional 4 decades, I can appreciate it more anyway. The genius in Kubrick's direction is to let us, the audience, see clearly what is going on, while the players cannot. Sue Lyon played the coy Lolita so well, but when you read her biography and see that she had a series of short, failed marriages after this film was made, you have to wonder if her performance was so good because she was playing a character not far from herself. But the real star is Peter Sellers, playing Clare Quilty. Overall a fine movie depicting how unreasonable and blind obsession can cloud the thinking of otherwise reasonable and educated people. Here it was a man, but we certainly have not cornered that fault.After viewing this movie, I read Nabakov's book. It is much more revealing (no surprise there) as to how Humbert made an elaborate justification in his mind that is was OK for a man in his late 30s to have a sexual relationship with a girl in the 10 to 14 year old range, finally having one with Lo when she was 12. It of course is much more explicit in describing their passion and activities. Now I too am a bit surprised that the book was ever made into a movie. "},{"Title":"How DID They Make A Film Out of 'Lolita'?","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lolita has been one of my favorite novels for quite some time. Ive always felt that it was one of Nabokov's best and that the portrayal of Humbert and Lolita's affair was truly touching. I put off seeing the movies for quite some time, because I knew that they probably wouldn't live up to my expectations. However, I finally gave in and rented Kubrick's version. I went into the film with an open mind, and came out dissapointed.The film has alot of problems-surprisingly, many of them can be traced to it's script, which was written by Nabokov himself. Perhaps he should have stuck to writing novels. The main problem was characterization. We are flung into the plot of the story immediately, with almost no background given to Humbert Humbert. In the book, nearly 50 pages lead up to his meeting Lolita, describing his pedophilic tendencies, his previous sex life and attempts to stifle his true preferences. In general, we come to sympathize with the monster that is H.H. However, in the film, we are given no time to get to know Humbert Humbert. He is a flat character. I think the actor had little to work with, although his choice of accent for a primarily French man was unusual and annoying. Moreover, in the book the storty is told from the POV of H.H., allowing us to understand his obsession. In the movie, its told from an impartial outside silent narrator. This is a huge problem.Before I continue, I should note that a problem that was not the filmmaker's fault was the censors. The film is about a novel about pedophilia. There isnt any point in making the movie if you cant make the movie about pedophilia. The censors dont allow even a mention of H.H. and Lolita's love affair- its very strange. Had I not read the book, it would take me probably nearly half the movie to figure out even the inklings of their growing affections for eachother. Its ridiculous to try and make a movie about a subject that you cant...make a movie about! The tagline says it all How did they make a movie out of Lolita? I dont know, they barely did.One of the worst things the censors did was make Lolita 14 rather than 12 as she is in the book. Her fragile childlike nature in the novle is transformed into a ridiculous teenage whininess. The character of Lolita is barely recognizable. In the book, Lolita is barely entering puberty. She is cheeky and affectionate. She never truly seduces Humbert Humbert, and maintains a childlike innocence throughout the beginning of the novel. The most heartbreaking part of the story is how her innocence is slowly destroyed by H.H., despite his best intentions. In the movie, Lolita is manipulative, seductive, annoying, obnoxious, and OLD. She is not the innocent child in the book. Her and HH's relationship is mostly them quarreling. It gets annoying.Overall, the movie was a decent attempt at a film and a terrible attempt at an adaptation of Nabokov's brilliant novel.  "}{"Title":"Well, I sort of lay there in pain, but I love it. I really love it. I lay there hovering between consciousness and unconsciousness. It's really the greatest.  - Clare Quilty","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" What a controversial film this little flick called 'Lolita' was back in it's day. It's day was 1962, and during that time there wasn't a lot of lenience in the MPAA. Researching about this film, I found they were threatening to give it an 'X' rating if they showed any sexuality or expressions of sexuality between the middle-aged Humbert Humbert, and the breathtakingly beautiful young teenager, Lolita. This would be absurd by today's standards (the film would be able to earn a 'PG-13' at the worst if it was released today.) The movie was deemed so inappropriate and obscene, that little Sue Lyons (who played Lolita) wasn't allowed into the movie premiere of 'Lolita' because she was under age. Now, that's a load of crap, even for the 1962 era standards. Audiences were just so much more uptight back then, and we may have been like that today, if it wasn 't for the brave souls to spoke and acted against this like Stanley Kubrick, when he made the film idea of 'Lolita' into a reality.'Lolita', based on the risqué love story novel by Vladimir Nobokov (who also provided the film's screenplay), follows a middle-aged novelist, Humbert Humbert (the late great James Mason) who is looking for a place to rent out for a couple months while he begins writing his new novel. He eventually finds a place, a house with a room up for rent. The house belongs to Charlotte Haze (Shelly Winters), a middle-aged widow who has an eye for Humbert, but that's the problem. Charlotte has a 14-year-old daughter who Humbert becomes immediately madly in lust with. Humbert eventually marries Charlotte, only to get close to Lolita so he can have his way with her. Charlotte is oblivious to this, and Humbert and Lolita start up a relationship (non-sexual) and Humbert realizes he becomes in love with her, and not just in lust with her. Humbert thinks he's got everything figured out how to be with her, but he has some competition with Charlotte's ex-boyfriend, a famous television game show host, Clare Quilty (the late and especially great Peter Sellers), whose also madly in lust with young innocent (well seemingly innocent) Lolita.'Lolita' is a great film, but it's not one of the genius Mr. Stanley Kubrick's best films. The acting is sensational in 'Lolita' with extraordinary performances all around. James Mason is marvelous in the lead role as the conflicted Humbert Humbert. Mason perhaps provides one of the most powerful and hard to play roles in his career. Numerous Oscar winner Shelly Winters is undeniably brilliant as Charlotte Haze, she really does a lot with her role, and she stands out in the scenes she's in. It's a damn shame she didn't even get an Academy Award Nominee for this. Sue Lyon does a pretty good job as Lolita, and after this I'm not sure she did much else. The real stand-out of the film is of course, Peter Sellers. You know, he was just so perfect for the role of the sex-hungry weasel that is Clare Quilty. Instead of playing the tricky pedophile with creepiness and anger (like most people would), he riskily plays it funny and with a sense of likableness, that only an actor with such exquisite finesse and genius like Peter Sellers could do. Peter Sellers was one of his time's greatest actors, and he really steals every scene he is featured in, in Kubrick's 'Lolita'. Vladimir Nobokov's screenplay is wonderfully well-written (staying close to the novel), and Stanley Kubrick's keen direction is nothing short of meticulous, neat, beautiful, and bold. The film has shortcomings though, too. It's way overlong, and there are some dry scenes here and there. Although it wouldn't be as true to the book (and Kubrick is a stickler about that), I think cutting the film down to a more reasonable run time then 2 hours and 32 minutes, would have been a good move.If you haven't seen the 1962 original version of 'Lolita', it's a definite must. Most people prefer the newer version with Jeremy Irons and Frank Langella, but it's so inferior to Kubrick's version. The recent version may have more sex scenes and more things to sigh in disgust and disapproval over, but the old version, Kubrick's version, is so much more better acted, better directed, better written, and overall more nicely put together then Adrian Lyne's newer film adaptation of Nobokov's novel (not to say Lyne's version is bad, it's good but just not as good as Kubrick's version.) The 1962 'Lolita' is more of a film that would be admired then liked. Most people probably wouldn't be too into it today, but for it's time it was one hell of a risky and well-made picture. That being said, 'Lolita' might have lost some if it's quality with age, but it's sure still great film from one of the best filmmakers to ever walk the earth, Stanley Kubrick. Grade B+MADE MY TOP 300 LIST AT #251 "},{"Title":"A failed adaptation of a classic novel","Date":"4 September 1998","Score":"21 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The tag line, How did they ever make a movie of Lolita? seems appropriate because, in short, the answer is that they didn't. Kubrick, for all his touted genius, didn't come close to capturing the book on film. It hardly seems to have much to do with Nabokov at all, instead being off the subject and its own unique creature. Although some films can (and should) be viewed as divorced from their source material, I find it difficult to regard this production without comparing it to Nabokov's creation. I wonder why Kubrick interpreted it this way. Putting aside the possible controversy a faithful adaptation may have caused, Kubrick chose to emphasize the satirical elements and update it to 1960s culture. Of course, Lolita is aged a few years to make the relationship less shocking. As played by Sue Lyon (who looks much older), she comes off as a typical '60s teeny-bopper heroine. Kubrick seems to want to parody other movies of this period and the activities of that society and set. The music here is atrocious, especially the annoying love theme, which resembles swinging go-go music of the era.The story wanders all over the place, hardly devoting enough time to central relationship between Humbert Humbert and Lolita. The plot is slight and unfocused, preferring to diverge off into subplots that distract from the main story and themes. When the occasional scene does follow the book (many occur in a strange, seemingly random-chosen fashion), it appears almost jarringly out of place with the rest of the action. By incorporating too many elements of diffuse black humor, the comic and poignant obsession angle is considerably diluted. The film is also hampered by poor performances by all the major players save Peter Sellers. James Mason is especially weak as Humbert, Shelley Winters is unequivocally annoying, and Sue Lyon is a completely uninteresting disappointment. Sellers' character of Quilty is allowed to dominate the movie so much, I questioned whether this was supposed to be his story. The Quilty character, which was essentially a minor through pervasive presence in the novel, is brought to the forefront here, and Sellers improvises wildly to create a particularly overshadowing creep. As a movie on its own, perhaps the Kubrick version works on some level, but it fails as an adaptation of Nabokov's novel. "},{"Title":"A different story","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a good movie, actors' performance is decent, jokes are funny and so on... But it's not that Lolita I was desiring to see. It's just an ordinary movie, not that thing I expected to be made by such a master as Kubrick. We watch a very usual story with a bit of suddenness. Moreover, it is a very different story.Lolita's attitude to Humbert is too positive, she is kind of cold to him in the book, if speak about her in a few words. Her actions seem illogical in the movie. Especially the final one, that very disappearance with the uncle. Seventeen years old Lolita, aka Mrs. Schiller, doesn't differ from the previous version anyhow, even though she was a different person in the end of the book, after all this sadness and hardship she mentioned. I remember that very moment in the novel when Lolita calls Humbert honey during their last talk. It was kind of flash of warm and joyful light for me then. I nearly felt it. THAT was HOW she changed. All in one word - that's the power of Nabokov's pen or whatever he wrote with. Movie awakens no feeling that can be named similar. At least Lolita's character doesn't.Humbert was a handsome man, a gentleman of Old Good Times in the book. He was attractive in many ways. And he was confident, and he was nearly almighty with his knowledge, charm and abilities. Movie's Humbert evokes only pity. I don't say Mason is bad, it's just not his character or his strange view of the role.Charlotta is all wrong in the movie. She's this kind of nearly village woman with her poor manners and behavior. She acted in a different way in the book, she was a woman of different qualities, who wouldn't scream and shout as mad in presence of anyone she wants to have good relationships with, for example.Plot is cut, events are mixed. I can't understand why Kubrick decided to make a movie by this novel. He failed in bringing Lolita to the screen, yet he succeeded in making a good film. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Satire On Love, Obsession & Frustration","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Marred by censorship limitations of its time, provocative in both tone n content & marking Stanley Kubrick's first attempt at black comedy, Lolita is an intimately crafted, ingeniously narrated & wonderfully acted satire on lust, obsession & frustration that is now counted amongst the finest & most controversial examples of its genre.Based on Vladimir Nabokov's novel of the same name, Lolita tells the story of a middle-aged college professor who travels to a small American town for a teaching position & while looking for a place to rent, decides to become a lodger at a cloying widow's house once he meets her 14-year old daughter & becomes instantly infatuated with the nymphet.Brilliantly directed by Stanley Kubrick, Lolita opens & ends with the same sequence thus bringing the story full circle & while that method takes away the conclusion, it keeps the mystery alive for the rest of its runtime. Script edits out many of the novel's eroticism but then it also makes the characters all the more interesting by presenting a deeper look at their complexities.Coming to the technical aspects, Cinematography makes excellent use of greyscale photography, editing steadily paces its narrative, humour is exquisitely timed & music gives it a light-hearted touch & the performance by its cast is no slouch for James Mason, Shelley Winters, Sue Lyon shine in their given roles while Peter Sellers steals every scene he is in with effortless finesse.On an overall scale, Lolita is another designated masterpiece from the legendary filmmaker who made an entire career out of delivering one influential film after another without ever repeating himself. It touches on the subject of forbidden love but more than that it's a study of obsession & paranoia infused with heavy use of satirical elements. Thoroughly recommended. "},{"Title":"The book's better.","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The primary appeal of Nabokov's Lolita is the narrative style, and what it reveals about Humbert as a character. When entering the medium of film, I would say that it's almost impossible to convey the entire character of Humbert without the narration. Unfortunately, and it pains me to say this, Kubrick didn't even come close. It's most easily understood that this movie got all of the plot line of Lolita, but none of the substance behind it.This movie focuses on only one real role of Humbert and that is Humbert the father. In the book, it is impossible to picture Humbert as JUST a father; he is also a justified pedophile, a nymphologist, a cultured intellectual, and most importantly, a murderer. Nabokov left the murder scene for last in the novel in order to demonstrate a build-up of malaise in Humbert. When Kubrick put the murder scene first, it makes it easy to forget by the time you reach the conclusion of the film that Humbert is capable of murder.Not only is the development of Humbert neglected, but so is Lolita's. When we encounter Lolita as a pregnant 18-year-old in the book, Nabokov paints the scene with Lolita being a much more mature and developed character. Kubrick, however, portrays her as the same 12-year-old we spent the movie with.I also can't blame everything on Kubrick. Cultural trends at the time of the movie didn't exactly allow for the full exposition of ALL the vulgar subject matter contained in the novel. Quite frankly, the sex with minors theme was so kept under the surface, I probably would have completely missed it had I not read the novel first. Lolita's a ballsy story put on the silver screen, and it takes a filmmaker with guts to even think of making it. I thought someone like Kubrick would be that kind of film maker, but its possible that he was just 20 or 30 years too early when we made this film.The movie itself is completely average, and not anything to shout about. However, context is important. With knowledge that this is based on an unforgettable piece of literature, it greatly degrades the movie. Read the book folks. "},{"Title":"At least Stanley had the comic touch","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Australian Governor-General Archbishop Hollingworth recently suggested that the 14 year old victim of a priestly child abuser was partly to blame for what had happened to her, it he may have had `Lolita' in mind. Humbert is indeed a dirty old man, but Lolita, somewhere between child and woman, is conscious of the effect she is having on him and pleased at the power she can wield as a result. Kubrick had to tone down the sexual vibrations (and raise her age a couple of years) but the subversive message of the book is still there &#150; children are not as innocent as they seem, they are sexual creatures and affect adults accordingly. Hollingworth, our de facto head of state, was roundly condemned for his remark which was extremely tactless in the circumstances, since he had been accused of covering up the case while Anglican Archbishop of Brisbane. To hold such a view however does not make you an abuser, a point lost on some of his critics.Both Nabokov's book and Kubrick's film have a view of the relationship between American and European culture rather like that of Henry James &#150; America is young, juvenile in fact, optimistic, uncomplicated and naïve. Europe is old, knowing, sophisticated, cynical and weary. The crassness of Lolita's mother Mrs Haze (Shelley Winters, perfect), the squeaky-clean college campuses devoid of intellectual atmosphere, the superhighways to nowhere are all very American somehow. Poor old Humbert is carrying the weight of European civilisation on his shoulders but he drops it all when first he spies Lolita on the lawn. Like the recipients of Fullbright scholarships he goes on a tour round the country, but he is focused on the object of his obsession, not America.Kubrick apparently contemplated Errol Flynn for Humbert, but had to make do with James Mason. Mason is good-looking and suave enough, but spends most of the film in a state of bewilderment. When he realises what the evil Quilty has been up with Lolita he suddenly becomes an avenging angel, despite the fact that Quilty is really just a dirty old man like him, only more cunning and devious. Is Quilty really just the dark side of Humbert? Is Humbert overcome by guilt?The Quilty character, blown up somewhat in importance compared with the book, remains an enigma. Why would anyone go to such lengths to cause Humbert disquiet?   As Quilty, Peter Sellers carries off some remarkable impersonations and manages to hide some of the implausibility. Sue Lyon as Lolita happened to be 14 at the time, but looks older (toning things down again). She puts in quite a convincing performance as a petulant teenager yet her career petered out. Her problem here is that she is so physically mature that the idea of her going to bed with Humbert is not particularly disturbing, apart from the fact that he is/was her stepfather.Kubrick, by 1961 self-exiled from the US, shot most of the film in England and this rather compromises the road movie element (the Haze house and garden, ostensibly in New Hampshire, looks to be just down the road from Elstree studios). The car shots are what now seems poor quality back projection, and the famous Kubrick eye for detail is lacking at times. Still, Stanley K had the requisite comic touch and made a brave attempt to do something cinematic with a decidedly non-cinematic novel on what was and is in our culture at least a very sensitive subject. It is interesting that Adrian Lyne 35 years later in an allegedly more liberal age had rather similar censorship and marketing problems with his version of Lolita.  "},{"Title":"A Rushed, Detrimentally Censored Take on a Mature Story","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Now, as to be expected, since I read the novel before seeing the film, I will judge it not as a standalone film but as an adaptation. It seems to me like reviewers here have been far too forgiving in regards to the overall execution of the film likely due to their lasting fanatic attraction with Kubrick's work. Let's disregard how godly of a filmmaker he is. Let's instead focus on why exactly this film was made during a time that was infamous for censoring almost anything that suggested steamy material. So, with that being said, why would someone attempt to make a film about a pedophile and his burning lust for a 12- year-old girl (she wasn't 14, but that's not really a detriment of the film's; I personally think it's fine) during this time of censorship? Only looking at its IMDb page prior to viewing it, I was immediately met with skepticism as to how good the film will turn out to be because of the Approved rating it had received. In this day and age, there are much less artistic limitations, which is why we have the privilege of witnessing stories about incest or pedophilia (usually in foreign films because we all know Hollywood will never have the guts). Some might find the concept of pedophilia highly disturbing. Then, don't see the film or read the book. It's that simple, but that absolutely doesn't give the film any excuse to tame the highly sexual tone of the book's. In fact, if one hadn't possessed any knowledge of the novel before seeing this film, there's a possibility that they wouldn't even obtain the notion that Professor Humbert feels deep affection for Lolita, romantically. To them, it would seem like a step-father who's highly concerned for his daughter and is desperately trying to protect her from any dangers of the outside world. Most of the scenes where Humbert makes love to Lolita are cut out from the film. There aren't any mentions whatsoever, and no kisses aside from the little one on the cheek towards the very end. And if you're going to suddenly refute my complaints with a but it's Approved and came out in the 60's, what do you expect- Well, to that, I'll answer then why the hell was it made in the first place? And to those that say but having sex with a 14- year-old is wrong (or disturbing), well, don't watch the film. Again, that definitely doesn't serve as an excuse for Hollywood. You're adapting a book, which means that you should follow the original material, and usually, most people overwhelmingly groan about a film's lack of loyalty to its source, but here- because Kubrick is such a god and he never makes any mistakes- everyone is suddenly praising a work that suffers from a great deal of disloyalty. Actually, in general, the whole film just feels rushed. There are many significant scenes (no, they don't revolve around sex) that're tossed out of the film's plot and simply ignored by a fading black screen. We lose a lot of the complexity of Humbert's character- his backstory, his craving for Lolita's skin, and whatnot. In the novel, he was French and came to America with a strong French accent. In the film- Hollywood being Hollywood, and I'm guessing the studio largely interfered with Kubrick's production as they usually do- for some reason, he's a European man with a British accent who takes a fascination in French poetry. It all doesn't make sense. In Hollywood films, you're either American or British. These are the same issues that Hugo shared- living in France, but we all have British accents! Yeah, there are just so many problems that can't be conveniently brushed aside only because it's Kubrick at work. Other than the numerous faults- and if you haven't read the novel especially- the film does a great job of delivering a very interesting story. It informs the audience of mostly every event that leads the story to its conclusion, and it was an interesting choice to commence the film with the very end. All in all, if you haven't read the book, you'll definitely enjoy the film as I did when I forgot about the fact that it's a G-rated take on a highly controversial and mature story. If you read the amazing novel on the other hand, there's bound to be a lot of gripes you have with the picture- that is if you hold no bias in relation to Kubrick- oh, the master, Kubrick. "},{"Title":"Alluring, Mischievous and Childlike Lolita","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kubrick's film never seize to fascinate me. The way this director moves from one project to another that is completely different from the previous yet equally captivating amazes me. 'Lolita' tells quite an unconventional and somewhat relevant tale of a complex relationship between a professor and his underaged stepdaughter. Humbert willingly marries Lolita's mother in order to establish a relationship with the daughter. Things are expected to be easier once Charlotte is out of the way but Humbert has underestimated the situation...and Lolita. Humbert's confusing role of being both Lolita's guardian and lover almost leads him to the brink of insanity. Perhaps he's already there. Lolita has plans of her own and what's worse for the insanely in love Humbert is that she does reciprocate his feelings. The execution is stupendous. Kubrick's narration style is compelling and the cinematography is vivacious. The cast is terrific. James Mason is excellent as the vulnerable Humbert while Sue Lyon is brilliantly alluring, mischievous and childlike. Peter Sellers is very convincing as the drunken Quilty with multiple agendas. What's great about this film is that it still works today. For its time, the movie contains some strong thematic contents. The story feels original and grips the viewers attention from start till finish. "},{"Title":"Story that was practically made for Kubrick","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I could say the basic idea of Lolita is very interesting. Grown-up man (James Mason) fells madly in love with a teenage girl (Sue Lyon) and in order to be close with her he marries her annoying mother (Shelley Winters). As the future years so clearly proofed, twisted stories were the big speciality of late Stanley Kubrick. And because the story of Lolita was definitely twisted and almost perverted it was like made for Kubrick to use. Unsurprisingly the job he did was simply fabulous. Once again the atmosphere and the moods of Kubrick's movie were extremely odd and confusing. James Mason was excellent in the demanding role of Professor Humbert Humbert and Sue Lyon was a believable Lolita. The finest performance of Lolita came still from young Peter Sellers who played the slightly mysterious Quilty.Stanley Kubrick directed the superb Lolita after his official breakthrough Spartacus so obviously the very greatest films of Kubrick (A Clockwork Orange, The Shining, Full Metal Jacket, Eyes Wide Shut...) was yet to come years later. If you have already seen them I would seriously have to recommend Lolita. I myself saw Lolita years after almost all the most important latter Kubrick movies and it was an interesting experience to watch and find out how he had the same masterful style and the touch of a genius even back in 1962. Splendid script, brilliant actors and memorable moments makes Lolita a movie to remember and an important part of Kubrick's earlier period. First-class work from the first scene. 9 out of 10 to Lolita. Simply a wonderful flick! "},{"Title":"Opportunity Missed","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Somehow, even though I am an ardent fan of Kubrick, I didn't see this film from 1962 until just recently. It certainly was worth a look, though it definitely ranks among Kubrick's lesser films and explores themes he readdressed in his last film, Eyes Wide Shut over thirty-five years later. There are some classic Kubrick scenes in this flick, like the pan down from the bedroom into the kitchen after Humbert and Mrs. Hays get into a fight, or when Humbert is visited by friends while soaking in a bathtub after his wife's tragic accident, and of course the iconic scene of Lolita lying on her stomach on the bed in the hotel playfully cocking her head back and forth at Humbert and then slipping off her shoes.How much you can tolerate Shelly Winters' whining and James Mason's overt perversions will make or break this film for you. You also have an even more perverted Peter Sellers doing his typical man of a thousand disguises bit that just never seemed right to me in this film. The actress playing the title character made little Lolita come across as a sniveling brat with nary the seductive properties so overwhelming in the novel. Due to the social mores of the day, Kubrick really wasn't able to channel the aching lyrical poetry of Nabokov's controversial tale of older men lusting after a nymphet. Here, Kubrick, always the sly master, guises the sexual deviances in two polarizing ways at times he plays the film like a comedy of manners (especially in the Sellers' scenes which become all the more disturbing because of what he is trying to get at from all the comedic shenanigans), and at other times the film is a formulaic and staged melodrama. The shifting tones are interesting, but don't really work, and then the film literally ends mid-scene with Mason's Humbert finally tracking down Seller's Quilty and all the viewer is left with is an anti-climactic epilogue. All in all, an interesting film to view in the context of the time it was made and against Kubrick's other works as a thematic whole, but definitely not the classic you thought it could be and a missed opportunity to fully tap into Nabokov's art. "}{"Title":"Hoodwinked narrator","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In order to fully do justice to Lolita as a film, you have to keep in mind a few things. There is sex promised early on, and when that is midway abandoned, some readers lose interest. The nature of that sex is heinous, but the narrator is a silver-tongued deviant in the throes of a dreamy adoration, which altogether has popularized a reading of the book as dark comedy.It really seems to be the only way we can safely accept Lolita, outside those tediously pedagogical dissertations taught in college classrooms which you may have had inflicted upon you. My copy of the book makes sure anyone reaching it for in a bookstore shelf knows upfront it is meant to be a comedy, critics are quoted front and back saying so. The book is hilarious of course, and no film adaptation can afford to miss that humor, but there is more.(the keys to Nabokov's work can be said to be in Anna Karenina)The peculiar beauty of the book is in the way it is presented. A helpful hint of Nabokov's main stratagem, is that the narrator has burnt his 'diaries' and sets out to reinvent from scratch the story in the book&#x97;as he tells it again he embellishes, obsesses, possibly reinvents himself and situations, and the more he does, an allusive narrative haze begins to swallow the author, as it has previously done the reader.Most powerful for me is this notion&#x97;recurring in a dozen different stratagems scattered through the book&#x97;that the narrator should have 'known' the story all along or has written it before, but because of his uncommon fixations, it eludes him, and the loss of that story manifests around him in an absurd, evil manner.Kubrick has not outright missed any of these aspects; the film is a comedy, the sex is implicit enough, there is paranoid tension with something 'amiss' in the story, to that effect the film begins with someone driving through a haze. But he has sacrificed subtler shades in almost everything.The narrator is presented as a hapless square&#x97;James Mason was probably the worst possible choice. Gone is his desire to capriciously invent and digress. The mother has been reduced to a shrill religious freak. There is nary hint at Lolita's mental disintegration save for a temper tantrum. Worst of all is the treatment of the narrator's nemesis, the ubiquitous Quilty. (Guilty?)In the book Quilty is presented as something of a literary genius, a worthy intellectual opponent who continuously hoodwinks the narrator. But here's the kick&#x97;we never know who Quilty is until the end, and when that happens, he conspicuously mirrors the narrator, pleading, unpredictable, faking his stupor but sometimes lucid.In the film, he is the first person we meet. He is, as we go on to find, a goofy TV scribe in disguise a number of times. This is meant to emphasize that the narrator should be aware he is being toyed with and the story slipping him, but somehow isn't. But, the obvious disguises and blabbing Sellers completely ruin the ambiguous effect. The latenight phonecall in the motel is a much better device, to my recollection not in the book and quite possibly one of the few items in Nabokov's film script that Kubrick retained (most of it is Kubrick's work with an associate). It is an excellent device, because it wakes up the narrator in the middle of the night and he cannot make head or tails of what is going on. But see, in order for it to work, we have to not be able to spot out Sellers' prankish voice. "},{"Title":"An unbiased review of the worst Kubrick film I've seen","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Considering how brilliant 2001 A Space Odyssey and Barry Lyndon were, it's kind of hard to imagine Stanley Kubrick making a bad film. Unfortunately, throughout his prolific career, he did make a couple of clunkers, and Lolita is definitely one of them.The comedy was misplaced and unfunny, the creepiness was corny and uncreepy, and the overall mood was as dry as sandpaper. The deepest, and the most artistic, scene in the entire film was the introduction. Aside from that, barely anything was impressive or accessible enough to draw me in. For most of the 2 1/2 hours, I watched each scene lumber by, and barely cared for what I was seeing.Why was Clare Quilty such a front and center character? Was it because Peter Sellers agreed to play the part, and they wanted to see as much of him as possible? Is that why they chose to over-develop his character, give him more lines than anyone, have him play two characters, and stray completely from the poetic chords that made the book so moving? And why was Humbert Humbert's background so under-explained? If you had never read the book, the deeper reasons behind his sickness, and everything else, would be mostly unknown.The story and the character development jumped about with hardly any subtly. For example Humbert, out of the clear blue, begins to rant about his controlling wife, and a few moments later, he contemplates on ways to kill her with a gun. There were no hints about him having murderous tendencies within the story's chronology, but all of a sudden he does? And there is no sexual tension or chemistry between Humbert and Lolita; you can barely tell that they have a relationship at all. Maybe the 1960s censors are to blame for this. Nevertheless, the relationship still feels very shallow, unbelievable, and unjustified. Why would a beautiful young girl want to have sex with a man who was as old and as ugly as James Mason? This is never explained.As a longtime Kubrick fan, I'm not afraid to say that this film downright sucked. I only give it a 5 out of 10 because it wasn't entirely awful. There were moments when Kubrick's trademark directing and cinematography sparkled through, but, overall, I was extremely disappointed. "},{"Title":"Cha-cha-cha...","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" All the acting in Stanley Kubrick's Lolita is top notch, but I could not get enough of Sue Lyon's sleepy/sexy gaze, the suspicious eyes and crooked smile, the flip talk and deep voice. She was given a bad rap at the time because she's of course much older than the character was in Nabokov's book (critics seemed to blame this on Sue!); however, she's more than capable in the role, at times excellent, always a presence and a very exciting one. James Mason--despite a monotone British voice which exudes masculinity but little inflection--is a decent Humbert Humbert, the lover of little girls (when I read Vladimir Nabokov's book, I pictured Rex Harrison). Shelley Winters is a scream as Lolita's mother, though the picture really picks up once she's gone. Peter Sellers is indeed overused as Humbert's walking paranoia, and the story-threads involving his character fail to come together. Still, the photography, most of the writing, Kubrick's direction, and Nelson Riddle's score are marvelous, as is Sue Lyon. What a temptress this one is! *** from **** "},{"Title":"Kubrick misses the point of Nabokov's classic novel","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita, light of my life, fire of my loins. My sin, my soul. Lo-lee-ta the tip of the tongue taking a trip of three steps down the palate to tap, at three, on the teeth. Lo. Lee. Ta. She was Lo, plain Lo, in the morning, standing four feet ten in one sock. She was Lola in slacks. She was Dolly at school. She was Dolores on the dotted line. But in my arms she was always Lolita.. Few novels can claim to have a better introduction than Vladimir Nabokov's 1955 novel. 'Lolita' was the Russian's love letter to the English language - a masterpiece in every sense. The topic would leave critics, who were yet to recover from the shock of the Catcher in the Rye, startled. The tagline of Kubrick's adaptation (NB! Nabokov never wrote the screenplay) was, and still is, How did they ever make a movie of Lolita?. I'll tell you how - by removing most controversial aspects from the movie. The first mistake of the movie was changing Lolita's age from 12 to 16 years old. Understandable, but fatal. Sue Lyon's's otherwise flawless performance is underwhelmed by the fact that she isn't controversial enough. Lolita was supposed to be a novel exploring the darkness of a sexual predator, an active paedophile. Kubrick's film is a dark comedy, where crucial moments of the story are replaced by slapstick jokes. The cast of the movie poses further problems as well. While Shelley Winters shines as Charlotte Haze, James Mason is allowed to take the wrong directions throughout the movie. His character, Hubert Humbert is a sexual predator in the original novel, but both James Mason and Stanley Kubrick re-imagines the character as somewhat likable fellow who just loved Lolita. This is wrong on so many levels. Peter Seller's, whom the movie mistakenly begins and ends with, is allowed to run rampage, as if Stanley Kubrick couldn't physically restrain him from the set. Seller's, a brilliant actor, is given too much focus (adding up to the ridiculous run-time of 2 hours and 32 minutes), and his presence undermines Mason's character completely. If one were to exclude the novel completely, 'Lolita' can be considered a decent film. Certainly not amongst Kubrick's finest, but a film with fine cinematic qualities nevertheless. Clever scene transitions with the help of cinematographer Oswald, and a catchy theme from Bob Harries makes parts of the movie enjoyable. I give 'Lolita' 6/10 stars, in other words - average. Kubrick was never known for making good adaptations (Stephen King hates The Shining), and this is a testament to one of his few flaws. "},{"Title":"A weirdly funny film about a disturbing subject !!!","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Lolita' is a controversial Stanley Kubrick film based on an even more controversial novel by Vladimir Nabokov. Nabokov himself co- wrote the screenplay for the film along with Kubrick. The plot follows a European professor named Humbert Humbert who relocates to an American suburb. He rents a room from a lonely window Charlotte and then comes across her young teenage daughter Lolita. He ends up feeling an instant attraction towards Lolita. Humbert ends up marrying Charlotte with the sole intention of being close to Lolita and pursuing her. This attraction towards Lolita slowly and gradually becomes an obsession which engulfs Humbert and pushes him over the edge and into a state of paranoia and constant jealousy. The original novel which I have not read, was considered to be a hugely controversial piece of work as the disturbing nature of the storyline was taboo and far too risqué for the fifties. The film could have been even more controversial as this was the adaptation of the controversial story on the screen in the visual medium. But Kubrick used interesting and subtle ways to hint and imply certain things without actually being explicit about them. I think I noticed an underlying theme of two cultures coming into contact. There is Humbert who is the European who goes to America to find a home and work. He comes across an overly sexed up society of the upper-middle class, but he is only interested in the young Lolita. In a twisted way, Humbert's obsession for Lolita could have been used to symbolise the European immigrant's desperate attempt to own and be a part of America's future. The atmosphere and environment that surrounds the characters is messed up and filled with lust and greed and manipulation. Every character is pursuing someone else with a fair share of lust, but it is Humbert's pursuit of Lolita that gets the attention because of her age. A sex crazed and obnoxious society similar to this one was also present in 'A Clockwork Orange', another Kubrick film.Having said all that, overall I don't think the film is supposed to be analysed and scrutinised so minutely. Kubrick treats Nabokov's story almost like a comedy. There are so many sexual innuendos and euphemisms which will remind you of sex comedies like 'American Pie' and 'Eurotrip', there is a significant amount of slapstick comedy, there are the antics of Peter Sellers,etc. All the aforementioned things makes me believe that this was meant to be a comedy even though it deals with pedophilia, a very sensitive and disturbing issue.I think Kubrick's career as a filmmaker can be divided into 2 parts the pre Dr. Strangelove era and the post Dr. Strangelove era. I think from Dr. Stangelove onwards, Kubrick managed to distinguish himself from the other filmmakers and created his signature Kubrick style. Along with Dr. Strangelove, all the subsequent films that he directed can be easily identified as Kubrick films just by looking at any random scene. 'Lolita' is a film from the pre Dr. Strangelove era of Kubrick's filmography and so it does not have that distinctive Kubrick touch and feel that all of us love. The only film that he made before Dr. Strangelove that I love is 'Paths of Glory'. 'Lolita' is a good film, but it didn't have that wow factor that you get from other Kubrick films. Kubrick tells the story well, but the style is very reminiscent of the other Hollywood films of the late 50s and early 60s. It didn't have a lasting impact on me. It's a very standard noir-ish film, the likes of which became very popular during that era of Hollywood filmmaking. To finish, I will have to say that 'Lolita' is certainly not one of Kubrick's best films. It is technically well made, the plot moves briskly and the pacing is good as for a 2 hour 30 minutes long film, it didn't seem to overstay its welcome and it has a good performance from James Mason. However, it didn't overwhelm me and it didn't linger in my thoughts for too long. It's good, but not 'Kubrick good'. "},{"Title":"It's amazing to me how a story like 'Lolita' was ever made into a film.","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's amazing to me how a story like 'Lolita' was ever made into a film. Not only that, but it has been remade over and over again, with audiences still loving it. Don't get me wrong, I'm one of those audience members who loves 'Lolita', both the novel by Vladimir Nabokov and Stanley Kubrick's 1962 version of that novel. Hell, I even own one of the original French movie posters of the film, which is displayed in my house. But to make a film back in the early 60s with such a controversial taboo subject as 'Lolita' has, somebody somewhere had to make a lot of changes to get past the MPAA.Before 1962, Kubrick had already made a name for himself in film, with movies like 'The Killing', 'Paths of Glory', 'Fear and Desire', and 'Spartacus'. But 'Lolita' is usually the first film from Kubrick to appear in the never-ending box sets since the first one came out on DVD more than fifteen years ago. The main reason for this is that this is where Kubrick started to become bigger than life and able to take total creative control of his films. Something that Kubrick was a stickler about and usually turned out that his adaptation of whatever novel he was making, turned out better than the book itself. And that is something very rare.But with 1962's 'Lolita', Kubrick still had to fight and curve around studio execs, actors, and producers to get this movie made, because of the intense subject matter. Kubrick went on to say that if he had to do it over, he probably wouldn't have made the film since he had to constantly jump over obstacles and change his vision to make the censors and executives happy. The result is surprisingly still an excellent film, but is far different from Nabokov's novel from 1955. Kubrick even had to change actors, because the actors he had asked were too scared to take on the roles, because of the controversial subject, which was basically pedophilia.So Kubrick had to re-work and re-write the script, which is much more comical than the book, but left the sexual innuendos and sex scenes to the viewer's minds and thoughts, rather than show anything remotely of the sorts. Needless to say, Kubrick was very cautious with making 'Lolita'. The film starts out with the end of the movie as we see a man kill another man in cold blood. We flash back several years before this incident where we meet the killer, who is Professor Humbert Humbert (James Mason) who teaches at the local college. He is looking to take in a vacation before he heads back up to the university for the school year and comes across a woman named Charlotte Haze-Humbert (Shelley Winters), who owns a big house where she rents out rooms.This pushy woman entices Humbert to come stay at the house where he is reluctant to do so until he sees Charlotte's young daughter Dolores or 'Lolita' (Sue Lyon) for short. Humbert immediately falls for the very young Lolita and decides to stay in the house. In Kubrick's film version, we see the Humbert is simply a man in love, but it is a forbidden love since the girl is so young, but in the novel, Humbert has a wide variety of problems, which give way to his creepy and unnatural infatuation with Lolita. A couple of mishaps and accidents happen, leaving Humbert and Lolita together as they travel across country from hotel to hotel where they pose as father- daughter by day and lovers by night. Meanwhile, someone keeps popping up wherever they go, usually in different disguises.This person is Clare Quilty (Peter Sellers), who usually throws a nail into Humbert's plans for Lolita. But this all builds and shows us what led Humbert, a man of questionable morals, but respected by everyone to kill a man. Kubrick, in order to appease the execs and producers, as well as make an excellent film took away the aspect of Humbert's motives for loving a much younger woman and instead put that focus on Lolita.What is supposed to shock us, never ultimately does, and instead things play out comically with excellent performances by everyone involved. Still, it would have been interesting to see if Kubrick were to make this in the late 70s or 80s, if it would have been a much different and more disturbing picture than it was back in 1962. Perhaps we will never know. "},{"Title":"Kubrick","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" legendary film. inspired cast. and the mark of one of the greatest directors. more than an adaptation, it is subtle analysis of the nuances of an age and the vulnerability of other. James Mason is the ideal choice for explore the possibilities of Humbert. Sue Lyon is Lolita who escapes from Nabokov's novel for become glamorous image of a teenager. insecure, lascivious, childish, manipulative, she represents the spirit of a period more than image of an age. a film who preserves the soul of novel but it is not only adaptation of it. it remains, after decades, a Kubrick. for atmosphere, image and the end. for the force of image - result of special manner to use the artistic tools. for the courage and force of suggestion. for the status of impressive Kubrick's work.or just masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Far from Kubrick's best, but still an enjoyable movie","Date":"27 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Greetings from Lithuania.Lolita (1962) is not in the same league as other legendary movies by a legendary Stanley Kubrick, but it's an enjoyable movie to watch even now in 2015 more than a half of the century after it's initial release. The main issue why it's not as great as for example Barry Lyndon and many other i thing is with a script. Although nominated for Oscar as the best screenplay, it wasn't Stanley Kubrick's script, and so it wasn't fully Kubrick's picture.What i found the most surprising about this picture, it's his humor. This is actually more of a dark comedy then a serious exploitation of a relationship between a middle aged professor and a 14 year old girl.Overall, Lolita is a good picture. It has good acting for this material, good directing, nice script. It's not as good as other director movies, but it's descent picture on it's own. Seriously, the best part of this movie i think was directors work, because at the running time 2h 33 min this movie barely drags and is interesting enough to keep you watching it till the end. Not a great movie, but for a true fans of Stanley Kubrick work this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Just finished the book...what a wild ride","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you've never read the book, you're missing out on a brilliant work. I've watched and loved the film over the years, and after reading the book I don't think anyone could capture Nabokov's astonishing wit, cynicism, sarcasm, socio-political proclamations, eye for excruciating detail, or lengthy ruminations on his adoration for nymphets. There are a few horrible details that would never make it into any mainstream film, but Kubrick certainly captured the spirit of Humbert's indefatigable obsession with a twelve-year-old girl. For the reviewers who are whining that this film is tame, how in the world can you portray the hilariously horrible couch scene from the book without the film looking like porn? Kubrick had to leave out some stuff.Some might criticize Peter Sellers's prominent role in the film, but the book actually reveals that Clare Quilty was there all along anyway, so his presence in the film is simply a fanciful interpretation. All those witty lines in the film? They were lifted straight from the book, word for word. And I'm almost convinced that Nabokov was thinking of Shelley Winters when he wrote Charlotte Haze; no other actress could have filled those shoes.Please read the book, it is a literary marvel that will change your life. "},{"Title":"A deeply satisfactory movie","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is full on. It has everything love,humor,obsession,disgust,drama and what not. It is very rare to find such a movie which highlights all its topics so precisely and all the lead actors have acted superbly. All these characters have become immortal for me.To take up such a controversial book and make a movie editing the sensitive issues without diluting the effect and give a complete satisfaction.. Hats off. Amazing Screenplay and exceptional direction. This movie is simply on another level. You can literally connect with Mr.Humbert and feel his obsession and conservativeness about Lolita. This movie just leaves the end inconclusive to some aspect, like I personally felt what about the playwright, why did he go after Lolita and all?. Kepping all this aside this movie is a absolute delight to watch "}{"Title":"Hallucinatory Evasiveness","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kubrick's Lolita (1962) is clever, fun, thrilling and filmically brilliant. My favourite moments in filmic terms are the interior scenes in the house, especially the crane shots in the staircase and that claustrophobic atmosphere of his room, and Lolita's. The episodic structure requires patience, however, but the frantic pace does settle down as the film advances &#x96; the set-up happens very quickly, that's what I'm saying. James Mason is very good, as he's able to be innocent, funny and scary at the same time.I recommend the user comment All in the Environment (Feb 27, 2002) written by tedg &#x96; it's explicit about what makes Nabokov's book as enjoyable as it is, as well as why it's so difficult to translate to film. I agree wholeheartedly with his conclusions, except for me Kubrick's narrative experiment works beautifully I most definitely saw Quilty as a sort of deus ex machina, the man behind the arras, super-human in his omniscience and omnipresence and hallucinatory evasiveness, so much so that in the end I was half-expecting him to be a figment of Humbert's imagination instead of a real person.I'm not a fan of Sellers, in particular, but for the most part I like him a lot here and the only scene that undoes the film's magic is that scene at the hotel that goes on too long for my taste. I know it's supposed to be a one-man show, the one scene where everything is put to motion, all plates spinning, but whereas I would've liked him to channel Kubrick, he channels more of the type we're accustomed to see him as. But that's partly our fault, since we see him in retrospect, especially through Dr. Strangelove.If you're interested, the Library of America has released Nabokov's novel in a hardback volume that also includes the screenplay and two other wonderful works.It seems that IMDb now displays my vote for this title; it appeared after I made a minor edit on the text. I'm not partial to it, since it guides the reader's perception on the writer's opinion often more than the text itself, but there's nothing I can do about it at the moment. "},{"Title":"Excellent film deals with a man's infatuation  with a nymphet  including  outstanding performances  and perfect direction","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A middle-aged college professor named Humbert Humbert (James Mason but he initially declined due to a Broadway engagement ; this role was originally offered to Cary Grant, who turned it down in indignation) becomes infatuated with a fourteen-year-old nymphet , Lolita Haze (Sue Lyon is ideal as his object of desire ,close to 800 girls auditioned for the part , though Hayley Mills turned down the role of Lolita and Tuesday Weld was considered for the title role) . Then , Humbert marries to Lolita's sex-starved mother (awesome Shelley Winters). Comey/drama film well realized by the master Stanley Kubrick . This is a splendid movie , though overlong ; plenty of comedy , drama , irony and amusing events . Terrific acting by the great James Mason , though Marlon Brando , Gary Grant , Peter Ustinov , Laurence Olivier and David Niven were considered for the part and even Errol Flynn was considered for Humbert Humbert, but died before the film was made. Sue Lyon was chosen for the title role partly due to the size of her breasts. Stanley Kubrick had been warned that the censors felt strongly about the use of a less developed actress to portray the sexually active 14-year-old. Since the censors would allow nothing close to a suggestion of pedophilia, Lolita's age had to be increased from 12 in Vladimir Nabokov's original novel to 14 for the film. They also objected to a scene where Humbert Humbert was to gaze at Lolita's picture while in bed with her mother Charlotte; in the end, the scene was filmed with Charlotte lying fully dressed on the bed and Humbert lying beside her wearing a robe.Vladimir Nabokov's original screenplay diverged greatly from the novel, but only a portion of it was used by Stanley Kubrick, even though Nabokov gets screen credit. Lively and jolly musical score by Nelson Riddle , including excessive use Bob Harris' Theme from Lolita as leitmotif . Evocative and atmospheric cinematography by Oswald Morris . The motion picture was masterfully directed by Stanley Kubrick . Lolita was filmed from Nov 1960 to Feb 1961 , this was the first film that Stanley Kubrick produced independently in England. Although story takes place all across the United States, many of major sets and exteriors such as hotel, hospitals, even residential streets, clearly look more like locales in England, where picture was actually shot. Rating  Above average , worthwhile watching . "},{"Title":"How can something be sexy without a drop of sex in it? THAT is the question.","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Anyone who thinks funny is sexy, might already know the answer to this and might already consider this film an undoubted masterpiece.The thing with Kubrick films is they're like wine they taste better with time; it takes the right glass for the right film; you need to let it respire before taking in the first sip; and don't pour it down your throat - it's not that kind of film. Lolita is no exception to that. It's a rather old film (52 years) that sets, like the book, in the 50s American nouveau-riche provincia and tells the uber-bekannt old-world story of pedophile Humbert-Humbert and Clare Quilty. Or the story of Dolores Haze, a minor, who falls in love and forms relations with the above mentioned two. The way Kubrick tells it, you can't necessarily come to one moral judgement or the other. It really is up to you to decide who's the villain, if that's what you're after. The way he tells it is tragedy wrapped in comedy and quilted for decorative purposes. If men and women, old and young are all from the same planet, none of the Mars and Venus thing, than Lolita is the Guernica portraying that planet. It's a beautiful film, it has wonderful humor, it has well dosed drama. And you can watch it every year as time goes by, while having the impression you haven't quite seen it the last time around. Good fun! "},{"Title":"The restrictive 60's","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was destined to have problems in a society as restrictive as the U.S. in the 60s. How to make a film capable of presenting this issue without being interdicted? First eliminate the presence of any sexual expression and then, transform it into a tragicomedy. And, just because he needed to explore the gifts of Peter Sellers' comedy, Kubrick is forced to deviate from the book in these scenes. What Kubrick makes in this movie in terms of masking a reality socially offensive is simply phenomenal. If films are to be based on works of literature, this is the way to do it, and the way it is almost never done. "},{"Title":"The best version of Lolita","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" To get the full genius of Vladimer Nabokov's great work ( not Ada, which he apparently hoped would be considered his magnum Opus) Read the novel, see Kubrick's version, read Nabokov's attempts to put back in what Kubrick cut out, see the later version with Jeremy Irons, which is somewhat more faithful to the work ( Iron's voice is as rich and mellifluous in its own way as Mason's). Here Lolita seems much more like a wayward kid, caught between childhood and adolescence. Then you might capture perhaps 50% of its verbal magic.As to Kubrick's film--it's brilliant in its own way. However, the screenplay-by credit should have said, suggested by). Mason's performance complex, pathetic, creepy, furious (as childish & Whiny as Sue Lyon's at times) is funny and disgusting to hear.Lyons is too old and used looking in the beginning, too young at the end, despite the hairdo, the casual housewife clothes, the distended belly. I missed what she says at the end to Humbert in the novel You only broke my life, he broke my heart. Shelley Winter's Charlotte Haze is right up there with Mason's, and Sellers is brilliant, too brilliant but out of context, a one man show Kubrick loves Seller's identity games so much he can't let go of them. Think of how much could have added in their place. Overall, Jeremy Irons as Humbert, Frank Langella as Quilty, and Melanie Griffith's Charlotte (an apt imitation of Winters) are closer to the mark. That film puts back in the suspense of who Quilty was, and is properly only revealed to us at the end.As for the sex. Kubrick threw out all sexual play (or work on Lolita's part) or didn't bother to film it because of pre-censorship and substituted stupid farces like the day-bed collapse that Humbert Humbert and the porter go through --the worst 10 minutes in the movie, or painting her toenails and staring at her with hungry, lustful eyes while she sleeps. The primary sequence I recall from Kubrick's version is Humbert crawling on the floor of the hospital, wildly, screaming in emotional pain, then turning utterly craven for fear of being found out(the price pedophiles pay for their guilty pleasures I guess. He is utterly defeated when he realizes that he has lost his Lolita once and for all. From the later film I remember the girl jumping distractedly on his lap (really his fully aroused junk) a child/woman caught in his web. From the novel? Nabokov's first words with their wondrous, very sensual alliterative rhythms. (No one but Humbert calls her Lolita publicly so it threw me off when this personal endearment was used by all the adults in Humbert's life)Lolita, light of my life, fire of my loins. Lo. Lee. Ta..She was Lola in slacks...Dolly at school...Dolores on the dotted line...Plain Lo in the morning...Lola in slacks. But in my arms she was always Lolita. "},{"Title":"Filling Cavities with Stanley Kubrick","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In a bizarre opening scene, English professor James Mason (as Humbert Hum Humbert) shoots drunken playwright Peter Sellers (as Clare Quilty). The debauchery subsides as director Stanley Kubrick takes us back in time&#x85; Four years earlier, we find Mr. Mason arriving in the US to write and lecture. He rents a room and moves in with shrill landlady Shelley Winters (as Charlotte Haze), a sexually pent-up widow. Mason is turned on by Ms. Winters' snotty teenage daughter Sue Lyon (as Dolores Lolita Haze), who is introduced in a sexy bikini and gives him come hither looks. Mason marries Winters, but yearns for Ms. Lyon...Lolita was considered very controversial upon release, but is more tame by today's standards. Foremost, Mason's character is only technically a pedophile - and as much so as any of her other possible partners over the age of consent (which varies in the US). The only certain sex is evidenced by a pregnancy. In the original Vladimir Nabokov novel, the man is clearly a pedophile. Herein, Lyon is playing an oversexed young (high school-aged) woman and Sellers' recurring character changes the focus considerably. The opening makes it a murder mystery and, by the end, can be seen to confirm men as victims of the alluring temptress...Mr. Kubrick's revision is excellent, but could have stood some more tightening of the storyline involving Sellers' intestinal character. The film goes on for such long stretches, we forget the shocking opening completely and consider Sellers an intruder. Possibly due to the subject matter, there was only a scattering of awards for the four principal actors; Mason deserved Best Actor consideration for his portrayal. And, Winters delivered one of her many blowzy Best Supporting Actress-worthy characterizations. Her line to Sellers about Lolita sums up the story in a nutshell Wednesday she's going to have a cavity filled by your Uncle Ivar. ********* Lolita (6/12/62) Stanley Kubrick ~ James Mason, Shelley Winters, Sue Lyon, Peter Sellers "},{"Title":"Nabokov's powerful novel turned to Readers Digest viewing","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Stanley Kubrick should have remade Lolita in his later years when The MPAA and audiences lightened up. Lolita is a powerful novel with exquisite prose that is difficult to transfer to celluloid. Kubrick's Humbert Humbert is never truly examined. We never learn about what causes his eternal longing for Lolita like we do in the novel. James Mason has learned the ways of charm and deception ever so shamelessly. He uses his skills on Shelly Winters who plays Lolita's dramatic mother, a woman who lives her life in the romantizing American Dream, where a man is suppose to come up on a horse and take her away into the sunset.Sue Lyon plays Lolita. Although very pretty and sexy, hardly a Lolita. However, Lyon does play a manipulating girl quite aware of her allure and the power it has. Brooke Shield's Pretty Baby would have been a better choice for such a film.Kubrick's film does not possess the power of his later works. Lolita has very few innovations of style or camera movements. The film is oppressed as was the time it was created.Peter Sellers does a fine job as the eccentric writer who disrupts Humbert's world. "},{"Title":"Luscious Lo","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" How did they make a movie of 'Lolita'? the movie posters asked in 1962, and the answer, over forty years later, is very well. Kubrick's version of the Nabokov novel, scripted by Nabokov himself, comes as close as any film adaptation could probably come of capturing the genius inherent in the novel. It knows which parts of the novel to leave out, where to embellish, and most importantly, it retains the surreal tone and sick sense of humour of Nabokov's story. Kubrick was forced to tone down the sexuality somewhat, and Lolita's age is bumped up from 12 to 16 at the story's start, but the movie still feels shocking, and it's no wonder that it was greeted with a storm of controversy upon its release.The acting is nearly flawless, and it feels remarkably naturalistic for a movie from this time period. Sue Lyon is simply terrific as Lo, and she and James Mason have a lot of chemistry when they're on screen together. Shelley Winters is sensational as Charlotte Haze--almost too sensational, as the film seems to lose something once she's no longer part of the story. The only actor that suffers from the material is Peter Sellers. He's never less than great, but too many of his scenes feel as if they were added to give him more to do rather than because they really serve the plot of the story. They feel superfluous, and contribute to a pace that every once in a while drags. The character of Clare Quilty was left more ambiguous in the novel--Nabokov and Kubrick's attempts to turn him into a more concrete character and justify his appearance in the film provide the adaptation its only stumbling block. Otherwise, this is an exceptional movie of an exceptional work of literature.Grade A "},{"Title":"James Mason, Shelly Winters and Sue Lyon are excellent","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Stanley Kubrick's adaptation of Vladimir Nabakov's novel, Lolita tells the story of Humbert Humbert, how's that for a name, (James Mason) a middle aged sod, who falls madly in love with the teenage daughter, Lolita (Sue Lyon) of a woman he meets (Shelly Winters). Kubrick had to be careful here because the subject is strictly taboo, pedophilia, and he had to get the film a decent rating by the MPAA board. Somehow he managed to do it.Peter Sellers is in the film in a very strange (even for him) dual role as Claire Quilty/ Dr. Kempf. This was a good two years before his triple role in Dr. Strangelove. Sue Lyon does a wonderful job playing the coy teenager who toys with Humbert like a cat with a mouse. Although she was not recognized at the time, her performance is excellent.Shelly Winters and James Mason are terrific, as to be expected with actors of their caliber. Ultimately this is a movie about some very sad characters. Kubrick brings his usual high production values and directorial skills to the film. "},{"Title":"The World of Stanley Kubrick Lolita.","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita (1962) was a film Stanley Kubrick made right after he was finished with the epic Spartacus. Loosely based on the novel of the sane name, Kubrick turns the tale into a very dark comedy about a middle aged man (James Mason) who's deeply in love with a nubile adolescent girl (Sue Lyon). He even marries the girl's portly mother (Shirley Winters) just to be near her. But the marriage doesn't work and a strange man (Peter Sellers) enters the picture. Will this strange relationship ever work out?Kubrick defied a lot of taboos whilst working on this film. The very subject of this film is a major one. But a brilliant film maker such as himself can dance around the topic and still make it relevant. A plethora of dark humor can be found in this picture (i.e. Camp Climax) and the nonsensical names as well add to the film's charm. If you want to see a master director at work then I suggest that you check out Lolita.Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Great Kubrick that loses a bit of steam at the end","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is more than aptly directed by the master of cinematographic precision.  The performances are great, especially the quirky Peter Sellers, and the screenplay comes to life with subtle humour and sarcasm.  I was in fact shocked of how funny it was.  A lot of undertones and innuendos, mixed with a captivating plot line.  However, the richness of the first 90 minutes start to wear off as the characters seem to only go through the motions for the last hour.  Perhaps the film should have been shortened to a screentime closer to 2 hours and a bit, but I think that the main problem lies in the screenplay which has presented all the right elements and knows where its heading, only does not seem to do so in a cohesive, well-paced and fulfilling matter.Still a good pic and a good pick, but Kubrick will do even better in the future and will become Great and larger-than-life like his movies. "},{"Title":"A not-made-for-a-book movie.","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Contains Spoiler Lolita would never have been successful as a movie, if Kubrick had stuck strictly to the book.  She was too young in the book, for a movie that had any broad appeal with the class, comedy, suspense, and tragedy mixed together the way this one has.  The increase in age to 16-ish, made it much more believable, and enjoyable.  I don't need to be reminded of Michael Jackson any more than I already am.  This Kubrick classic is a good lesson for men the world over to see, so as to know how not to act when that coquette comes a-calling, for both themselves and the naive coquette's benefit.  The expression of cunning greed and total disregard for Humbert's pain (or pleasure) on her face near the end of the movie when he has handed her the cash, and she looks from the money up to his face to search it for a clue as to how much more she can milk away, and bites her lip a bit, speaks volumes about the more sordid nature that most men and women are able to suppress, but that nevertheless lies within.  What a great twist that the self-absorbed cad Humbert cruelly thinks of the trusting, kind-hearted, semi-attractive Charlotte as a cow, and in the end, he's the one who ends up getting thoroughly milked.  Interesting how no one really wins in this situation that was brought about because immoral passions about cherry pies were indulged in.  We wind up with three dead, and an unhappy Lolita, resigned to a life in Alaska, perhaps having at last discovered the link between fidelity and happiness.  It is sad that we the species keep offering and biting that apple.  Neither the biter or the offerer ever comes out very far ahead.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Flawed, but one of Kubrick's best","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is more visually subtle than most of Kubrick's later work, which I think is a good thing. James Mason, Shelley Winters and Sue Lyon all turn out wonderful performances that give Nabokov's characters new life. One of the major problems a lot of people have with this film is that it's oftentimes unfaithful to the book, which is a silly thing to complain about. Is it really possible to be completely faithful to a massive novel in a two hour film? I do agree, however, that the character of Quilty is over-emphasized and Peter Sellers' performance leaves much to be desired. Sellers' comically overacted Quilty seems to interrupt the narrative flow far too often. His performance is a preveiw of the excellent work he does in Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove..., but it seems very out of place here. In the end, it's the well constructed narrative, along with Kubrick's small touches (the dancing scene at the beginning comes to mind) that make this film for me. It's definitely one of Kubrick's most coherent and skillful films. "},{"Title":"Great Director, Great Characters, Fascinating Story!","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lolita is a fascinating study of two characters, a teenage girl (a minor) and her much older boyfriend (an adult) and their strange and somewhat twisted relationship, where sex is obviously occurring.  I agree with another reviewer in that it's amazing this film was even made back in 1962, considering the subject matter.The acting is superb, the characters are very compelling in their strangeness, and the plot thickens (slowly by modern standards) in a luscious and delicious way as we watch James Mason's character grapple with the growing independence of his young girlfriend.  Most disturbing is a scene in which Mason gives a pedicure.  You'll enjoy this film with Kubrick's great directing and Mason's ability to capture the strength and pathetic emotions of a man out of control!  "},{"Title":"brilliant visual translation of the novel","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was very hard to get a hold of lolita. I couldn't rent it anywhere, 'till one day i stepped in the library and i went to their video section. And yes, they had it, Lolita. I was very happy to have found it, cause i had already read the novel by Vladimir Nabokov, which made a big impression on me, though sometimes i had to force myself to reading it. When i saw the movie, it was everything i hoped it would be when i read the novel. The images and environment that Kubrick put on film were exactly the same as the visual world that I created in my mind while I was reading the book. The actors were perfectly cast and the whole atmosphere, ambiance and tension, that Kubrick created in his film, felt exactly like they felt in the book.The screenplay could not have been written better by the master himself. When someone has read the book they'll know what i mean when i say that it seems almost impossible to make a film of it. The book is so complex, psychological and plays at so many different levels, that on screen, people wouldn't be able to make sense out of it. But the screenplay that Nabokov wrote was a lot more accesible and could therefore reach a bigger audience.The controversial novel was talked about a lot in its time and i think Stanley Kubrick, always controversial and provocative, was the perfect director to make a film out of it. And he did. The theme of sexual obsession is handled very subtle, but it IS being handled, and that gives the film the tension and controverse that we find in all of Kubrick's films.The film made a big impression on me, as the book did, but even more, they made the same impression on me, which satisfied me a great deal.Great film of a great book. "},{"Title":"Delightful Details","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Upon having just viewed Lolita several times in a row after hearing so much about it (and admittedly knowing NOTHING of Kubrick's work, except that he did 2001), I must say I was thoroughly delighted and amused at what I thought would be a darkly sinister motion picture.Nabokov, the screenplay, and all controversy aside, I was immediately shocked, in the same way I am shocked by seeing any older film or TV re-run and hearing a dirty word or insinuation, by the opening title page of the man's hand delicately applying nail polish to a female foot.  I was instantly giggling at the trying to be oh-so-European attitude of the fantastic Shelley Winters, showing potential-boarder Humbert about the house, waving about her cigarette holder, trying to affect a sparkling laugh out of nowhere, and the fact that in spite of her efforts she ruins it all when she refers to the Colored Girl who they are lucky to have come in. Winters is perfectly batty, especially at a dance while feeding on a hot-dog and trying again to charm gentlemen, all the while mentioning unsightly details about her daughter (she's having a cavity filled this Wednesday!)The visuals are delightful as well - the period clothes, and the music score by Nelson Riddle the social-dance music, the fabulous 60's Teen Beat that punctuates many of Lolita's appearances, and of course the gay Cha-Cha Winters enacts for Humbert is a splendid blend of music and visual.The detail that delighted me the most, however, was all that business about the dang COT! They say the word over ten times (13, maybe?), even make hymes out of it (Are there any more cots, Potts?) and I even noticed a truck in an aerial establishing shot that said COTT on the back in script.  Was this intentional?  It so looked like file footage, but it is hilarious either way.  At any rate I loved it and laughed like a fool at the tedious scenes of the insistant black porter trying to unfurl it, oblivious to the silence Humbert tries to maintain so as not to wake the delicate Lolita who, upon awakening, says disinterestedly, Oh.  The cot came.  Fits of laughter. Fits.I guess the only thing I didn't care for was what I felt an overuse of Peter Sellars (although I adored his wordless female counterpart, who lends a most surreal aspect in her gloomy stares), though I did find the silent glance he makes at Surreal Lady over the funny pages in the Hotel Lobby absolutely breathtaking in its oddity.   The latter third of the film seemed to me a bit dry, and I found myself questioning the motives of the characters at that point, and wondering if it had to end the way it did, because of course a film about such subject matter could not end happily ever after in 1962...But rent it for Winters' scenes, the surreal names of the characters (Mr. Swine?), the cot sequences, and listen carefully to EVERY bit of suggestive or absurd dialogue in the first hour, there are many little surprises hiding there that make this film a joy to watch repeatedly. "},{"Title":"A Bizarre Adult Comedy","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  LOLITA (1962) may just be one of the best Adult Comedies ever made. It is truly great. I feel that it is a very artistic film. I enjoyed it. It was first seen by myself on television, then at an art house in Fells Point, Baltimore. I enjoy the film immensely and would highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Those flaming eyes, that flaming youth","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Watching Lolita for the first time a couple of days ago made me think about Thomas Mann's Death in Venice. In the classic film adaption of that novel, protagonist Dirk Bogarde develops an infatuation of a pretty androgynous youth named Tadzio on a holiday in Venice. Mann kills his protagonist without any kind of consummation so the attraction remains pure and the love perfect.Lolita is the opposite side of the coin where through a peculiar state of circumstances protagonist James Mason gets the desire of his heart in Sue Lyon. But as it turns out the plot of Lolita confirms that old adage about being careful what you wish for.James Mason is perfect as the obsessed Humbert Humbert who's parents lack of imagination apparently was not passed on to their offspring. And Sue Lyon scores well as the beautiful, but extremely shallow juvenile that James Mason flips over.Rounding out the principals of the cast are Shelley Winters as Lyons obsessively romantic mother and Peter Sellers who gets to do several characters of his own creation as Clare Quilty, the man who ultimately brings James Mason's world crashing around him.Lolita does hold up well today though a newer version made in 1997 was far more explicit. Another film about obsession that should be seen in conjunction with Lolita is Love and Death on Long Island. Very similar plot line. "},{"Title":"Great Early Kubrick w/Great Acting!","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It could never be the book and I recently saw the late 90's version which wasn't bad (closer to the book), but not the cast. James Mason as Humbert was tortured, believable (in a weird situation) and tragic. Shelley Winters was too-on the mark, Sue Lyon looked right, and throw in the psychotic great actor Peter Sellers as Quilty, regenerating every scene he was in. I'm not sure about the importance of Kubrick, but it's very high, and I like his early stuff (probably because of my age; early 50's).Black and white suited this (censored tale) that doesn't have the reputation it deserves. An 8 out of 10. Best performance = Peter Sellers. Most people haven't even seen this and fewer have read the book, so what's the difference? Beats me! Good film. "},{"Title":"LOL - it a good Kubrick black comedy that doesn't quite make the grade","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ah Kubrick, courting controversy here with his adaptation of `Lolita'. It tells the tale of Humbert Humbert, a professor staying at the lodgings of one Charlotte Haze. There he becomes smitten with her 14 year-old daughter, the titular Lolita. The smitten becomes obsession becomes necessitation, and yet it's all balanced out with a humour blacker than my ire at `A Beautiful Mind' winning all those Oscars.Humbert is played by James Mason. I'm not familiar with the original source material, so I'm not sure how accurate Mason's portrayal is. Here he starts off genial, even convincingly feigning romantic interest in Charlotte (in order to remain close to Lolita). There's a convincing sense of desperation injected later on by Mason - his movements become more agitated, eyes darting more, his voice becoming shaper. There's no real sense of credible darkness about him - more a sense of loneliness. The object of his affection, played by Sue Lyon, is cutely brattish. She knows the power she has and, even an ever so `butter would not melt in my mouth' demure fashion, she is able to abuse it to her will. Although (naturally) there's no real chemistry between the two, the two play the relationship well together and it's interesting to see how it develops later on, when it becomes less comic and more dark. The other participants, such as Charlotte and the man on Humbert's trail, Clare Quilty (Peter Sellers) are all decent characters and all acted well. Sure there's a congeniality there that was necessary due to censoring laws, but this is meant to be blackly comedic.Kubrick again is on the ball. His talents aren't quite as strikingly shown as they are in his other works, given that he's less room to manoeuver into anything spectacularly fancy. The use of narration doesn't grate (it often would), and we're left to use our own imaginations often about what's going on, with just the subtle of clues before the camera pans away. There's a nice sense of mood used through lighting, especially later on in the movie as Humbert's obsession grows deeper (but it's Kubrick, so I expected as much). No complaints, as usual although I was not as overwhelmed as I was with the beauty he evidences in `2001' or `Barry Lyndon'.`Lolita' is surprisingly amusing and, even if only by implication, quite risqué (check out the suggestive conversations Mrs. Schiller has with Humbert, for example).  Certainly it's not immediately comparable to another movie (besides its remake) but. I wasn't left with the impressed feeling that I normally get from Kubrick. Perhaps the movie was too light, considering the possibilities, but I just didn't feel as satisfied as I expected. Still worth a catch, and above the usual mess. 7.5/10. "}{"Title":"suggestive not sordid","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watching Lolita again recently I was struck by the way Kubrick and his cast flesh out the story without resorting to the 'show everything' approach taken in the '97 remake.  Of course Doleres and Humbert are having a sexual relationship, but you get the sense she's done the same pattern before and certainly knows how to lead him on.  Sue Lyon has Lolita's sly looks and mannerisms perfectly attuned to the sleazy confusion of the lodger who marries her overbearing mother just to stay close to the 'little girl' he first spotted in the garden ... I find Lolita the most disturbing character in the film for many reasons - she is directly responsible for the ultimate fates of her mother, Humbert and Quilty (although all contribute in some way to their own destruction).  James Mason is great in a difficult role (I read somewhere this was at one point intended for Noel Coward, which would have been fascinating ... Peter Sellers put his mimicry talents to good use again as Quilty, but manages to invest this character with a true personality as well, you sense he is as much a victim as Humbert.  The only false note is Shelley Winters, who is simply frightful with her cherry pie and her shrine to a 7 years dead husband.  Lolita is a slow paced film with many layers and its circular structure where we see the 'ending' first and return to it at the end is an excellent trick. "},{"Title":"Kubrick announces Anne Rice","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The story itself is nothing but a romance thriller. An older man arrives in a small town where he rents a room in the house of a young widow with a teenage daughter. The widow falls in love with him but he falls in love with the daughter. He manages &#150; willy nilly &#150; to marry the mother who is killed by a car on the street outside her home. Then the man tries to conquer the daughter. In fact he does take her but he is jealous and avaricious in love, exclusive and possessive. What has to happen happens. A playwright manages to put his grubby hand on the girl and organizes her elopement. Then he tries to fool her into an orgy and she steps out. Out of the blue comes a young man from a small town who she marries and gets pregnant from. The stepfather then tries a last time, fails, gives the girl her share of her mother's inheritance, drives away to the playwright's residence and kills him in cold blood. He will later die in prison waiting for his trial. Nothing much altogether that Kubrick transforms into a black and white masterpiece. Apart from the technique, the beauty of the shooting and editing, Kubrick transcends the triteness of the subject with a never directly expressed discourse on love ?. Love is capricious but it is difficult for it to live even only survive in the case of an older man and a younger girl. Suspicion kills the cat and spoils the pussy. They are obliged to hide and this puts dirt on a feeling that could be beautiful. An older man's love is possessive and that destroys love by definition. Then the younger girl will play on the older man's desire for love and secrecy to hide what will be cooking on the side-burner. We can even wonder if for Kubrick at this moment stable and lasting love is plainly possible for older men when young girls are involved. Anne Rice later will look at the problem with feminine eyes and give in « Belinda » a completely different account of such an affair, a love affair. But Anne Rice is fascinated by abnormal beings and situations. So she does not prove anything. Kubrick seems to be repulsed by such conditions and the final chaotic murder place in which the playwright will be put to death is nothing but a pile of trash in an eighteenth century mansion turned into an empty hard-liquor bottle cemetery. Brilliantly anti-decadent and baroque.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Paris Dauphine & University of Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Every bit the classic and as controversial as it is made out to be. The shock value is still there, nearly 50 years on. Well constructed story, how faithful to Nabokov's book, I don't know, as I haven't read the book. The plot does drag and lose focus in the third quarter though. A bit more editing and faster pacing over that section would have made this a great movie, rather than a good movie. Great performances all round. The hidden gem, though, is Peter Sellers' performance. His over-the-top crazy egomaniacal character is played to perfection. He also gives us a glimpse of what he would do in the brilliant Dr Strangelove, by playing several different roles. "},{"Title":"****","Date":"5 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Definitely a sinister view of life with outstanding acting by James Mason and Shelley Winters. Mason is the college professor who rents a room from Winters and becomes obsessed with her daughter, Sue Lyon, in her film debut.Problem is that Shelley wants the professor for herself and pulls out nearly all the stops possible before she finally gets him, only to find his diary. Shelley Winters was always good when she was a vulnerable character and there is no exception here. She also does her usual whining and it's a real shame when she exits the film unexpectedly.The rest of the film shows the relationship between Mason and his step-daughter. Peter Sellers steals the scenes he is in while playing a variety of characters in the fashion of Dr. Strangelove which would come later.A great film questioning moral virtue and the needs of individuals. Satire at its very best. "},{"Title":"The trials and tribulations of an old posh man","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've never read the novel of Lolita so I can't comment on how much of the film is censored or toned down. I have of course heard of the various cuts Stanley Kubrick had to make in order to keep the censors happy, so perhaps it has slightly lost its power? Nevertheless, what we're left with is a consistently entertaining little film about a man falling in love with a girl who's barely a teenager. I was very impressed with how the film managed to portray the relationship without even showing the couple kissing. In fact, the cosiest the pair come is when Lolita grabs James Mason's hand whilst watching Frankenstein in a drive-through.Whilst the film is a hefty 150 minutes it never manages to bore. It is far longer than it needs to be and has some repetitive scenes which add very little to the overall experience, however I found myself always engrossed in what I was watching. I particularly enjoyed the first half which deals with James Mason hopelessly trying to start a relationship with our young nymphet. There are some darkly amusing encounters including some funny slapstick with a cot and a plot to murder the landlady.The film is of course marvellously directed. It has the look of an early 60's film, but the feel of something much bigger than that. Stanley has some lovely, inventive camera moves and the framing is always brilliant. Sue Lyons was also very magnetic in the role of Lolita. She kind of reminded me of Audrey Horne in Twin Peaks, there's an innocent side and another side of a smouldering temptress. I was less impressed with James Mason as the one-dimensional bumbling, boring Englishman.Lolita is a fantastic film and shows a steady progression from Paths of Glory. However, I still wouldn't think at this stage that Stanley would have it in him to direct something as sensationally enigmatic as 2001 A Space Odyssey. This film certainly shows that Stanley loved a challenge and was willing to push Hollywood's conservative boundaries. With Lolita he pushes them with style and entertainment. It may be a little wordy and long, but most films were like this in the 60's.Read more dazzling reviews at www.asdaman.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Don't Be So Hard On Lolita!","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, I admit that Lolita isn't exactly Kubrick's BEST, but that doesn't mean it isn't a good movie. I liked it alot and found it very entertaining. The young Sue Lyon as Lolita gave an excellent performance for someone her age. Shelley Winters, being the annoying mother and wife, certainly did her acting right--when people say they wanna smack her, you know she's playing her character well! This movie is funny and depressing at the same time. I haven't read either Vladimir Nobokov's novel OR screenplay, so I couldn't tell you if Lolita is better or worse than they are, but keep in mind that these were the early 60's, so, um, not all scenes could be expressed in, uh, full detail. Anyway, I would definitely recommend Lolita as a great film. It may not be 2001 or Paths of Glory, but compared to the crap that comes out today, it's a masterpiece.*** out of **** for Lolita-2001Rulz "},{"Title":"A very bold and carefully handled movie","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita presented director Stanley Kubrick with a proper challenge. How do you adapt a novel that tells the story of a middle-aged academic who develops a sexual obsession with a 15 year old girl? It's very tricky material even for a film today, far less one made over fifty years ago. It's one of those rare occasions where I am thankful for film censorship, as this is the kind of material that could be horrendous if too much is shown. As it is, the movie version has raised the age of the girl from twelve to fifteen and you have to regard this as understandable! As it is, a lot is alluded to here, although it's still pretty clear what's going on and it is disturbing.Sixteen year old Sue Lyon plays the fifteen year old title character and she is very impressive. Because of its nature it's not an easy role but she has the requisite mixture of the childlike and old beyond her years. The central character though is Professor Humbert Humbert played by James Mason. He also has a very difficult role in that he is the middle-aged man who lusts after this teenager. He is entirely unsympathetic yet convincingly played by Mason. But best of all is probably Peter Sellers who is Clare Quilty a TV personality who is in many ways Mason's doppelganger; a man who also is sexually attracted to this young girl. Quilty is an especially odd character and Sellers steals every scene he is in. Both Quilty and Humbert are introduced in a great mysterious opening scene where the latter kills the former, thus setting the scene and leaving us with more questions than answers. There is a second particularly good sequence between these characters mid-way through the film where they meet in a motel. Quilty has his back to Humbert during the entire conversation and it's very weird and uncomfortable.Despite, or probably because of, the disturbing central plot-line there is a lot of comedy in Lolita. More accurately black comedy. This does lighten things a little, even if there are occasions where it does seem out of place. Like all Kubrick movies it's very well made technically, with good cinematography. It could probably be argued that it is a touch overlong perhaps and maybe it peters out a bit towards the end slightly. But, these issues aside, it remains a strong piece of work and especially impressive when you consider the potency of the source material. It has to be considered a successful and daring movie. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita is a really good film and I was surprised.I set myself the task of viewing all Stanley Kubrick films, from 'The Killing' and 'Paths of Glory' from the 1950's, until his final film 'Eyes Wide Shut'. Mission accomplished, but 'Lolita' was the film that I left until very last as I knew it was going to be boring.But I loved it.Let's go through the acting performances.James Mason is a bit of an old fart and this film will be really dull, I said to myself. But he was great and played the father-figure perfectly.Shelly Winters, again I thought that annoying fat woman from the original 'Poseiden Adventure' who doesn't make it, but she was even more annoying in this film and that's why she was so good. Acted perfectly, driving her rebellious daughter off the rails.And Sue Lyon who was really good as well, but not as good as the two main actors. Saucy, narrow-minded, brainless, using little bitch, in a nutshell.I'll definitely watch Lolita again if I get the chance. It doesn't rank as one of Kubrick's best films, but it's still a very worthy part of his collection and so much better than his earlier 1950's output, although 'Paths of Glory' is still a decent film.Don't be put off by the 1962 tag; the year of release makes no difference, as the story does the real talking. "},{"Title":"A Work of Art in Its Own Right","Date":"23 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Vladimir Nabokov's novel Lolita was hugely controversial when first published in 1955. It was banned for a time in both Britain and France, although (rather surprisingly, given the often hysterical moral climate during the Eisenhower years) not in the United States. The reason is that the central character, Humbert Humbert, is not only a murderer but also a paedophile, sexually obsessed with girls between the ages of nine and fourteen or, as he calls them, 'nymphets'. He moves from Europe (he is French in the novel, British in the film) to Ramsdale, a small New England town, where he becomes infatuated with Dolores (Lolita), the young daughter of his widowed landlady, Charlotte Haze. After her mother's death in a road accident he seduces her, takes her out of school and sets off with her on a lengthy car journey around America. Given the controversy which the novel had aroused, it was a brave move on the part of Stanley Kubrick to adapt it for the screen only seven years later. Mind you, it would probably be an even braver move to adapt it today. The most common modern reaction to many books, films and popular songs which fell foul either of the censors or of conservative public opinion during the fifties is to ask What was all the fuss about?, but Lolita retains its power to shock even today. Adrian Lyne's 1997 film version was even more controversial than Kubrick's, and attitudes towards under-age sex have, if anything, hardened over the last sixteen years. As the Production Code was still in force in 1962, Kubrick had to agree to many changes to Nabokov's original story to make his film acceptable to the American censors. There is not enough space in this review to detail all these changes, but the overall effect was to make the story less sexually explicit and to make Humbert more sympathetic. In the film it is never expressly stated that Humbert and Lolita sleep together, although it is implied. In the book Lolita is only twelve when Humbert first meets her; in the film her age is never given, although she appears to be about sixteen. (Sue Lyon was fourteen when filming took place, but looked older). The weakest part of the book is the sub-plot involving Clare Quilty, Humbert's rival for Lolita's affections, who pursues them across America. For most of the book Quilty is a vague, shadowy presence, and when he- despite the feminine-sounding Christian name he is male- finally appears near the end he emerges as a bizarre and eccentric character whom I found it difficult to believe in. Quilty is given a much larger role in the film than in the book, but remains bizarre and eccentric, and Peter Sellers (as one might expect from that particular actor) does everything he can to accentuate this aspect of his character. The episode in which he pretends to be a German psychiatrist seems particularly out-of-place. Sellers, who was to give a far better performance for Kubrick two years later in Dr Strangelove, seemed to have a fetish about German psychiatrists; he was equally weird playing one in What's New, Pussycat?It is sometimes said that there are no great female parts in Kubrick, and certainly some of his films (notably Paths of Glory, Strangelove, A Clockwork Orange and Full Metal Jacket) are very male-dominated. Lolita, however, is the exception that proves the rule, as there are two great female performances, from Lyon and from Shelley Winters as Charlotte. Both work perfectly in the context of this particular interpretation of the novel. Lyon's Lolita, older than in the novel, has a sort of provocative innocence; that shot of her in her bikini on the lawn- the first time we see her- is unforgettable. Winters's blowsy, garrulous, sexually frustrated and emotionally incontinent widow is a lot more unpleasant than the Charlotte of the novel, who only seems unpleasant to Humbert himself. The character of Humbert is also changed. In the book he was in his mid- thirties, here he is considerably older. (James Mason was over 50). The film omits any reference to his lifelong obsession with nymphets and, indeed, makes virtually no reference to his life before his arrival in Ramsdale. Also omitted are many of Humbert's more despicable actions, such as the scene where he drugs Lolita with intent to rape her. Nabokov's unreliable narrator (the book is told by Humbert in the first person) is often a creepy, sinister individual whose attempts at self- justification never quite ring true. Mason's performance also works well in this interpretation, playing Humbert as a suave, debonair intellectual, a courtly gentleman of the Old World who is a fish out of water in the vulgar cultural wasteland of the New. (Kubrick was American by birth but spent most of his adult life in Britain and could be critical of his native country). Mason's Humbert is less a seedy sexual predator than a distinguished middle-aged man undone by a foolish infatuation with a much younger girl. The novel can be seen as a pervert's progress in which Humbert condemns himself out of his own mouth. The film is more of a classical tragedy in which Humbert is brought down by a flaw in his character. Lyne, by all accounts, was no great admirer of Kubrick's film and hoped that his own would be more faithful to the book. It is that, but it is also rather dull and pedestrian by comparison. The changes Kubrick made to the story may have been forced upon him by the demands of the censors, yet it is a tribute to his skill as a film-maker that his version, with the exception of some of the Quilty scenes, reads so fluently as a work of art in its own right. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Another excellent work by Kubrick","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Stanley Kubrick continues to impress me with his versatility and Lolita was a nice change of pace in his remarkable career. It's one of those films you feel uncomfortable watching at times because of the sensitive theme. Sue Lyon was really great here as Lolita, convincingly showing all kinds of emotions a 14 year old can have when dealing with various situations and as Professor Humbert himself states in the film, she constantly shows her childish side as well as a vulgar personality. Speaking of him, James Mason is also terrific as the professor completely obsessed with the girl. Peter Sellers makes brief appearances, but his character is the most enigmatic one and just like in Dr. Strangelove, his presence is unforgettable. Lolita is filled with great acting and is quite funny at times, being also interesting as a drama and romance. "}{"Title":"Uhh, superb!","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have recently bought the Stanley Kubrick visionary filmmaker collection box that includes a Blu Ray version of Lolita. I am not familiar with Vladimir Nabokov's novel, but the movie is splendid. I consider this a highlight of film noir cinema. The movie centers the obsession of a middle-aged man upon a 14 year teenage girl. The acting is superb, especially by James Mason as Humbert Humbert who is likely to be stuck in midlife crisis. As he was looking for a room to let he just got acquainted with his lolita by name Dolores Haze. She is the gorgeous daughter of Charlotte Haze, a bumptious, status-seeking, 40-something householder (the slang refers to a cougar) who was about to rent a free room in her house. Charlotte asked her new tenant to look after her young daughter with whom she had a strained relationship. Time went on and Humbert became more and more obsessed with Lolita but also had to resist the sexual proposals of his landlady (&#x85;) I do not intend to spoiler too much here. The story telling is marvelous. Humbert's infatuation with the girl reached his climax as Lolita confessed her love to him. He increasingly made severe attempts to control Lolita's daily life due to his jealousy and he began to lose self-control and stability. If you are watching the movie you will fast realize that the catastrophe must have soon befallen. Lolita was playing with Humbertand Humbert couldn't bear up the complicated love story. I do not purpose to tell you more than necessary, and hope to awake your interest. Watch this movie &#x96; I highly recommend it! One of the best i have ever seen. "},{"Title":"A portrait of a man who loses control and dignity","Date":"9 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I haven't read the book. I cant imagine the same relationship with a 12 year old. It wouldn't feel or look right in a film. By right I mean it just wouldn't work. By making Lolita older the events are more convincing and possible. If she was 12 he would have looked like a complete half wit or pervert instead of just a pathetic idiot. I love Peter Sellars but I didn't like his role in the film until the end when I realised he really was a pervert. So his behaviour in the film does make sense. Its not about the girl, its more about the psychological destruction of a pathetic, besotted older man who should have known better but gets dragged down into a self destructive finale of his own making. The most shocking thing for me was finding out who the girl actually loved. Even that made sense because at no time does Kubrick make us think we are dealing with anything but a silly brat of a girl who turns out to be much worse than I expected. Its a typically well made film. All the positive comments about the acting and so on I agree with but its not a very uplifting film. I don't know why any of the silly moralists would have a problem with the story as the ending could be seen as a fitting punishment for both men and a warning about even thinking of running away with a 15 year old as just happened here in the UK. "},{"Title":"Challenging","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita is unique. During and after, I felt polarized- not sure how to interpret the film. Should I have felt sympathy? Anger? Even pity? It's a viewer dependent film, and thoroughly underrated.Lolita is American Beauty before it was cool. The film follows a middle- aged man, as he becomes instantly starstruck by the titular character, and we watch him try to balance the roles he plays in her life, and it gets sticky, and creepy and uncomfortable.Now 50 years old, the content is still strange and difficult. The direct avoidance of acts results in exceptional innuendo and hilarious lines, like the broad minded couple.Not a drama, nor a complete romance or even a comedy, Lolita defines grey.The acting is very strong from an excellent cast. James Mason is lovestruck, control- demanding father/lover. Shelley Winters is hilarious at times as Lolita's spacey, repressed mother, and Sue Lyon perfect as the 'nymphet' childish yet mature. Also there's the invasive Peter Sellers, as the perspective bad guy with the best Kubrick-referencing line, 'No, I'm Spartacus.'Lolita is an unexpectedly strong film, boundary pushing, creepy and entertaining. It has a very fulfilling length, giving the idea that the full story has been told. 8.4/10 "},{"Title":"The young and the too-cool","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you're looking for emotional roller-coasters, for characters and stories that pull you into a world of their own, Stanley Kubrick is not your man. His movies are detached, distant - even chilly. I've never seen one that didn't leave me cold. Oh... he deserves considerable respect for visual artistry and dark comedy. Lolita is his blackest, and is his masterpiece. There's not a single character in it that's anything more than a cartoon, but it works here. It's almost startlingly funny, although his satire of early '60s American mores is tired in retrospect. James Mason is perfect as the chronically frustrated Humbert Humbert, forever anguishing in pedophilic dilemma. Peter Sellars almost steals the show as his nemesis; it's a role impossible to imagine being handled by anyone else.The closest Kubrick ever came to emotional content was The Shining - also the closest he ever came to making a crowd-pleaser. "},{"Title":"Bold, interesting and very well observed tale","Date":"13 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kubrick's first film made in England is a bold and interesting character study, with more emphasis on performances and dialogue as storytelling tools rather than Kubrick's more typical visual approach. Also, after the huge budget of Spartacus, this was a much smaller film, with Kubrick sadly having to use the dreaded process shot for car scenes. This makes the film look more like a typical 50s or 60 black and white movie, rather than demonstrating the visual style of Kubrick's earlier black and white films. However, where the film is strong is in its approach to characters and performances. The opening of the film works pretty well, but comes across more of a gimmick rather than a clever bit of storytelling. James Mason as the central character is superb. This would have been a risk for him and he pulls it off with style. You will actually feel sorry for him as his character digs a bigger hole for himself as the story goes along. Sue Lyons is a standout as Lolita, and her interplay with the Humbert character is highly effective and she comes across as an equal, a real achievement for young, relatively unknown actress acting with someone of Mason's stature and experience. Shelley Winters and Peter Sellers play amusing if broadly drawn supporting characters, in fact you wonder if some of Sellers scenes are ad-libbed (Sellers does a very amusing send up of a previous Kubrick film).The story moves along well, especially as this is a long film. However, Sellers character is under utilised and a pay off that occurs at the films climax doesn't feel as effective as it could or should have been because we don't get even a glimpse of what happens with Seller's character, it is just explained verbally.Nevertheless the films hold your interest throughout. The humour is subtle but effective and ending is appropriate The film is not as adept technically as some of Kubrick's prior works, as the focus is really the script and performances, with Kubrick the director seemingly happy to reign back on his strong visual style and allowing the actors to shine. "},{"Title":"Lovely, lyrical, lascivious","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita that lovely, lyrical, wilting name. After Nabokov's novel and Kubrick's film adaptation, the name Lolita has, unfortunately, become synonymous solely with sexual precociousness. Really, we should add 'vulgar' and 'brash' to that synonymy - the real Dolores Haze (Sue Lyon) is brusque, and anything but wilting. She's known by two names; she leads two VERY different lives.Given the reputation that follows the tale of Lolita around, it's sometimes easy to forget how funny this first (and best) film adaptation is. With Kubrick, we're in the hands of a master satirist. So when Lolita is shipped off to the hilariously named 'Camp Climax', her emotional farewell embrace with Humbert Humbert (James Mason) is cut short with what amounts to a snappy see ya before the camera swoops over our troubled anti-hero as he gazes longingly over the banister, full of yearning and repressed passion, while melodramatic music swells like something out of Gone With The Wind.Humbert is an amusingly sardonic sort when he knows he's going to get what he wants; he's stroppy when he can't. So, while we're never offered any backstory to help us build a psychological justification for Humbert's infatuation, we can clearly see that his passion brings out the teenager in him fickle, randy, playful and obstreperous.Shelley Winters marvellously over-plays Dolores' lonesome mother, the actress's alleged poor treatment by the director pre-dating Shelley Duvall's by almost 20 years - and, similarly, it could be argued the performance is improved accordingly.This was Kubrick's first collaboration with Peter Sellers (who plays the writer Clare Quilty). Like Dr Strangelove, there's an exhilarating unpredictability whenever the chameleonic Sellers occupies the screen. This was the first time Kubrick encouraged improvisation - it's partially this, I believe, which elevates the film to the status of the first true Kubrick classic. Paradoxically, with Lolita we're able to see the control Kubrick would wield thereon; he arrests the image, moving the actors with the precision of chess grand-master, shooting everything from the beautiful to the banal with sublime artistry. "},{"Title":"Controversial, dark, funny, a bit too long, but still a far better film than most other of the time.","Date":"6 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a big fan of Stanely Kubrick I felt it was about time I saw Lolita, and I must say I have mixed feelings about it. It's a good story. The first half of the movie I found both hilarious and serious at the same time, the second half however was a bit lengthy. I guess that's my only problem with the film, it was too long, the story was good, but they should have cut it just slightly.The first half I think was marvellous, filled with weird little hints of what's really going on between Humbert and Lolita, no wonder the tag line is how in earth did they ever make a film of Lolita?. Just having made this film as early as 1962 is incredible in it self and only Kubrick could have done it. The relationship between Humbert and Chalotte was much sadder on the other side. I must say, Charlotte was the only character I actually sympathised with.The second part however i felt was a bit repetitious, and Humbert started to get obsessive. I felt it was just nothing but quarrels again and again and again. They could have cut this slightly down, and we would still understand what was going on.Now except for being a little melodramatic, I really liked the ending. In my opinion it was the only decent thing Humbert did in the film, and for the first time I feel that the viewer can actually feel sorry for him.So I give this film a 8/10. Not Kubrick's best, but still a far better film than most other of the time. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" How did they ever make a movie of Lolita, as the tag-line goes, much repeated in the trailer on the DVD? In 1962, in the time that strict censorship of any taboo topic forced Hitchcock to film and cut the infamous shower scene of Psycho rather creatively, nobody but Kubrick had the talent or the gall to even attempt it. I haven't read the novel, so I'm afraid I cannot provide a comparison. As I understand, this has less comedy, and not as thorough insight into Humbert Humbert. Just as with the 1997 adaptation, you hear his thoughts as voice-over narration. I'm not certain which has more of it. The role, played by James Mason, you find it difficult to completely either resent or sympathize with him. He is a human being, with flaws as well as a conscience. The title character is given a soft, playful musical theme that perfectly accentuates her behavior and appearance. Sue Lyon nails it, exuding child-like innocence as well as budding womanhood. She was actually 14 at the time. Obviously, this could not get away with being overtly sexual, as the Irons/Swain version tried to; here, it is all innuendo, hints and subtlety. It remains provocative, and the core is not lost. The acting is all spot-on, and Sellers is his usual oddball self, and it really works. Dialog is flawlessly written and delivered. The cinematography and editing are impeccable, and this has some unforgettable visuals. There is disturbing content in this, and brief mild violence. I recommend this to anyone who is mature enough to appreciate it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Nabokov by way of Kubrick...heavy on the Kubrick","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" How did they make a movie of LOLITA? Very well. Stanley Kubrick's black comedy based on the Nabokov classic is a masterpiece of discomfort. As Humbert Humbert, James Mason is given the rare chance to carry a film and he's more than up to the task. His tragic infatuation with his landlady's daughter is played for queasy laughs. Never has an actor been made to sweat as much in a comedy! Sue Lyon makes a perfect Lolita, the only rational person in her life and Shelley Winters is priceless as her culture vulture mother. Kubrick was the master at presenting life's grotesques and he holds nothing back, particularly as his camera lingers on Mason while Humbert realizes how much he's degrading himself, with one immoral misstep after another. Guilt is personified in Peter Sellers (playing one character in various disguises). He's off screen for a lot of the time, but Seller's shadow(s) linger. A real work of art, filmed mostly in the UK but set in the US. "},{"Title":"Magnificent Obsession.","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Stanley Kubrick begins his most creative spree as he moves to England after the debacle known as Spartacus and starts off with adapting Vladimir Nabokov's controversial novel about a man infatuated with a young teenage girl to the screen. If there was anything Kubrick was a master at, it was the ability to adapt novels to films. Here, it is never more apparent. Though I have never read the book, and though I know the film is quite different than the novel, I found this to be an absolutely engrossing picture that completely grabs you in and takes you on this disturbing and provocative journey. Yet even despite all the editing and contracting Kubrick had to do in order for this to pass the censors, I believe it only enhances the experience of watching this man as he continues down a path that can only lead to certain unhappiness and moral obscurity.For all the controversy and trouble that came with this picture, the actors certainly did their share. James Mason does something almost uncanny with this character of Humbert Humbert, a man so slimy and paranoid, there is no reason to like him; yet Mason is able to get us to almost sympathize for this man. Shelley Winters is magnificent here as the promiscuous widow who is set for tragedy. Peter Sellers is comical, as always, but Sue Lyons really surprised me with her ability to give a rather open performance of this girl who very much had psychological problems. Of course, with Kubrick behind the camera, the look and feel of the film is sly, subversive, and completely enhancing. No matter what your feelings on the subject or the novel, you owe it to yourself to see Stanley Kubrick's Lolita. "}{"Title":"Good attempt to adapt a novel which couldn't really be filmed at the time","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Obviously, this is an extremely bowdlerized version of Vladamir Nobokov's classic novel. For anyone who has read the book, it should come as no shock that it couldn't really be filmed in 1962. The novel deals with pedophilia in a disturbing yet even-handed and frank manner. This adaptation is only able to hint at the themes and regard them as more subtext. It's very suggestive and explicit for the era nonetheless. That isn't the most disappointing aspect for me though. The novel, while with its moments of pitch black humor, is a thoroughly bleak affair, one which manages to make its potential demon of a protagonist into a tragic figure. The film gets the tone rather wrong, treating it as a wry and eccentric comedy (this is further compounded by the distracting presence of Peter Sellers).That's not to say the film is without merits though, as its unsurprisingly very technically proficient. Kubrick's direction is aesthetically pleasing as usual with great attention to minor detail and set pieces. The acting is rather uneven. James Mason is terrific. He's the only one who manages to really understand the tone of the book, and his performance of Humbert Humbert is both subtle and sympathetic. Shelley Winters, a well-known but generally underrated actress, does a fine job with an equally tragic character. Lolita is supposed to be an obnoxious brat whom the audience wonders why Humbert is attracted to, but Sue Lyon is far too shrill in her performance. The worst offender is Peter Sellers, but its not entirely his fault. His presence really offsets the tone of the film. He's one of the greatest actors, comedic or otherwise, Britain ever offered, but he's completely miscast. Lolita is a very well made film, but if you've read the book, it severely detracts any real power the film could have wielded. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Twisting and turning film that remains unpredictable and thoroughly engrossing.","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Within Lolita lies a very interesting and very well done story that feels as if it is split into separate parts or chapters that revolve around different things. The best bit about these chapters that feel separated is that when you feel one is in full swing, you remember what and how much the characters had to go through as individuals to get to this point before realising they've got to advance through an entirely new minefield altogether. Most of this realisation is done by Professor Humbert Humbert (Mason) and most of the chaos or indeed situations fabricated is either directly caused by or is because of Lolita (Lyon), the young teenage girl causing the havoc of the film with her good looks and what can be considered as either advanced seduction or pure naivety.Notice how the film is named Lolita; an important aspect of breaking down whose story is being told and who's the lead character. Indeed, the film goes through all the setting up and includes voice-overs of the professor suggesting Humbert himself is the focus but looking at who goes on more of a journey and who travels the most, perhaps it would be easier to state Lolita as the protagonist. The first 'chapter' of the film or at least the first exchanges revolve around a definite power struggle in a large, old house. Humbert looks for a place to stay while he is on business looking for a job placement and is unsure on whether to settle at this accommodation, until that is, he sees Lollita in the garden in all her soft focus and bikini clad glory.What follows is a trilogy of error between three individuals Humbert, Lolita and Lolita's mother named Charlotte (Winters). The focus here is quite clearly love, but it is a love that will not be returned. Charlotte desires Humbert but he believes her to be an eccentric more than anything else whilst Humbert himself falls for Lolita who herself is involved in another sort of relationship, that being a parental relationship with her mother who dominates her and wishes to remain in control of the young girl. But the film is so well written that you do not identify this power struggle and then get tired of it, hoping it will move onto the next set piece. Instead, characters are given individual scenes and situations, each feeling different to the last, so that they can play off one another.But this is not another screwball comedy where issues like love, immaturity and lust are dismissed as plot ideas to evoke a few laughs. There is a certain tactfulness behind the scene in which the romantic interest is first made aware, the reason being it takes place in a cinema in front of a film &#150; Kubrick's love of the subject and the love the characters share for each other coming out in an iconic location. The recognising of the shot construction also comes into play here, when Humbert gazes at Lolita when at the dance and when both are in the garden initially. So the opening very much focuses on the balance of lust in the mother for Humbert; Humbert for Lolita and Lolita's struggles against her mother &#150; a line that sums this up well is when Charlotte admits the love for Humbert and he replies somewhat dismissively that he 'knows what that feels like' given Lolita is in close proximity. Another interesting dynamic are the reactions of the third party when one of these power struggles are immediately occurring.But the incident that kills off these opening power exchanges is a death, and quite a surprising one at that, more so because it does not affect the overall narrative and themes of love for someone of greater age difference. Instead, it acts as a catalyst for Humbert and Lolita to enter the next stage of their relationship and that's when the feeling I mentioned earlier kicks in; that sensation of sheer unpredictability when a minefield has been crossed and the film then threatens to move up to the next level of intensity. Kubrick also throws in a somewhat out of the blue juxtaposition shot when he cuts to a scene of Humbert singing in the bath after a somewhat eerie prior scene that is the death itself.From here, implied sex and some more scenes revolving around the really nasty place in which Humbert stands in terms of his role follows on. Is he now the parental figure? Is his role of the lover like it always was? Or has it stepped up a gear because a certain element from the previous power struggle is no longer around to act as a superego to both characters. Whatever the situation and whatever the scene, Humbert's study of going close to madness towards the end feels out of place but in a very positive manner. The seduction and trickery during the scene at the hospital which floats to the surface hits relatively hard even though there is a reasonable explanation. Lolita is one of Kubrick's better contemporary efforts and no doubt probably aided in the downing of censorship with its implications and subject matter. That on its own is enough of a reason to watch. "},{"Title":"About the best we can expect.","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kubrick has done a good job of transposing the story from novel to film, with a screenplay by the author, Vladimir Nabokov.James Mason is outstanding as the snooty but distinctly human professor Humbert Humbert who falls in love with the nymphet named Lolita, Sue Lyon. And Shelley Winters is great as Lyons' mother, Charlotte Haze. The script sticks fairly closely to the book, although some collapsing and elisions are inevitable. I doubt, though, that Nabokov actually was responsible for the shooting script. It was his first and last screenplay.Having said that, it has to be admitted that the film has weaknesses, compared to the novel. For one thing, Kubrick refused to shoot outside of his new homeland, England, and only some skimpy second-unit shots are used to convey the sense of motion across the US map. The novel captures perfectly some quotidian images from American -- a red neon sign in the shape of a coffee pot blinking on and off, the shadows of poplar leaves on a small town's honor roll in the afternoon sunshine. Nabokov was a butterfly hunter and kept careful notes of these observations while traveling around the West in search of prey. Dolores, Colorado, was one of those towns. All this local color is missing from the movie.And if most of the cast consists of seasoned professionals, some of the performances fall flat. Poor Sue Lyon. I understand she was fourteen when this was shot but she looks about seventeen. The original Lolita -- the reason the story was considered shocking at the time of publication (1958) and still is by some people -- aged from twelve to fourteen while under salivating Dr. Humbert's tutelage. She was a bright but vulgar kid. Sue Lyon resembles a glossy starlet and hardly utters a believable word. (She was to improve later.) Quilty the guilty is played by Peter Sellers. He has about five roles. Some are fine, such as the psychologist Dr. Zempf (German for mustard). Others, such as his faux detective at The Enchanted Hunters, sound poorly improvised -- to the point of discomfort.That just about gets the weaknesses out of the way. Oh -- there's a bit of slapstick when the hotel porter brings a folding cot to Humbert's room and the two men try to unfold it without waking the sleeping Lolita. It's like a Laurel and Hardy routine, and it's been criticized by some as not fitting the template, but I don't agree at all. The situation itself is absurd -- horny Humbert grimly determined to seduce Lolita while at the same time drifting in and out of sleep. In the novel the scene is hilarious and poetic at the same time. Humbert lies next to Lolita (no cot in the book) and listens to the night noises of the hotel -- the clattering elevator, the guy in the next room puking up his liquor into the toilet, the loud ladies in the hallway -- and if you can't have those prose jokes you can at least have a hotel porter bonked on the head by a cot that insists on folding itself back together.The novel is richly comic and Kubrick's movie comes about as close as we're likely to get to capturing some of its humor as well as its pathos. I don't know why some easy laughs are omitted from the film though. In the book, when the desk clerk mispronounces his name, Humbert replies with indignation, The name is not Hamburg and not Humbird, but rather Herbert -- I mean Humbert. (Maybe nobody else finds that funny.) Compared to Adrian Lynes' later version, featuring a splendid actor, Jeremy Irons, this one is funnier and sunnier. Lynes' Clare Quilty, the villain, is a shadowy and witless heavy, while Peter Sellers is snappy and tormenting, and as bright as Humbert, as he should be, since they're brothers under the skin in their lust for Lolita.There isn't space to get into much of this but I should add that this is not a story of pedophilia. The fact that Lolita is too young, by our standards, is beside the point, the point being that Humbert has fallen into one of those traps common to most of our lives -- falling deeply in love with someone who is willing to play with you but then forgets you the moment you're out of sight. This is a love story by any measure. In the novel, the scene in which Humbert and Lolita meet for the last time is immeasurably poignant. And, really, we have to feel a little sorry for Humbert's possessiveness. Imagine being a middle-aged man with a resentful and straying wife. Now imagine a middle-aged man whose barely pubescent daughter is angrily establishing her independence from the household. And the wife and daughter are one and the same. Doubly cursed.Watch this, if you can. And then -- here's a thought -- read the novel if you haven't already. "},{"Title":"A grand adaptation of Nabokov's sickly astonishing novel","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita is a film about psycho-sexual fantasy which is later revisited by Kubrick in 1999 through the film, Eyes Wide Shut. Could these two be compared? No.The story of Lolita is very simple, Professor Humbert Humbert moves into a new home and becomes obsessed with his landlady's sexually active 13 year old daughter, Lolita. The obsession then leads to the man deteriorating into a mentally disturbed criminal. Humbert's detoriation is assisted by Peter Sellers' character Quilty, a competitor for Lolita's heart.The narrative of the film is relatively non-linear, the ending is at the beginning. This was a very clever feature implemented by Kubrick because it left me gripped and thinking about what possibly this beginning could mean. Also it gives the film a smooth and lyrical ending which explains everything.What was particularly brilliant about this film is how Kubrick manages to create unbearable sexual tension in the scenes without actually showing a single sexual image (apart from maybe the iconic image of Lolita lying down in the bikini). Censorship in the 60s meant that Kubrick had limitations in what he could show. The absence of sexual images makes the film cool and subtle and this in my opinion is more powerful than showing full sex scenes.Despite this, the film was still rated X when it came out due to the obvious theme of peadophilia. However, the BBFC now rate it a 15 so it shows how much our film tolerance has changed!.Jason Mason was very good in this film and he managed to convey sexual desire perfectly. I was also very impressed with Peter Sellers' performance as a smart-talking writer, his darkly comical performance was perfection despite his small role.Although, this was a very good quality film, it doesn't truly live up to the standards of Kubricks later films (the shining, a clockwork orange etc) therefore, i reward it with 8/10 "},{"Title":"Kubrick's little masterpiece","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita (1962)Top 5 - 1962 Stanley Kubrick's 'Lolita' is an unusual delight, a sort of sexual comedy/drama, that is both funny and tragic at times. Kubrick's later revisited the subject of sexual obsession in his final masterpiece 'Eyes Wide Shut'.This early film by one of the masters of cinema, has James Mason playing Humbert Humbert, a European Immigrant, who falls for his landlady's 14 year old daughter, with that lovely, lyrical name 'Lolita'. Humbert marries Lolita's mother, so he can keep alive, his perverse sexual obsession. The story evolves from there...Peter Sellers, the legendary Peter Sellers plays a minor role as the playwright who destabilises the life of Humbert, Lolita and her mother.Kubrick's film is a roller-coaster of emotions, laughter and mixed feelings. This is a fine film,, but nowhere near to some of the director's greatest works (2001, Shining, Eyes Wide Shut).This film is almost like grand Shakespearian tragedy, love betrayal, obsession, told by one of cinema's most interesting personalities.7/10 "},{"Title":"a midsummer nightmare","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" watching this movie today seems like an episode of Leave It To Beaver gone all wrong.Humbert Humbert(James mason)is a quiet,studious middle-aged professor who is on a break from teaching.he settles in a small New England town,and becomes acquainted with Charlotte haze and her overbearing,under-aged daughter Lolita.he is instantly attracted to her which begins his utter demise.not having read the novel on which the film is based,i am in no position to compare the two.the cinema version was highly censored in it's day which is pretty laughable now.but it did deal with subjects such as underage sex(he would probably wind up on Dateline).but there are also deeper expressions in his forming of the main characters,with Humbert representing the old guard,and the nubile Lolita the new order.mason and sue Lyon(as Lolita)give dead on performances,with a possible foreshadowing of Lyon's later train-wreck life.two of the most important yet irritating characters are played by Shelley winters and peter sellers(who seemed like he was warming up for Dr. strangelove.if not a great film,this one will certainly be memorable for it's two lead actors.P.s.-haven't seen the remake but apparently it is more faithful to the book. "},{"Title":"The Impact Of LOLITA","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The advertising line for this film's release in mid-1962 was How did they ever make a film out of LOLITA? The obvious answer is, of course, that they, namely maverick director Stanley Kubrick and his producing partner James B. Harris, had to do it very carefully, given the scandalous nature of the Vladimir Nabokov novel they were adapting to the screen, with the author's help. Some, of course, would say that they didn't go far enough into the erotic and sexual nature of the story about a craggy, middle-aged man named Humbert Humbert and the ultra-nubile teen Dolores Lolita Haze, and thus they have taken to Adrian Lyne's far more explicit 1998 remake. But those were the rules in Hollywood at the beginning of the 1960s, though this film helped to change all of that.Even with these restrictions in place, and despite a running time of slightly over two and a half hours, however, LOLITA still manages to work wonders as a quirky mixture of road movie, romantic drama, and underhanded black comedy. This is largely due to Kubrick's canny choice of casting. James Mason, well known in America for his roles in the 1954 version of A STAR IS BORN and as the villain of Hitchcock's NORTH BY NORTHWEST, does a fine turn as the devious Humbert who marries Charlotte Haze (the late Shelley Winters, in a deliciously off-kilter performance), for the sole purpose of being nearer in more ways than one to her daughter Lolita (Sue Lyon, in an impressive screen debut). After Winters' death by car, Mason thinks he'll have Lyon all to himself. But with that mysterious man named Clare Quilty (Peter Sellers) on the scene, such is not the case.Kubrick can only hint at the eroticism and sexual perversion of the novel, which caused an uproar upon its publication, but I think this works to the film's advantage, allowing the audience to guess and think in their minds what else is going on between the sheets, perhaps allowing for a 'PG-13' rating by our standards today (this in contrast to Lyne's remake, which is much more explicit and graphic). Many people have argued that Lyon was a couple of years too old to play a nymphet here, but again those were the Hollywood rules of the time. Her performance nevertheless captures that fairly typical combination of seductiveness and brat-like American teenage behavior; and that very first shot of Lyon sitting on a towel in the backyard in a bikini and sunglasses can't help but be an iconic shot. It is also a big reason why the name Lolita would become synonymous in later years with almost any sexy teenage girl who had a penchant for seducing men two to three times as old as she she is. Sellers' Clare Quilty, who dons various disguises to keep Mason's Humbert off balance, generates much of the film's shady humor, and the glossy black-and-white cinematography of Oswald Morris is superlative.One other thing that really doesn't get discussed all that much about Kubrick's LOLITA is the music score here, one of the last times Kubrick would do it this way. After Bernard Herrmann turned the director down (being told that he would have to use a theme by the producer Harris' brother Bob), Kubrick turned to Nelson Riddle, famous for his work with Frank Sinatra in the 1950s and with Linda Ronstadt in the 1980s during the last few years of his life, to do the score, and Riddle delivered a fabulous one, very much like the one Herrmann might himself very well have composed. It is lush and romantic without being too syrupy or giving too much away.If the censorship restrictions of its time mean that LOLITA is something less than an erotic masterpiece, so be it. And as with every film Kubrick would make from this film clear to his last one, the eerily similar EYES WIDE SHUT, LOLITA requires multiple viewings for people to catch each nuance. But it is well worth the experience. "},{"Title":"Another Kubrick must see.","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is typically Kubrick. It has an unusual atmosphere, subtle humor and is filled with some marvelous, unforgettable, artistic scene's, which all helps to make Lolita an unforgettable movie experience.The story is both original and daring even though the movie never really goes far or deep into things. But considering that it was 1962 when this movie was released still makes it fair to call this movie a daring one. It's a story that begins as perhaps innocent illegal love but later turns into an unhealthy obsession. The movie is about two and an halve hours long but the movie never feels dull or slow, which is probably mainly thanks to the masterful storytelling by Kubrick.The performances by the cast are really excellent. James Mason is great as the leading (gentle)man of the movie. Very good and certainly very enjoyable in his role is Peter Sellers who plays a character that can take many identities. A kind of character that Sellers always loved to play. Some other fine roles are portrayed by Shelley Winters and by Sue Lyon, in the title role.But most credit once more has to go to Stanley Kubrick who manages to create the perfect atmosphere for the movie and gives the scene's lots of style and artistic beauty. It may not be the best movie in the world, the movie has too many little flaws for that but the movie most certainly is a memorable one, which makes it also a must see for everyone.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"a slight reference to fairy tales","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita may not be one of Stanley Kubrick's greatest movies, but he did a good job with it. The plot of course concerns Prof. Humbert Humbert's (James Mason) obsession with nymphet Lolita Haze (Sue Lyon), to the point where he marries her mother Charlotte (Shelley Winters) and doesn't tell Lolita when Charlotte gets killed. But when I took a class called Stanley Kubrick's Movies, we discussed another theme fairy tales. Humbert is like a knight protecting fair maiden Lolita from the enigmatic Clare Quilty (Peter Sellers). They even strengthen the fairy tale idea by having Humbert kill Quilty in a castle-like house, dressing Lolita as a fairy in one scene, and having them watch a monster movie. As for the frequent insanity theme in Kubrick's movies, here it is obsession Humbert's lust for this nymphet takes him completely over to the point where he starts becoming cruel. But anyway, it's a pretty good - if disturbing - movie. "},{"Title":"Middle-aged professor falls under spell of teenage temptress","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever since the enormous success (and controversy) of this film, we have added the term Lolita Syndrome to Webster's Dictionary. The term refers to the obsessive attraction an older man has for a very young female (usually a minor under law).James Mason plays Professor Humbert, who seeks temporary room and board at Shelley Winter's house in order to concentrate on writing his novel. Undecided about the accommodations, he suddenly sees Winter's seductive 12-year old daughter Lolita (played by a slightly more mature Sue Lion) and now MUST stay.Over the next several weeks Mason hopelessly falls into lust and adoration with the ever-teasing Lion, while Winters develops similar feelings for Mason (who at first is oblivious to his amorous effect on the lonely widow). A sudden twist of fate keeps Mason around, allowing for the poor fool to deteriorate emotionally, leading to his total insanity.The character played by Peter Sellers is equally pathetic, but Mason reminds of Emil Jannings in The Blue Angel, where he portrayed the sad Professor Rath seduced and ruined by the temptress Lola (Marlene Dietrich).Although enjoying worldwide controversy back in 1962 as today, Stanley Kubrick's Lolita is not entirely true to Vladimir Nabokov's novel. Twisting some of the characters into completely different people than Nabokov had intended, Kubrick made this another true Kubrick creation. Nabokov did receive credit for scripting. The catchy score adds a nice touch! "}{"Title":"1/24 of a frame in the first two minutes","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Has anyone noticed the 1/24th frame of a man moving from screen left to right in the opening minutes of the film. As the cross fade from James Mason's car driving up the driveway and the first internal shot of the mansion happens you see the blurred image of a man walking. Kubrick must have known it was there because he was such a meticulous editor. Anyone know what I am talking about? As I need ten lines to qualify for this on-line comment I am just wasting space and filling up the box so that my stunning thoughts and revelations can be known, read and appreciated the world over. Hopefully this will satisfy the powers that be. There, that should be long enough! "},{"Title":"A vision-based adaptation.","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nabokov is very likely the greatest novelist of the 20th century, rivaled only by fellow Russian Bulgakov, yet this film certainly does not fall into the category of over-ambitious director creates transparent and naive surface-level adaptation, (watch virtually any Dostoevsky adaptation and you'll see what I'm talking about).Kubrick was very aware of this danger all throughout his career and he usually remedied it by focusing on one particular theme or device. He cut out sections of Barry Lyndon that he saw as superfluous to his intentions, and the infamous contraversy over The Shining came as a result of this as well. In Lolita he focuses on a particular folding device that Nabokov has become famous for, and the focus becomes on what isn't being shown as opposed to what is shown. There are certainly great performances all around, and some trademark Kubrick angles, but the film's subtlety is the strongest point. I'm not talking about the hand-holding early on or anything of that sort, but note carefully when Kubrick decides to cut the scene. Alot can go on between cut and he uses it to heighten our curiosity and make as put it together ourselves, perhaps like one of the gossip-y neighbors.Despite Mason's competent performance, it's important to notice that his character is relatively dry compared to the novels's temperamental character. Again, a decision made by Kubrick to focus the story on his goal. We must admit a minor amount of over-ambition, but there is enough innovation as Kubrick begins his quest to go from story to vision.4 out 5 - An excellent film  "},{"Title":"Do I have the Lolita complex? May contain SPOILERS","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say about this movie? Passionate, funny, out of the ordinary, yet so familiar.  It is a feeling that I am guessing all men have experienced once in their life time Being with a Lolita.  Based on Vladimir Nabokov's novel, the story of Lolita has been marvelously portrayed by Sue Lyon under the guidance of one of the most acclaimed directors of our time Stanley Kubrick.  The beginning of the movie, where Humbert Humbert (played by James Mason) is looking for the character of Peter Sellers, and kills him, I did not understand it at first.  But as the movie progressed, it gave out hints, subtle but yet so clear hints about the situation in a movie.  Lolita is full of sexual innuendos that are so subtly placed in every corner of the movie, that I was honestly blown by the ending.  I am pretty harsh on many movies, and I am a hard viewer to please, but for some reason, Stanley Kubrick's movies seem to surpass my expectations. I am ready to read the book, and you!, yes you, if you have not seen this movie, rent it, because it is worth it! **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Weird, but memorable","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stanley Kubrick's (Lolita), should be judged much like (Eyes wide Shut). Not great, but very good, almost like a vignette of small stories,and scenes. The acting was very good, Lyon,Winters,and Mason are solid. But this was Sellars film, the man has to be the greatest ad-libbed actor I have ever seen. That scene in the film where sellars doesn't reveal he's identity, while talking to mason is a masterpiece. As usual the cinematography,direction was second to none.  "},{"Title":"One of Kubrick's best!","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How can it be one of the greatest Kubrick film when all of his movies are masterpiece or really close.Again, this one is a difficult complex movie with great acting,a good story and a perfect director!Ten times better than the remake.Don't spend your time with the new version.See the original! "},{"Title":"Kubrick on the way to becoming KUBRICK","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit, I was shocked when I saw this film.  Not for the subject matter, Pretty Baby does a better job on this, but the fact that Stanley actually made a movie with some semblance of a plot!  I rented this film after years of curiosity expecting a disjointed plot with lots of symbology and actors with little apparent motivation.  You can imagine my shock, when I found out that most of the characters were in fact human, three dimensional and complex, except for Quilty.  This film needed to be made later (I haven't seen the remake), when standards were loosened considerably.  If you are a Kubrick historian, this is a very interesting chapter in his long history.  By the way, Sue Lyons must be the girl they invented the word babe for--The shot of here in her bikini is worth the price of a rental. "},{"Title":"The best one","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion, this is the best of all of Stanley Kubrick's works.  When you're watching it, you don't even notice the fact that you're watching a black and white movie.  The way it is filmed is almost Hitchcockian.  It is such a very wonderful movie.  ***** "},{"Title":"Why did they ever make a movie of Lolita?","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here, I have a mixed opinion.  Stanley Kubrick is my favorite film director.  I appreciate everything he has done, even his last film, and I do believe that his films are pieces of legitimate artistry.  I liked Lolita for it's humor and it's attitude towards the subject matter.  Peter Sellers is hilarious when he pretends to be the psychiatrist.  I thought that the film was very well done on the part of the actors, the camerawork, and above all, Stanley Kubrick's brilliant direction.  However, the trailers and posters carried the tagline How did they ever make a movie of 'Lolita'?.  To me, the real question is, Why did they ever make a movie of 'Lolita'?  This is the only film I have seen by Stanley Kubrick that I would rate as sub-quality.  I don't understand why he thought that making a film about a study of pedophilia would be a really great film.  I felt as if I watched the film, and got nothing out of it.  It seemed, well, pointless.  I liked it because it was a Kubrick piece and because it was well done.  Still, the subject of a 50 year old man falling in love with a 16 year old girl is one that is...offputting.  I can't believe that they had the nerve to make a remake.  I won't see it.  I wouldn't have seen this film if it wasn't a Kubrick piece. "},{"Title":"Hidden symbolism","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stanley Kubrick's 1962 classic Lolita is a rare movie that is both entertaining and full of symbolism- a movie that keeps the viewer happy but also forces him/her to think about important themes.  In this particular movie, the theme is sexual obsession, specifically the obsession  a middle aged man has for a teenage girl.  The genius of Kubrick is that he is able to take a seemingly hideous act of statutory rape and portray it in a comical way.  In fact, if I were to classify Lolita externally I would call it a comedy.But there is more than meets the eye in this movie.  Kubrick's screenplay is surprisingly ambiguous as it leaves much of the interpretation to the viewer.  However, Kubrick does give the viewer hints as to what he is talking about.  For instance, in one of the first scenes a female asks the professor if he is broad-minded.  From her sexual tone of voice and her obvious attraction to the professor it seems as though she is wondering whether he is willing to experiment with different sexual acts.  How else are you supposed to interpret the word broad-minded in such a situation?In another scene, which was undeservingly lambasted by critics, the professor and a janitor are trying to uncoil a cot and have trouble doing so.  The uncoiled cot represents the sexual frustration(limp phallic) of the professor as he was not able to act on his fantasy with Lolita. Surprisingly, many critics(including people on this web-site) did not pick up on some of this symbolism.  There are countless scenes in Lolita that give these subtle sexual messages.  Kubrick knew, given the conservative mood of 1962 and the censors, that he would not be able to be as blunt as perhaps he would have liked.  Kubrick countered this by making a movie that appeared on the surface to be a comedy, but was in actuality a movie that revolved solely around sexual hints and symbolism. In other words, he achieved his goal by fooling the censors and the people.  And the end result was a legendary movie.  "},{"Title":"Emotionally cold and too intellectual.","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As much as I respect Kubrick as one of the greatest filmmakers ever, in this movie he is too full of himself.  As Adrian Lynne, who did the remake a couple of years ago, said, Kubrick's film should might as well be called Quilty.It's true that Sellers dominates this film, whereas in Nabokov's novel Quilty is more of a shadowy figure.  The relationship between Humbert and Lolita is not treated with the same sensitivity as it is in Nabokov's book or in Lynne's Lolita.  In no other of Kubrick's films is his emotionally distant directing and lack of intimacy so bothersome as in Lolita.  The only character I felt I knew well enough was Quilty and I really don't know why Kubrick wanted it that way.However, this film -for all its deviations from the novel- is better in developing the relationship between Humbert and Lolita's mom. Surprisingly, Kubrick gives more depth to that relationship compared to Lynne, whose film is overall far more intimate and engrossing.In conclusion, if you want to understand Nabokov's book without actually reading it, see Lynne's Lolita.  Kubrick's version is pure Kubrick but lacking the genius of Dr. Strangelove and Clockwork Orange. "}{"Title":"Kubrick's Lolita emphasizes comedy","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kubrick made an excellent film of Nabokov's absolutely phenomenal novel, compressing, deleting, and adding material as necessary to adapt the challenging work for a movie audience.  The great director did, however, fail in one major regard he downplayed the Humbert/Dolores road-trip to the point where all of Nabokov's essential observations on mid-century, small town America and its accompanying, unique kitsch, pitch, and personality were virtually absent.  But what Kubrick does right, he really does right -- and Lolita excels in so many other ways.  James Mason makes a fantastic Humbert and Peter Sellers unleashes a torrent of amazing accents in his schizophrenic interpretation of Clare Quilty.  Sue Lyon is alluring and provocative, but does not physically match the strict definition of nymphet set down by Nabokov in his book (this might have been purposeful to avoid any added flak for telling the tale of a middle-aged man who enjoys the company of young girls; Lyon's grown-up figure makes her more of a woman and less of a child).  "},{"Title":"A brilliant cerebral adaption that's trademark Kubrick","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When this Lolita came out in 1962, Variety reported it was like a bee with its stinger removed.  Obviously, the reviewer didn't pay close attention to the film.  While the sexual content has been almost entirely removed, and Lolita's age has been upped from 12 to 16, this film still packs a wallop.  Between Kubrick's and Lyne's separate adaptions of the novel, neither one is the definitive version.  Kubrick's stresses the beginning of the film, mainly Humbert Humbert's relationship with Charlotte Haze, and then Humbert at Beardsley college.  James Mason is brilliant as Humbert, and Shelley Winters is chilling as Charlotte.  Sue Lyon plays Lolita, but I'm still undecided about the performance; it is either extremely bad or extremely good, but I'm finding it hard to tell.  The role of Clare Quilty has been augmented, and Peter Sellers portrays it brilliantly.  This film is filled with black humor, wit, and much more is suggested than ever shown, so it will probably be necessary to watch it at least twice before evaluating it.  On a final note, this adaption of the two is colder; we see Humbert, but we have trouble understanding him, and it is possible that James Mason was having trouble interpreting the character, perhaps due to rumored script rewrites throughout the production by Kubrick re-doing Nabokov's work. "},{"Title":"A tragicomedy","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The arc of this story of Humbert Humbert, an older man obsessed with a very young woman, is that of a tragedy, being that Humbert's obsession results in two deaths, a wounded child, and his incarceration. Given that synopsis you would think that this would be a heavy movie, and indeed it touches on serious themes, but Kubrick leavens the proceedings with humor. Consider an early scene that has Humbert, a culturally sophisticated European professor, looking for a place to stay prior to a lectureship in French poetry at a small New England college. Humbert winds up checking out a room in a house owned by a Mrs. Haze, a widower and cultural wannabe. You see that Hubert is desperately trying to escape from Mrs. Haze during the walk through, until he views the garden where he sees the voluptuous Lolita and immediately says, We haven't discussed how much. That scene captures the tone of the movie. On the one hand I found it hilarious, but on the other it clearly sets the stage for the tragedy that is to come.Peter Sellers is at the top of his comedic form playing Humbert's nemesis, Clare Quilty. Kubrick capitalizes on Sellers' ability to play different roles in the same movie, as he brilliantly did in Dr. Strangelove. The scenes that have Sellers talking to Mr. Swine, and later to Humbert, in the hotel are jewels. And his interrogation, as Dr. Zemph, of Humbert's sexual proclivities is priceless (for example, in referring to Lolita he comments, She either has exceptional control or she has no control at all. We cannot decide which.) Mason is well suited to play the sophisticated professor, though a tad old for the part I think. Shelley Winters is a standout as the lonely, sex-starved Mrs. Haze, and Sue Lyon is great as Lolita. Lyon may have been fifteen or sixteen during the filming of this, but she could easily pass for an older girl, clearly sexually mature. I think most men would find her attractive, the thing that separates most men and Humbert is that Humbert is so captivated that he is possessed to pursue the relationship.Several alterations were made to the book to soften if for the screen. For one thing, in the book Humbert is a clear pedophile with Lolita being pre-pubescent. This makes the story in the book much more problematic in terms of having much sympathy for Humbert. His behavior in the movie, while not acceptable by the standards of American society, is more easily understood. However, it is the case that both in the movie and in the book Lolita initiates the sexual relationship, and it is not her first. At the end of the movie when Humbert meets Lolita after several years absence, the married and pregnant Lolita does not seem like the damaged woman you might expect. She appears to have gotten beyond her experiences with Humbert and Quilty as well as could be expected.It is impossible to fully capture the verbal pyrotechnics of the novel in the movie and Kubrick has wisely chosen not to try that. The movie stands on its own as an independent work of art. Interesting that Nobokov is given sole credit for the screenplay, since Kubrick took great liberties with it. Kubrick noted that Nabokov's original screenplay would have taken about seven hours to run. Nobokov has written of the final screenplay, The modifications, the garblings of my best little finds, the omission of entire scenes, the addition of new ones, and all sorts of other changes may not have been sufficient to erase my name from the credit titles but they certainly made the picture as unfaithful to the original script as an American poet's translation from Rimbaud or Pasternak. Nobokov thought enough of his screenplay to publish it some ten years later as, Lolita A Screenplay. Reading that only proved to me that consummate literary skill in writing short stories and novels does not transfer to writing screenplays.So, we have four Lolitas this one, the Nabokov novel, the published Nabokov screenplay, and the 1997 film with Jeremy Irons. If not totally faithful to the novel I think this movie is alive and captures the spirit of the novel while the 1997 version, that follows the novel more closely, is rather flat and ponderous. The published screenplay ranks as the weakest treatment of the four.Kubrick can't seem to resist inserting a scene or two of slapstick, like the collapsing cot here, or the Coke machine in Dr. Strangelove. I find those scenes quite out of place and disruptive of the flow. And why Kubrick put the final scene at the beginning, only then to go to a four years earlier script, is puzzling, since that scene is so wonderful it would have made a great coda. Kubrick should have saved his best stuff for last.I found the score by Nelson Riddle effective and memorable.One thing missing in the movie is an exploration of how some early childhood experiences influenced Humbert's later emotional makeup--it's like his sexual development got stuck in early adolescence. "},{"Title":"Carry On Lo","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Certainly one of Kubrick's oddest films - which is saying a lot when you think about it. Also one of his most underrated.One of the oddest aspects is the tone of the film. Essentially we're watching a movie about a middle aged man who likes young girls. Yet the thing is continually being presented as a true romance story - the tears, girls rushing up stairs to fling themselves into the arms of their secret lover, that lush theme music (Lolita's theme it says in the credits and you can't help thinking of Lara's theme or Laura's theme or any of those other great love story heart wrenchers) James Mason being rejected (I want to walk 27 those steps to the car with me and spend your life, your everything with me) and staggering from the house in tears before heading off to challenge his rival in a life and death struggle.  But James Mason isn't Ryan O'Neil and Sue Lyons is a long way from Ali McGraw. It's lust for a child that we're being shown and this is a very odd way to show it.Of course, in the novel Humbert tells his own story and this is all his own self justifying view of what's going on, but the movie doesn't make that clear.Then there are the jokes. Camp Climax indeed! Nowadays jokes in a film about what is essentially child abuse are very very poor taste. But here we have all the nudging in the ribs jokes of a Carry On. She's going to have her cavity filled on Wednesday I'd like your cherry pieI look at you and go as limp as a noodle. Yes, I know the feeling.There are funny names galore. It even has slapstick schtick when Humbert and the porter try and put up the bed.  Honestly, you could cast Kenneth Williams as Humbert, Barbara Windsor as Lolita, Joan Sims as Charlotte and Sid James as Quilty and just about use the same script.And it's hardly fashionable any more to suggest that the child in this situation is anything but a victim. But Nabokov and Kubrick make it quite clear that Lolita is as much predator as prey. Humbert is used by her just as much as he uses her. She's a sort of proto-Laura Palmer. Most unsavoury by todays standards.Then half way through the whole thing mutates. What was a knockabout romp about perversion (!) turns into some sort of thriller road movie, with all the mechanics of secret meetings, strange cars silently following our heroes, paranoia over people chatting unheard to unseen drivers, weird warning phone calls in the night, kidnappings, hospital staff who know more than they'll say.By the end, when Humbert and Lolita meet for the final time so that Lo can use him dry one last time we're in romance territory - with Humbert like Mr Rochester, faced with a particularly selfish Jane Eyre.It's hardly Kubrick's most successful film. It doesn't really hang together and you get the feeling that Kibrick isn't quite in control of his story the way he was in (say) The Shining or Barry Lyndon.And let's be honest - it drags towards the end. The final sequence of Humbert's visit to Lolita and Dick (I was surprised that Lolita didn't get to say the line I can't live without Dick) really doesn't work. Sue Lyons wear black framed glasses and a smock that are supposed to make her look like a frumpy married woman and instead just make her look silly - or like a little girl dressing up as a frumpy married woman. Her big revelation that it was Quilty all along surprises no-one (except, apparently, Humbert) and she insists in telling it in detail. I couldn't work this out. I can't imagine that the audience was meant to have been fooled all along and suddenly see the truth along with Humbert. But if not, then why all the detail? Just having Lolita say It was Quilty all along would have been enough.More likely is the idea that the audience is supposes to be in on the secret and she's telling the story for Humbert's sake. In which case, just how dim is Humbert? So, not Kubrick's best. But as high spirited, comedy, road movie murder thrillers  about paedophilia go it's one of the best. "},{"Title":"SCANDALOUS!","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie based on the the Nabokov novel goes a long way these days. Seeing this movie seems to take to the book itself. The movie was highly intriguing, scandalously clever, and best of all, it was a big hit to the big screen, I heard about the updated version of the movie, but I would say don't mess with the original. 10 for the 1962 version who knows with the update version? "},{"Title":"A beautiful, mysterious, perverted, brilliant love story.","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A unique & moody movie that blends sex, tragedy, true love, true perversion, comedy, hate &  fear. It's a long-seeming movie to sit through because there are so many layers to the plot & so much undercurrent...still, it never bores because of the killer performances. Maybe because they're already imprinted in my mind, but I can't imagine another possible Quilty than Peter Sellers, or Humbert than James Mason. Shelley Winters goes all the WAY over the top in a way that was perfect for the role. & Sue Lyon was erotic & sexy & KNOWING in a way I've never seen from an actress so young. Funny & chilling & tragic. & that Lolita musical theme! Haven't heard anything so evocative, before or since. & beneath all the weirdness & perversity is a true love story. Doomed, yes, but unforgettable. Worth seeing, again & again. "},{"Title":"Compelling, subtle, surprisingly great movie","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We watched this film with some trepidation - the subject matter based around obsession and sex with a minor is somewhat unnerving.  To be honest, we saw it primarily to fill a gap in our Kubrick set, despite the fact that we had been told by many that it was lesser Kubrick.  Yet the film is compelling, subtle, funny, sad and in some ways exciting.  Surprisingly, we concluded that it is a great movie.  Up there with the best of Kubrick in our view.Peter Sellers is superb as Clare Quilty - the character could have been written for Sellers (no doubt the film part was).  James Mason (not a favourite normally) was spot on for his part, as were Shelley Winters and Sue Lyon for their parts.The normal Kubrick attention to detail abounds with interesting camera angles, lenses etc. etc.  The scene at Camp Climax with the sole boy especially sticks in the mind, as does the scene in the hotel where Quilty acts up as a cop meets Woody Allen type so creepy we squirmed.Haven't seen the 1997 version so can't compare, but suspect that the subtlety that makes the Kubrick version work so well for us might be lacking in 1997. "},{"Title":"Constrained","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lolita is a constrained movie.  Constrained by the mores of the times.  Charlotte Haze's pushy sexuality was broadly hinted at and stealthily portrayed with some boob pokes.  Much was left to the imagination and long fade outs and pauses allowed your imagination to run wild.  Lolita was not as sexually forward as in the novel but Sue Lyon still came across as a sexual, and predatory, creature.   Excellent performances by James Mason, Shelly Winters and Sue Lyon.  Peter Sellers was good as Quilty.  Also Miss Moneypenny makes an appearance.   James Mason played Humbert Humbert as a somewhat obsessed, creepy person who payed for his sins with the pain of  rejection.  Somewhat slow at parts but worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Love and obsession, Kubric style","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is among Stanley Kubric's most underrated movies. While moviegoers are more hung up on his more visually striking films such as2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY, SPARTACUS, and THE SHINING, LOLITA (and others such as THE KILLING, PATHS OF GLORY, and KILLER'S KISS) is a film that relies on the heavy performances of the actors more than eye candy. James Mason lands a tour de force role as Humbert, the English pro- fessor who marries Charlotte (Shelly Winters) just to get close to her budding fox of a daughter named Lolita (Sue Lyon). Trouble abounds when Charlotte starts to put the moves on Humbert while another man, a rake named Quilty (Peter Sellers doing a great non PINK PANTHER role)starts to have unhealthy intentions on young Lolita himself. Great portrayals, especially by Mason and Lyon, help make the movieinteresting and involving despite a near 2-hour run. "},{"Title":"very deep","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film of you know much about the director Stanley Kubrick well that could almost say it all. If you are not the type of person who likes to sit back and really get into a movie then this is for sure not your cup of tea. The movie will keep you in a trance through the whole thing from the first word to the very last moment.   Sue Lyons the girl playing Lolita is just fabulous in her role. The typical teen but at the same time we see Kubrick bring out her sexual careless nature. However with the time frame it was shot in he did have to be careful. Of course last but never least Peter Sellers adding his wit and touch of dark humor top it off and make a wonderful film. "}{"Title":"A beautiful, tragic, controversial motion picture","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lolita is a perfect demonstration of how to achieve the best effect through implication. A number of reviewers have called the film overly tame, but I disagree. Lolita wouldn't have been released if it had included the graphic depictions of the book--as it is, the film was first released for persons over 18 years of age, and the more explicit 1997 version sold directly to Showtime. But even though nothing is shown, Stanley Kubrick lets us know what's going on quite clearly. Lolita climbs onto the infamous cot, a coquettish smile on her lips...and fade out.This scene holds more significance today, since many want to view Lolita as the innocent victim of her beastly stepfather. But despite his fumbling attempts to get close to her, it was she who carried out the seduction. She did it on her own initiative, thinking sex with an adult would be a kick. Then, when the novelty wears off, we see her languidly sipping her Coke as he paints her toenails like a servant. Indeed, one would be hard pressed to distinguish the victim from the manipulator.The most tragic aspect of the story is that Humbert is truly in love with her. And his taboo obsession with the nymphet is what dooms him. Something had to separate him from his Lolita, and when their relationship ends...so must he.Shelley Winters is a delight, giving Lolita's vapid, pompous, lonely mother a true sense of depth and tragedy. As Lolita herself, Sue Lyon is the perfect blend of precocious sexuality and juvenile shallowness, perfectly accompanied by a haunting ya-ya theme song that's both childlike and sophisticated. Brawny James Mason is also noteworthy as Humbert, a formidable man enslaved by his own forbidden desire, and Peter Sellers is at his irreverent best as Clare Quilty. Kubrick's direction is smooth, with enough wit to lighten the proceedings without destroying the sad spirit of the tale.Trivia Note how they soften the child/adult issue by never mentioning Lolita's age. Lyon was fourteen during filming and fifteen when the film premiered in 1961. She was not permitted to attend, but did get into the 1962 British premiere, which required a viewer be at least sixteen. "},{"Title":"Well-deserved classic status","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well-deserved classic status. Pretty risque' for 1962, but then, Nabokov's novel was especially so for 1955. I get a kick out of a lot of the sexual innuendo that you have to pay attention to in order to get. Like the noodle remark. I think, though, that it was a mistake to put the ending at the beginning. I can't help but to compare this film with the remake from a couple of years ago. First, Humbert. James Mason did a very good job with this role. However, so did Jeremy Irons. Mason's Humbert was such a normal sort, even if European, that his obsession with Lolita is basically inexplicable. Irons' Humbert looks a lot more like a sick-o, you can believe him as a pedophile. In spite of the very different take on the character, Irons was quite good as Humbert, too. I'd give the trophy to Mason, though.Sue Lyons was great. She was almost a perfect nymphet, albeit rather too old. In neither film did the makers have the guts to portray Lolita as she really was, about 12. (Yes, Nabokov's Humbert was a truly sick puppy!) But aside from her age, she had the perfect match of bratty, childish behavior with the coquettishness of a just-blossoming woman. And she was very beautiful, definitely an eye-catcher. Dominique Swain turned in a good performance in the modern remake, but she couldn't quite compare to Lyons. It's too bad Lyons couldn't have made the film now, when there are fewer constraints placed on such material. Shelley Winters was also very good in her role as Charlotte Haze. I thought Melanie Griffith was a bit miscast as Charlotte, though she did quite well.Peter Sellers did a remarkable job as Clare Quilty, but I very much disliked his/Kubrick's treatment of the character. Frank Langella did much better playing Quilty as the utterly dissolute libertine. I realize that there were more constraints in 1962, but Sellers' Quilty just came off as excessively weird, and gave little hint as to his motivations. Overall, I prefer Kubrick's Lolita to Lynne's, but they are both worth seeing. Grade A "},{"Title":"One of Kubrick's best","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Among Stanley Kubrick's four great cinematic works--the three others Dr. Strangelove...(1964), 2001, A Space Odyssey (1968), and A Clockwork Orange (1971)--Lolita (1962) is the most uneven, yet in some ways the most brilliant. The casting, from the improbable choice of Peter Sellers as Claire Quilty, to the exactly right choice of Shelley Winters as Charlotte Haze, to the beautiful Sue Lyon as Lolita, to the old world James Mason as Humbert Humbert, was inspired. The witty and intensely focused interpretation of Nabokov's black comedic novel was probably as true to Vladimir's spirit as the silver screen could hope to come, and yet the film was clearly and exactly a Stanley Kubrick work of art.The scene (apparently a Kubrick witticism) in which the dead Charlotte's friends find Humbert in the tub with a scotch and a hand gun, and mistakenly think he is about to blow his brains out from grief when in fact he is in jubilant celebration, is a wonderful variation on Nabokov's text, as is the use of Peter Sellers disguised as a Freudian shrink at the girl's school. However, I thought the Buster Keatonish slapstick improv with the folding cot at the Enchanted Huntress a bit overdone.Inevitably the recent Adrian Lyne film and Kubrick's must be compared. The photography in the Lyne film was superior, and Lyne more clearly demonstrated the tragic nature of Humbert's all-controlling obsession. Otherwise, Kubrick's Lolita is clearly superior both as entertainment and as cinematic art, mainly because it is free from even a hint of political correctness and passes no judgment.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"A stunning, unexpectedly moving analysis of love, longing and jealousy","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When the film Lolita is mentioned, it is fairly common to assume it is a movie about pedophilia. In reality, there is nothing further from the truth Stanley Kubrick's adaptation of Vladimir Nabokov's novel is one of the most gripping depictions of love and its tragic consequences.That the story is tragic is evident from the prologue, where an Englishman (James Mason) coldly executes the whimsical Clare Quilty (Peter Sellers) after asking him if he remembers a certain Dolores Lolita Haze and what he did to her. Mason's character then starts narrating the events preceding the murder it all started four years earlier, when he, Humbert Humbert, a Literature professor, moved to America for work-related reasons. While looking for a house, he met a widow named Charlotte Haze (Shelley Winters) and her daughter, the 14-year old Lolita (Sue Lyon). Inconveniently fascinated by the young girl, he accepted to marry Charlotte just so he could be close to Lolita, entering a new phase of his life based on lies and forbidden desires, all of which got much worse once the mysterious Quilty showed up.What kind of role the latter plays, I cannot reveal. However, I can say that Sellers almost steals the whole movie, his layered and consistently surprising performance being an outstanding anticipation of that masterclass that was his triple act in Dr. Strangelove. With his sleazy attitude and quirky voice (reportedly based on the director's) he comes close to distracting from the movie's core the relationship between Mason and Lyon.The reason why said relationship cannot be classified as pedophilia is that Kubrick implies but never shows anything, leaving it to the viewer to decide. It could be something perverse, or it could just be a normal father-daughter connection, only with the father being a little more protective than usual it's all subjective. This is also why the bond between Humbert and Lolita is more affecting than expected however bizarre the professor's behavior may seem, his feelings are sincere. He is not a monster who is compulsively drawn to underage girls, he just happened to fall for one by mere chance, and Mason portrays this weird mentality with a tenderness that nearly makes one forget how wrong the whole premise is supposed to be. Lyon does a good job too, transforming from promiscuous sex-kitten to loving stepdaughter with a conviction that is rarely seen in such a young actress, making the passage look natural and unforced.In the end, as always with Kubrick, his films demand viewing after viewing as there is constantly something new that we didn't notice the first time. In the case of Lolita, the main pleasure derives from how the story is told sometimes films about love and sex are much better without any explicit scenes, the multiple interpretations making them fresh and re-watchable decades after they were first released.9,5/10 "},{"Title":"Lolita. Light of my life. Fire of my loins. My sin. My soul.","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Thus the tale begins.I first viewed LOLITA in Berkeley, a college town, way back in 1963. Humbert and Charlotte seemed REALLY old. Sue Lyon was perfect as a nubile teen discovering and beginning to wield the sexual power of a woman. Us guys wouldn't stand a chance.Poor Charlotte, widowed mother of Delores Haze (Lolita), is not treated very sympathetically in either novel or film. Humbert Humbert viciously slashes her with his gibes about her intelligence and education, talking over her head. Fate (thanks, Vladimir) has most unkindly widowed her, leaving her to live a financially secure but otherwise empty life and an urn full of her dead husband's ashes. She was still young enough to want more Romance, love and excitement.As Charlotte Haze, Shelly Winters is brilliant. The same for Kubrick's direction. She garnered my sympathy for the lonely, middle-aged widow as she sat softly crying, alone in her living room after Humbert callously abandons her to go chaperon (read lust after) Lolita at a High School Prom. I stopped sneering and felt really sorry for her. At the film's end, I felt some compassion for the unlucky-at-love Humbert Humbert, even if he got what he deserved for being such a swine and a damn fool to boot. Both film and book are brilliantly creative and entertaining. Among the standout performances is that of Peter Sellers as Claire Quilty, the bizarre, perverse avenging angel, bent upon raining on the hapless Humbert Humbert's parade. I sincerely hope that there aren't too many Claire Quiltys in the world and that I never become a target.Standout comic scenes 1. Humbert's execution of Claire Quilty at the beginning of the picture. When the first bullet hits him, Quilty realizes that this is no joke. Up to that point, it was really funny.2. Charlotte's maudlin confession of her romance with Humbert to the urn containing her late husband's ashes. On a sad note, she excoriates him for dying and abandoning her.3. The bedroom scene in the motel, in which the porter tries to quietly deploy the uncooperative roll-away bed for Humbert, so as to avoid waking the sleeping Lolita.4. In the book Charlotte's written love note is proffered to Humbert. Discovering it, he chortles with delight and good fortune. In the book, Charlotte imagined that her note was probably thrown in the vortex of the toilet. That made Humbert laugh even more. To be sure, Nabokov had a mean streak, if not outright misogyny.Over the years I have enjoyed Nabokov's work. Except for ADA, which I found frothy and completely inscrutable. "},{"Title":"one of my favorite movies","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of Stanley Kubrick's bests films. The subject of the film is about a perversion. Kubrick's directing is as always great. The cast is outstanding. James mason is the best as Humbert Humbert, his faces are superb and he really looks like a dirty old man, he is specially exceptional in the first and the last scene. Peter sellers is hilarious as quilty, he's funny even when he is about to die, sometimes peter sellers appears to have four or five personalities, he's such a great actor. Shelley winters is very good as the mother of Lolita and sue Lyon (Lolita) is excellent. The rest of the cast is OK+. Being a fan of James bond I noticed that in this movie appears Lois Maxwell as a nurse and cec linder as a doctor (moneypenny and Felix leiter in the James bond series). The movie is in black and whit and it creates an incredible atmosphere.This movie is a must see for everyone. 10/10. "},{"Title":"40 years old and still sexy!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Did you notice that Lolita and Humbert never kiss throughout the entire movie! You get this strong and very forbidden relationship between the two, but you never get to see it on camera. With the many long faded out breaks throughout the film, you get the feeling that everything that you are not suppose to see is happening off camera.  An amazing film, only Kubrick could make. Having been around for 40 years, it hasn't lost its sexual flavor by any means. Strong acting from both Peter Sellers, James Mason, and Sue Lyon, it has yet to be topped in any sequel or related movie based on the same plot. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece without a doubt","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Stanley Kubrick made a a movie in 1962 about a controversial topic.Lolita tells about Humbert Humbert (James Mason), who's a British professor of French literature.He travels to an American small town for a teaching position.There he falls madly in love with a 14-year old Dolores Haze (Sue Lyon).He marries her mother Charlotte (Shelley Winters) in order to stay close to the daughter.Kubrick's movie of the novel was disapproved by many.Luckily it was made because it turned out to be a brilliant movie.The acting work is superb.James Mason's role work is something to remember.Peter Sellers brings some comedy to the movie as Clare Quilty.He was one of the best.And so was Shelley Winters, who sadly passed away yesterday at the age of 85.She shone in every role she played and she will be greatly missed.In Lolita everything works perfectly.It's a true classic.Lolita is a highly recommendable movie for all. "},{"Title":"awkward comedic touches odd","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Humbert Humbert (James Mason) confronts and shoots the drunken Clare Quilty (Peter Sellers). Four years previous, divorced Humbert arrives in Ramsdale, New Hampshire to spend a quiet summer before starting his professorship. His widowed landlady Charlotte Haze (Shelley Winters) is desperately sexually frustrated. He is caught immediately by her 14-year-old flirtatious daughter Lolita (Sue Lyon). Clare Quilty is connected with Charlotte and intends on hounding Humbert's relationship with Lolita.Director Stanley Kubrick is a master filmmaker but he's not necessarily a good broad comedic director. He would reunite with Peter Sellers two years later on 'Dr. Strangelove' but that isn't a LOL comedy. It's more surreal quirky. In this movie, it seems like Sellers is trying overboard to be broadly funny. At times, it comes off very annoying. I would rather he try for threatening and dark. The cot scene is slapstick and oddly ill-fitting for the rest of the movie. The movie turns into Three Stooges in the middle of a disturbed drama.On the other hand, I really like James Mason's turn into a pathetic paranoid weeping man. Even Sue Lyon's limited performance turns into something very interesting in her last scene. The subject matter is edgy even in the modern era and the character's age prevented more sexually suggestive scenes. I would prefer to lose a couple of the attempted comedic scenes and make this a lot more darker. "},{"Title":"Would you like some cherry pie?","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When the Great Films of the Great Director Stanley Kubrick are Discussed, this One is Rarely Mentioned. Widely Considered an Ill-Conceived Filming of a Controversial but Highly Popular Novel. Kubrick does Manage to Bring it to the Screen with Enough Edginess to Make it an Interesting and Odd Black Comedy with Some Heavy Emotional Impact.Sue Lyon is Outstanding and Her Tepid and Unremarkable Career, After This, is Unworthy of the Noteworthy Beginning. Her Facial Expressions and Demeanor are Perfect for the Part and Displays Sensuality and Playful Maturity Mixed with Giggles and Bubble Gum Popping. James Mason is OK and Emotes to Extremes at Times and Shelley Winters is Fine as a Middle-Aged, Sex-Starved Nut-Case, that Does the Same.Peter Sellers in another Multi-Faced and Accented Performance is Creepy as a New Bohemian Type with Beatnik Friends and Oddball Associations. Most of the Sexiness is Through Dialog and Word Play (cherry pie, cavity filling, and Camp Climax), but there are some Pretty Steamy Scenes with the Father-Step Daughter that will Raise Eyebrows and are Titillating as Much as a 1961 Film Dealing with the Subject Could Possibly Portray.Overall, it is Overlong but Worth a Watch for its Technical and Artistic Prowess, its Code Busting Bravery, its Sharp Dark Humor and Engaging Characters. Some Consider it, or Rather don't Consider it, Anything Worthy of More than a Footnote in the Stanley Kubrick Filmography. "}{"Title":"Let's Be Honest, There All Perverting Each Other In Some Way...","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It was mentioned around the 1990's with Eyes Wide Shut, that Kubrick had wanted to make a film about sex since the 1960's. I also remember reading that when Kubrick and Producer John Harris finally had their hands on the novel Lolita, one would tear the page out for the other they were so eager to read it. Controversial for the time would be an understatement, but how well does it hold up today? Well I can't help but say some of the controversial subject matter feels a little dated. No I don't mean the paedophile aspect, I mean the idea of a girl her age wearing that kind of clothing being considered scandalous after seeing what some girls actually wear 50 years on. I'd imagine half these shots coming straight out of Vogue or something, possibly echoing Kubrick's career at Look magazine.Well the only problem I had with this movie is the length and pacing. It is without doubt a slow one, yet I think it helps James Mason's character appear more human, albeit extremely flawed. Hopelessly he indulges her, and in return she knows how to get exactly what she wants. Sue Lyon, Peter Sellers and Shelly Winters shine in the time they have, and in the end everyone gets their individual comeuppance. That is the plot in a nutshell, again whether the source material was more risqué I've yet to discover.In the age of the Internet and all you hear about is how extreme some sexual predators can be, and as a man born in 1992 I find it harder to see how this movie could be considered so controversial outside of the era it was made in. What is clear however is that Kubrick shoots wonderfully, and having the church literally condemn your movie of course it wouldn't be able to go very far (Stanley himself said had he known how strict the rules were, he wouldn't have made it). I admire the gusto in which Kubrick had attempted any sexualised work, whereas world cinema at the time such as Federico Fellini's La Dolce Vita (1960) had never had such problems (Although the Church condemned that film for entirely different reasons). Considering that the original author Vladimir Nabokov, along with Kubrick wrote the screenplay, it definitely shows both men were putting in their best effort.Final Verdict Controversial yet dated. Only Kubrick could have pulled this off, and in that sense fans of Kubrick will most likely enjoy it the most. I definitely recommend it. 8/10. "},{"Title":"How did they ever make a movie of Lolita?","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" They didn't.They made a movie from a script in which the characters have the same names as the characters in the book, the plot bears a resemblance to the original and some of the incidents are vaguely similar. But the Lolita that Vladimir Nabokov wrote as a novel and the Lolita he wrote to be a film, directed by Stanley Kubrick, are two conspicuously different things.In the first place, the character of Lolita, is not a child in the movie. She is now 17 years of age, with a promiscuous flare to her. The distinction is fine, we will grant you, and the performance by Sue Lyon is great, but she is definitely not a nymphet.Further, the structure and the climax of the movie are not the same as those of the book. The movie starts with the melodramatic incident that brings the novel to a close, then flashes back to the beginning and tells its story in a narrative flashback. Thus the viewer is warned by this weird preface that the ending is going to be grim. It sucks out all curiosity that the viewer might have of the novel beforehand.Overall, this is not an accurate representation of the novel, but it is still a great movie to watch. All the actors play their roles greatly, and it is still a great premise. Plus, they somehow sneak in the sexual innuendo between Humbert (James Mason) and Lolita. It's a great film, but not an accurate vision of the novel. "},{"Title":"Will leave you with something to think about...","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hmm, Stanley Kubrick. It's certainly true that he has his own style, but what is amazing about him is that he can adapt to any genre of film. He is completely successful in this tale about a middle-aged man in love with a fourteen year-old girl. First off, James Mason is brilliant! He still manages to be likable and makes the audience feel conflicted. We feel for his sadness at the end. I think he is the key component in making it seem as to what is wrong with his situation. Maybe he makes us question how wrong it is, which is in itself a pretty incredible feat. Sue Lyon is perfect. I have not read the book, but while I saw what Mason probably saw in her, I also saw just how the immaturity is gaping through her and then would say to myself 'Why can't he see that'? Peter Sellers I did recognize from the infamous Dr. Strangelove roles. Shelley Winters was also magnificent. She captured the perfect tone of longing and hopelessness.I don't know where this ranks among the other six films I have seen from Kubrick, but like always, it just strengthens his filmography more. "},{"Title":"There's just something about Lolita ...","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita from Stanley Kubrick is an exquisite portrayal of the debauchery inhabiting the bourgeoisie's bored hearts, in their quest of a flame that would give a meaning to their insipid lives mostly made of conventions and futile manners. The protagonist of the film is not a man to embarrass himself with futility, his quite unusual name, Humbert Humbert, indicates a heart more inclined to originality, to live a devouring passion rather than succumbing to the easy choice of being a good member of a rather despised community. Lolita is less about sex than a rebellious attitude incarnated by a forbidden passion, a passion that would make the straightest man adopt the most romantic attitude, just to conquer a lovely, beautiful, sensual but forbidden fruit &#x85; named Lolita &#x85; A man said once that we have the age of people who love us, this sentence, debatable or accurate, sounds like an excuse for Humbert, the serious and straight faced James Mason, to fall in love with the beautiful blonde fourteen-year old pearl, Dolores aka Lolita. Age is not a matter if she does have a fondness for him. But we all know this is wrong. I haven't personally read the novel from Nabokov, and in a way, it didn't interfere with my appreciation of the film, or influence it negatively, so I'm only judging the movie. And from the movie, all I can say is that Kubrick once again, proved again his directing talent by casting the delicious Sue Lyon for the titular role. She indeed looks young enough to make James Mason, in his early fifties then, look like an old man, but sexy enough to create a masculine empathy towards Humbert. In the memorable garden scene, where Humbert and Lolita's eyes meet after she take off her sunglasses, I'm sure every man would have fallen in love with this dolly face, full of mystery and guilty temptations, incarnated by this soft and almost erotic Lolita Ya-Ya theme.I mentioned masculine empathy, but this is would be ignoring another central character. Shelley Winters, portrays with a sympathetic poignancy Charlotte, the poor mother who felt for Humbert like he did for her daughter. Winters, as another cinematic victim of her own kindness, lives a reverse Oedipian situation, and is even more humiliated when Humbert starts using her in a complicated scheme whose only necessity is the possession of Lolita ... because this is the very effect of love at first sight, a profound desire to possess one person, that ultimately becomes obsessional. James Mason, in a brilliant performance, embodies the contradictions of a man whose apparent seriousness as a college professor is only a veil to cover the passion flamed by Lolita. The mother fell in love with the professor, ignoring how her daughter revealed the real Humbert. Doomed already, she naturally disappears, without Humbert's intervention as if God wanted Humbert to succeed. But in his long climbing to the possession of Lolita, Humbert will have a pebble in his shoe, Clare Quilty.Quilty, played by Peter Sellers, is the antagonist of the film, from this category of innocent looking villains with no less devastating effects on the protagonists' projects. The severity of his acts can only be measured by the punishment he directly received from Humbert himself, an implacable sentence to death. We don't know the character enough to feel sorry for him, and Mason inspires such trust (indeed, a perfect casting choice) that we believe there's something weird in this character and he played a role damaging enough to get this comeuppance. But the question that haunts us all through the film is why this insistence? Why is he constantly harassing Humbert? Well, I admit, I felt sorry for Humbert, and wondered what were Quilty's motives. Until the revelation made me realize the obvious that there's just something about Lolita&#x85; Lolita is like a living passion igniting men's inner perversity, she's the epitome of the innocent sexiness, the forbidden fruit that looks so juicy and delicious that even disobedience would be worse than inaction. The effects she had on Humbert are the same on Quilty, but with a significant difference, she was in love with Quilty. Humbert went from such hardship to finally get Lolita, living with a woman he was mocking, lying, using respectability to mask his pervert nature, becoming a kind of lover submitted to Lolita's every desire, painting her feet nails, that it's heart-breaking to witness his realization that all he incarnated for her is what he was trying not to be a fatherly figure. Lolita didn't love him but respected him, when Humbert might have preferred the opposite, even if it meant being an arrogant bastard like Quilty. Humbert's tears at the end, were joined by mine, because as forbidden and sinful as it was, that was the powerful and authentic portrayal of the devastating loss of one true love, forever.The opening credits show beautiful little feet being nailed by masculine hands. This memorable overture perfectly illustrates the obsession that can govern our hearts when we fall in love, we can become a servant to our women, an object of suspicion for good society. Humbert didn't even care for suspicion, he was already living in a bourgeois world, where everything was made of pretending (the kind of superficiality that Kubrick will denounce 37 years after in Eyes Wide Shut) All Humbert wanted was to be loved as the man of Lolita's life, but his obsession was like a self-destructive force. Humbert's jealousy turned him into a control freak that would naturally end with a separation, and a descent into madness.It's a happy end for Lolita, who was more a victim of her nature that the passing of years will correct anyway, but for Humbert, it was just the flame that burnt his heart, corrupted his mind, and ravaged his soul, forever &#x85; "},{"Title":"The Butterfly Collector Stanley Kubrick","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nabakov was 56 years old when this novel was published. James Mason who is the Nabakovian character Humbert Humbert in the movie was 52 years old when the movie was made. The novel had great appeal for its human affinity with the ageing process and the resilience of youth. Humbert, a middle-aged aesthete. whom we are informed by the novel, has always had an irresistible attraction to the allure of young female flesh, finds himself drifting in his waning years in the backwoods of American College employment. Although, a hugely conscious observer of the human tableau, there is one aspect of his dreamy existence that he has no control over - that is his lust for young, pubescent proto-woman. The narrative arrives at a small mid-western town, where Humbert is to take up an academic position.Here, we, the audience, encounters the Shelley Winters character and her daughter Sue Lyons looking decidedly older than the 12 year old nymphet that the novel describes. At this point, having moved in, now,his testosterone has taken over, as the controlling power in his psyche. We are made aware as to Humbert's initial aversion, which he has to the vulgarity and lack of couth, which the Shelley Winters character has on him. This is then contrasted, and his intellectual prejudice is immediately dispelled by the sight of the young Sue Lyon Lolita displaying herself in an unselfconsciously sensuous bikini. Humbert's immediate reaction is one of sexual erectness. This futile lust, is where this tale of thwarted desire, begins.We, the audience, are also given insight into this lonely driven man's inner life, that is other than his interest in literature and poetry, by being made privy to his personal life in the confessorial entries to his diary. Here we learn that he despises his generous, hospitable hostess, and how he worships and adores the butterfly at chrysalis stage, the darling Lolita. The juxtaposition of his undying love with Lolita's facile curiosity, Lolita views men as a continent to be explored and conquered, combined with her presumed interest in her mother's suitor.In the movie, the Peter Sellers character, Clare Quilty is given more weight than the novel, where he has a dark, sinister influence. He is Humbert's nemesis in a role, which allows Sellers to demonstrate his great facility with mimicry. We see the dissolution of all the dreams that Humbert has signaled throughout the movie.Everything that Kubrick creates is enormously interesting. There is a fine intelligence at work here. He brought Nabakov on board to write the screenplay thus giving the movie maximum authenticity. Anybody who loves the Cinema should go out of his way to see Kubrick's contribution to the art form. My darrhling Lolita. "},{"Title":"Cross my heart and hope to die.","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not having seen the film before, I was quite surprised with the opening scene, resembling as it did what Charlie Sheen's apartment might have looked like the morning after. Peter Sellers is maddeningly brilliant as the elitist Quilty, and by the time the picture has run it's course, you might get the idea that he had it coming to him.With almost a half century of hindsight, the viewer today might wonder what all the fuss was about back in 1962. This one made headlines with it's controversial theme, but even watching it back then, one would have noted that there was more in the way of suggestion than in actual on-screen titillation. In fact, it's not till nearly the end of the film when Lolita (Sue Lyon) confesses to Humbert (James Mason) that she 'cheated' on him because she had to. Which is the picture's way of confirming that they had their own thing going on, even when you weren't quite sure if Humbert was the creep he was made out to be.Now Shelley Winters - how good was she as Charlotte Haze? She runs the gamut here from a seven year repressed sexuality to a raging hostility upon discovering the diary. When she broke down that first time Humbert spurned her, she showed all the pathos of a woman dreading the remainder of a life left unloved.You know what was pretty slick? In Lolita's bedroom, she had that commercial ad of Quilty on her wall where he was hawking Drome cigarettes. Later on in the picture, impersonating the school psychologist, Quilty offers Humbert a Drome, then gives him the pack. That was pretty clever I thought.Besides the story, one might also take away some appreciation for the depiction of the era back in the Sixties. State roads didn't have that huge interstate highway feel to them yet, and you have a rare look at some of the leading commercial brands of the day. There's that Cott Beverage truck at an intersection, and at various points along the way you have gas stations featuring Esso, Standard Oil and Mobilgas, curiously depicting the Texaco flying horse.What I found intriguing after viewing the picture was taking a look at the theatrical trailer. It promotes the picture with scenes that make the movie seem a comedy rather than dealing with the mature and serious subject matter that it does. It leads me to consider how viewers back in the early Sixties might have felt having seen the picture based on it's ad. Of course today, this picture is rather mild compared to the original hype, and would hardly raise a brow. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie, you can sympathize with most of the characters.","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is usually not the type I would watch, however it came on one of those movie stations and I thought I would watch it because it had Peter Sellers in it and Stanley Kubrick directed it. Not my favorite director, just someone who generally makes an interesting movie that also usually ends up kind of overlong. This one is no exception, as it runs a bit to long, but it was a different kind of movie to be sure. The movie's plot is about a man who falls for a very young girl. This fact, however, does not make him an unsympathetic character in my eyes because the girl may be underage, but she is very attractive. Any guy would have a hard time ignoring her. It is not like the remake in 1997, now in that one the girl is underage and looks it and you get more of a creepy vibe in that one. This one though you feel for the guy as you do the mother and of Lolita herself. The only character I had no sympathy for is Peter Seller's character, an oily kind of guy that seems to be playing some sort of game with everyone's life and he does not seem to truly love Lolita as the main character most certainly does. The movie ends how one would expect it to, making me feel even more sorry for the man in love with Lolita. Very sad to see him give her up. I am not saying the man is a saint or anything, his life and that of the mother would have been better off if he had never developed feelings for the young girl or had pursued him, but like I said I found him to be someone you could feel bad for. Though that goes for everyone in the film with the exception of the Seller's character, so bizarre that I had the most dislike for his character when he is the reason I watched it in the first place. "},{"Title":"Lolita","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Just finished watching this film, so I want to record what's inside my head. Kubrick is definitely one of my favorite directors, and I had also watched 1997 version of LOLITA by Adrian Lyne around 10 years ago. So without re-watching the latter, it is difficult for me to compare these two films at this moment. Obviously enough LOLITA is a tacky job for any director, because its story and characters, four main characters were all so unlovable by their own selfishness. Humbert is propelled by his eccentric lust, Charlotte is driven by her shameless desperation, Lolita, of course, she is manipulating all the male who coveted her beauty, as for Quilty, his evil side is more understandable in a franker way. So with four bad characters tangled with each other, who is the ultimate winner? the answer is our little nymph LOLITA!The acting is strong, but apart from two main leaders, I am more impressed by Shelley Winters, who delivers a more powerful punch as a lonely single mother who just needs someone to love her and chooses a wrong man by her own wishful thinking. So after Charlotte's death, the latter part of the film loses its intense gusto. Peter Sellers is dislikable and weird with his strange accent (it is said he imitates Kubrick), he shows his acting talent but annoys me. James Mason is well-captured of the goody-goody professor, but as his positive image (I still vividly remember his role in A STAR IS BORN) really roots inside my mind, I fear that he is trying too hard to elaborate the character. Sue Lyon as Lolita, no question it is a great start for anyone's acting career, she is adorable with a disproportional maturity. Frankly speaking her role actually is the easiest one, all one need is to find the right person, and Kubrick did it. Owing to the censor system at 1960s, no sex scene is shot between Humbert and Lolita, maybe that's why there is a detectable incompatibility between them, which makes all the innuendos are unconvincing. The film is largely overshadowed at the time when it has been released in 1962, without much major recognitions in Oscars, definitely not Kubrick's best work, it still shines with its contemporary wit of how one can be dragged by his uncontrollable lust deep inside him.http//xingshizuomeng.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A most uncomfortable movie","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've been enjoying seeing more of Kubrick's work and Lolita (1962) is the latest that I've seen. So far it's my least favourite movie of his, but that's not to say it's bad. Lolita is for the most part competently done, but Kubrick seems to have been still developing his skills. The subject matter- based on the famous book of the same title, which I've never read- is most uncomfortable. Here's a grown man sexually attracted to a young girl, somewhere between 12 and 14. Some things that may have been shocking in 1962 aren't now, but this is not one of them.Still, the movie doesn't show any actual intimacy between the man, Humbert, and the girl, Lolita. They do squabble like an older couple. These scenes actually reminded me of Citizen Kane (1941) where Kane's second wife complains about being lonesome; Lolita is feeling isolated by a father who won't let her out. This movie isn't heavy-handed in condemning the inappropriate relationship, but it sure doesn't argue their relationship was positive. Humbert is obviously a disturbed man, but he's our protagonist.Much of the movie is interesting but I was questioning other things. Why was Lolita's mother calling her a beast? She wasn't a particularly bad girl. There's an awkward scene where Humbert reads a love letter from Lolita's mother out loud. He's an educated man but he can't read silently? Nevertheless, I wanted to keep watching this movie right to the end. That's to Kubrick's credit. "},{"Title":"Forbidden love","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Directed by Stanley Kubrick,1962's Lolita is an adaptation of Vladimir Nabokov's story of forbidden love and temptation.Professor Humbert(James Mason)accepts a position at Beardsley College and looks for a room to rent.He accepts the invitation of flirty middle aged mum Charlotte Haze(Shelley Winters)but only after spotting her 14 year old daughter Lolita(Sue Lyon).Charlotte falls in love with him but can't see until much later that he loves Lolita.I watched the Jeremy Irons version a couple of weeks ago and I actually prefer that version.This one seems like too much of a satire.Having said that though this does have many memorable moments like Humbert breaking down and sobbing for ages as he realises how insignificant he has been in Lolita's life. And where he comforts her when she cries.James is excellent as the besotted Humbert who is destroyed by the teenage temptress from hell who uses him and he just can't see it.Sue Lyon I pretty good as Lolita but looks a bit old for the part she's playing. Peter Sellers steals the film from everyone else. Daring and shocking for the time Lolita is one to watch. "}{"Title":"Lolita","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Stanley Kubrick's Lolita first came out, it stirred a lot of controversy. Today, much of the movie seems tame, and yet the subject matter of Lolita - a relationship between a middle-aged literature professor and a twelve-year old girl - is something that we remain reluctant to talk or write about. Is Humbert Humbert's (who James Mason plays brilliantly) love for and obsession with Lolita(Sue Lyon)evil? Or are they truly human emotions? That is the intriguing question that Kubrick's Lolita poses and rightly leaves for us to answer. This is a movie first and foremost about love; and it tells this story largely without passing judgement on any of the characters concerned.I will not spoil the plot, except to say that Kubrick's Lolita is a touching, emotional film. Mason is fine actor and the screenplay really does show him at his best. Sue Lyon does a good job too and, although she later regretted doing the film, it was actually a good thing that she did agree to play Lolita at that time. Probably one of the most inspired performances, though, comes from Peter Sellers whose Claire Quilty is truly magnificent. You can also see Lois Maxwell (who played Money Penny in the James Bond series) in a much smaller role of a nurse toward the end. "},{"Title":"The ever-darkening Lolita.","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Stanley Kubrick's adaptation of Vladimir Nabokov's 1955 novel of the same name takes on the topics of obsession, sexual repression, fame and lost love. The film takes on a risqué topic, of an adult man who falls desperately in love with an underage girl and uses her mother to come closer to her. Now, back in 1962 censorship were considerably stricter (as we all know) than nowadays, so Kubrick used all the tricks up his sleeve to subtext the boiling sexuality of the plot and its marvelous characters; notice background designs or props, even clothing and make-up, and most significantly the dialog, full of innuendo. James Mason portrays professor Humbert fabulously, his desire for the young Lolita and the way he sneaks into getting to know her, the drama in his acting and the way he tears up throughout the final act is brilliant, and he's also got a good comic timing; and speaking of comedy, Peter Sellers, do I have to say more? The man is arguably the funniest actor the world has ever seen, as far as I know. He is a complete genius in the way he takes on the scenes, his subtlety and his dryness is one-of-a-kind; his dancing steps at the summer dance, his raving about Spartacus, or his great chat about normal... - he delivers one of many classic performances in a Kubrick film. In the part as Lolita we find the lovely Sue Lyon, who sadly hasn't enjoyed growing actor success, and in the part as her mother, the fine Shelley Winters - all sexually famished and desperately lonesome. It's a foursome of acting that's full of sparkles, drama and energy.And now, Kubrick never took on a film without exploring the darker side of it; and the same is with 'Lolita' - what's obviously an obnoxious topic, goes even deeper with its satire and dark heart in finding undercurrent layers of pedophilia, pornography and nymphomania. It's pretty vulgar, but Kubrick constructs it so elegantly and with such a masterclass carefulness only he could. "},{"Title":"Well made movie that is surprisingly good and surprisingly relevant.","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita is a surprisingly good film. Mason gives a terrific performance in the lead role, managing to show how pathetic his character is whilst still getting a little sympathy. Lyon and Winters are perfect in their contrasting roles that explore two very different and fascinating female characters and the great Peter Sellers gives another performance that is both funny and intriguing at the same time. I liked that (in my opinion) Kubrick's direction of the film didn't overshadow the other aspects of the movie and we could still notice how great the acting and screenplay was. The music was also brilliant and added to the film's sense of absurdity that it often had. It was great how the movie managed to mix the dramatic and comic throughout. Overall though, I think that what makes the film most interesting is it's exploration of sexuality and human nature and the fact that it explores personal situations which are sadly still (perhaps even more so) socially relevant. "},{"Title":"Has Anybody Noticed Sellers Cracking Up Mason?","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I noticed that during Peter Sellers hysterical turn as Dr. Zempf, you can see both Sellers and James Mason nearly crack up at one point. Kubrick obviously opted to keep the take.I think it is roughly at 148 when this happens. It isn't a long scene, so seeing this for yourself wouldn't be too time consuming an exercise.I'm surprised this doesn't show up anywhere as a goof.There's another near crack up just like this in Dr. Strangelove caused yet again by Sellers. The guy you can see failing to contain his laughter is that huge bald Russian-looking dude that is standing (I think) to the left of Sellers in a wheelchair- somewhat spotlighted. "},{"Title":"A Bit Disturbing!","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" James Mason gives a brilliant performance as Humbert Humbert, a European literature professor, who visits Ramsdale, New Hampshire where he is befriended by Oscar Winner Shelley Winters in a great performance as widow Charlotte Haze who is all over him. He marries her only to get close to Lolita, Charlotte's beautiful daughter who is way advanced for a 13 or 14 year old girl. Lolita and Humbert quietly and discretely hide their relationship which was probably why the film was banned upon it's release. It's troubling to see an intellectual professor in a doomed relationship with a girl that could stand for statutory rape. While this film breached upon a neglected subject of the time such as improper relations between adults and young teens. Sue Lyons gives a commendable performance while Shelley Winters makes your heart break as needy Charlotte. Peter Sellers CBE plays Quilty. Of course, the film was written by it's author, Vladimir Nabokov, and directed by the master, Stanley Kubrick. "},{"Title":"Diluted Cautionary Tale Benefits from Smart Casting and Kubrick's Cinematic Élan","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There's always been a pall of prurience over Vladimir Nabokov's classic 1955 novel, and although the prurience was dialed down to mere naughtiness in the 1962 film adaptation, there is still that discomforting feeling of watching two pedophiliacs chasing after a very young girl. However, master director Stanley Kubrick wisely left out the book's more controversial aspects and entrusted the audience to use their fervent imaginations to fill in the action. This explains why the title character, a twelve-year-old nymphet in the book, has turned into a fifteen-year old screen siren played by an already anatomically developed, throaty-voiced Sue Lyon. The switch neutralizes some of the dramatic impact, but fortunately, Kubrick was able to elicit a quartet of fine performances to carry the story. Even though Nabokov is credited with the screenplay, Kubrick made a number of revisions to clarify the narrative flow and appease the censors. The result is far too long at 153 minutes, but it's still provocatively entertaining as it alternates between funny and eccentric. It's well worth seeing the caliber of Kubrick's cinematic work between 1960's Spartacus and 1964's Dr. Strangelove.The film opens with a shooting which we soon realize is the story's inevitable climax. After that, we flash back four years to the arrival of Professor Humbert Humbert in a small town in New Hampshire. A middle-aged British lecturer of French poetry, he has accepted a teaching job in Ohio for the fall and wants to relax in what he envisions to be a quiet setting for the summer. Humbert rents a room from Charlotte Haze, a blowsy, fortyish widow with immediate designs on him. However, his eye is drawn to her sexy, flirtatious daughter Lolita. Things go awry when Humbert decides to marry Charlotte to be near Lolita. When his true motivation is discovered, tragedy occurs, and Humbert and Lolita set out on a most acrimonious road trip to Ohio. Complications multiply with the periodic appearances of writer Claire Quilty, who also faces temptation with Lolita. For those unfamiliar with the novel, the story takes a surprising twist toward the end.As Humbert, James Mason has the riskiest role, but he effectively manages to convey a dangerous sense of obsession throughout the film. Although his character is basically despicable, Mason still elicits a modicum of sympathy for his perverse weakness. Sue Lyon, fourteen during filming, not only looks right but also brings the necessary combination of precocious confidence and childish selfishness to the title role. You can see echoes of their taboo relationship between Lester and Angela in Sam Mendes' American Beauty. Donning a variety of disguises as Quilty and sporting a flat American accent, Peter Sellers easily steals all his scenes with comic malevolence. The surprising standout is Shelley Winters' performance as Charlotte. Instead of overdoing the character's desperation as you would normally expect from the actress' outsized persona, she is comparatively subtle in conveying Charlotte's needy nature. The only significant extra with the 2007 DVD is the original theatrical trailer which plays up the book's controversy. "},{"Title":"the most ridiculous thing","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nabokov's novel Lolita is definitely a satire. Kubrick made some changes and created one of the most beautiful black comedies ever.How can you even imagine that you could make a film about Lolita AFTER the perfection in itself and for itself  Stanley Kubrick's Lolita ? How can you think that you could create a compelling drama (and, obviously, Lyne wanted to make a drama ?!!!) out of a story about a man who is sexually attracted to children ? The premise of this movie is absolutely ridiculous. You just can't present a story about a man who wants to have sex with a twelve years old girl as a love story and a drama. "},{"Title":"Lovely Film","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Clare Quilty is a gem! An utter delight from the start to the end. Even though I despised him after reading the book, blamed him for having snatched Lolita away from Humbert, I somehow couldn't continue to fuel this vehement hatred after watching the film. Oh, the way he delivers each line with the subtle, almost comedic aura of a madman genius. I simply loved the part where he read Humbert's dang darn good poetry at the very beginning. Reminds me of a more intellectual Mr bean =) But anyhow, apart from the delightful bits, I suppose it will still be better if you take time off to read the book preferably before you watch the movie, and you won't regret it. The screen adaptation is rather different from the original story in print; even though peppered liberally with excellent acting, (and a seemingly inappropriate cheerful, jazzy background music that runs throughout), I still give the book by Nabokov the winning trophy. "},{"Title":"Not erotica; blackest of all humors, though","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen Kubrick's Lolita about 6 times. I find the film fascinating. Not just for the dozens of innuendos and double entente's, but for the mere fact that Humbert cannot stop his fascination (love, probably) of Lolita and it continuously leads to trouble.There's really nothing hysterical about the film at all. As a matter of fact, it's a disturbing film if taken literally.However, Kubrick never makes you go down the disturbing path, rather, he tries to lead you down the path of black humor the whole way.Nothing stands out in my mind that I would call 'funny', rather simply, every situation he is in IS funny, because he's helpless to his erotic desires. He's helpless to Lolita.If you watch this film the right way, you won't find a funnier movie, period.The end of the film slips a lot - it slows and mutters - but that aside, a must-see. "},{"Title":"Light of my life, Fire of my loins","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kubrick's 'Lolita' is an excellent adaptation of the brilliant Vladimir Nabokov novel.  Perhaps one of Kubrick's countless talents is his ability to create a perfect cast.  Anyone who knows the beautiful love tragedy between charming Humbert Humbert and his enchanting nymphet will adore this film. Although there are several minor Kubrickian changes, as with any film adaptation of a novel, the story and raw emotion felt doesn't change.  Sue Lyon is incredible as Lolita, seductively yet innocently acquiring Humbert's affection, James Mason is foreign professor Humber Humbert, and Shelley Winters is absurdly accurate in portraying the ridiculous and obnoxious Charlotte Haze, Lolita's much less desirable widowed mother.  But Peter Sellers steals the show (as he will again in Kubrick's next 1964 film Dr. Strangelove) as Clare Quilty and other uncredited, yet entirely amusing tidbit roles throughout the film.  Kubrick's 'Lolita' is full of dark humor, jokes and entire scenes to make you chuckle despite the fact that the entire storyline is based on incestual, statutory 'rape'.  Anyone who hasn't read Nabokov's novel will still be impressed and touched by this film, especially any Stanley Kubrick fan.  Although Adrian Lyne's 1997 adaptation runs much closer to the actual Nabokov novel, even with 30 more years of technology and an almost equally impressive cast (although the film has a major disadvantage without Peter Sellers), no one can touch Kubrick's perfection through filmmaking.  A Kubrickian trait to always have his audience feeling more emotions that they can begin to recognize, 'Lolita' is an arousing roller coaster of emotions that leaves you ultimately satisfied in the end. "}{"Title":"Great movie because its a great script","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen both versions of Lolita, which are remarkably the same, and one thing seems certain to me.  The movie is great because the script is great.  In this version James Mason does a great job as Humbert Humbert, that cannot be denied.  But the frustration he is acting on is wholly a result of a terrific novel and screenplay written by Vladimir Nabokov.  That is apparent as Sue Lyon seems very appealing as Lolita, but I don't think in reality she does nearly as good a job as Dominique Swain in her portrayal of Lolita for the 1992 version of the film.  Overall, see the movie, but pay close attention to all the detail and design that's written into the script, and less to the actors.  It'll make the movie that much better. "},{"Title":"Funny, at times farcical, and heart-breaking","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kubrick brilliantly dramatizes the madness inherent to love in general and illicit love in particular.  James Mason is extraordinary as Humbert Humbert, the film's slyly duplicitous and heartbreakingly earnest hero who canneither win nor keep his beloved Lo.  And Peter Sellers is nearly as good as Quigley, Humbert's rival and the quintessence of early sixties' decadent cool. Seeing him in Strangelove and this film, and later in Being There, one wonders at what he might had accomplished had he decided not to churn out those wretched Pink Panthers.But back to the issue at hand. Despite a few bumps along the way, this is a great film, hilarious, tragic, subversive, and lest I forget, sexy. "},{"Title":"Almost as fun as watching paint dry","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first read the book after being warned off it, and found it relatively harmless, so I went and watched the movie.  I heard mostly good stuff about it, and the critics were acclaiming it from far and wide.It was boring!  Outrageous they called it.  Oh yes, outrageously dull. Irreverent, they proclaimed.  Irreverent to what?  Fun they said. Fun? Were they hit on the head?Oh well, I guess nobody's perfect, and Kubrick's not quite perfect. Actually, it would have been good if Vladimir Nabokov didn't write the screenplay as well.  Overall, I just found it slow, and rather obscure.Lolita ended up appearing a spoiled brat rather than a nymphet, although when she marries, she's probably sixteen or so.  So I guess she was twelve or so when Humbert first noticed her.  That, however, wasn't mentioned in the movie.Bottom line -don't watch this if you can help it. "},{"Title":"How old *is* this girl?  And why does Humbert care?","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Many people criticize Kubrick for taking 'excessive' liberties with Nabokov's novel and screenplay (though Nabokov himself was on the whole quite pleased with the final product, and spoke glowingly of the casting -- see Playboy interview with Nabokov, 1970). Clearly the film cannot begin to capture the tortured and tortuous interior monologues of the novel's narrator, but full credit is due to at least three of the film's stars -- Mason is absolutely brilliant as Humbert Humbert, Shelley Winters *is* the shrewish yet sympathetic Charlotte Haze, and Sellers clearly relishes his role as the shadowy Quilty (sure, the character is greatly expanded from the novel but I think that works, given that Nabokov drops so many subtle hints of Quilty's omnipresence). The weak link is Sue Lyons as the titular nymphet. She's way too old and (as other reviewers here have observed) lacks the requisite flirtatiousness which Nabokov's Humbert deems essential to the 'true nymphet.' 1962 is 1962, and, for the times, an 'older' Lolita may have been a safer (and prudential) departure from the 12 year old of the book. Still, Lyons looks so old that it's easy to forget that there's anything decidedly unseemly about her and Humbert together (a lurking unease which is impossible to escape in the novel). What is utterly lacking in Kubrick's adaptation, though, is any semblance of *why* refined, oh-so-European Humbert Humbert falls madly in love with this coarse little American girl. Nabokov's Humbert is a helpless, pitiable, yet sympathetic, victim -- a middle-aged man whose predilections are the product of his own arrested sexual development. None of this is present in Kubrick's characterization of Humbert, and the result is that we never fully understand what makes this guy tick. *What* seizes him when he first sees Lolita in the garden? The first half flows marvelously and has real sparkles of Nabokovian wit and Kubrick's genius -- the second half tends to drag (minus Mason's performance in the reunion scene with Lolita towards the end of the film). Even Kubrick nods.... Rating 3 out of 4 stars (a full star for the performances of Mason, Winters, and Sellers). "},{"Title":"Lolita is one annoying brat","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie would have been good if the Lolita character wasn't such an annoying brat.  I don't like kids much, and don't want to have to hear their whining and such.  If you're like me, skip this movie.  Otherwise I'd say it was pretty good, except I admit it got so annoying I stopped watching it, though I did see the very end... "},{"Title":"The movie vs. the novel.","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lolita, the movie, is a great work of art.  Lolita, the novel, is likewise.  But, why do people continue to compare them?  They are two different mediums, and two different stories.  Kubrick did not *film* the book.  If there are things in the movie that are not in the novel, and vice versa, so what?  The movie and the book should stand on their own, and be judged accordingly. "},{"Title":"One of His best.","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I won't waste your time by extolling the virtues of one of the finest directors and film editors of all time. I will, however, propose this is one of his best. Peter Sellers, in his prime as the devious Clare Quilty, is a bookend for a movie that seems too short despite it's considerable length. At times manic and at times the portrait of a quiet deviousness, Sellers is the embodiment  of the film itself. From sixties small town sock-hops to statutory rape implied through a toenail painting session, Kubrick plies his trade in one scene after another. Each scene is juicy in it's own right and each fits together in a film that will have you laughing into your hat and cringing in empathy at the same time.Shelley Winters gives an over the top performance with a touch of real sadness and humanity. Sue Lyons portrays the flirty Lolita with innocence and an undeniable sexy charm at the same time. James Mason struggles to hold it all together as Humbert Humbert, who has gotten in way over his head just as he gets what he thinks he wants. For me, however, the real star is Sellers, who pulls it all together and acts behind the scenes as the true instigator of misery. This film is a classic in every sense, and right up there with Clockwork,The Shining and Strangelove as among The Master's best. "},{"Title":"A perfectly timeless classic","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everything about this film is absolutely top notch.  The performances are uniformly judged to perfection. The delicate balance drawn by Nabokov in the novel between naive romantic longing and distasteful paedophilia is expertly handled by the masterful Kubrick. The comedic elements are laced with bathos (especially when Peter Sellers' magnetic performance is on show)and the arc of Humbert Humbert's obsession with Lolita is phenomenally well acted by James Mason.I love this film and think it could hardly be improved yet I can understand why it was remade in the nineties with Jeremy Irons replacing Mason as Humbert Humbert.  The idea of updating it for an audience with nineties sensibilities does sound an appealing thought.  However, the sixties version is so far ahead of its time that what is shocking in the original is still shocking today.  That which is innocently affectionate behaviour by James Mason towards Sue Lyons is still simply innocent affection today.  Having said that, I liked the remake too. "},{"Title":"Only for SOME people","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think some people might be more intrigued about an older man marrying a woman only to be around her sexy teenage daughter.  But the daughter is such a complete annoying brat that if this doesn't turn you on, the movie will probably not be worth it. "},{"Title":"Improves on a second viewing","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Much greater impact on a big screen. James Mason's accent is somewhat preposterous and Peter Sellers is (as usual) about as subtle as Joe McCarthy. "}{"Title":"Comedy version of the novel","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't think this movie was that bad (James Mason sucks in the role of Humbert,though).This was Sue Lyon's first film,so she may have needed to improve more on stuff.It was a big Peter Seller's showcase, and he's just not that funny.But he's the perfect dirty Quilty.Mason really ruins the story. "},{"Title":"Kubrick in nabokov land","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie on the 18th of September and i was amazed by the speed of the movie, althow it is a long movie and the story is quite simple, Kubrick sucks you into this tragedy. Mason is doing quite all right, but the best part is for Peter Sellars, whose performance is charming and of a special class (i think that this is the way of acting that dustin hoffman copied in some roles) Go and see it.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful Film with a Hidden Ending","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The beauty of this film is quite obvious and is only offset by critics who don't appreciate Kubrick's art in the form of scandal. This review is going to focus on the hidden ending of Lolita that everyone has missed, except me.Kubrick's Lolita has a hidden genius ending that highly contrasts the appeared ending. The ending of Lolita appears to be the same beginning scene of Humbert killing Quilty but ending with a cut after Humbert calls for Quilty's name. However, the hidden fact is that the beginning scene and the ending scene are not the same. The two scenes were filmed differently, watch the film again if you are not convinced. Kubrick could have easily copied and pasted the beginning scene to the end and cut it when Humbert calls for Quilty's name, but he doesn't. Kubrick uses two different scenes to show one dream and one reality. The beginning scene of Humbert killing Quilty is a future dream of Humbert's and the ending scene is the reality. The ending leaves Humbert without Lolita and without finding Quilty. It is deeply beautiful. My explanation to why Humbert was dreaming in the beginning scene is below.If you analyze the film, you will see Humbert basically act the same scene out but in reality he doesn't. In the ending scene the chair Quilty was sitting in is covered in a different fashion, he doesn't string the harp and he calls out Quilty's name at different timings. First, the covering of the chair is significant because the beginning scene can clearly make out a body and also has a beer bottle resting on the Quilty's head. In contrast, the ending scene has a sheet on the chair that can not clearly make out an entire body and has a beer bottle resting at the lap of the chair. This shows that Quilty was not present at the end, which is supported by the beer bottle clearly showing Quilty's body. Second, the stringing of the harp in the beginning scene, in comparison with not stringing it in the end, hints that Humbert is in a dream. Third, the difference in the timing of the shot is significant because Kubrick carefully edits the ending frame so that Humbert is covering up the chair Quility is supposed to be sitting in and fades out the film to an end. This is significant because Kubrick is trying to subliminally show the audience that Humbert did not find Quilty.The epilogue does say Humbert dies during the trial of his murder of Quilty, but I believe Kubrick puts that in there to misdirect the audience to the actual ending. He is a genius. The epilogue is read over the shot painting that he supposedly shot Quilty through. This is really important because the same painting was shown in both the beginning and ending scene as Humbert enters the house. Also the painting represents Lolita who is a liar and Kubrick is trying to tell the intelligent audience that he is lying about Humbert killing Quilty. In addition, the beginning scene is followed by Humbert narrating, showing the beginning of reality. The ending scene leaves Humbert calling for Quilty but getting no response, showing that he did not end up finding Quilt and obviously did not end up with Lolita. The ending is truly beautiful. "},{"Title":"Lolita","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" From Golden Globe nominated director Stanley Kubrick (2001 A Space Odyssey, The Shining, Full Metal Jacket), this film featuring in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die is one that sounded interesting when I read the description, so I was certainly going to watch it. Basically, set in the 1950's, the film begins with Prof. Humbert Humbert (BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated James Mason) confronting a drunk Clare Quilty (Golden Globe nominated Peter Sellers) in an old mansion, and after an almost meaningless discussion and meeting Humbert murders Quilty by gunshots. The film flashes back four years, and we see Humbert spending summer in Ramsdale, New Hampshire before his Beardsley College, Ohio professorship begins, and it is there that he is allowed to rent a house, living with sexually frustrated widow Charlotte Haze (Golden Globe nominated Shelley Winters) and her teenage daughter Lolita (introducing Sue Lyon). Humbert finds himself instantly attracted and slowly falling for Lolita, who is overtly flirtatious, for a while he has to deal with Charlotte trying to get her hands on him, until Lolita may be going away to camp, and he is asked to leave, unless he feels the same way Charlotte does, so almost out of pity he marries her. Their relationship is of course a sham, and with the absence of nymphet Lolita things are going ever more sour, and it gets worse when Charlotte reads his diary and finds out his feelings for her daughter, and without him seeing her she runs outside to be hit by a car and die. Humbert picks up Lolita driving to Camp Climax, she has no idea that her mother is dead, and they check into a hotel until he knows what to do next, and more pressure is put on him with police officers in the building attending a convention. One night a stranger is trying to make advances on Humbert, and he has very mysterious interest in his beautiful little daughter, but he manages to escape this stranger, and by the next morning he and Lolita start a sexual relationship. In public, while travelling to other hotels and motels, they keep up the pretence of being father and daughter, and after several days he confesses that he lied to her about her mother being sick and that she is actually dead, and after grieving she sees no choice but to stay with him. After Humbert enrols Lolita in Beardsley College, people soon become suspicious of the relationship of the father overprotecting his daughter, and they even get a visit at their place from a strange pushy stranger with a thick German accent, Dr. Zempf (Sellers), and they soon hit the road again. There is a point when Lolita gets sick and is put in hospital, but she disappears when Humbert goes back for her, Nurse Mary Lore (Lois Maxwell, just before becoming Miss Moneypenny in the James Bond 007 films) says she left by another man claiming to be her uncle, leaving him devastated and with no clue where she has gone. A few years pass, and he written to by Lolia, now Mrs. Richard T. Schiller, who is pregnant and has married a famous playwright named Dick (Gary Cockrell), and asking him for money he goes to their home to see her personally. Lolita finally confesses the truth regarding her kidnap three years ago, it was famous playwright Clare Quilty, also the man who had been following them, and disguised himself as Dr. Zempf, and they also had an affair themselves, but it had in fact continued while she with Humbert. Humbert begs Lolita to leave her new life with Dick and come with him, but she refuses, but she is so happy with his generous $13,000, which was from her mother, and of course he finds Quilty in that scene at the beginning, the final text says Humbert was awaiting trial for murder but died of coronary thrombosis. Also starring Diana Decker as Jean Farlow, Jerry Stovin as John Farlow, Marianne Stone as Vivian Darkbloom, Susanne Gibbs as Mona Farlow, Roberta Shore as Lorna, Eric Lane as Roy and Goldfinger's Cec Linder as Physician. Mason gives his usual straight forward, dark and troubled performance really well, newcomer Lyons is beautiful and a young presence as the title character, Winters is also beautiful and is both sad and funny as the lonely woman desperate for a man's company, and Sellers is fantastic as the much needed comic relief and sometimes creepy character who keeps popping up. Kubrick certainly brings his own unique style to the picture, it was apparently a difficult novel to make into a film, and the older man in love with the younger girl is a good story to draw you in, it is a most watchable black comedy drama. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium. Very good! "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" While I am a HUGE fan of Stanley Kubrick and I think this movie is quite good and quite provocative for it's time, there is just too much left out for me. I have read the book and I have seen this version and the Adrian Lyne version and both movie adaptations are well done, and although I think Kubrick's is a little better, neither one captures the essence of the book quite right. I don't fault the filmmakers in either case. This book is a masterpiece of literature, and like all masterpieces of the written word, it is nearly impossible to translate onto film. This book especially is extremely difficult, considering the subject matter. It would be difficult to be 100% faithful to the book without delving into child pornography.I think Kubrick walked that fine line better than Lyne. To me, the Kubrick version is more erotic, with its (probably forced by the times) less sexual scenes. Of course this subject should not be depicted erotically, necessarily, but that is one of the main themes of the book, so it can't be ignored.That is why I think that both versions of the film fall short. Neither is allowed to express fully the plot of the book. The book is about a man who falls in love with an underage young woman, which is taboo in our times. He runs away with her, and whether it is voluntary or not is one of the plot points of the book.The book is at times, disturbing and funny and dramatic, and Kubrick seems to capture that better than Lyne does, but as I said, neither can do it it's true justice as a work of art due to the restrictions of film. My recommendation is to read the book by Vladimir Nabokov and then watch the movies and decide for yourself.As a stand alone work of art I do have to give the nod to Kubrick on this one, although the Adrian Lyne version is excellent as well. My final verdict is Read the Book!!. It is better than both films and is a truly unique experience that will last longer in your mind and in our culture than either film will. "},{"Title":"i actually am giving this a 6.5 for borderline good but not quite there","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" So I watched Stanley Kubrick's Lolita from 1962, well is it a classic, sadly I say ehhh. This is a good movie make no doubt about it, I like the use of sexual innuendo throughout the movie, I liked Peter Sellers role as Quilty, the acting was good, the movie very funny at times, but it was too long, the use of an epilogue was pointless, and the opening scene should be at the end in my opinion. I have not read the book by Nabakov so I cannot comment on how closely it follows the original story, nor have I seen the remake with Jeremy Irons to see if that has a little more graphic nature, so I can only comment on this film. I love Kubrick he gave us several great films including one of my personal faves a clockwork orange, but here I don't think he had all the elements in place to make a truly great movie that stands the test of time. I hate to say it (without sounding like a perv) but I think if the original age of the girl (I believe 12) and the eroticism was more direct, it could have been a disturbing yet classic film. However if you are a fan of either movies from this time, Peter Sellers, or Kubrick it is worth watching and I did enjoy this movie overall, just wasn't blown away by it. "},{"Title":"Still a stunner after 50 years","Date":"8 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's not the book, but both Nabokov and Kubrick knew that they couldn't film the novel as it was. So Nabokov brilliantly adapted his own book, making an essentially new story out of it, bringing Quilty to the fore and giving Peter Sellers an amazing opportunity to get ready for Dr. Strangelove. Sue Lyon's performance is remarkable for its unforced, perfect teen mix of turmoil, boredom, and teasing.The novel is a tragedy, with Humbert as a brilliant, creepy, narcissistic monster for whom Lolita isn't a stepdaughter, but a twisted fantasy. While a largely passive victim in the novel, in the movie, Lolita is older and more able to defend herself and end up on top, so to speak. Humbert is obsessed with criminal thoughts, but not a criminal in act. Movies by their nature have to be more realistic or naturalistic, and modernist experiments like the novel tend to not fit the medium. Thus the tale was retold as an near-consummated obsession, and the villainy is shifted to Quilty, who becomes the real criminal in place of Humbert. Lolita dies at the end of the novel; not so in the film. Rather Quilty dies in her place after the transposition from book to cinema.There are some myths floating around about the original Lolita, which can be quickly dispelled by reading any decent study or history of the film. While Sue Lyon was a remarkable 14/15-year-old actress, she's supposed to be 16 in the film when she first meets Humbert, and 19 in the final scene. (In the novel, she's 12 and 16, respectively.) There was no US film rating system at the time, and most films for general release had to fit the Hays code or something like it. (There were no R- or X-rated films in 1962, although there was an underground of low-grade porn shorts.) Nabokov's decision to adapt the novel himself stemmed from his belief that, if someone was going to butcher the story, he should do it himself. Because the film was made in the UK, Kubrick had to satisfy just one censor, the British film board, which in effect became a collaborator.The film is full of brilliant gags that repay close attention. (Who is Vivian Darkbloom, and what does her name really mean?) Also worth close attention is Nabokov's incisive portrait of the then-new American teenager. Pray tell, in the film, are not Humbert or Charlotte the abused, and their precious baby the casual abuser? "},{"Title":"Disappointing compared to the novel.","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita is my favourite novel in the universe. Thus, it only seemed fitting to watch Stanley Kubrick's film adaptation. Now, after the trouble (6 weeks, 4 stores, $40, and having to order it from out of the country) I went through to acquire this movie, I expected, or at least hoped, it'd be worth it. You can only imagine how disappointed I was! It's not that the film wasn't good. He stuck to Nobokov's script, stayed true to the story and had a decent cast. Rather, when I read the novel, I read it as a tragedy. It wasn't the story of a pedophile, but a tragic love story about a fragile, disturbed man hopelessly devoted to fantasies, unable to cope with reality. In reading the novel, I sympathized with poor Humbert Humbert, in fact, I cried for him. In the film, however, Humbert was portrayed as the monster he was. Rather than viewing his story in 1st person (as in the novel), it was viewed in 3rd person. Without walking around inside of Humbert's mind, it was next to impossible to connect, relate and compassionate with him; he was merely a two-dimensional pedophile. We're never aware of his thoughts, feelings, or his past. It was too hard to connect to him or view the conflicts in the story through the film.Anyways - it was a good adaptation but didn't capture the erotica or tragedy of the novel. "},{"Title":"The dissimilarity of Doppelgängers","Date":"26 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Nabokov's Lolita, the protagonist is Humbert Humbert, his Doppelganger is Clare Quilty, a man with whom he shares no resemblance at all. In Nabokov's Despair (filmed in 1978 by R.W. Fassbinder), the protagonist is Hermann Hermann, his Doppelganger is Felix Weber, and again, there is no resemblance. In both cases, outer similarity between two persons seems to be unnecessary because they are less Doppelgangers but Alter Egos - and as such projections of the mind. It is quite unclear what Lolita means when she tells Humbert that she never loved someone more than the sophisticated writer Quilty, because she has nothing to answer when Humbert asks her back about the quality of her love for him. Humbert does not realize that she betrays him with himself - as little as Hermann seems to be aware that his wife Lydia betrays himself in the shape of her cousin Ardalion another dissimilar Doppelganger of Hermann Hermann? A highly interesting question that has hardly even been brought up comes from that scene where Humbert waits at the front desk of the hotel, why Lolita is up in their room Besides Humbert, there is Quilty, masked, yet with an also masked woman Who is she? Who is not a Doppelganger of somebody, this seems to be the question in Nabokov's world. As Hermann chooses his dissimilar Doppelganger in Despair in order to shoot him - so Humbert kills his dissimilar Doppelganger in Lolita (1962), but while in the Lynne-film from 1997, we see Humbert's face covered with wounds and blood so that is seems that he tried to kill himself, both in Lolita (1962) and in Despair (1978), the dissimilarity of the Doppelgangers is kept up strictly. The big difference between Lolita (1962) and Lolita (1997) is that Nabokov also wrote the scenario for the 1962 version.Is the Lolita whom we see at the end of both Lolia versions a similar Doppelganger of the original girl? "},{"Title":"Alongside A Clockword Orange, THIS is Kubrick at his best","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Perverse, sensual, disturbing, poetic and beautiful. These are the words I can use to describe Stanley Kubrick's Lolita. Kubrick couldn't ve been better picked to direct this jaw-dropping film adaptation of the equally excellent novel. Unlike the overrated remake by Adrian Lynne, this one doesn't to show you in the face the relationship between Humbert (James Mason, in a outstanding performance) and Lolita (Sue Lyons), for the audience to get what it means, and even without the scenes the film is very disturbing, since the time of it's release to it's very day! The beautiful score by Nelson Riddle who doesn't fail to bring me to tears is also a strong highlight of the film, which wonderfully portrays forbidden desires, suspense and romance. The performances are just, fantastic, specially Shelley Winters and Peter Sellers. They portray the annoying characters so well that you really want to kill theme, you really feel the same way Humbert feels towards them. It's funny, because you sympathize with the character which could easily be the villain and you want him and Lolita to be happily ever after, but, things don't go as planned and it all builds up to the ending which never fails to bring me to tears. This should be considered up there with A Clockwork Orange and The Shining, as it's probably Kubrick's best. A truly remarkable motion picutre, Watch Lolita. You'll certainly won't be disappointed. It's true art. The remake is good, but fails on it's attempt to make it a better film, which simply ain't. "}{"Title":"Lolita features some of the finest performances I've ever had the pleasure of viewing","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita (1962) 9-25-08Lolita features some of the finest performances I've ever had the pleasure of viewing. I derive such pleasure from watching James Mason, Peter Sellers, Shelly Winters and Sue Lyon do there collective thing that it almost distracts from the other aspects of remarkable cinema on display here. Genius is a word that gets thrown around quite a bit. That being said its the one word that comes to mind when I think of how to describe Mr. Mason and Sellers respective performances in this film. They are both remarkable at fooling me into thinking not that they are these characters but that the words uttered are in fact there's and not from a script. Perhaps they were ad-libbed..perhaps not. Thats not the point...the point of the matter is that it all seems to flow so naturally from them as to not even seem like acting at all. Charlotte Haze is a character who has little to truly say but doesn't let that stop her and Shelly Winters is quite good at spewing said dialog at a mile a minute. Then there is Sue Lyon aka the titular Lolita. She is tasked with being both vulgar childish girl and a woman who is capable of wooing two seemingly intelligent men and does so with marvelous grace. Then we have the films quite lovely mise en scène cinematography. Many dialog scenes are covered from very few angles, quite a few take place in only one shot. Giving one the effect of a real conversation rather than something cut together by an editor...i liked this a great deal and it is one of the more memorable aspects of this film. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Just amazing! I was pinned to my chair the whole time watching this film. James Mason had me spellbound with this performance. The tension between James Mason and Peter Sellers in real life made the characters pop off the screen. Trivia John Mason was not happy at the fact that Peter Sellers got to do so much improv in his scenes. By doing the inprov John Mason thought Peter Sellers was stealing the scene from him. I have not seen many Peter Seller's movies (outside of the Pink Panther and Dr. Strangelove) but intend to watch more of them after seeing him in Lolita. Sue Lyon was perfect as Lolita. Her kid like quality and little quirks made a convincing character. I had seen Sue Lyon in 7 Women with Anne Bancroft when I was a kid. It was good watching her again. I recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Sellers in a prequel, Date Seen 12-30-2004","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Interesting that Sellers next Kubrick film was Dr Strangelove, where he also played multiple characters. The acting in this film was awesome, Mason especially shined as the neurotic/obsessed middle aged man. Hard to fathom that Shelly Winters was once relatively thin and attractive. I always pictured her as the fat woman on the Poseidon Adventure who has a heart attack and dies. I couldn't help but notice the similarity between the sunglasses that Lyone wears and the sunglasses that were later used by the young nymphet in the movie The Crush which obviously must tip it's hat to it's predecessor. I think the subject matter was handled much better by American Beauty, but then again I am highly partial to that movie. Probably all of us middle aged men can somewhat identify with the character Mason portrays, we just choose to do nothing about it. Middle aged crisis didn't get a name for no reason. Men, like women, will do anything to convince themselves that they are still attractive, and age is not an issue. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lolita in my opinion is a film about passion obsession and how we allow them to rule or ruin our lives.Lolita has a very good cast and a good director so from the writing credits one should expect a good movie, and actually watching it will not let you down. Quite the opposite in fact. It is enjoyable, funny and mysterious.Watching the end of the film in the start guarantees an undiminished interest throughout.Another I liked about this film is that unlike its remake there were no obscene sex shots or any rudeness of any kind.A very good movie. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Uncomfortably Compulsive","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Finally took time out to watch this because of the remake. It made me feel like a naughty schoolboy. I felt guilty watching it, did not want to enjoy it and found myself worrying about other people's thoughts of my viewing material? Despite all this, I couldn't not see it. Try as I might I needed to get to the end. How anyone can play a character called 'Humbert Humbert' and still maintain his dignity is beyond me. Sellers injects some wonderful light relief and I'm glad I've seen it. I'll not be watching again. I'd feel less embarrassed watching Deep Throat with my Mum. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was a good movie, but I think it would be very disturbing for a mother to watch since my mom won't watch it. I think it was very funny in the part when Lolita and Humbert are in the hotel room and he is trying to set up his bed and it just collapses. The movie doesn't show any sex. I liked the performances by Mason, Lyon, Sellers and Winters and the opening sequence of the painting of the toenails. This was one of Kubrick's daring films like A Clockwork Orange. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Diary of a ridiculous man","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Navokov did something interesting with his book lolita,he mocked at everybody ,he did a satire so misunderstood,that all the dull moralist attacked it calling it `immoral'.Navokov mocked at the censorship,intellectuals,psycho -analysis,the symbolists who thought that the book lolita represents `the old european raping the naive fresh  America'.Kubrick understood that this is a satire,notice in a one funny scenea picture of Navokov on the wall In the scene with Quilty  and Humbert  and Humbert can't recognize the author of the famous novel!.Just take it with humor what  Humbert Humbert  wrote`Lolita,light of my life,fire of my loins.My skin,my soul. Lo-lee-tathe tip of the tongue taking a trip of three steps down the palete to tap, at three,on the teeth.Lo. le.Ta She was Lo,plain Lo,in the morning,standing four feet ten in one sock.She was Lola in slacks.She was Dolly at school.She was Dolores on the dotted line.But in  my arms she was always Lolita.'In the book he amused me at times.In the film he is awkward`'Be just and if you can't be just, be arbitrary.'`There is no place else to go.The theater is closedM.  "},{"Title":"Cynically romantic","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having read the Nabokov novel and the two well-known versions of the film, I believe the most accurate way of defining the relations is Lyne´s film is more faithful to the literal reading of the story, Kubrick's one is far more faithful to its spirit and, what is even more important, it isn't drowned by comparisons with the book.Probably what bothers most people who have seen both films and read the novel is that Kubrick gives ample space to cynicism, farce and mocking of all the main (and even secondary) characters it ridicules both the cultured, refined and cosmopolitan Englishman and the pseudo-liberal and fairly tacky Americans (the cultural and behavioral differentiation reminding me of Henry James, just in reverse). The child temptress is here seen more realistically as a sexy however vacuous and irritating teenager and Humbert´s love of her as a noble and real but tremendously stupid infatuation (coming from a cold-headed intellectual like him). Also delightful the portrayal of alcoholic and neurotic Shelley Winters, and particularly of Peter Sellers as a mediocre tv writer enhanced by American middle-class culture. There is a lot of witty sociopolitical criticism here.Adrian Lynne's version, being utterly romantic (and striving really too hard to be poetic) may seem more accurate on the love story but is really Nabokov's intention to tell a love story as such? I can't really appreciate how such wonderful novelist could be so obvious and open to his reader. Not forgetting the romanticism of Humbert's feelings of despair towards the girl, Kubrick doesn't indulge in a simple love story but explores all the most obscure consequences of irrationality and does so with irony and sarcasm (humour is everywhere) but also with a touch of compassionate dramatism when appropriate.We have a classic here, both faithful to the novel and full of innovations. Lynne´s intent is merely a limp follower of its two (the literary and the filmic) predecessors. "},{"Title":"The sixties offer more than go-go girls.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  James Mason, Sue Lyons, and Peter Sellers - all offer solid performances in this queer drama about sex and lies.  Naturally, this movie shouldn't be able to hold together with so many neurotic personalities on screen at the same time, but it makes it work almost seamlessly up until the ending.  The ending gives it a wry twist, but it doesn't really fit in with the rest of the mood and setting of the film.  It would probably have been better if the scene had been chopped out of the final cut, but it does offer a suspenseful to those who allow themselves to be fully sucked into the characters. "},{"Title":"proves the old adage there's no fool like an old fool","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fine movie featuring one of the most beautiful girls ever, Sue Lyon. I consider this one of the most weird films ever made. All the characters were sincerely freaky. It differed from the book quite a bit, but still hit the mark for me. I wonder what ever happened to Sue. "}{"Title":"Comparision of Kubrick's and Lynne's Lolita","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A week ago I had the displeasure of seeing Adrian Lynn's version of Lolita, which renewed my respect for Kubrick's genius as an artist and a social commentator. He had the vision to use the story for issues that were relevant to his time, rather than allowing himself to be constrained by the world as presented in the novel. Now this is not to say that the novel was lacking in any regard whatsoever, but that Kubrick's directing made it apparent that Nabokov wrote timeless, almost archetypal characters and a story which could resonate in any place or time.  His directing is nothing short of genius as we can see in the pacing, the effectiveness of each and every scene, the superb portrayals of every character, and the way he nails the tragic-comedic tone of the novel. The worst that can be said is that he uses the novel as an excuse for social commentary, but Lynne's Lolita draws the opposite conclusion- he blatantly ignores the tone and socio-political aspects, using the novel solely as an excuse for pornography. Lynne's direction is of the poorest standard as the scenes drag on for minutes beyond the point has (or in this case, has not) been made, and the performances are all substandard. It is a shame so many ferverently believe that Lynne's adaptation is truer to the novel, because this view devalues Nabokov's artistry and contribution to literature.  Besides which Nabokov wrote the screenplay for Kubrick's Lolita, and even though he felt the film differed from his novel, he was quite pleased with the result. Certainly the same dare not be said for Lynne's version.  "},{"Title":"Less is more","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Let me start by saying that I have not read the book, nor seen the remake. That maybe the reason why I like this film so much - no distractions.The key to this film is the likability of the main character Humbert. James Mason gives a tastefully reluctant performance as the dirty, old man. Kubrick's film is also one of the best examples of voice-over narration leading to likability. He is talking to you, therefore you can't hate him. Also, there is a second villain, played by Peter Sellers. Him, you hate, even though he is very funny.Sue Lyon's performance is wonderfully complex and realistic. One moment she is teasing, the next she is moralizing.Kubrick takes a minimalistic approach to the taboo subject. Everything is under the surface. We can only thank him for that. "},{"Title":"Martin Amis has a great review of Lolita","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  No one says it better, so here is Martin Amis on 'Lolita'Like the sweat of lust and guilt, the sweat of death trickles through Lolita. I wonder how many readers survive the novel without realizing that its heroine is, so to speak, dead on arrival, like her child. Their brief obituaries are tucked away in the 'editor's' Foreword, in nonchalant, school-newsletter form 'Mona Dahl' is a student in Paris. 'Rita' has recently married the proprietor of a hotel in Florida. Mrs. 'Richard F. Schiller' died in childbed, giving birth to a stillborn girl, on Christmas Day 1952, in Gray Star, a settlement in the remotest Northwest. 'Vivian Dark-bloom' has written a biography ...Then, once the book begins, Humbert's childhood love Annabel dies, at thirteen (typhus), and his first wife Valeria dies (also in childbirth), and his second wife Charlotte dies ('a bad accident'--though of course this death is structural), and Charlotte's friend Jean Farlow dies at thirty-three (cancer), and Lolita's young seducer Charlie Holmes dies (Korea), and her old seducer Quilty dies (murder another structural exit). And then Humbert dies (coronary thrombosis). And then Lolita dies. And her daughter dies. In a sense Lolita is too great for its own good. It rushes up on the reader like a recreational drug more powerful than any yet discovered or devised. In common with its narrator, it is both irresistible and unforgivable. And yet it all works out. I shall point the way to what I take to be its livid and juddering heart--which is itself in prethrombotic turmoil, all heaves and lifts and thrills.Without apeing the explicatory style of Nabokov's famous Lectures (without producing height-charts, road maps, motel bookmatches, and so on),it might still be as well to establish what actually happens in Lolita morally. How bad is all this--on paper, anyway? Although he distances himself with customary hauteur from the world of 'coal sheds and alleyways', of panting maniacs and howling policemen, Humbert Humbert is without question an honest-to-God, open-and-shut sexual deviant, displaying classic ruthlessness, guile and (above all) attention to detail. He parks the car at the gates of schoolyards, for instance, and obliges Lo to fondle him as the children emerge. Sixty-five cents secures a similar caress in her classroom, while Humbert admires a platinum classmate. Fellatio prices peak at four dollars a session before Humbert brings rates down 'drastically by having her earn the hard and nauseous way permission to participate in the school's theatrical programme'. On the other hand he performs complementary cunnilingus when his stepdaughter is laid low by fever 'I could not resist the exquisite caloricity of unexpected delights--Venus febriculosa--though it was a very languid Lolita that moaned and coughed and shivered in my embrace.'Humbert was evidently something of a bourgeois sadist with his first wife, Valeria. He fantasized about 'slapping her breasts out of alignment' or 'putting on his mountain boots and taking a running kick at her rump' but in reality confined himself to 'twisting fat Valechka's brittle wrist (the one she had fallen upon from a bicycle)' and saying, 'Look here, you fat fool, c'est moi qui décide.' The weakened wrist is good sadists know all about weakspots. Humbert strikes Lolita only once ('a tremendous backhand cut'), during a jealous rage, otherwise making do with bribes, bullying, and three main threats--the rural fastness, the orphanage, the reformatoryIn plainer words, if we two are found out, you will be analysed and institutionalized, my pet, c'est tout. You will dwell, my Lolita will dwell (come here, my brown flower) with thirty-nine other dopes in a dirty dormitory (no, allow me, please) under the supervision of hideous matrons. This is the situation, this is the choice. Don't you think that under the circumstances Dolores Haze had better stick to her old man?It is true that Humbert goes on to commit murder he kills his rival, Clare Quilty. And despite its awful comedy, and despite Quilty's worthlessness both as playwright and citizen, the deed is not denied its primal colorations. Quilty is Humbert's 'brother', after all, his secret sharer. Don't they have the same taste in wordplay and women? Don't they have the same voice? 'Drop that pistol,' he tells Humbert 'Soyons raisonnables. You will only wound me hideously and then rot in jail while I recuperate in a tropical setting.' Quilty is a heartless japer and voyeur, one of the pornographers of real life. Most readers, I think, would assent to the justice of Humbert's last-page verdict 'For reasons that may appear more obvious than they really are, I am opposed to capital punishment... Had I come before myself, I would have given Humbert at least thirty-five years for rape, and dismissed the rest of the charges.' Quilty's death is not tragic. Nor is Humbert's fate. Nor is Lolita. But Lolita is tragic, in her compacted span. If tragedy explores thwarted energy and possibility, then Lolita is tragic--is flatly tragic. And the mystery remains. How did Nabokov accommodate her story to this three-hundred-page blue streak--to something so embarrassingly funny, so unstoppably inspired, so impossibly racy?Literature, as has been pointed out, is not life; it is certainly not public life; there is no 'character issue'. It may be a nice bonus to know that Nabokov was a kind man. The biographical paraphernalia tells us as much. Actually, everything he wrote tells us as much. Lolita tells us as much. But this is not a straightforward matter. Lolita is a cruel book about cruelty. It is kind in the sense that your enemy's enemy is your friend, no matter how daunting his aspect. As a critic, Nabokov was more than averagely sensitive to literary cruelty. Those of us who toil through Cervantes, I suspect, after an initial jolt, chortlingly habituate ourselves to the 'infinite drubbings' meted out and sustained by the gaunt hidalgo. In his Lectures on Don Quixote, however, Nabokov can barely bring himself to contemplate the automatic 'thumbscrew' enormities of this 'cruel and crude old book'The author seems to plan it thus Come with me, ungentle reader, who enjoys seeing a live dog inflated and kicked around like a soccer football; reader, who likes, of a Sunday morning, on his way to or from church, to poke his stick or direct his spittle at a poor rogue in the stocks; come... I hope you will be amused at what I have to offer.Nevertheless, Nabokov is the laureate of cruelty. Cruelty hardly exists elsewhere; all the Lovelaces and Osmonds turn out, on not very much closer inspection, to be mere hooligans and tyrants when compared to Humbert Humbert, to Hermann Hermann (his significant precursor) in Despair, to Rex and Margot in Laughter in the Dark, to Martha in King, Queen, Knave. Nabokov understood cruelty; he was wise to it; he knew its special intonations--as in this expert cadence from Laughter in the Dark, where, after the nicely poised 'skilfully', the rest of the sentence collapses into the cruel everyday'You may kiss me,' she sobbed, 'but not that way, please.' The youth shrugged his shoulders ... She returned home on foot. Otto, who had seen her go off, thumped his fist down on her neck and then kicked her skilfully, so that she fell and bruised herself against the sewing-machine.Now Humbert is of course very cruel to Lolita, not just in the ruthless sine qua non of her subjugation, nor yet in his sighing intention of 'somehow' getting rid of her when her brief optimum has elapsed, nor yet in his fastidious observation of signs of wear in his 'frigid' and 'ageing mistress'. Humbert is surpassingly cruel in using Lolita for the play of his wit and the play of his prose--his prose, which sometimes resembles the 'sweat-drenched finery' that 'a brute of forty' may casually and legally shed (in both hemispheres, as a scandalized Humbert notes) before thrusting 'himself up to the hilt into his youthful bride'. Morally the novel is all ricochet or rebound. However cruel Humbert is to Lolita, Nabokov is crueller to Humbert--finessingly cruel. We all share the narrator's smirk when he begins the sexual-bribes chapter with the following sentence 'I am now faced with the distasteful task of recording a definite drop in Lolita's morals.' But when the smirk congeals we are left staring at the moral heap that Humbert has become, underneath his arched eyebrow. Irresistible and unforgivable. It is complicated, and unreassuring. Even so, this is how it works.Lolita herself is such an anthology piece by now that even non-readers of the novel can close their eyes and see her on the tennis court or in the swimming pool or curled up in the car seat or the motel twin bed with her 'ridiculous' comics. We tend to forget that this blinding creation remains just that a creation, and a creation of Humbert Humbert's. We have only Humbert's word for her. And whatever it is that is wrong with Humbert, not even his short-lived mother--'(picnic, light&#31;ning)'--would claim that her son was playing with a full deck. (Actually his personal pack may comprise the full fifty-two, but it is crammed with jokers and wild cards, pipless deuces, three-eyed queens.) A reliable narrator in the strict sense, Humbert is not otherwise reliable; and let us remember that Nabokov was capable of writing entire fictions-Despair, The Eye, Pale Fire--in which the narrators have no idea what is going on at all. Lolita, I believe, has been partly isolated and distorted by its celebrity. 'The greatest novel of rapture in modern fiction,' states the cover of the first Penguin, which also informs us, on the back, that Humbert is English.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After many partial viewings, I have finally seen the whole movie at long last!  Thanks to BRAVO for their Kubrik festival.A lot of younger fans of the 1997 remake have made jaded comments about the latter's superiority.  It is not their fault having been brought up with todays fast paced films and slack morals. Kubrik would have loved to have made this movie in the 90's. In 1962 he was very much restrained by censorship. One has to pay very close attention to the script to see what he and Nabokov cleverly got away with and implied.I noticed the following examples (there are many more and some too subtle for all, including me, to get)- The telephone number of 1776.  Humbert mentions that it is the 'Declaration of Independence'.  Lolita's independence more likely.- Lolita went to 'Camp Climax'.- At the dance, Winters mentions that on 'Wednesday she's going to have a cavity filled by Uncle Ivor'.  (Also remember that Humbert gets out of his jam at the hospital by suggesting that Lolita was picked up by her uncle Guy).- Back home after the dance, Humbert says 'Your mother created a magnificent spread'.- Right after this Winters says 'We all think that Lo should go to bed.' ...and on and on.Double entendres abound and may be construed by today's generation as being as bad as some of the Carry On movies. However, that was the only way to do it in '62 and it was done very cleverly. For those who state that Kubrik's version did not imply that Humbert had sexual relations with Lolita - you were not listening! It was very obvious. I guess we have to have everything graphically laid out to spell it to the jaded, laugh track minds of the latest generation of none readers. Please do not think I am generalising here.  We still have some who appreciate the past and how important it is.  Thanks "},{"Title":"Never has there been a more deeply unlikeable character than Professor Humbert Humbert","Date":"17 July 2012","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita begins emphatically, with an engrossing scene between two heavyweight actors as James Mason turns up invited into Peter Seller's house. Unfortunately, the film never lives up to it's electrifying opening and it's a constant downhill trek after that. The film sags and moors as it struggles to justify it's ridiculous plot turns and unbearable character.The film has a hugely controversial premise, focusing on a professor's obsession with a 14 year old girl. As the film progresses and his desire for her increases, we never really understand why, his obsession is never duly justified or explained. Lolita seems to exude no magical qualities and the only conclusion is the professor must be a paedophile. The fact he never acts kind to anyone and turns to acts of cruelty and degradation doesn't help his cause.Due to strict censoring, Stanley Kubrick, the director, could not include some of the scenes in the book which help to explain their relationship. Instead he must turn to innuendo and implied acts, though these never really have any effect. Obviously this wasn't Kubrick's fault, but it still falls to him that the film never truly reaches out to you.Lolita is a film with no emotional backbone. It follows a deeply unlikeable character in a quest for something we don't ever want him to have. Who wants to see that? "},{"Title":"In many ways, very well made...but who would want to see this?","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The only reason I finally brought myself to watch this film was because Stanley Kubrick directed it and being a cinephile, I thought I had an obligation to myself to watch it. I have to admit that the movie was extremely competently made (with one exception which I'll get to in a bit) and did keep my attention despite being a very long movie. However, and here's the problem, who exactly is the intended audience? Seeing a movie all about a pedophile just felt very, very creepy--especially since, in some ways, the film seems to rather sensitively portray this depraved man--almost making you feel sorry for him. I wonder...had Sue Lyon been a little less physically developed or if the role had been played by a boy, would people have accepted it? Life is just too short for this sort of film and I hope never to see another one like it--it just made my skin crawl at times.And, as I said above, the film was very competently made...except when it came to Peter Sellers' very bizarre and over the top roles in the film. While Sellers was great in THE MOUSE THAT ROARED and DR. STRANGELOVE in multiple roles, here it just seemed out of place and dumb. This wasn't just because of the bizarre characters he played but because in the role as Quilty, he just seemed to be overacting horribly and confused me--was this supposed to be a serious drama or a very broad comedy? I really don't think Kubrick made that clear to Sellers, as Sellers could do well in dramatic or comedic roles--but here, the role just didn't fit the rest of the film at all. Good actor--bad role.Now if you look at all the reviews for this film, most are extremely positive. I wonder (and I'll never know for sure) that if this film had been directed by William Beaudine or some other lesser-name director, would people have gone into such rapturous praise for it? Often, it seems that having the right name at the helm of a film almost guarantees critical acceptance. "},{"Title":"I don't think the film gets it","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" After reading the book, Reading Lolita in Tehran by Azar Nafisi, I felt it necessary to stop that book and read Lolita by Nabokov.What the Women see in Nabokov's book is the total control and obsession. All the info we get from Humbert are his impressions and memories. The reader of Lolita knows nothing of the real Lolita.Making a movie of the book requires the director to make a fantasy into a filmable person; this destroys the Nabokov's story and creates another man's(Kubrick) fantasy.Just another book to film disappointment I think.Good I did not pay to see this! "},{"Title":"Nothing Like You've Heard -  Nothing, Period.","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"25 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was supposed to be so sexual and so controversial, and I can see why the controversy with an older man getting sexually attracted and involved with a teenager but there is very sexuality in this movie....just implied, and very little of anything happens in this film.Sue Lyon, in her first shot, is very alluring lying on her side in a bikini but after that she has the appearance of any other good-looking teen and nothing extraordinary....so if men are looking to be titillated by this film, go elsewhere.In fact, an annoying and shrill Shelly Winters is seen quite a bit, too much so rather than Lyon. Peter Sellers, with an American accent, is good.Overall, this movie is Boring, yes - with a capital 'B. People today would laugh at any of this being called controversial. Just because it had that label and Stanley Kubrick directed, people automatically overrate this movie terribly. Don't believe me? Go ahead rent it. Don't say you weren't warned. "},{"Title":"Before there was American Beauty, The Crush, and Poison Ivy, there was Lolita","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In this controversial story about a middle-aged English professor who falls madly in love/obsessed with his landlady 14-year-old flirting daughter. He marries her mother to be with her but she later find that he lust for her daughter and out of jealousy and rage turason hush she got hit be the car. He became Lolita guardian, and he discover on their road trip he not the only one that is obsessed with her.The entire cast did a good job in their performances except Sue Lyon (she can't act but only had a cute face) It true Tuesday Weld could've have played her. Everybody in the movie is crazy and selfish they don't realize Lolita is still a kid (In the book Lolita was 12-year-old but in both versions (1962 & 1997) they made her a teenager that would be too creepy). They claim Lolita is 14-year-old but she look like she's sixteen. Both Mason's character and Seller's character are pervert and crazy (but I read website why Mason character like this because when he was Lolita age he had a girlfriend that died from an illness and got him after young girls but he see Lolita look like her). Shelley Winter's character is needy, trash and selfish her big failer was protect her daughter, control her sexuality and finding a father for her but all she wanted is man in the house not father for her daughter and didn't want to be bother with her. Mason's character realize that he destroy Lolita childhood, but Lolita was using him. Lolita did like him in some point even when she and her mother fight over him. The film has dark humor but it strange and everyone compare this film to Jeremy Iron version. I am not saying the film is bad, but it worth-watching but this not for kiddies and teenagers because the main theme. "},{"Title":"Professor Bizarre Meets An M Dialer","Date":"30 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" 14 year old Sue Lyon is amazing as a teenager in a bizarre relationship with 2 men. The relationship with Sellers character is only mentioned in passing but is there. The relationship with James Mason's Professor is central to the them of this film.Mason here is just as restrained in this film as he is in Dial M For Murder years earlier. He plays someone deranged in both films in the same way only this time he is into a banned relationship with a step daughter who is underage. When you picture Mason as himself, you have trouble having sympathy for him, though you almost do.This film, while not Kubricks best effort is good because of the casting. If Kubrick had been allowed to do a truly X rate version of the story baring all, it would have been better since his way of creating the X rated visuals would have taken the straight-jacket off him which is truly on him with the censorship of this era in full force.Shelly Winters & Lois Maxwell are names who have roles in this film as well. While the film works OK as a no action drama, I don't think it is the best story telling I have seen. "}{"Title":"A premonition of the future; great film to look at the past","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a Stanley Kubrick movie; though perhaps not his most major work it is still, nonetheless, a great movie. For most movie directors this quality work would have been the zenith of a career; for Kubrick it was just another stepping stone in his directorial progression! Kubrick was only 32 years of age when he directed this masterpiece; years younger than all but one of the primary actors that he directed in this film. The fact that he was the undisputed director and given the due respect by these performers shows his already acknowledged talent.All the actors, with the possible exception of James Mason, turn in stellar performances. Mason probably wanted to, but seemed to be uncertain as to how far he could push the envelope with his part of a dirty old man in that day and age. Some commentators have mentioned the constraints faced by Kubrick due to the Hays Moral Code. However, what most people fail to realize is that in that day and age (and I was there and remember it) the entire subject was something that most people did not like to talk about or even think of. Society was much more formal back then, and the actions and/or attitudes shown on the majority of TV sit coms today would not have been tolerated in most of society. Or, at least tolerated in movies or TV. Please remember, back in 1962 the term Gay meant happy and joyful. The term homosexual was not even allowed to be mentioned on TV; let alone allow a person of that sort to be depicted. People, of course, knew about such individuals and dirty old men; but the attitude was Why show that kind of stuff on TV? Most people would have, grudgingly perhaps, admitted that there was a place on TV for artistic nudity, but outright vulgarity was not tolerated whatsoever! Strangely, even in our day and age artistic nudity is still not allowed on open air TV, but vulgarity is and in abundance. Go figure.So, Kubrick had to present this movie properly; no easy task. He did so despite an, at times, awkward performance by James Mason. Compensating for this were incredible performances by Shelly Winters (she acted the role of a romance and sex starved matronly widow that I would not be surprised if, in fact she was- at least sex starved). By the way, the bedroom scene of her with James Mason, though innocent by our standards today, was almost scandalous by the standards of that day and age. Please remember that in the Dick van Dyke show of that era the husband and wife had separate beds in the same bedroom! Peter Sellers was absolutely magnificent in this pre Inspector Jacques Clouseau role and one can certainly see why Kubrick was so eager to use him again in Doctor Strangeglove. Also of great interest was the United States of 1962; when seat belts were not in cars and gas stations were full service. A great look at a past America; shows that not all high school dances ended in a drunken or drug induced sexual orgy. A time when typewriters were used to type letters; not word processors. Actually. one really has to be of a certain age or even older to fully appreciate the nuances in this film though even the younger (under age 45) viewer can appreciate most of it. By the way, Mason got over his jitters over showing a dirty old man and a few years later was lead male actor in Age of Consent; showing his renewed male appreciation of the lovely and (then young) Helen Mirren. Older man chasing a naked young filly on a tropical beach! A great movie, and so is this one. "},{"Title":"I liked it, with or without Peter Sellers.","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed this film immensely, even though it did drag for the last little bit. Shelley Winters - was she born to play a broad or what? - was excellent and funny as the Desperate Housewife, lonely and with delusions of class. Our teenage nymphet was suitably cynical, with just the right touch of teenage brat thrown in for realism.I especially loved the dark humor throughout the film. I won't quote anything, but I laughed out loud in a couple of places. I had no idea this was going to happen and was surprised by it.Watch Marion Mathie, the nosy neighbor who comes over to tell Humbert and Lolita to quiet down. She's only on for a few minutes but she steals the scene. You see, she's entertaining, and one of my guests is a minister of the church, you see...I've never read the book but I am aware of it, so I can't compare the book or the film, but of course I understand that it had to be watered down due to censorship of the day, but if you don't get that 'they are having an affair' then what do YOU think is going on? In fact, that's why I like some of the older films it's not in-your-face but it doesn't need to be.I recommend seeing it at least once, maybe even a second time if you miss any of the jokes.About the subject line several reviews here claim Peter Sellers is in this film. He isn't. "},{"Title":"a beautiful disaster/relationship film","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Lolita' is a beautiful film about a taboo relationship between a writer and a young girl in her early teens. This story evolves with their relationship, from their meeting and their running away together to helplessness. It's a deep, psychological film that seems just destined to end in a disaster. While Lolita is young, she has a manipulating mind, and she knows that she can use her sexuality in order to get what she wants. Meanwhile, the man who has his eye on her is willing to do anything just to be with her, and this even means marrying a woman that he does not love in order to be with Lolita. This is a beautifully-made film showing attention to detail and examination of the characters. "},{"Title":"Of the Greats, his Greatest","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kubrick was a phenomenal director; this much is certain. Yet consistently underrated is Lolita, which, in my mind, is his best direction job. Not before and seldom after was a director able to so deftly manipulate his/her audience's emotions so that the character with whom one's sympathies lay at the beginning of the movie was the character most despised by the end. For fans of beautiful, sweeping cinema like the Lord of the Rings or Star Wars trilogies, this movie is not for you. For those who require more than visual sweeps (perfectly-placed shots, genius use of shading and lighting, the ability to show just enough of the action to give you the point), you MUST see this movie; it ranks as one of the greatest ever made, certainly the greatest adaptation of a book (which, by the way, is second only to Milton's Paradise Lost as the greatest thing ever written IMHO). "},{"Title":"Robbing The Cradle Mystery of Man's Law at Odds with Nature","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Enough said on the matter of how such a provocative movie could have been filmed in its day. We know, especially the over 40 crowd, in our heart of hearts, how such a thing as 'Lolita' is possible. One need only peruse the Women Seeking ads in your local newspaper, or a brief traverse through an online dating service, to sample the scope of late 30- to late 40-something women, most of whom are NOT widowed, looking gratification replacement therapy.As soon as we are introduced to a young (but sadly, not young enough) Shelley Winters as Mrs. Charlotte Haze, we can read the intent stitched into the patch on her left shoulder. To a younger man, such advances as were proffered by Mrs. Haze would have been gratuitously drunk as Lolita drinks her cola through her striped paper straw. Alas, we are not presented with a younger man for a protagonist. Nor is the protagonist we are given necessarily a hero. In fact, Mr. Humbert is diabolical, through and through. His nature and intentions are cleanly at odds with the law of 20th Century United States, and if it were not so, this movie would cease to be a study in wonder of the male heart.You see, Mr. Humbert has done nothing against the nature of man (man, in gender). It can be established through a long, long history of humankind that God has set the pubescent female to cleave upon the older gentleman. Such tales are as old as King Solomon. Another King, styled Henry the Eighth, formalized such a merger with a nubile and fanciful (and innocent) Catherine Howard. In post-Lolita parlance, of course we have Long Island Lolita (Amy Fisher's attempted murder upon the wife of notorious woman-boxer and professional cad Joey Buttafuoco), and films such as American Beauty offer Lester Burnham, played by Kevin Spacey, similar predicaments. Between Henry VIII and Lolita, we also had Charley Chaplin, and Jerry Lee Lewis, the Woman Killer. How such a flagrant harmony of nature can be misread by post-industrial culture is another mystery we all live and grapple with. Under the guise of contrived Judeo-Christian Ethos, modern Western Civilization has pulled the plug on such May-December dalliance (and in this commenters's mind, rightly so). However, such matrimony is not so clearly shown as prohibitive by Biblical testimony.At any rate, it is the modern culture's taboo of older man/younger woman that can only make such a story as Lolita possible. Notice, Humbert Humbert (I have personally known or heard of some double- and even triple-named men in my own life), in searching for a place to live, is ambivalent about Mrs. Haze's apartment, until he meets, through high voltage eye contact with enough charge to sizzle ozone, young Dolores Haze (Lolita, or Lo). For all of Mrs. Haze's gyrations and hip swiveling, poor old Charlotte is doomed by wishful thinking, and the blinders she wears wrought of middle aged desperation. From the beginning Humbert weaves a covert dominion of animal satisfaction through duplicity, subterfuge, lies. He will ultimately marry the mother of his obsession, and even kill her (though, he is spared from actually having to pull a trigger...for now) to arrive at a jealous and selfish possessiveness. Lolita is but a pet for the mad Mr. Humbert, a project, a model airplane or car, whose various small pieces are fitted precisely together according to the blueprint in his imagination, and painted in the dull, steel-toned hues of his aging sentiment. It has been stated elsewhere, and is true, that such a relationship can only spell doom. I can understand Mr. Humbert's sexual fantasies, but I shook my head in sad disapproval that he would actually act upon the little voice speaking through his loins. How could Humbert possibly carry on a legitimate role as this poor girl's step-father, no matter how caring or loving, after having, well, let's face it and call the spade what it is, after having sex with his step-daughter? And, all before telling the poor thing that her mother was dead. In this, Stanley Kubrick is just this close to asking his audience for a suspension of belief. On the other hand, the same audience must wonder in what modern American trailer parks just such debauchery is happening at this very moment? Picking up all belongings, moving from city to city, town to town, the bedrock of Lolita's fragile existence trampled under the loafers and wing tipped shoes of an older man. Molested.Nature is both cruel and merciful, and like a nurturing mother, we see in the end a sort of reprieve. Lolita may just heal from the scars of her precocious and shamelessly consumed youth, in her simple, but wholesome marriage to Richard Schiller, a man more suited to Lo's age, and its attendant maternity. Life doesn't stop at youth, it steam rolls over the harshest embitterment, bleaching the scarlet droplets from her fabric, merging such indelible stains into a confused, but interesting , collage of character.We are left with Humbert, the damned, facing down mortal truth with Quilty, another deviant of the same fabric. In the end neither gains our sympathy. Each gets what he seemingly deserves One a bullet, the other fatal heartbreak. What of Lolita? We hope the she and Richard are lost for all time in the trance of mundane domestic duty, somewhere under the starlit blanket of an Alaskan night, in the shadow of Danali. We pray that nothing especially exciting or life shattering ever happens to Lo again. "},{"Title":"Excellent flick, unusual for the 60´s","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kubrik surely enjoyed disturbing society in such dark ages, even as the censorship try hard to softening this story, about an intellectual mature teacher who loses his head about this cute and tender young girl. This guy, embraced for this lust, is forced to keep, a long list of lies. It is this weird individual, interpreted for the genius Peter Sellers, who drive him out of tracks. And  so started the Lolita Legend. "},{"Title":"Duisappointing","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Much was made of the story line before this film opened in 1962 and every advertisement or preview for it was meant to convey an aura of illicit sex and taboo mores. I never found it in the least bit titillating or interesting as to plot or characterization. As a matter of fact, I continue to find it thoroughly unremarkable in every way. The most disappointing performance in this film is Lolita herself! There was never a moment in the film when I believed that she believed or understood what she was doing, thinking or feeling...on any level! With a cast that included James Mason, Shelly Winters and Peter Sellers it borders on madness that Sue Lyons performance was allowed to suffice! I don't know what Stanley Kubrick was thinking of in his direction of her character but I do know he missed the mark entirely. See it once or even twice...but don't be shocked if you come away appreciating this review!!! "},{"Title":"A Failure","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Stanley Kubrick was one of the most brilliant directors ever to work in Hollywood. With movies like A Clockwork Orange, Paths Of Glory, 2001 A Space Odyssey and Full Metal Jacket he created some of the most original, daring movies ever made. With Lolita, however, he showed that even the masters can make a mistake.It's not fair to judge the movie by comparing it to the book, so I won't do that- the film fails on its own terms. First and foremost, its central premise is never realized Humbert is supposed to be a man so obsessed with and attracted to the underage daughter of his landlady/girlfriend that he allows desire to overtake his logic and crosses the line by engaging in a sexual affair with the child. For the movie to work, we have to see this. No, I'm not talking about graphic nudity or full-frontal sex scenes, I'm talking about on-screen manifestations of Humbert's lust and the seduction itself. I understand the film was made long ago and was even more of a controversial topic then as it was today, but Kubrick here clearly finds the topic too hot to handle, and though he ostensibly fought to make this film he was clearly unwilling or unable to deliver the impact necessary to support the story. In fact, the first time I watched the film I wasn't even sure that Humbert and Lolita had slept together until it was referenced later! If Humbert is going to be punished by his God/conscience-figure Clare Quilty then you have to give the audience the nasty, vicarious thrill of committing the crime! Though we are a nation of outward prudes I guarantee that everyone who bought a ticket to this movie did so for the excitement and revulsion of the film's central premise. What we're left with is a repressed character being tortured by everyone in the movie for an implied crime he never got to enjoy. Since standards were so strict at the time we don't even really get to view Lolita as a sexual creature with the possible exception of her bikini debut and symbolic hula-hooping. Whether Kubrick was bowing to censors or employing his own coding this was too much suppression for a story that might be more at home in a Penthouse magazine.The film's other flaw? In two words Peter Sellers. I love the man, and he's as brilliant a comic actor as there ever was but in this film he is frustrating, borderline offensive. Clare Quilty seems to exist only to haunt Humbert, threatening to reveal knowledge of his crime and teasing him into feeling guilty with nauseatingly-cute quips and innuendo. Quilty was supposed to be a gay but Sellers holds back on the flamboyance, yet another example of this movie's maddening lack of commitment. In one scene he dresses up as a completely different person and, with the help of a fake accent, FOOLS HUMBERT COMPLETELY! Was this choice the result of a faithful adaptation to the book or Kubrick indulging Sellers' talent for playing multiple roles? Either way the scene is rotten, and it hurts the entire film. The Clare Quilty character is such a heavy-handed killjoy that by the time the film catches up to its flashback opening-sequence the only thing you're rooting for is for Humbert to shoot him in the face.Kubrick would later use the great Sellers to comic perfection in Dr. Strangelove, but Lolita is a movie that tiptoes on eggshells it promised to break. Don't bother.GRADE D "},{"Title":"5/10 Kubrick's odd-ball","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love every Kubrick film but this one.  Nothing in this picture worked for me, especially the dull performances, and the all filler no killer scenes. This movie felt like a modern day screen saver, with nice things to look at, but going know where at all times.The movie bored me, and I was put off by the way the subject matter was presented.The 1997 version is MUCH better. "},{"Title":"Undeniably tame","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There were more than just a few problems with Kubrick's adaptation of Lolita.  Although Vladimir Nabokov, the author, shares the screenwriter's credit, Stanley butchered Nabokov's original screenplay (which I have read, and it is infinitely better than what ended up on the screen.)Of course, Kubrick had to fight with the censors who still gave it what could be considered in modern parlance an R rating.  Lolita and Humbert couldn't kiss, couldn't really show their sexuality, couldn't show Quilty being killed, etc.Sue Lyon, who played Lolita, was actually sixteen, although she always looked like a thirty year old hooker.  It wasn't about a doomed man's obsession with a little girl, it was a horny old guy wantin' some young hot chick.  Updating the postwar America to Cold War America setting took away from the film.Shelley Winters was annoying as Charlotte Haze.  Every other word out of her mouth made me just want to slap her celluloid face.  No wonder Humbert wanted her dead!James Mason was far too old and boorish to play Humbert.  The original actor considered was Cary Grant, who would've been much more suited to the role.Peter Sellers stole the show as Clare Quilty.  His largely improvised scenes were comic, but took away from the main point of the story.Kubrick's decision to show the killing at the beginning of the film, thus revealing Quilty's identity to the audience in the opening scenes, took away from the intelligence of the original story.  BAD IDEA.Overall, it wasn't a bad shot for 1962.  But there could've been just a few little changes that would've made this an outstanding classic. "}{"Title":"Adds Up to a Big Misfire","Date":"2 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite Mason's gameful try at the obsessed intellectual Humbert, the movie's a mess. Looks like director Kubrick felt obliged to film every line of Nabokov's script. And that drags out the slender premise to near 3-hours of palaver, sometimes silly (Winters), sometimes poignant (Mason), but hardly ever convincing. But what can be expected after that low-comedy opening with Sellers as Clare Quilty, implying that whatever follows shouldn't be taken seriously. Not a good way, I think, to start a human-interest drama. But then, Shelley Winters supplies her own brand of whiny low-comedy as the sex-starved Charlotte. Then too, many of her pointless scenes with Humbert add up to a further drag. So, by the time Humbert and Lolita take off together, his thematic obsession with the sex-kitten is severely diluted. All in all, whatever challenges censorship posed at the outset, Kubrick wasn't able to compensate, resulting in arguably a low point in his otherwise stellar career. Too bad. "},{"Title":"Kubrick and the cast rise above censorship to make Lolita powerful","Date":"14 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Pedophilia doesn't seem the likely subject of a film made in the early '60s, but there's almost a power in the censorship of Lolita. Undoubtedly, the finished product did not represent the initial vision of neither director Stanley Kubrick nor Vladimir Nabokov, who penned the adaptation of his own novel, but the result is a film no less challenging.The fact that Lolita had to rely on implied sexuality because anything that so much as visually suggested illegal sexual relations could not be filmed, actually makes the film stronger in ways. It puts a lot more weight on the shoulders of James Mason as Humbert Humbert, the professor inappropriately smitten with his landlady's daughter, to convey his lust without conveying his lust, but it also refocuses the story to the psychological profiles of both Humbert and Lolita (Sue Lyon) rather than what they did or didn't do. Dolores Lolita Haze is the driving force both at times overtly and implicitly throughout the entire story. She lives with her widowed mother Charlotte (Shelley Winters) in the small town of Ramsdale, New Hampshire, where Humbert Humbert intends to spend the summer writing before he begins work as a professor. Looking for a place to rent, he finds the Hazes and agrees to stay after he sees Lolita, who's just 15 but completely physically mature. He's infatuated with the girl instantly and deals with her mother's sexual advances just to stay near her. Upset and implicitly jealous of Lolita, Mrs. Haze sends her away to summer camp. Faced with the possibility of never seeing Lolita again, Humbert marries Mrs. Haze.Lolita seems like an average gum-chewing teenager, but she understands the power she has as an attractive young woman. Even before we first see her, Kubrick's camera-work is restless and frenetic as Charlotte tries to sell Humbert on staying at their home. When they both finally go out back where it happens that Lolita is out sunning in a bikini, the camera stays still on her (no ogling, of course) and everything changes.Humbert's inappropriate motivations regarding Lolita are the most obvious, but even Mrs. Haze lets Lolita get to her. Much like Snow White and the Evil Queen, Charlotte is driven by jealousy because Lolita has her whole life ahead of her and she's young and beautiful, whereas Charlotte feels desperate and unloved in these seven years after her husband's death. Then there's Clare Quilty (Peter Sellers). The film opens with Humbert shooting him to death, with regards to Lolita, and goes back four years earlier to tell the story from the beginning. Quilty appears throughout the story and the implied romantic link between he and Lolita grows stronger as the film goes on, although he remains on the periphery. Not too much, however, because Kubrick devotes a lot of attention to Sellers' performance. He's brilliant (and clearly the inspiration for Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove, which would reunited the two a few years later), but his comedy does at times drastically change the tone of the film to humor and detract from the central characters' story.Sellers gets to have all the fun, but the challenge belongs mostly to Mason. He must ride a fine line between open lust and hidden obsession, which makes watching his character a torturous experience. He ultimately gets it right, however, because we actually manage a bit of inexplicable sympathy for the creep. Even as his character turns into a possessive parent figure bent on preserving Lolita's innocence for his own selfish reasons, we still agree with bits of his ideology enough to care about him, sadly. The censorship of the film lends a helping hand here because we never literally see Humbert evolve into the disgusting pedophile we're meant to believe him to be.Lolita has to be a rare instance where a film reaps benefits from censorship. To some extent we don't ever fully understand Lolita or Humbert because we're never offered proof of the consummation of their feelings. Without so much as a subtle suggestion being tolerated outside of Lolita whispering to Humbert in the hotel room about a game she learned from the one boy at camp, the rest is left to imagination and so we can never truly understand why they are making certain crazed decisions. But that lack of tangible evidence does help us realize the power of Lolita, lust and desire as we see in the other characters. The raw tension that Kubrick creates in this subtlety does much to suggest the madness caused by these feelings and emotions. Ultimately, it is great direction that can turn a likely weakness into a commanding strength.~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"Kubrick's first really daring film misses only some of its marks","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Marked by delicious dark wit, Kubrick's film version of Nabokov's Lolita stumbles only occasionally on its risqué subject matter. Featuring one heck of a performance by James Mason as the lead and a brilliant supporting turn by Peter Sellers, the film is to the politics of sexuality in America what Dr. Strangelove was to the politics of war.I only wish that a better actress than Sue Lyon could have been found. She often limits the scope of the film with her rather flat acting. Shelley Winters fairs somewhat better because she seems to understand the limitations of her character more, and thus plays her in a less self-conscious manner.When Sellers and Mason are on screen together, the film really takes flight. Mason truly seems disturbed by the energy that Sellers brings to the scenes, not just as a character but also perhaps as an actor. It's very hard to tell with such a talented actor as Mason. Sellers' character could be seen as a stand-in for Mason's libido -- he's sort of Mason's dark shadow. While Mason is a serious scholar of English poetry, Sellers writes quickly-forgotten TV melodramas. But he seems to have infinitely more success with Lolita, as if she mistakes his insubstantiality for something even more elusive, what she calls real genius. This is the portrait of a man that I'm always leaving Lolita with, every time I see it -- he's a man practically intoxicated with his limitations and frustrations. He fails to recognize some of the rather basic aspects of the cat and mouse game that is romance, the sexual politics of the equation. Thus he tries to sneak into the bed even after having received a cot; when he finally takes himself off to this cold exile, he's rewarded in the morning by Lolita. Humbert Humbert never understands how to with-hold something or how to sacrifice in order to get what he wants; thus even with all the sacrifices that he does make, he never fails to bore Lolita. Clare Quilty on the other hand knows how to play these games.I don't feel that the film ever reaches its full potential, because the characters never fully come to life. We always feel that there's an emotional distance between ourselves and themselves. But it's a very daring film that manages to be both poignant and funny about a topic that was (and is) little discussed. "},{"Title":"Another Lolita (SPOILERS!)","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Admittedly, I am much younger than this movie, and having been born and raised abroad, might not be in the best position to comment on the authenticity of America as presented in this film. More importantly, I don't know what the acceptable norms were for films dealing with sexuality, especially adult-child relationships (still a highly contested subject).Having made this disclaimer, I must say that I was genuinely disappointed by the movie, as Kubrick made no effort to capture the spirit of the book. In fact, the book has many spirits - the physical, the metaphysical, and the surreal, none of which are captured by this film. In some sense, the movie doesn't pretend to be faithful to the novel - Quilty has a central role, Lo is much older than she should be, and so on. But without dwelling deeper into the mind of H.H., without focusing more on the *subject* (not the object) of his obsession, without getting us to see Lo through Humbert's sick yet loving eyes the movie is a hollow shadow of the book, bearing little in common other than the name.Under no circumstances can I recommend this movie. For those who have not read the book (DO read it!), the movie will, at best, be mildly entertaining thanks to Peter Sellers; to those who have read it (and have understood it on at least one of the three levels), it will be painfully disappointing.There has been a good deal of comparison between this version and Adrian Lyne's remake. To me, there is no comparison. While I strongly believe that no single movie can fully capture the full scope of the novel, Lyne largely succeeds at the physical level and makes an effort at showing the surreal. Kubrick fails on every level. Last bit of advice if you saw the inner beauty of the novel, if you grew to love Lo as H.H. did, if you were happy, disgusted, ill, thrilled, and paranoid along with Humbert, save yourself the disappointment of having a hard script and real faces super-imposed on your mental picture. Rather, pick up the book, and read it over - you will pick out things that you missed on the first (second, third...) read, relive the drama, laugh at the comedy, all in glorious color of your very own imagination.  "},{"Title":"second only to Dr. Strangelove","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film when I was in college, and what I remember is walking home after the film, talking about it with my friends and suddenly bursting out crying and being unable to stop. What triggered this was the thought he really loved her. I give credit to James Mason for that (James, sublime in the bathtub scene). These days, I watch the film again every few years, and though I've never gotten back that original reaction, I love it (with the exception of the business with the folding bed--it's just too tedious, however metaphorical). Peter Sellers (right in the boxing glove) is constantly hilarious, the clown who drops in from time to time hardly dominates the movie as so many people say. Sue Lyon is also perfect in her role (too bad if she's older than in the book--the book has an entirely different tone). She is complex, not the innocent victim what could be more boring than a film about an innocent victim? Shelley Winters (who is really quite attractive but willing to make herself ridiculous and gloriously annoying) could not be funnier. One of my favorite films of all time second only to Dr. Strangelove among Kubrick's films. (PS. I hated Eyes Wide Shut.)   "},{"Title":"Dark comedy has its moments but overall it's a yawn...","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" If it weren't for JAMES MASON's brilliant performance and an occasional moment of truth from SHELLEY WINTERS (who manages to be annoying and poignant at the same time), this LOLITA would not be worth viewing. Supposedly controversial because of its pedophile angle, it has SUE LYONS looking more like a normal late teen rather than a twelve year-old nymphet as described in the novel, which blunts the theme of the story right from the start. Then too, the novel was too racy for the censors so Stanley Kubrick made a whole bunch of changes which manage to turn the film into a semi-successful black comedy with good performances from Mason, Winters and PETER SELLERS (as Clare Quilty).But overall, it's got a lot of dull stretches before it reaches the point where the obsessive Mason (as Prof. Humbert Humbert) tracks down the missing nymphet and finds that she is married to a pleasant if dull-witted husband in a very provincial household that is little more than a shack. This is the scene where Mason really shows his stuff, turning the embarrassingly clumsy final meeting with Lyons into a tour-de-force of polished acting and making us sympathize heavily with his situation.All of the titillation the book caused and a furor of publicity over the boldness of the theme has been obliterated by the changes Kubrick was forced to make in bringing the story, damaged by censorship, to the screen. Nevertheless, it has moments of truth and irony and Sellers, in particular, provides moments of hilarity.Still, a disappointing and very flawed film version. "},{"Title":"Past competitive  space adventure","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita (1962) directed by Stanley Kubrick is always an object of pure desire from a writer as Nabokov's scandalous approach, concerning the local American dream of way of life in the affluent society. As a new citizenship of the world as it was there, at the time of a new frontier for the beginning of the competitive space adventure. Therefore, also like an egotist mind, with several self destructive thoughts about sex and attraction for the forbidden.In a given scene, with a letter sent by the girl to the man, it is also like it was perhaps one of the better moments of this movie about a child woman, whose eroticism and exhibitionism are only in the mind of the consumer. As a teacher and a teenager pupil for all the moments, into a view from the roads and motorways, too as something of modern and perturbing the nostalgic mind of someone of normal, but who experiments another circuit of affects only by a protective conception. In a dubious and very well imagined sequence on the dark rear of the stage, after the choreography of her high school, she asks him if it was possible staying alone with her colleagues in the next party at the end of the scholar year and such demand before her beautiful teacher who looks enjoyed for the godfather of Lolita, annoying his quite severe personality but somewhat stupidly himself is not so sure of that promissory deal and imposes next his own authority against any evidence of a reasonable concession in the air for the hesitant instant, with such an inexplicable feeling of nervous fear and not abstaining even a hair for losing the control in his mastermind role as it was in the place of the dead mother for a while in the instinctive subject for the definition of a young and natural candidate as boyfriend for the enjoyable happy girl like sharing a treasure with rival partners. Where is the problem, if only in the mind of the viewers and stupidity and hypocrisy of these narrative threads from an aristocratic foreigner, who came from the European steppes with a servant mind reverted in child abuse by transfer. The gray atmosphere of the time is given namely when on the road far away of the town another car is at the back of Humbert, as it was a kind of vigilant chase to his activity as professor, putting his own freedom at stake or by no means as ambiguity noticed by the scene. "},{"Title":"Could this movie be any worse?","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"11 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This version of Lolita is a classic example of a bad interpretation to a good book. This may seem surprising considering it was produced by Kubrik, and the script was written by Nabokov himself. The film follows closely, though not as close as to the new film except for separate scenes. One of the many big mistakes of this movie is that for some crazy reason the whole history of Annabel is left out and the viewer is left hanging with no grip on why Humbert loves Lolita so in the first place. This is like Adam and Eve without the tree. They also do not speak of the concept of nymphets. When Lolita is taken away by Quilty the movie does not show Humbert searching for her at all. All these events make the movie quite bare and boring to watch. The fact is that the center-point in the movie was not even Lolita, or Humbert's love for Lolita, but Humbert slowly turning mad. In a sense this is understandable since in the early 60s a movie could not be as up-front about incest and other such moral dilemmas. There is even a scene in the book and both movies where Humbert explains to Lolita that two people sharing the same hotel room are destined to engage in a relationship... here he stumbles and Lolita puts in `The word is incest.' In the old movie she does not, and the scene is simply cut. To add to all this, the actors chosen for the parts are all quite terrible. Lolita is too sweat and nice, Humbert is old and unpleasant and does not fit the description of the Humbert in the book. The movie is also too sympathetic towered the mother who is a bad actress and plays all her scans with a frozen face. Quilty, I must admit, is a good actor, and perhaps the one good thing about this movie. He stumbles and talks a lot and would be great except that his whole image is totally wrong for the part for Quilty. The quote for this movie is `How did they ever make a movie of Lolita?'  they may have made a movie, but it was not the time, and the movie would have probably been better off not made. If you happened to be Lolita obsessed like me and want to research the script, book, and both movies, then watch it just for comparison. Otherwise you would probably be better off watching another of  Julia Robert's romantic comedies. "},{"Title":"He Took Her From Crayons To Perfume","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Strained and strange, Stanley Kubrick's adaptation of Lolita is his first foray into transgressive cinema, and one of the most legendarily bold movies of all time. Bold doesn't quite equal great, however.Humanities professor Humbert Humbert (James Mason) takes up lodging in the New Hampshire household of Charlotte (Shelley Winters) and daughter Delores Lolita Haze (Sue Lyon). Humbert takes a decidedly unhealthy interest in teenaged Lolita, and encourages a romance with Charlotte in order to bring the girl into his unfatherly bosom. As his relationship with Lolita proceeds, he sweats more and more society's prying eyes.The problem with Lolita as I see it is that Kubrick was never good with people. The characters in Lolita never come across as real, whether its Winters' over-the-top performance as Mom or Peter Sellers as the mysterious Clare Quilty, more a director's affectation than a real character as he keeps popping up at all the wrong times to play on Humbert's growing paranoia. Sellers is even doing Kubrick's voice, and seems to be a case of the director inserting himself into the film. Why else does Quilty keep reappearing?Kubrick made other films with broad caricatures that work fine, like Clockwork Orange and The Shining. The problem with Lolita is it's a story that lives or dies on your acceptance of the players as real people, especially as it centers on a young girl's ruined innocence and a man's believable, willing descent into the role of victimizer and, eventually, victim. As a viewer, you need sympathy to make the experience of watching Lolita work, to make it as unnerving as author Vladimir Nabokov intended.The film starts off promisingly, hitting us with its gauzy early-60s flip take on suburbia, with the cha-cha-cha, summer balls, and Sue Lyon's fabulously knowing take on Lolita pre-seduction. Kubrick's black-and-white compositions are on par with his later Dr. Strangelove, not to mention Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho. Mason has fun as the man with the secret, communicating his passion to the audience while wearing the mask for Ma. Kubrick may not have been able to show Humbert and Lo engaged in more than a kiss on the cheek, but this forced restraint only adds to the film's cleverness, finding subverted sexuality in such things as eating a fried egg.Lolita starts going wrong with the character of Charlotte, played by Winters as a petulant woman-child stifled by a retarded religiosity. Her character's story arc is the stuff of tragedy, but played for a cheap laugh. When she discovers Humbert's designs for her daughter, she is angry, of course, yet more at the daughter than Humbert, calling her miserable brat and little beast.As the film develops, we come to share Charlotte's attitude toward Lolita. It is Lolita who starts the seduction, and Lolita who plays Humbert throughout, manipulating him with a casual cruelty that seems to justify his every perverted excess. I'm really sorry that I cheated so much, she says at one point. It's just the way things are. The only hint of collateral damage is the film's last image, a portrait of a young girl with a gunshot burn on her cheek.That's not quite giving away how the film turns out; that's one of the film's first images as well. Kubrick's usual devices (narrator's voice, circular plot design) are out in force and a comfort to his many fans for sure, but they don't add to the experience for those of us outside the club. How did they make a movie of 'Lolita'? was the film's famous tagline, but Kubrick seemed at a loss as to why, and it shows. "},{"Title":"Hamfisted Psychodrama","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Interestingly, most people who write about Kubrick films never seem to grasp that his films are largely about them, the audience. Lolita is no exception to this.<< Fill-in with interesting but unnecessary points >> Unfortunately, unless you have the common artsy-fartsy psychosis, where you view all perverseness on film, page or canvas as high art, you'll notice that Lolita is silly and boring and certainly no 20th century Oedipus Rex.<<9 lines>> <<10 lines>> "}{"Title":"Was love invented by God or the Devil","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Was love invented by God or the Devil. It can be the be the most wondrous thing or the worse. It is often both. I thought there was to much Peter Sellers in the movie. Time and space a wanting an a repulsion. Evil and good that is what this movie is about. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time.","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I haven't read Vladimir Nabokov 's novel (and I don't want to afterseeing this) but the movie taken on it's own merits should bepassed over.  Watch something else!  I will agree that Winter'sperformance as the annoying mother we've all met (or had) is ontarget, but I find little else to redeem this picture.  This is another movie that makes Kubrick inconsistent.  I only saw hints of histrademark cleverness. "},{"Title":"Switch Lolitas gender & fans will line up to condemn it","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"12 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not a prude or a conservative but there's nothing in this material artful enough to raise it above salaciousness. Exactly how many reviewers here would describe a story about male on male statutory rape as tasteful and entertaining or pitch black comedy? The permissiveness of heterosexual men who rate this movie highly with a wink are the exact population who would describe the 'funny' story of a man molesting an underage boy despicable. So let me recalibrate your morality for you This is because it IS despicable, and so are the events Lolita concerns itself with. Why is this topic fair game? Because hetero men have a warped but acceptable interest in deflowering underage virgins. I know hetero men, who have shared this fantasy with me. This is precisely like the crowd of half-wits insisting that the lesbian scene in Mulholland Drive is 'artistically necessary.' Ask them what art would require them to watch two guys doing it. It's not art... it's softcore titillation. Don't hide your horniness behind claims of 'art.'Leaving morality behind and evaluating the film on strictly entertainment grounds results in a mediocre review of an underwhelming movie. It's a fragment of a book, and it's humor is pretty trifling. I watched with an open mind but laughed about once. Is the tone of Nabokov's book really this silly? But put Stanley on the front end of the damned thing, and the fawning Kubrick cult will line up to stamp their Me Too vote of excellence on it. Damned if they can expound on a single idea in the piece. "},{"Title":"Complex and tragic Kubrick. And those performances & black humor weighs up overlength and talkiness!","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Stanley Kubrick's adaption of Nabokov's notorious novel of British teacher Mason's obsession with American teenage girl Lyon, and the complications in tow, with her mother Winters and subsequent lover Sellers.Controversial? Not today, man! But it remains a challengingly complex and tragic tale- like a great Greek one- propelled by glorious performances and black humor... yet marred by unnecessary length, stagy feel and talkiness. Love Mason's brief, suffering marriage to Winters plus the nod to Spartacus at the brilliantly dramatic start. Note I haven't read the book or seen the 90's version yet.6 out of 10 from Ozjeppe "},{"Title":"I'm with TY, November 30, 2007","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" While there is a lot of talk in these reviews about how/if this movie does justice to such a great book, to me it's much more basic than that -- ANY attempt, be it book or movie, to in any way shape or form legitimize or romanticize pedophilia is perverse at its core. And anyone thinking that there is no such agenda being perpetrated here is more naive than any 12 year old virgin.This society has become so warped and twisted that it doesn't even recognize pure abomination when it's staring it right in the eye. The real question here isn't how did they ever make a movie of Lolita...but why. And the answer is quite simple -- because pedophiles exist in the world and in Hollywood; they have an agenda; and this fiasco is the fruits of their labors. I for one believe that it's high time to put an end to this sort of glorified pandering once and for all, and start calling it what it is -- perversion, plain and simple; and stop calling it art. "}]