[{"Title":"Mutilated potential classic","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"87 out of 123 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Fritz Lang's Metropolis is rightly regarded as a classic, but many reviews make note of the 'illogical' story and bad character plotting. Characters come and go without rhyme or reason, and the plot makes no sense, they say. Well, yes, but that's not Fritiz's fault, nor the movie's; Metropolis makes little sense because 55 minutes of the film was hacked out and destroyed, never to be seen again, by the US distributors. Of course it's gonna be a dog's dinner with an hour missing, ya clods!!The same is true of Cleopatra, and this is basically the only reason the film fell flat on its' 1963 release. It was originally intended to release Cleopatra as two three hour movies, the first dealing with Cleo's relationship with Caesar, the second her affairs with Marc Antony. Fox said no to this idea, and demanded a single four hour film instead. This decision is like taking Peter Jackson's Lord Of The Rings Trilogy and removing an hour from each film wherever an hours' worth can be removed...a recipe for incoherence and total disaster.So, with two hours of footage gone, major characters are reduced to glorified walk-ons, vital plot points and motivations are lost, and the story loses what LOTR has...length with the proper pacing. People will sit and watch 4 hours of Return Of The King because it flows properly. People will not sit and watch 4 hours of stitched together rough cuts...that's what Cleopatra is, even in the DVD roadshow edition...because what we have is something that is too bitty and haphzard to sustain interest.But there is still glory in Cleo....Roddy McDowall, Martin Landau and Rex Harrison all act their socks off, the sea battle is kick ass, and Liz Taylor looks pretty scrummy in Egyptian softcore porn clothes. And only a Gen Xer like me could love that hideously pompous overblown dialogue.Great film! For what it is. It just should have been TWO films, that's all. Real eyepopping trippy spectacle, done in a 'damn the money, full speed ahead' way that just doesn't happen any more. Like Casino Royale, Cleo is a wonderful disaster. "},{"Title":"A Film Of Two Halves","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"74 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" First of please note this is a review of the recent restored DVD version of the film not the savagely cut older version of the film.Having watched the documentary on this film it seems amazing this film was ever completed how the director managed to get anything even vaguely coherent to the screen is a minor miracle in itself. Cleopatra is a luscious period epic and it's clear no expense was spared on either scenery or costumes, gorgeous to look at but somehow unsatisfying at the end. The movie seems to lose it's way half way through as Rex Harrison departs so for me does the quality of this movie.It's difficult to tell whether this is due to over the top performances from Taylor and Burton or the forced cuts to reduce the running time. Roddy McDowell is the highlight of the 2nd half of the film and i'm sure Joaquin Phoenix must have researched his role for Gladiator here, McDowell's Octavian is chilling in the extreme. But the rest of the 2nd half of the movie descends into melodrama, where the 1st gave us the excellent Harrison restrained and regal as Ceaser the 2nd gives us real life lovers Burton and Taylor locked in an over-acted doomed romance. But throughout the film there are supporting actors giving first class performances that without the cuts would be interesting to see Martin Landau, Andrew Keir, Hume Cronyn and George Cole all have their moments it's just a shame there aren't more of them.If I could split my vote over the two halves of the movie the first half would get 9/10 the 2nd 6/10 as I can't I'm going with a 7/10 overall. "},{"Title":"A Cleopatra Comeback?","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"54 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm pleased to read all the positive reviews of this film, which I first saw when it was released and have seen perhaps five times since.  In 1963 the movie was almost universally condemned by critics, and I was just about the only person who admitted that I loved it.  Part of that, though, had to do with the Taylor/Burton affair and the scandal it created.  Liz Taylor in 1963 was not only considered the most beautiful woman in America, she was also thought of as a serial home-breaker and a real threat to the morals of the American Republic.Why?  I don't agree with many positive comments about the acting.  Taylor and Burton were not too bad, but they didn't handle the pompous dialogue as well as Rex Harrison, Hume Cromyn, Martin Landau and especially Roddy McDowell, who was perfection itself and, I believe, accurately portrayed as the very young, ambitious and unscrupulous, but brilliantly intelligent Octavian (later the emperor Augustus).Sure, some of the dialogue stinks, and the movie seems too long (perhaps because so much of it was cut to fit into fours hours).  Nevertheless, for sheer magnificence and recreation of a most critical time in the history of two vanished high civilizations it has never been, and probably never will be, surpassed. "},{"Title":"Too much negativity, not enough praise!","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"59 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Regarded as the biggest flop (at least until Ishtar) in motion picture history, Cleopatra has been given the short end of the stick since it first premiered in 1963 but it still is a great film. True, it did plague 20th Century Fox to the point of near bankruptcy (until The Sound of Music saved it in 1965) and Elizabeth Taylor's health overshadowed the film schedule but there are more good things about the film than there are bad, the backlashing of the film has just blown itself all out of proportion. Richard Burton and Elizabeth's much-publicized offscreen love affair grew to such a feverishly fiery degree that it made their onscreen relationship as Antony and Cleopatra all the more genuine. Rex Harrison as Caesar is first-rate as well and yet he was the only one out of the entire cast that received an Oscar nomination (Richard Burton was one who should have been in the running as well... his performance is equal to his earlier work in The Robe and later in Becket and Anne of the Thousand Days). Miss Taylor is very commanding in the role of her career and as a result few remember Claudette Colbert's earlier turn as Egypt's most memorable ruler in Cecil B. De Mille's 1934 version. The one point I want to make is that the film should have gotten more praise than it did... like The Wizard of Oz, Fantasia and  It's a Wonderful Life it seems to get more appreciation by it's second generation than it did it's first. "},{"Title":"A tragedy,not a soap opera.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"52 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I have always thought it was one of the most underrated Hollywood epics.First of all,it's only partially an epicmost of the scenes are intimate,generally two characters who are constantly tearing each other apart.Joseph L. Mankiewicz,one of the most intelligent director of his time,rewrote the dialogue during the shooting,night after night ,and the results are stunning,considering the difficulties he encountered with his budget and his stars.Cleopatra's dream is perfectly recreated,much better than in De Mille 's version -a good one,though-It's Alexandre the great 's plan ,this Alexandre from whom she's descended,to make a huge empire,uniting the Orient and the Occident.One of the major scenes takes place near the great conqueror's grave .The second part has Shakespeareans accentsCleopatra becomes some kind of Lady Macbeth,and Marc Anthony is left alone against the whole Roman army (the Shakespearian trees).The last lines (repeated twice) are some of the finest you can find in an epic movie.And look how Fellini has been influenced by Mankiewicz for the final of his Satyriconthe photograph turning into a fresco. As for the epic scenes,they are here,of course but they are little over 20% of the movie.And to Cleo's awesome Rome entrance ,you can prefer Ceasar's epilepsy fit.The actors are not as uneven as it's often said.Elizabeth Taylor had already worked with Mankiewicz (the extraordinary suddenly last Summer) and she learned a lot with him;she's now ready for the great roles of the sixtiesVirginia Woolf,Secret ceremony taming of the shrew.Richard Burton had been Alexander the great (coincidence!) in a rather academic movie,and here he portrays a clumsy,almost Don Quixotesque Marc Anthony with art.However,Rex Harrison steals the show in the first half.Supporting actors ,including Roddy MCDowall ,a puny but shrewd Octavious,and Richard O'Sullivan ,an effeminate Ptolemy. This visual poem,a feast for the eye and for the mind must be restored to favor. "},{"Title":"An amazing film","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"42 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cleopatra is a film of myths.A massively troubled production combined with the extraordinary love affair between Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton made for plenty of hype.But what really matters nearly 40 years on is the film itself.At this distance it is possible to see the film for what it is. A grand example of the final flowering of Hollywood.In 1963 it seemed old fashioned compared to the excitement of European cinema and what the critics perceived as new (many of their favourite films of that era now just seem dated and pretentious).But Cleopatra grows in stature with time.It is far from flawless. And certainly the second half is somehow not right. Whether the missing two hours will reclaim this part of the film is yet to be seen.But compared with Gladiator or similar modern epics, Cleopatra is a brilliant film with an intelligent script, stunning design, masterly and beautiful cinematography in 70mm (which sure beats 35mm and does justice to the intricate sets and design), an evocative and effective musical score and superb costumes and makeup.The big three, Taylor, Burton and Harrison are extremely good and in the case of Harrison, who has many of the best lines, brilliant.The supporting cast and especially Roddy McDowall are equally excellent.Cleopatra may not be a masterpiece but it is a superbly crafted and beautiful film.If it fails, it fails because of our expectations.Sit back, put your feet up and luxuriate in a quality of film-making that you simply don't see today! .... but I have always wondered what Miss Taylor thinks of this extraordinary film? "},{"Title":"Difficult to evaluate","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"37 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It is extremely difficult to evaluate this film. On the one hand, the presentation is first class the sets, props, costumes, location photography, and music are all of the caliber befitting the grandiose ambition of the production. I personally found the acting by the truly all-star cast to be uniformly excellent throughout with McDowall's Octavian and Harrison's Caesar deserving special mention. Taylor deserved the million dollars she got for the title role and Burton's occasional scenery chewing didn't detract significantly from his interpretation of Mark Antony. But the question remains over what might have been. I believe any true film buff would want to pass final judgment on this production only after having viewed the 6 hour plus version in order to determine whether the extensive cuts (even in the new 2 DVD four hour version) were justified. I should add that the third disc of extras contributes greatly to the appreciation (especially where the director controversy and Burton-Taylor relationship is concerned) of what was attempted. "},{"Title":"For the splendid role of history's ultimate femme fatale&#133; the highest fee ever paid an actress up to then&#133;","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Mankiewicz shaped the characterization to suit Liz Taylor's role... The movie follows her from the father-daughter romance with Caesar to the tempestuous man-woman contretemps with Marc Antony&#133; As the cunning, nubile daughter to Caesar's wise father, Liz is quite pleasing... She's expected to do much more acting as the womanly, passion-driven Queen, but she's more in control of the character when she's playing Caesar's pupil rather than Marc Anthony's teacher... Her high comedy exchanges with Harrison have quiet authority; her doomed romance with Burton never ignites&#133; The brilliant script by Mankiewicz covers the eighteen years leading up to the formation of the Roman Empire, starting with Cleopatra (Elizabeth Taylor) meeting Julius Caesar (Rex Harrison) in Egypt, when he arrives as conqueror, and ending with her suicide when defeated by Rome and when her Roman general and lover Mark Anthony (Richard Burton) also ends his life&#133; The visual content of the film is stunning, especially Cleopatra's entry into Rome, carried on a vast throne-platform and bringing with her the son sired into Tarsus, and the vast battle of Actium&#133; The sets and costumes are among the finest ever created for the screen, but it is the literacy of Mankiewicz's script and the strength of his direction that give Cleopatra distinctions of great importance&#133; "},{"Title":"The Return Of The Queen","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"33 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  That a film as good as CLEOPATRA is was created at all under the madness and panic of it's legendary production is indeed an amazing feat. That CLEOPATRA has been given such loving care in its restoration in this DVD of the Road Show print and the attendant bonus materials is a wondrous gift to those who love this film. The documentary, Cleopatra The Film That Changed Hollywood is in on it's own an engrossing and informative two hour movie. For anyone who knows little of the history of CLEOPATRA, or who was not around at the time, this documentary will give them the feeling of what those last days of old Hollywood was like. And therein one can find the reasons why this intimate epic is indeed the wonder that it is. Many thanks should go to the Mankiewicz family and the producers of the documentary. The print and the sound of CLEOPATRA seems now to surpass what I recall it to be in its first presentation nearly forty years ago. The depth of the colors and the richness of the shadows are indeed splendid. In this restoration, it is hard to believe this film is as old as it is. The commentary track is in and of itself like finding the lost treasures of the long dead monarch. For there are wonderful recollections by Martin Landau, Tom and Chris Mankiewicz, and even the one of the films publicists Jack Brodsky gets to read sections from his book The Cleopatra Papers which gave a blow by blow description of everyday events on the set. But I must give special mention to Landau's part. With his keen eye for the art direction of John DeCuir one sees things in the background and along the edges of the scene that one never noticed before. Such lovingly detailed sets and interiors will never be seen again. The costs today are just too prohibitive.   Also his insights into what was cut from the film, particularly his and Richard Burton's contributions in the second act give one the idea of what Mankiewicz was intending. Poor Richard suffered the unkindest cut of all. The presentation of the DVD menus is so clever and exotic. The creators of this DVD are to be commended in their art direction. At last we now know what is behind the massive 20th Century Fox logo!The film itself remains what it has always been. It is a good film that might have been a great one if only Zanuck had trusted Joe Mankiewicz' original vision. It is said that they are still looking for the missing film; one can only hope that they succeed in this task. The performances range from good to excellent. Particular praise must go to Rex Harrison, Richard Burton, Martin Landau, Robert Stephens, Andrew Keir, and Roddy McDowall. Lastly in this department there remains Elizabeth Taylor's performance as Cleopatra. At the films release the brickbats were reserved for her and for reasons that had nothing to do with her performance. Many reviewed her behavior as seen through the narrow focus of the tabloids and emerging paparazzi.  Even today it is sometimes hard to separate the history of the lady from her film roles. But here is the moment in time, in this film where she became the ELIZABETH TAYLOR she has remained in the mind of the world ever since. In this fact alone she is perfect in the role. But she is more than that. As Cleopatra she is at once regal and commanding, strong and tender, soft and hard. These are all the contradictions that have always been at the heart of Cleopatra herself. She and the Queen are masters of a public enigma wrapped within a mystery. In her performance as written by Mankiewicz Elizabeth Taylor is probably not too far off from the historical Cleopatra. Finally, ever since Judith Crist gave CLEOPATRA the needle in 1963 and in the act made her name, the public, for the most part, has viewed this film a failure. But today, stripped of the scandal, hype and hysteria of its release in June of 1963 it is now possible to view CLEOPARTA as the film it is. A near great film that is the signpost of when Hollywood passed from one age into another. Historically this is an important DVD and I recommend it highly. CLEOPATRA remains as seductive, beautiful, and intelligent as it was in Walter Wanger's original conception. Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale her infinite variety.  "},{"Title":"One of the best love stories of all filmdom!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Once again I have watched the complete Cleopatra (or at least the complete Cleopatra available).  In addition, because I watched the DVD version of the movie, I also was able to view the outstanding documentary Cleopatra The Film that Changed Hollywood.  And, once again, I am all but overwhelmed by the movie.  Elizabeth Taylor may very well be one of the most under-rated actresses of the last fifty years; her public private life has always overshadowed her acting ability.  But it is not her notoriety that puts her in the same league with other two time Oscar winners like Jane Fonda, Sally Field, Tom Hanks, etc.  In Cleopatra, as in George Stevens' Giant, she runs the gamut from adolescent to matriarch, from calculating queen to devastated lover, and rings every bell in between. But her performance alone does not make the movie.  Not only is she supported by Burton, in one of his best screen performances, and Rex Harrison, in one of his best, Taylor's old friend Roddy McDowall gives the performace of his lifetime (how sad that a clerical error cost him his Oscar); we see a young Martin Landau, a young Carroll O'Connor, a young Jean Marsh, give performances worthy of anything they've ever put on screen since.  The documentary points out that the original Mankiewicz cut of the film was 6 1/2 hours long and that Fox is currently trying to reassemble the film as originally cut.  If they ever succeed in doing so, I would stand in line to see it in theatres and buy it on DVD the first chance I got.  As a history freak, it more than satisfies; as a fan of brilliant acting, it wows!  Everyone should see it at least once! "}{"Title":"Just one of so many noble movies","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"25 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is the movie that got me hooked on historical epics from the fifties and sixties. I do not know where to start. First I'll mention the spectacular sets particularly of Rome and Alexandria. This was before CGI! The costumes were also finely detailed. Now I will mention the great cast. Every actor gives their role so much emotional value that you think that a whole separate movie should be made for their character. My favorite characters were obviously Julius Caesar (#1) and Marc Antony (#2). Rex Harrison gave Caesar such a imposingly powerful presence yet at the same time touchingly vulnerable value that I was saddened to see him killed at the end of the first half. He lived up to Caesar's rep and more. Richard Burton was a different kind of lover for Cleopatra more tormented and at times insecure about his ability to live up to his fame. His abandonment of the Battle of Actium was particularly shocking. My two favorite Burton scenes were his rant to Cleopatra on her barge about being in Caesar's shadow and his soliloquy about his post-desertion guilt. Elizabeth Taylor was very emotional and intelligent in the title role. She can be commanding when she needs to be and vulnerable when it is safe to do so and at times both. She evolved Cleopatra from the young queen dropped at Caesar's feet from a carpet to the defeated monarch who lost her son, her second love, her kingdom but never her dignity. The ending was powerful and befitting the last of son many noble rulers. The dual romances were great because they took their time without dominating the film. You believed that she really cared about and loved both these men. Alex North's score is unforgettable and deeply emotional. The script is intelligent, witty, literate, and strangely poetic. My one scruple is that the producers cut the original film by TWO HOURS! That is desecration right there. I hope they find that missing footage because I would definitely like to see more character development even though this film had its fair share. Still, this is a haunting, romantic, and eye-filling spectacle that remains high on my list "},{"Title":"It has it all","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Breathtaking photography, fabulous costumes, wonderful lead and supporting role performances, a dual love story that is timeless - the romance with Caesar for power and the romance with Marc Antony for love, unmatched music by Alex North, that's what's in Cleopatra. From the time that it came out, I have remained a person who has not been afraid to say that I have loved it.Elizabeth Taylor's legendary beauty is very evident here. My favorite scenes of hers are Cleopatra's anguish upon finding out about Marc Antony's Richard Burton marriage and the closing scene with her reunited with the dying Marc Antony. Similarly, Caesar's Rex Harrison opening war scene, Marc Antony's gut-wrenching soliloquy as a broken man after the defeat at Actium , Octavian's Roddy McDowall harsh scolding of an officer that let him know of Marc Antony's death, Sosigenes' Hume Cronyn death scene, Apollodorus' Cesare Danova support for Cleopatra, and Rufio's Martin Landau support for Marc Antony are all permanently etched in my memory.The shear lushness of the production has to be seen to truly believed. Remember, this was released in 1963 far before the gimmickry of computer enhanced effects. The crowds in these scenes are real, the buildings are real, this is not a movie that was put together with the smoke and mirrors of computers. I truly do hope that restorers are able to eventually find the footage that was deleted, primarily due to Zanuck's influence and not Mankiewicz's desire, so that we may see more of what Mankiewicz had in mind.I also strongly recommend that one view the DVD release. The included documentary about putting the film together helps one get a good perspective about the real headaches involved in getting this film made. "},{"Title":"CleoLizzie, or the Study of Excess","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"36 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" If you're brave enough to sit for four hours of talk, talk, and more talk, prolonged entrances, even more prolonged exits, scenery, crowds, and Liz Taylor's awful acting (which in this movie is only overshadowed -- pun intended -- by her powerful make-up), then you must be a sucker. Anyhow, I was. TCM offered this four hour turkey in its showcase about Making Faces and the history of Cleopatra over the years, first as-performed by Claudette Colbert who was much more vamp-ish and at least could make the anachronisms of her very 1930-ish wardrobe seem convincing, then as this travesty of a film, at the cusp of what would become The Liz and Dick Show.Didn't Joseph Mankiewicz even bother to check the two Shakespeare plays (Julius Caesar and Antony and Cleopatra) which narrate the stories presented here? Or was he too enamored of his own capacity for dialog that he thought, Sure. Let me make 'em talk until the celluloid melts; it's my dialog and they'll love it. Not so, Mr. Mankiewicz -- what worked so well in ALL ABOUT EVE tanks here. And for a film this excruciating and long, made even longer by its lack of action, it's a killer. It made me wish to do myself in, especially in a painful way. But I hung on for dear life I've seen worse, so this wasn't that bad. Just bad enough to make me feel like the one responsible for being under that massive caravan in CleoLizzie's entrance to Rome. Only I'd tip it over.I blame Mankewicz for the accelerated aging I've suffered as a result of having sat through CLEOPATRA. It's his fault my hangover was as big as Texas and then some the morning after. It's his fault that every time I see Liz I feel compelled to retch and double-over, and I consider her a darn good actress. But at least I can say I sat through the cursed thing even at the expense of my own health, and that I will never ever do such a thing. Again. Ever. "},{"Title":"A Story That Always Fascinates - No Matter How Many Versions We See Of It.","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The tale of the last great ruler of Ancient Egypt, Cleopatra, has been the subject of many films. Theda Bara played her in 1917. That version (if it still exists) is rarely seen - and if it were the broad gestures of early silent movies would probably strike us as funny. Nearly twenty years later, in 1934, Claudette Colbert did a wonderful job as the Queen of the Nile under the guidance of Cecil B. DeMille. In 1946 England produced CAESAR AND CLEOPATRA with Claude Rains sharing acting honors with Vivien Leigh, to dialog by Bernard Shaw. Finally came this 1963 version - which is different from most of the others (the 1946 is the closest to it for a different reason).The 1963 version with Elizabeth Taylor, Richard Burton, and Rex Harrison is remembered for the beginning of the Taylor - Burton relationship which destroyed their respective marriages, and got more news coverage than any items of that period except for the Cuban Missile Crisis and the assassination of President Kennedy. The film is also remembered for being (up to that time) the most expensive flop film of American movie history. It cost (in 1963 money) twenty five million dollars, which was nearly twenty two million over original budget. Which is why the 1946 version is also so similar - it was the most expensive film of the British cinema up to that time, and it too was a box office flop.The film was a mess - it was started without decent control of budget and cast from 20th Century Fox's leadership. The original filming was in England under Rouben Mamoulian, but he got no where with his stars (they included Peter Finch as Caesar and Stephen Boyd as Anthony). He was replaced by Joseph Mankiewicz, at the demand of Taylor (who had worked well with him on SUDDENLY LAST SUMMER). Mankiewicz tried to give coherence to the script - and eventually created a plan for a six hour, two part movie first about Cleopatra and her romance with Gaius Julius Caesar, and then her relationship with Marc Anthony. Mankiewicz apparently shot that much (or almost that much) but the leadership at 20th Century Fox was changed, and Darryl Zanuck returned to command. Zanuck insisted on a single long film - the four hour version that most of us have seen.Despite the cuts, the remaining film is quite a worthy one. It is attacked as pompous because the dialog is more formal than ours - it is based on Plutarch, Suetonius, and other ancient Latin and Greek historians, as well as Shakespeare (and a little of Shaw). But the basic story of the princess who fought her way to the oldest throne in the ancient world, and twice came close to being the lover/wife of the most powerful man in the Roman Empire. The supporting cast is fine, including Hume Cronym as an Egyptian adviser to Taylor, and (possibly the best performance) Roddy MacDowell as Octavian (later Emperor Augustus) who is a compound of brains, suspicions, and respect for his foes. Look at the end when he berates a soldier for dismissing Anthony as a drunken failure, reminding the soldier that he was one of Rome's greatest soldiers.Mankiewicz may lack De Mille's gift for special effects (only eight years after THE TEN COMMANDMENTS) but there were no miracles in the tale of Cleopatra - she used her wiles, her intelligence, her looks to beguile to powerful men, who also saw her as a key to their own ambitions. So there was no parting of the Red Sea here. But there is a fine production of the naval battle at Actium to really climax the second part of the story.For all the expense, the ego clashes, and the pompous language, CLEOPATRA remains a good epic film retelling of a remarkable ancient figure and her world. It's nice to note that after twenty years, it finally made a small profit from television rentals, foreign distribution, and later videos and DVDs. "},{"Title":"Much better than its reputation","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"23 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I watched this movie over 3 nights on DVD, and was captivated through the whole 4 hours and 10 minutes or so it took.Elizabeth Taylor did a pretty good job in the title role as perhaps the greatest seductress in history, and Richard Burton was superb as Antony, but for my money Rex Harrison (Julius Caeser) and Roddy McDowall (Octavian) stole the show.For me the highlight of the film was the historical backdrop - Egypt vanished as a nation and Rome reached the peak of its power and started the descent into decadence - all in one movie, and as you watch this epic you gain some insight into the psychology and power politics that made the 4 major historical figures of the time. If Antony had been a little smarter, Cleopatra might have done it after all!8/10  "},{"Title":"Wonderful and breathtaking picture","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Lets face it; this film, starring Elizabeth Taylor, has become as much of a legend as Cleopatra herself! My recommendation is that you buy the 3 disc remastered collectors set--then you can see it in all of its intended glory. Spactacular acting, costumes, scenery, make-up and effects make this a must see movie for everyone. And also, it was not a 'flop' as some people have mentioned; its one of the highest grossing movies of all time, but its just that its huge budget eclipsed this. And who can fail not to be enthralled by the real life love story that was taking place at the time with Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton? It has to be one of the greatest, if not the greatest, love story of the 20th century! And you can see it all take place right here in this movie. Watch this movie, as you will love it. "},{"Title":"Just about unwatchable","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I have truly tried several times to watch this film. I have probably seen the entire thing at this point, and it has to be one of the worst films ever made. Garish and anachronistic, badly acted, boring dialog, you name it. The scenes between Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton are cringe-inducing; they were lovers in real life, how could they be so tedious on screen? Of course, the incessant blather they are speaking doesn't help. I could not help comparing Elizabeth Taylor's plump little dumpling of a Cleopatra with the slinky, gorgeous Claudette Colbert in the 1934 version. That movie, while dated, holds up better than this junk. I was not able to suspend disbelief for even one second and believe that I was viewing ancient Egypt, despite the vast sums of money spent on the production. A travesty. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Love Affair Of All Time","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" No we're not talking about Cleo and Caesar or Cleo and Antony, we're talking about Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton on the set of this mammoth epic. I well remember in 1962 you could not get away from all the talk about the hanky panky that Liz and Dick were engaged in. It took the Cuban Missile Crisis to knock it off the front page and out of people's minds. But as the costs on this version of Cleopatra mounted, Darryl F. Zanuck couldn't have bought better publicity than this.And it's a pretty good film also. But I think the acting honors in this go to Rex Harrison as Julius Caesar. It is the best portrayal of Caesar I've seen on either the big or small screen. Harrison's Caesar is a man at the top of his conqueror game, not anyone's fool. Though he's definitely charmed by Cleopatra, he's fully aware of what she wants from him also. His fall is not from misjudging Cleopatra, but misreading public opinion back in Rome.Contrast that with Richard Burton as Mark Antony. No doubt the love affair and eventual marriage to Liz Taylor helped his performance as a man is totally thinking with his hormones. As for Elizabeth Taylor she is a most bewitching and lovely Cleopatra. She was the perfect Cleopatra for her time.Roddy McDowall probably has his best adult screen role as Octavian. He undergoes a remarkable transformation from callow youth to bloodless conqueror. What Antony tears up and throws away, he just hangs around and picks up the pieces. In the supporting cast I would single out Andrew Keir as Agrippa, Gregoire Aslan as Pothinus, and Martin Landau as Ruffio for special mention.A whole lot of tickets were sold to see the most publicized lovebirds of all time in 1963. They had to be because Cleopatra's cost over runs nearly broke 20th Century Fox. But the move going public saw and intelligent and literate spectacle. Director Joseph Mankiewicz gave us DeMille grandeur without DeMille Victorian dialog.And that's as good a reason as any to see Cleopatra. "},{"Title":"A piece of history presented with a flair commensurate with the abilities of Joseph Mankiewicz.","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Historically, Cleopatra takes the viewer into one of the most powerful governments on Earth. George Bernard Shaw weaves facts and imagination into concrete visuals.Actors chosen for various roles portray the looks, personality, and philosophy of their respective characters to a 'T'. Elizabeth Taylor shares Cleopatra's passion. Beautiful, sensuous, intelligent, desirous of bringing her beloved Egypt into the forefront of world power and politics.Rex Harrison portrays Julius Caesar's elegance, loyalty to Rome, and the hardness required of a good general and leader, but mixed with kindness and mercy. Mr. Harrison showed well what brought down Julius. Julius Caesar's need for warmth and love and his desire for a son made him fair game for Cleopatra, a powerful ruler also in need of passionate love and desire to please her man but secondary to her love for Egypt. Whatever description history and historians have given to Rome's leaders, Cleopatra's actors give outstanding performances and thereby present viewers with the flavor, the looks, and even the taste of Roman Empire power and leadership. Joseph Mankiewicz takes us onto the streets and and into the estates of Rome; the horrors of battlefields, and shows the idiosyncrasies of Egypt's Pharaohs, and how death battled life for ultimate power. One item lacking in the VHS version of Cleopatra is the elimination of the beginning commentary by a gentleman standing by Egypt's great Sphinx. His comments on Egypt, Cleopatra, and George Bernard Shaw provided an excellent set-up for this epic film.All in all - worth a 10.  "},{"Title":"In the Running for Most Boring Movie Ever Made","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I can't imagine this gargantuan historical epic being of interest to anyone. As a serious piece of film, it's far too wooden and dull to appeal to cinephiles; but for the same reasons, it doesn't even satisfy those looking for trashy camp.In terms of its physical production, Cleopatra takes the more is better approach, and stuffs every frame with gawdy set and costume details. Everything about the film is enormous; as a result, all of the actors are buried beneath a hopeless pile of Technicolor. Everyone walks around delivering stiff speeches, but no one really develops a character. The only person who manages to infuse the film with some life is Rex Harrison, so his departure from the film at the half-way point (with 2+ hours still to go!) is utterly demoralizing. The film grinds to a slower and slower pace as the remainder progresses, like an unwound music box, until by the end you can almost literally hear the DVD player laboring to spin the DVD around.This stinker landed with a huge thud at the time of its release, and it lands with a thud now. No amount of perspective can save it.Grade D "}{"Title":"Interminably long","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Wikipedia tries to contain a plot summary of every film it has an article about. The various editors of that site have to battle hard to get most plot summaries down to a manageable level. However, it speaks volumes about this film that its plot summary on Wikipedia is quite short (in comparison to most other films) and yet misses out absolutely nothing of the film.Far too long. Far too full of itself. Full of so much padding that what little plot there is gets drowned out by yet another posturing rambling speech that goes nowhere. The actors and actresses try to make a memorable speech in each scene but this just serves to render none of them special or standout. Which is a criticism that can be levelled at the rest of the film - in an effort to make each shot special, each piece of scenery remarkable, each new dress worn by Elizabeth Taylor to be more fantastical than the last ... well, it's a rare film that tries to outdo itself with every scene. It just culminates in hysterics and histrionics. "},{"Title":"Cleopatra","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Joseph L. Mankiewicz laughed the last. His goal &#150;a diptych to be released separately, rich in Shakespearean's tragic force, ample in scope, but intimate in tone- was betrayed by 20th Century Fox's chairman Darryl F. Zanuck, who butchered it into a four-hour film. In spite of all the troubles surrounding its production, Cleopatra defined big cinematic spectacle for me I was 12 years old and saw it on a Cinerama screen. It was huge, and it was grandiose. Elizabeth Taylor carried the movie on her back, but she had not developed into a full dramatic actress yet; and Leon Shamroy's Oscar-winning cinematography ranged from dramatic lighting to flourishes of color that resemble the light show of a cabaret in La Habana. But the story was compelling, and everybody gave their best. It also became the entrepreneurial model for pre-selling movies before the cameras rolled. It did not have very good reviews, and 1960's yellow press, which had nothing to do with Mankiewicz's reflection of power and love, tarnished its values. By the 1980s a tendency to reevaluate the movie had grown, and moreover it became an icon of the big historical Hollywood spectacle. Not a masterpiece by scholars' standards, it is nevertheless the big opus in the career of Mankiewicz, maker of All About Eve. "},{"Title":"Tries too hard and comes up zero.","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A real tease that doesn't deliver. Just like the probable real life Cleopatra to any man without an empire to offer. The beautiful and realistic sets and costumes never go beyond a soap opera display. While some of the supporting actors (particularly Rex Harrison as Caesar) do a credible job, Richard Burton is a rather wooden Marc Anthony and Elizabeth Taylor is terrible. She seems more like a spoiled sixties era suburban brat than a ruthless but skilled queen accustomed to wielding power.I always thought that Marie Windsor; although 10 years older than Taylor; would have been perfect for this role and might have rescued the film. Her age would even have been closer to the real Cleopatra's by the time she and Marc Anthony became joint rulers. I couldn't help giggling when people acted frightened of Queen Liz. She reminded me of a bossy older sister, whereas Queen Marie really would have made the audience shudder if she was angry. I could never understand why Windsor was relegated to B movies, but that's a subject of it's own.The lack of good battle scenes was also disappointing. A real waste when you think of all the extras and money spent on authentic looking arms and armor. The vaunted sea battle was pretty ho-hum, not nearly as good as the one in Ben Hur. I actually enjoyed the overly melodramatic and less historically accurate 1934 Cleopatra much more. Some of the sexual metaphors; both verbal and visual; were really funny, and it was much more entertaining. Lots of glitz and even some true dazzle. But not much substance, and pretty tedious for four freakin' hours. It didn't have to be this way. What a shame! "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie is befuddled, inaccurate, and above all else, Too Long. I can understand the desire to tell this story as it is one of histories most fascinating but the story in this case was botched in the telling. There is some neat Cinamatogrophy but on the whole the movie is to grandiose for my likes. The only redeeming quality to this move is the wonderful Roddy McDowell as the eventually victorious Octavian. Even his character is portrayed wrong. He is seen on the Senate steps conversing with senators as if he where one of them at the start of the film when JC is still in Egypt which is impossible considering Octavian hardly ever came to ROme and was only 15 at the time and would not have been allowed anywhere near the Senate house at that age. He is also portrayed as a cunning, power mad, and callous who skillfully forces Antony into war. Octavian did take advantage of what Antony was doing to force a war but it was Antony who foolishly declared war, thinking he could somehow win beat 300,000 Battle hardened Legionares with 3-4 proper Legions and 100,000 largely untrained and untested Egyptian Soldiers. This movie tries to glorify Antony as some kind of Doomed Hero and Romantic Martyr which makes the movie absurd because even using largely incorrect history Antony is revealed to be a rather stupid Thug which is truly what he was.1/5 terrible "},{"Title":"NEW DVD EXONERATES THIS MUCH MALIGNED FILM","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is not a perfect movie.  No one has ever suggested it is.  That said, it is much better than you may have been led to believe.  Technically, it is superb, with sets, costumes, cinematography, music, etc.,  apparently unattainable by today's filmmakers.  If you doubt this, watch Gladiator immediately after watching Cleopatra.  The technological weaknesses of the former are stark and unavoidable when compared to this film. The first act, especially, is without equal. Rex Harrison, as Caesar,  dominates the screen and gives the performance of his life (Henry Higgins not withstanding).  He earned his Best Actor Oscar nomination, and then some.  The second act suffers, more likely than not due to the merciless re-editing by the studio that saw two hours of film hit the cutting room floor, and major roles like those of Cronyn and McDowall reduced to little more than bit parts (Mankiewicz originally envisioned this as two films, not one), from an occasional lack of cohesion I tend to think was not in Mankiewicz' screenplay.  While La Taylor is ravishing throughout, she sometimes appears to be in a bit over her head.  Again, this is more apparent in the problemmatic second act. There has been an active search for years by the Mankiewicz estate, and others, to find the missing elements from his original cut and restore Cleopatra to what he envisioned.  This may yet happen.  I hope it does.  In the meantime, this newly restored roadshow version is most welcome. "},{"Title":"Cinematic gold!","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film is worth watching for the excellent cast of talented actors alone, but Richard Burton truly shines as Mark Antony.  Richard Burton was in 1963 what Anthony Hopkins is to the cinema today, a remarkably talented actor with a resonant voice and a larger than life presence, strong enough to entirely captivate an audience.  Antony's struggle to break free of the shadow of almighty Caesar and his struggle against the beguiling wiles of Cleopatra are fascinating to watch.  The always brilliant Rex Harrison seems, however, a bit peevish for Caesar.  Nevertheless, this movie is a masterpiece of cinematography and the chemistry between Burton and Taylor is riveting.  Roddy McDowell is well-cast as the bookish Octavian.  The spectacle of Cleopatra is only matched by such films as the recent Ridley Scott's Gladiator, Ben-hur, and Kubrick's Spartacus.  It's well worth viewing this piece of cinematic history.   "},{"Title":"Cleopatra - 1963","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cleopatra was one of the best movies I have ever had the pleasure of viewing. I was 10 years old when I saw it and have never forgotten the excitement I felt when I saw the show. I was very young and have never forgotten the elegance and the beauty of the costumes, the scenes, and Cleopatra. While I was too young to really know what it was all about, it left a lasting impression on me and furthered my interest in Ancient Egypt and the Middle East. The splendor of costuming affected my taste in literature, fashion, music, and art. I tease my family members and tell them that I am a reincarnation of Cleopatra complete with henna for hair, surma for eyes, etc. I bought the movie on VHS and plan to purchase it on DVD. This particular movie will be left to my heirs. "},{"Title":"Staid but enjoyable","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Probably not one of the great epics, but still big and awe-inspiring. The performances are great, the sets are beautiful and the cinematography is sweeping. As epic eye candy Cleopatra is great to watch, but there is definitely something missing in the film.The film has an enormous Shakespearian lilt to it; lots of over acting and scenery chewing which allows Taylor, Burton and Harrison to really get into their roles. But this element in the film also makes the film fairly sterile and at times downright wooden. The often stagy directing does not help the matter either.The film also uses very limited settings. The whole four hours, apart from the scenes at Phillippi, Actium, and the senate in Rome, are all shot inside some palace or another - mainly Cleopatra's. This further infects the film with that stagy wooden quality. The audience does not get taken on a fantasy ride into the ancient world, but merely into the melodramatic lives of three 'kings' with whom the audience does not have a lot in common. The film eschews any opportunity to fully revel in the mood of the times. Unlike Kubrick in Spartacus, who included Roman political intrigue as a subplot which provided a rich contrast to the adventure of the slaves, Manikewicz only provides us with a quick glance at the political scene in Rome - a few seconds of the anti-dictator Cicero bad-mouthing the triumvirate. Neither did the film show the Romans' full and true reaction to Cleopatra's stay in Rome, which was one of distrust and scepticism as well as awe; it was content just to show her spectacular arrival and the mob's awe at it. This reluctance to focus on anything but the monarch's own melodramatic ambitions and arrogance robs Cleopatra of depth, and renders the film very wooden, staid and stagy. This disqualifies it from being one of the great ancient-world epics.But still, there are many scenes which are absorbing and great fun to watch. The sets are amazing, the costumes brilliant, and it is great to see all the late-great names on screen doing a magnificent job. Cleopatra is not a bad movie, it is a well crafted and sublime extravaganza, but it does not have a universal appeal. You need to have an interest in either ancient history or old film-making otherwise Cleopatra will seem like it has gone over budget and become a flop. A 7/10 for great acting, great visuals, and what is undoubtedly a well crafted film. "},{"Title":"Hollywood loses the plot","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cleopatra should have been left to Rouben Mamoulian. He had shown with Applause (1929) that he could turn talkies back into movies; instead of Joseph Mankiewicz's penchant for loquacity, Mamoulian might have made as vigorous a spectacle out of this stately tale as he did of Blood and Sand.Mankiewicz offers stodgy camerawork and blocking, a proscenium-arch literalism in response to the difficulties of organising movement on a Panavision 70mm screen. This is okay when the spectacle merits it- as in the celebrated entrance of Cleo to Rome on her great black sphinx- but for an epic, a large part of the four-hour runtime is surprisingly static. Characters stand around in empty state rooms or boudoirs in heads-to-knees two- and three-shots, emoting and declaiming with hardly a close-up to vary the visual monotony. Was Mank still in the grip of the early-1950s delusion that widescreen didn't need close-ups?Taylor's Cleo is no match for Claudette Colbert's brio or Vivien Leigh's minxishness; Mrs Eddie Fisher is plump and ungraceful, her natural inexpressiveness further accentuated by plastered-on maquillage. She's ludicrously petulant when she tries to be commanding. Coming off the farce of her sympathy Oscar for BUtterfield 8, she can't manage regality; her intrinsic vulgar streak always shines through, and the intellect and wit of the real Cleo escape her. She never appears motivated by more than lust for power and wealth- but then neither do the three Roman leaders. So it's hard for any tragic momentum to develop as the film drags on, for who cares what happens to such characters?Putting two hours back for the sake of restoration would be cruel and unusual punishment. The four hour 15 minute cut is already 45 minutes too long; the unhistorical scenes after the Battle of Actium are far too drawn out. (In reality Marc Antony, Octavian and Cleo never met each other then, the lovers killing themselves separately.)Harrison is more plausible as the political than the military Julius Caesar. Physically he is an improvement on Claude Rains in the 1945 British financial disaster- is there a curse on this subject?. But one keeps expecting him to break into one of his speech-songs If I could talk to the senators...Roddy McDowall is absurdly lightweight and effete as Octavian, the greatest statesman who ever lived. The script cannot find time for him to expound the vision of a united empire which became the most potent civilisation in Europe's history. This Octavian is only there to get in Marc Antony's way.The movie suffers from putting its visual climax, the entry to Rome, too early. Despite the hype about the Taylor/Burton romance, they do not get to grips until an hour into the action, and Marc Antony's link with Julius Caesar is not properly delineated.Together with Anthony Mann's Fall of the Roman Empire, this production killed off the ancient-epic cycle which The Robe had started a decade earlier. Just as well, for Cleopatra feels tired and usually looks tawdry despite all the dollars lavished on it. Reminiscent in some ways of silent epics (Cleo bathing coyly behind a screen, the shock of Pompey's head being fished out of a basket, censor-testing scenes of mild debauchery in the De Mille vein) it was not the stuff to give the teenage troops lusting after sex and horror in the drive-ins of 1960s America. It is worth seeing as a monument to how the old Hollywood- in this case, the Zanucks- lost the plot. "},{"Title":"This film defines the term dog's breakfast.","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" As we all know, Hollywood has produced some extremely expensive bombs, but, in my humble opinion, this one remains in a class all its own. While it is certainly possible to spend millions of dollars, create humongous, ornate sets, and fill those sets with thousands of extras, the sheer immensity and complexity of the result does not automatically equal great art. Bigger is not always better. In fact, as in the case of this movie, it makes for a more spectacular failure. Perhaps the best way to explain the failure of Cleopatra is to contrast it with another Hollywood epic, Ben-Hur. In the latter film, there is a sublime scene where Ben-Hur is being whipped by a Roman guard on a forced slave march. Ben-Hur falls, and we see Christ (whose face is never shown) helping Ben-Hur with a drink of water. The expressions on the faces of Ben-Hur and the guard as they react to Christ's kindness, is one of the most moving scenes in film history. Only two actors are involved (and the back of a third), but the result is light-years beyond anything Cleopatra achieves.The acting in Cleopatra struck me as wooden and passionless, which is a fatal defect in a movie about a woman who was supposed to set men aflame with desire. Elizabeth Taylor did not impress me as a great beauty in this film. In fact, she looks kind of short, frumpy and chunky, though it's possible that beauty standards have changed somewhat since 1963. One of the few good points about the film is that it filled in some glaring gaps in my knowledge of Roman history. All in all, I would say the movie has a unique, grandiose, and epic kind of badness. You need to slow down and gawk at it, as you would a gruesome pile-up on the highway. You should see it just so you know how bad a Hollywood dog's breakfast can be. "}{"Title":"I think I know why it flopped.","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Well, the REAL reason is that it cost about $270 million of today's dollars, an amount almost impossible to recoup.  Four Weddings and a Funeral was a popular success, but it, too, would have been considered a disaster if it had cost as much as Cleopatra had.  But Cleopatra didn't merely lose money.  It became unloved and unmourned.  Here's why.The successful -- or at least, the popular -- ancient world epics all combine two things perilous situations where the fate of nations hangs in the balance, and a central story involving at least one common man.  Cleopatra combines the fate of nation hanging in the balance with a story about RULERS.  Thee's not a common man in sight, unless you count Marc Antony, who doesn't appear until just before the intermission, and he isn't a common man, in any case.  I don't think this is necessarly a flaw.  But I think it IS why Cleopatra is so unloved.The other reason, and this IS a flaw, is that Cleopatra the woman is so completely unlovable.  Julius Caesar is at worst a charismatic tyrant, much easier to sympathise with than Cleopatra, who shouts constantly, is enigmatic to the point of not having any personality at all, and changes her mind not only from scene to scene, but from sentence to sentence.  The scene to scene changes are the worst.  I got the uncomfortable feeling that successive scenes were written by different people, who never bothered to compare notes.And Cleopatra's costumes!  Really!  I had more than one reason to be glad when Elizabeth Taylor removed her clothes.  The men's and and the women's costumes were credited to different people; I would have creidted them to different galaxies, the women's costumes belonging on Star Trek.  Some of the outfits on the dancing girls were at least racy.Oh, yes before I forget to state the obvious, Cleopatra was never really the main character, and the story didn't go anywhere.HOWEVER, you couldn't spend the equivalent of $270 million in 1963 without getting something in return.  No doubt you could today, but the technology didn't exist then.  The spectacle IS spectacle, and the boats, and indeed all waterside scenes, are jaw-droppingly good.  Why do people object to 20th Century Fox spending so much money to give us such sights?  The money doesn't come out of OUR purse.  The dialogue ain't so bad, the musical score is Alex North's best (inappropriate in places, but speaking as someone who doesn't really like North's music, it was still lovely), and even the anachronistic and trashy sets are better to look at than many things from the 1960s.Two names leapt out at me from the opening credits.  The fist was Jacqui Chan, which I found amusing, in a small way.  The second was Richard O'Sullivan.  That's right Ptolemy is played by the lead actor from Man About the House and other British sitcoms which I suspect that nobody a day younger than me can remember.  They were big in their day, though. "},{"Title":"Snorefest","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Usually I can sit through a 4 hour film (Lawrence of Arabia, Gettysburg, and Once Upon A Time In America). But in this case I was satisfied after about 90 minutes. The problem was that there wasn't enough good material to justify this extended length. Cleopatra had the same problem as Heaven's Gate. Too much focus on spectacle and not enough on story. It should come as no surprise to anyone that this film was the first to nearly bankrupt a studio (20th Centruy Fox). Others would follow. If adjusted for inflation, the film would still be the front-runner for the biggest catastrophe of all time (far worse than Heaven's Gate). The loss would be at least 200 million.The solution would have been to put it in more capable hands. David Lean would have done this in far less time and for far less money.For a better way to spend 3 or four hours try Lawrence of Arabia, My Fair Lady, or The Sound of Music for a good '60's epic. "},{"Title":"The trouble with Cleo","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A (female) friend of mine who (regretfully, unlike me) has visited Greece said that she realized why ancient Greek men idealized both female beauty and male homosexuality Because Greek women are the ugliest women I've ever seen, she said. If she was right, there are obviously lots of exceptions to this rule in the entertainment world (and all over the Internet on some rather naughty websites). Cleopatra VII, the last Queen of Egypt, was actually Greek; she was a Ptolemy; and the historical evidence is that although she may have been brilliant and talented, she was not beautiful. So naturally she was played by the very beautiful French-born Claudette Colbert in 1934 and the English-born Elizabeth Taylor in 1963. Taylor, who was 30 when she made Cleopatra, was actually about the same age as the real Cleopatra when the events of the film transpired but already past the peak of her beauty (watch Ivanhoe, made 11 years earlier).The AMC channel produced an excellent 2-hour documentary of the vagaries of production of this film, its wretched excesses, and the fact that the film was cut very heavily for its final release. Apparently a worldwide restoration effort is under way in order to try to restore this film to something like its original form, although according to the documentary, there was never a consistent unified concept for this epic. True, many scenes are spectacular and likely never to be excelled, even with modern digital imaging techniques (compare the recent film Gladiator), but no treatment of this film I have seen has ever really gotten hold of the reason this film will never be counted among the classics of film history And that is Elizabeth Taylor's utter, absolute, complete failure to convince the viewer, for even one single second of screen time, that she is Cleopatra. Not for a moment do you believe that she is really the fabled queen of Egypt who courted Imperial Rome and almost had her way with them. Everything about Taylor's performance---her bland looks, her flat American accent, her mannerisms, her technique, her totally uninvolving screen persona---is a ludicrous caricature of a fascinating historical figure. "},{"Title":"Dud Royale","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is my personal dud of all time. I can't believe such great actors like Rex Harrison, Richard Burton, and Elizabeth Taylor would be so grossly miscast. Rex Harrison's talent, especially, was totally wasted. Richard Burton looked awful in his mini, and Taylor was too overweight compared to her 50's heyday when she was truly beautiful. The script was poorly written, the story pointless and overdramatic. And boy did it D-R-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-G! I was totally bored the first fifteen minutes, and I had to drag myself through the whole four hours. Why? I don't know, maybe I have an unconscious need to be punished.    "},{"Title":"The worst major movie ever made","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I saw this in a first-run theatre in Philadelphia the week it came out. This is he only movie I ever voluntarily walked out on it is that bad! I had great hopes because of the advanced publicity and the talented people who worked on it but nothing works. It is so annoying, that at times I wished the theatre would catch fire so I would have an excuse for leaving.What else can I say. Others enjoyed it but this is one picture that stank so much, I still remember how bad it was after all this time (this is being written in 2005).I've seen movies with Liz Taylor that I liked but she is badly miscast in this picture and her acting is probably her worst job ever. "},{"Title":"Elizabeth is Cleopatra","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is one of the most spectacular movies in history. Everything in it was great, costumes, sets, acting - in one word SUPERB. I like Elizabeth Taylor,and it is fact that she was most beautiful woman in the world back 1950/60. So who else could play Cleopatra at the time? No one but her. Liz is just perfect as Cleo. Although critic's didn't gave much credit to her acting, for me she was very good. Harrison and Burton are just great as Caesar and Antony,so is Roddy McDowall as Octavian. Cleopatra was nominated for the Best Picture in 1963, but lost to Tom Jones (1963),and won four Oscars for Costumes, Set/Art Decorations, Visual Effects and Cinematography. Cleopatra is still most expensive movie in history. I hope one day six hours version will be found, and that Cleopatra will take her place as one of the best epics in film history. "},{"Title":"O monstrous thing, how long thy tale Cleopatra, Yet no emotions thee bring!","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Usually a passerby witnessing an accident isn't impacted deeply by the injured's plight; similarly, Cleopatra, the movie always kept my feelings at a distance; I witnessed betrayal, corruption, authority, trust, love, grief, but never vicariously experienced them. This mammoth production feels like a dispassionate documentary, taking me right from Caesar's rise and fall to Antony's. But in the 251 minutes of it's run-length, I never was moved even once.Cleopatra is a regal shame (and sham), so extravagantly produced and draped in a sea of bright colors you may get a seizure. It's resources, like a politician's election campaign, go into external detailing. As for the emotions, it was a dry well. It shamefully portrayed it's titular characters- Cleopatra, Caesar and Antony with flippancy and indifference. The costumes were so flashy, I thought I was watching that Heidi Klum show. Many of the costumes were awkward and cheesy and loud, like the music which too played for most of the film. The music,I have to say, destroyed the little impact that could've come from the actors by overplaying in important scenes. The sets, so complex in construction, almost upstaged the actors themselves. In short, such radical arrangements were unnecessary.The story, in spite of it's run length, was not enough to be contained in one part. Much of the time went into unnecessary scenes that could've been edited out, especially when Caesar and Antony's lives had many important events. The performances were campy and dreadful, coming from actors of such high caliber. Harrison as Caesar resorted to cheap tricks with an affected speech plentiful of intonations; it is shocking that this same man was the best thing about My Fair Lady. Even Meryl Streep would've played Caesar with more authority and conviction that he did. Elizabeth Taylor gave a repulsive Cleopatra, radiating none of the passion and wisdom that her charter required. She committed the crime of killing passion. She was neither convincing as Caesar's nor Antony's lover, apart from butchering her character. She spoils the otherwise well shot scene of Caesar's murder with her overacting. Richard Burton was minced meat compared to Russell Crowe's valiant Maximus while Martin Landau was equally theatrical, swinging his arms in an unnatural manner. Richard O'Sullivan was embarrassing as Ptolemy; only god knows what happened to his character. I was neither impressed with Roddy McDowell. In fact, most of the cast had that theater hangover, forgetting that they have to act suitably for the cameras. Only Gwen Walford created an impression in her tiny role as CalpunriaI really hoped that Cleopatra was as impressive as the DVD cover with Taylor and Burton on it. All I got was messy schlock.My Rating 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"so many thoughts - so little space","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Seduction by a queen. Men driven to the brink by a woman bent on power. The worlds most powerful empire run by a man who was run by arguably the most powerful woman on the planet, Cleopatra. I'll be up front about my ignorance of other Elizabeth Taylor films, but this movie made me love her. Watching it on a large screen was amazing, the scenery, the set design, and the costumes were absolutely stunning. It made me miss the days before cgi took over movies. What the movie Cleopatra isn't is hardcore historically accurate, particularly well acted, or even well edited. It is though, one of the slyest, near comedic movies ever made. Sure it's long, but if you approach the movie not absolutely set on seeing an accurate portrayal of ancient Rome, the Caesars, or Cleopatra herself. It doesn't really matter because the movie is telling a story, not necessarily by the book, but more in a fun dramatic hollywood way. Its fun to see Taylor and Burton act and react to each other, especially after the battle of Actium. Harrison is of course fantastic and MacDowell is sniveling, but all in fun. The story around the movie might be more interesting to some given the parallels between Taylor and Burtons own ill fated affair.To keep this review under a thousand words I now own the dvd.  "},{"Title":"Literate, visually stunning history lesson - entertaining as well.","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The perspective of forty years is a good one from which to judge this CLEOPATRA.Of the 98 reviews here which preceded me, 86 were thumbs up and only 12 thumbs down.The script is most intelligent and literate and provides the film's best raison d'etre- that of a history lesson.  The outstanding color cinematography (the blues, the golds, the composition of the TODD-AO 65 millimeter screen), the elaborate art direction and costume design - were all worthy of their Oscars.   I quibble over the Visual Effects, of which there were practically none, winning out over the more deserving THE BIRDS.Taylor may not have had the vocal training necessary to portray CLEOPATRA (who but Vivien Leigh did?) but she's a game girl - she gave it her all. Harrison and McDowall come off with the highest acting honors - they are true Roman emperors.The harsh musical score full of pagan instruments and cacophanies seems appropriate for this barbaric civilization and the two love themes are quite lovely in contrast.  The only other memorable theme is built upon a triad and used in the Entrance into Rome and the Golden Barge sequences.Fun to see Jean Marsh (UPSTAIRS DOWNSTAIRS) as Octavian and Francesca Annis as Cleopatra's lady in waiting.It is a most enjoyable four hours (Act One from Overture through Entr'Acte is 15925 and Act Two is 20910).Re Roddy McDowall's miss at the Oscars - clerical error put him on the Best Actor consideration list rather than the Best Supporting Actor list and he wasn't on screen long enough to be considered a lead.  Mr. McDowall appears in 18 scenes, five of which are without dialogue.  His total screen time is about fifteen minutes - he is certainly excellent but hasn't the extent of footage to register as a contender for best or the year in support.I am amazed at how well this film has aged.  The DVD transfer is impeccable- flawless - add it to your collection in widescreen.  A third disc contains a fascinating two hour documentary on the film.Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Amazing in so many ways ...","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I have this film in my DVD collection, and have watched it for the third time.  The script continues to amaze me in its simplicity, its directness, the fullness of its characters, the charm it brings to the actors.  The music is subtle and multi-textured - it brays in the battle sequences and weeps in a melancholic way in the love sequences.  As much as personalities of the time previously colored this film with their intrigues and wiles, I think the actors, the production crew, and the studio should stand proudly for Cleopatra. It provides an amazing spectacle, a wonderful glimpse into human hearts, a sweeping epic that covers great events grandly, and, in toto, a complete motion picture experience.  Many more people should see this film than have. "}{"Title":"The Face That Launched 1000 Ships","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cleopatra is definitely yet another film where what went on behind the scenes is far more interesting than the movie itself.What follows here is a brief (and I do mean 'brief') summary of some of the more delicious 'behind-the-scenes' highlights that took place.When Cleopatra was released in 1963 its production costs totalled a whopping $44 million, making it (at the time) the most expensive film in movie-history. If you were to adjust that $44 million to catch up with today's inflated prices it would be equivalent to about $300 million US, which would still make Cleopatra one of the most expensive films of all time.Filming for Cleopatra began early in 1960, but due to repeated set-backs (usually caused by actress Elizabeth Taylor) it took nearly 3 years to complete this film.Elizabeth Taylor had a total of 65 costume changes throughout the course of the film. If you consider the 4 hour running time of Cleopatra, that would mean that Taylor changed into a new costume about every 4 minutes.Believe it, or not, there is actually a scene in Cleopatra where one minute Taylor's wearing one outfit and, then, when the camera pans back to her, again, she's wearing something else. One of the dresses designed for Taylor was a truly dazzling creation made out of 24-carat gold cloth.When all of the legal wranglings were finally settled in regards to Cleopatra, Taylor ended up being paid $7 million for her role in this film.Filming for Cleopatra began in England. But due to Taylor's health she couldn't tolerate the climate there, so production was moved to Italy. All in all, the massive sets for the great city of Alexandria had to be built 3 times.Special guards had to be hired to prevent the womanizing Italian Extras from continually harassing all of the female Extras. These women literally had to go on strike to get this demand for protection enforced.Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton began their well-publicized love/hate relationship on the set of Cleopatra. This stupid on/off relationship of theirs' lasted until Burton's death in 1984. Taylor and Burton would eventually go on to make 11 pictures together - Most of them complete duds.Phew!! Need I go on? There really seems to be no end to this sort of crap.As you can well-imagine - With a 4 hour running time this 'Saga-Of-The-Nile' seems to go on, and on, and on, ad nauseum.If anything else - Cleopatra is, without question, a bona-fide curiosity piece that, nevertheless, earned itself Oscars for Cinematography, Art Direction, Costumes and Special Effects. "},{"Title":"On Your Knees!","Date":"9 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" On your knees! It's something that Cleopatra her self shouts at a stunned Mark Antony, but it could quite literally have been shouted by many in Hollywood at 20th Century Fox as their gargantuan epic threatened to sink them. The trials and tribulations surrounding the film are stuff of legend, all of which makes for a film itself, but I will not go over old ground, there's a couple of great documentaries available out there and they are required viewing. They also help to explain somewhat why Cleopatra is not the genre defining classic many hoped it would be. Truth is is that no film could have lived up to the expectation that surrounded Cleopatra, as it is, with flaws and all, it's still a enjoyably lavish spectacle, harking back to a time when grandiose meant something. In fact a time of film making we could do with in today's day and age of retreads, remakes and soppy sequels.Split in to two narratives, that of Caesar & Cleopatra and Antony & Cleopatra, film basically deals with how Rome sought to conquer Egypt as Cleopatra clung on grimly in power and affairs of the heart. A cast of quality thespians stand straight backed and deliver the plot machinations, set to the backdrop of magnificent ornate sets, period costuming, piercing photography and a pulse pounding musical score. Quite simply the grandeur and scope is stunning in its presentation. Not all the dialogue works, and there are passages of exchanges that come off as undernourished; while soap operatics take a hold in the second part of the film. Yet for the historical epic fan there is just too much that is great for this to be ignored or considered a stinker. From Rex Harrison - Elizabeth Taylor - Richard Burton & Roddy McDowall, to the opulence seeping from every pore, Cleopatra is a joyous eye opening experience. Yes! Flaws and all. 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the greatest epic films that Hollywood ever produced.","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" At 243 minutes, this is one of the longest movies ever made. Nominated for 9 Academy Awards, (including Best Picture) it finally won 4 for its special effects, cinematography, costume design, and art direction. Impressive sets and costumes, remarkable styling, large scale epic scenes (such as Cleopatra's spectacular entrance in Rome or the sea battle in Action), thousands extras, excellent cast and, strangely for Hollywood's productions, a very historically accurate script, based on ancient historians (Plutarch, Suetonius, etc) consist an underrated masterpiece. It's the widely known tragic story of Queen of Egypt Cleopatra VII (69-30 BC), the last and probably most famous member of the Greek Ptolemaic Dynasty, that ruled Egypt from the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC until Egypt became a Roman province in 30 BC. Cleopatra tries to maintain control of her kingdom and satisfy her ambitions to unite Egypt and Rome in a great empire by having affairs with Julius Caesar (Rex Harrison) and later Mark Antony (Richard Burton) after Caesar's assassination. In real life Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton had a passionate affair on the set of this movie and finally became one of the most celebrated couples in Hollywood. Undoubtedly gorgeous Elizabeth Taylor (in my opinion the best Cleopatra ever on screen) was the ideal choice for the role of Cleopatra, being very close to Plutarch's description ...For her actual beauty, it is said, was not in itself so remarkable that none could be compared with her, or that no one could see her without being struck by it, but the contact of her presence, if you lived with her, was irresistible... (Plutarch, Lives, Anthony). Richard Burton gives a memorable performance as Mark Antony and Rex Harrison as Julius Caesar simply appears the depth of his great talent. Excellent performances too from Roddy McDowall as ruthless Octavian Caesar Augustus, Hume Cronyn (Sosigenes), Cesare Danova (Apollodorus) and Martin Landau (Rufio). Cleopatra actually was an idea of Greek American tycoon, Spyros P. Skouras, Republican Party's leading member and 20th Century Fox's powerful President. His dream was to present the audience a spectacle of unique grandness about the ill-fated last Queen of Egypt Cleopatra, that could compete TV programs, bringing people back to theaters and the success of other similar epics, (such as MGM's Ben Hur). He also wanted to pay a tribute ...to the beautiful Greek Queen of Egypt... as he stated in an interview. But the movie's astronomical budget (44.000.000 $!!! in 1963, about 1 billion $ today!!!) caused his fall from Fox's throne. Studio's heads doubted that Cleopatra could ever make back its record production costs and so they decided to remove him and terminate his long time reign in 20th Century Fox.. But despite Studio's fears it did well in 1963's box office with approx. 60 million $ grosses only in USA. Joseph L. Mankiewicz both directed and scripted Cleopatra brilliantly (although Skouras's friend Ruben Mamoulian was initially hired as director). Irene Sharaff, Vittorio Nino Novarese and Renie simply deserved the Oscar they won for best costume design and Hermes Pan did a splendid work in choreography. "},{"Title":"Longer than the Roman Empire!","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Having looked up this film on IMDb simply because it's on British TV tonight, I'm slightly surprised to see it so highly rated, and that it has so many fans. I don't think it's an altogether bad film, just a touch lifeless, solemn and far too long. As everyone knows, it died like a dog at the box-office, which I think was partly due to its enormous advance hype, which hardly any film could hope to live up to. Taylor and Burton were wonderful stars, but not wonderful actors, and this story needs actors to make the best of what scholars agree was not one of Shakespeare's greatest hits. It's an interesting might-have-been to imagine what it might have been like with, say, Anthony Quayle and Vanessa Redgrave in the leads. As for Rex Harrison as Caesar, that had to be one of the worst casting decisions of all time sexy Rexy was born to utter brittle wisecracks in Mayfair drawing-room comedies, and not much else. Noel Coward told him that if he wasn't such a superb light-romantic leading man, he'd be good for nothing but being a showroom salesman for expensive second-hand cars. There's far more entertainment to be had from the parody Carry On Cleo - and in terms of historical accuracy, that film's not much worse than the original! "},{"Title":"Bloated film that seems longer than Cleo's 19-year reign","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The movie has moments, but its long-winded running time is longer than the Nile River. The movie's obvious attempt to emulate other grand scale biblical epics, with a narrative that does not support this approach, results in over-indulgence. Lavish sets, over-paid actors, numerous extras, etc. are unfortunately mired in poor scripting and pacing. The direction is sloppy at some points. The biography of the real Cleopatra was intriguing and could have made for prime source material for a movie, but this drama, while getting in many significant events, is uneven at depicting them effectively. The story is burdened with plodding, irrelevant scenes that could easily have been scrapped. Many times the sets look like 20th Century homes with plastic furniture and modern tiling that has been waxed with Lemon Pledge. Such fakery is inexcusable in such a high-budget. It's in several of these scenes where Liz Taylor (as Cleo) and Richard Burton (her real life boyfriend playing Marc Anthony) just do a series of childish arguing/shouting matches after a while they're pretty generic. Both actors are capable of more than the Drama 101 level of skill you see here, and you'll be hoping the asps make their appearance soon. Scenes with Taylor and Rex Harrison (as Caesar) in the earlier part of the film are somewhat better. As the movie drags on, it's almost as if she got tired of playing the role, and was ready for the asps, too. At times, she wails and screeches like she's trying out for a Gidget Goes to the Beach walk-on part.Aspired to far more than was necessary to tell the story. The result is an uneven production, which meanders between highly dramatic moments and snail's pace talk-a-thon interludes. Watchable, but not brilliant. Be advised to allow plenty of free time to view it. "},{"Title":"Cleopatra- a beautiful, absorbing gift","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  There sure are some uninformed viewers of this film. Uninformed of the nature of the production and the post-production problems. I have read the filming script written by the Director while he was filming, done almost exactly as written and cut from over 6 hours to about 4 hours by the Director at Darryl Zanuck's command. Zanuck wouldn't let Mankiewicz show it as 2 films - each 3 hours long. He wanted to capitilize on the Taylor-Burton romance and that was in the 2nd part!The 6 hour script is full of details and complete characterizations.Mark Antony's life and death are filled out. His life with Cleopatra makes sense and the reasons why they lost the Battle of Actium reveled.The film becomes a very literate and intimate interpretation.Hopefully the lost scenes will one day be found and restored I love this film and even the problems with it. Elizabeth Taylor is riveting. Her transformation from girl to Queen to woman is full and touching. There are exquisite scenes of intelligence and sensitivity. The first part with Caeaer and Cleopatra's relationship is totally fascinating. I love the music of Alex North. There is a beautiful new CD of it now available. Yes, I am sentimental about Cleopatra...but can't movie sometimes give that to us? "},{"Title":"You, a descendant of generations of inbred, incestuous, mental defectives!","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Notorious epic about Cleopatra was, at the time, the most expensive movie ever made. It was also the biggest flop ever and it almost bankrupted 20th Century Fox. Today it's not much more than a historical curio that challenges the viewer to watch the entire thing in one sitting. It took me three viewings over the course of twenty years before I could finally do it. On the positive side, the movie looks gorgeous with fantastic sets and costumes. The acting is acceptable across the board but it certainly wouldn't have hurt if the movie had a few more hams to keep things interesting. The biggest problem (but not the only one) is the film's overlength. Different cuts of this range from three to over four hours. The version I just watched was a little over four. Today we've been forced to become used to movies regularly clocking in at two and a half to three hours. I won't get into my opinions on that here but I will say that this is a whole different kind of 'long' than today's viewers are used to. Simply put, this is one of the most boring movies ever made. I would only recommend it to die-hard Elizabeth Taylor fans. She was never lovelier than she is here. If you do decide to watch this, here's a tip try keeping count of Liz's costume changes. It'll give you something to do when the banal dialogue and plodding pace starts putting you to sleep. "},{"Title":"Wasn't entirely sure what to make of this one","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" If there was anything at all to sum up what I thought of Cleopatra(1963) it would be a very mixed bag, it's not as bad as has been cited to be but it is easy to see why it bombed. There are definitely things to like about Cleopatra, for one thing with the vivid colours, the amount of authenticity in the costumes and sets and the lavish cinematography it really is a feast for the eyes, one of the better-looking films of the 60s. Alex North's score is a very hypnotic and memorable one, adding hugely to what's happening, with parts where it really rouses the spirit and others where it is appropriately melancholic. There are some good performances in the cast too, though it is a case of the supporting actors being better than the leads. Particularly good is Rex Harrison, if anything it's actually a brilliant performance, he has rarely been more restrained than here as Caesar and it is very moving. Caesar was the film's most sympathetic and relatable character and you do feel genuinely sad at his demise. Roddy MacDowell is a close runner up, he is very chilling and looks as though he is really enjoying himself. And the film is not without effective scenes, because Cleopatra's entrance is suitably sultry and the ending is somewhat emotional, in fact the film does start off quite well and the supporting performances have a lot to do with it. However, the two leads don't fare so well. Richard Burton does have his moments, he is enigmatic and at least seems to understand and connect with what was given to him, but he can be wooden too and chews the scenery too much(the overly melodramatic second half doesn't help though). Even more problematic is Elizabeth Taylor, she has done a lot of great stuff but this really is not one of her finest hours. She's beautiful and sexy but her performance does come across as shrill and like a spoilt rich girl. Burton and Taylor's chemistry has mixed results, in the first half it has moments where it resonates but like the drama it is often cold. The story is a huge problem too, as a matter of fact if there was a component that could be seen as the biggest flaw it would be the story. Much of it is dragged out and overstuffed, and while the story of Antony and Cleopatra is an epic one it doesn't feel like that here. That it has a much-too-overlong length that due to the very pedestrian pacing feels like it is a big part as to why. Cleopatra is directed in a very stagy and emotionally cold way (hard to believe that it was the same director who directed All About Eve, one of the best films ever made in my opinion), and although the cast is a large one a lot of roles are far too come-and-go and blink-and-you-miss-them walk-ons quality. And there is no better news about the script, which has far too much talk, can sound very awkward and is very skim-the-surface feeling. It takes a very melodramatic turn in the second half and it is incredibly ham-fisted. Summing up, a difficult film to rate, has some obvious good things but is hugely problematic too, at least to me. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Incredibly Poor Epic","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" You take several famous actors, some of whom are real good - Burton, Harrison; you take as much money as you want to build impossibly rich decorations, props, and all. You take one incredibly poor actress whose only job is to make large eyes, as well as appear semi-clad, and then utter dialogs in an impossibly false intonation. You take semi-historical events, adding deep melodrama, some battle scenes, some love story, some tragic moments, some silly twists of plot, some sugary sweet sentiments, some highly predictable changes of plot, some half-dressed dancers, some very poorly staged sea battles with stones suddenly floating instead of sinking like stones usually do. Well, what you get? Cleopatra - useless waste of time, money, talents and ideas. You watch this candy floss and try to find at least Some thing to grab your attention. But it glides and never is grabbed by anything. All efforts are totally in vain here, you only have a hollow pseudo-accurate mishmash of all in one pot. Poor pot. Poor film. Impossibly poor script. And the most insipid on top of it all, Liz Taylor as an epitome of bad acting. Really so. "},{"Title":"The most excessive epic of them all","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" If 'lavish' is the singular term to bestow upon the historical epics of the Fifties and Sixties, Cleopatra exceeds the term in every way, making it clear from the get-go of its four-hour running time this, adjusted for inflation, is definitely one of the most excessive and expensive movies of them all. 20th Century-Fox sure wasn't thrilled by that fact at the time, as it nearly pushed the studio into bankruptcy. Nevertheless, it persisted in the project (since cancellation would have been its death sentence for sure) and today it remains a testament to just how staggeringly detailed and rich a movie can be made to look if enough money is thrown at it. In many ways, Cleopatra is not one, but two movies director Joseph L. Mankiewicz always intended for it to be released in two parts (a decision the home cinema release has honoured by splitting the movie in half, spread over two discs). The first would have been called Caesar and Cleopatra, its sequel Antony and Cleopatra, as the movie conveniently cuts from one male protagonist to the other around the middle of the film, with the Queen of Egypt the constant that unites them both in a tale of passion, decadence, lust and glory.Grand diva Elizabeth Taylor plays her most iconic role of all as the young queen that finds herself in the middle of the plots and intrigue at the Egyptian court of her brother who means to dispose of her, only to be saved by the older Roman general Caesar (a thoughtful and intelligent, but undeniably ruthless and pragmatic character portrayed by Rex Harrison) who, compelled by her wit and charm, instead forms an alliance with her and gets rid of her treacherous sibling. Said union spawns a son, Caesarion, which gives her an incentive to make a claim on the rule of Rome when his father is murdered in the Senate. Enter his boorish, no-nonsense second-in-command Mark Antony (the notorious Richard Burton) who has his own notions on the matter, but swiftly is suckered into Cleopatra's web of passion too, an affair destined to end in tragedy. Ironically, Taylor and Burton couldn't keep their hands off each other in reality as well, leading to one of the most scandalous and infamous love affairs in Hollywood history that made Brangelina look second rate. Keeping the affair in line as well as could be managed &#x96; basically, not at all, thanks to Burton's loudmouth persona &#x96; to avoid overly devastating public scrutiny, coupled with the ever rising production problems and outrageous costs (driving a movie originally budgeted at 2 million dollars to a whopping 44 million dollars), drove many a Fox executive close to madness, but over the years Cleopatra made a decent recuperation for the studio and even turned a bit of a profit. Audiences sure got what they payed for an opulent epic-to-end-all-epics with a scale and scope still unsurpassed, using some of the biggest sets ever created, populated by thousands of extras and a diverse range of wild beasts, all just as background material. And unlike the digitally saturated present day, it was all there in the flesh, making the sets look as spectacularly opulent in real life as they appear on film. Of course the fabulously rich environments where secondary only to Taylor's magnificent performance as the young monarch, at first relying on her sensual beauty and ever underestimated intelligence for her own basic survival, but soon applying both to make her country and herself a top player in Mediterranean politics by going head to head with the might of Rome in a love affair with one of its most powerful men that is bound to destroy an empire, and ultimately herself as tragedy ensues. Taylor definitely dominates each scene and won't allow the bombastic sights to take center stage. She is aided by a grand cast which includes the likes of Roddy McDowall and Martin Landau, only tools for her to play off against as they can't compare with her majesty. Nevertheless, because of the endless show of grandiose sets, sexual plotting and Roman violence it cannot be denied Cleoptra feels like it's dragging on too long, which convinces the audience cutting it into two separate pieces would probably have been for the best. Even so, Cleopatra remains one of the most sensational movies ever produced, its history as wild and epic as the history that inspired it. "}{"Title":"Poetic","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Although this film is condemned by many, I find that it is far more poetic than the 1999 version. It is a grand and dramatic adaptation of Cleopatra's somewhat tragic life. Elizabeth Taylor is beautiful and seductive as the last Egyptian Pharoah, even with her excessive amount of eye make up. Rex Harrison is, as always, outstanding and speaks the very poetic dialogue as if he is voicing his own thoughts. Richard Burton is brilliant as the tragic Roman General who lives in Julius Caeser's shadow, and is slowly destroyed by the demanding love of Cleopatra. Roddy McDowell is awesomely captivating as the ambitious and extraordinarily intelligent Octavian who single handedly brings about the dethroning of Cleopatra and the death of her son, Caeserian, her and lover, Marc Antony. The film is VERY long and anyone who could not sit through a film of medium length must not attempt this movie. The costumes and sets of this movie are masterful, creating a very colourful ancient world. "},{"Title":"The restored 70mm Cleopatra is dazzling","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" If you have an opportunity to see the new circulating 70mm print of this epic, it is definitely worth seeing. In it's original format, refurbished clean print and enhanced d.t.s. sound, the film is stunning. This particular version is also the original first theatrical release which runs over four hours with intermission. The diverse expressions of the cast and the many details within the dazzling John DeCuir sets are amazing in this 70mm version. The much-edited 35mm road show version lacked continuity and seemed tarnished. This is one of Elizabeth Taylor's great performances. Rex Harrison should always be remembered for his clever Cesar. And Roddy MacDowell and Richard Burton bring a larger-than-life presence to their characters. The entire ensemble is inspiring. The excess and wealth that poured into this biggest of all epics is evident throughout. Now in 70mm, the film really holds up against time. It is one of the greatest films ever made. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie.","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" 1963. Cleopatra eyelining was the rage in my high school. I cut my hair to resemble hers, so the eyelining naturally went with it.I saw this movie tonight; parts of it. Got too sleepy. Harrison great, & Caesar vulnerable & cuddly at times. Richard Burton looked like a 'real fat boy', but I still liked hearing him speak his rambling Welsh-flavored English. I saw him chewing the scenery like nobody's business, er, rather his own business, since nobody could do it like he could.Ah, Elizabeth! Such a beautiful woman, and excellent actress. I watched her emote her anger and utter despair, stabbing her bed & pillows upon finding out Antony married someone else. I have seen her extreme emotions in other movies, and she is indeed an American Master.So many of the actors have since passed away, such as Roddy McDowell, Hume Cronin, Rex Harrison, Richard Burton, Carroll O'Connor, et al. These were great performances, to be sure. I could still hear the familiar 'Archie Bunker' twang, LOL.As said earlier, I couldn't watch all of it. I had other things to do, and was annoyed that I had to begin watching it about one hour into the production -- due to work commitments. Still, I was happy I had found out about it on the TCM website schedule.I think it is an excellent movie. Detractors would not even begin to know how to make a better movie than this one. Let them try.12/10. "},{"Title":" Most about Elizabeth Taylor And Richard Burton","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Like Ed uthman said Beyond that familiar litany, the film remains a monument to Elizabeth Taylor, one of the most beautiful actresses that has ever graced celluloid. This goddess, shown here in all her aspects, from coquette, to earth mother, to imperious ueberbitch, to tragic victim, had violet eyes before colored contacts, a pneumatic decolletage before silicone implants, and perfect curvaceous contours before personal trainers and Stairmasters. Such an example of God-given beauty should make a believer of the most hardened skeptic! Any way the movie is great and awesome the graphics are great and the reall love of Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor suites  this epic. Even though they don`t really show their love that much in the movie dosn`t mean that that their love wasn`t great. It took them around 15 takes to get the film correct due to the steamy love that Richard and Elizabeth had on and off screen. Rex Harrison was a great actor and also suited his role.I greatly recomend this film for you to wach. "},{"Title":"An overstuffed turkey, opulent but induces drowsiness after first 45 minutes...","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" If it hadn't been the tabloid headlines screaming about the love affair between ELIZABETH TAYLOR and RICHARD BURTON on the set of CLEOPATRA in Rome, it's unlikely Fox would have released this epic without trimming even more than they did. It still doesn't work. The trims were not enough and the film is a boring mess by the time it reaches the end of its first forty-five minutes.Let's face it, Elizabeth Taylor sounds like a shrill fish wife whenever her emotions show any temperament--in other words, her vocal abilities are not good enough to carry the role of a woman who commanded all of Egypt with her willpower and determination and cunning. She's much better in other contemporary roles, but ill suited to play the Queen of Egypt. REX HARRISON gives the only full-bodied performance in the film and unfortunately he's killed midway and is missing from the rest of this gargantuan bore.Technical brilliance in costumes and sets cannot atone for a bad script and some lifeless performances from a large cast. Only RODDY McDOWALL emerges triumphant as Octavius (probably one of his best adult roles), but RICHARD BURTON is another casualty as a supposedly impassioned Marc Antony.Cleopatra's eye-filling entrance makes a stunning cinematic treat, but Taylor in later years confessed that she was sick upon seeing the film at a premiere and has since confided that she hates it. I can understand why, even if legions of her fans still think it's one of the best things she ever did. Sorry, I just can't see it that way, much as I love Liz in her best work. "},{"Title":"the best copy of Cleopatra","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" That,s best copy of Cleopatra in the level of another copies in many points (act,script,directed,music....etc). Liza was the best actress played this role and she made a perfect describe and analysis of her playing in this role and the shape of her was looks like the real Cleopatra as the description of the historical sources that Liza was beauty and hotly as a women and their eyes were so deeply in her brightness.Burton played his role as Marc Anthony and his love with Cleopatra which depended on destiny of countries and popularity and he played a good scene when he discovered the beaten of him and he wanted to fight with Octavious,s solders in historical firm.Arex Harisson played Julius Cesar with good acting and his shape of him and his body are looks like the real Ceaser as a his thin of body and tall face,he played the sickness of Ceaser depending on studying the kind of this sickness and he succeeded in this point.The decoration was fantastic and the direct was excellent.At the end i want to tell an important thing on this film (this film was the best and title scene of successful historical work). "},{"Title":"an epic misfire","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  What can be said about 'Cleopatra'?  The movie itself was overshadowed by the Burton-Taylor affair that kicked off during filming, prompting the breakdown of their respective marriages and the start of a stormy marriage to each other.  Curiously, the stars displayed little chemistry together through their ten or so films together.  A twist of fate anyway brought Richard Burton (and Rex Harrison) into the cast - begun with Stephen Boyd as Antony and Peter Finch as Caesar, the film spiralled into such a long-term commitment that they dropped out and the replacements came in.How is Elizabeth Taylor as 'Cleopatra'?  Well, she looks the part, and despite that irritating little girl voice, she isn't totally awful.  Her performance turns this film into quite enjoyable kitsch, despite all the problems and escalating costs that were largely her fault.  Rex Harrison is by far the best thing in the film as Julius Caesar.  Richard Burton looks cute in his costume but is miscast. 'Cleopatra' has overblown visuals, ridiculous dialogue, and daft settings.  But it is the stuff of movie legend and as such, is worth your time. "},{"Title":"Bad reputation","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cleopatra has gotten a solid rep for being an overlong drab of a historical epic. True, its long, maybe too long. But that's weighed up by suberb acting performances, especially by Rex Harrison and Roddy McDowell. Also GCI wasn't even a weird figment in a scientist's head when this was made. With that in mind, it's hard not to be impressed by the visuals. They're better than the ones in Gladiator, which looked like Rome hit with a bucket of Blade Runner. After all, the visual splendor was one of the attractions of the genre in the 1950's and 60's. And here, it works! "},{"Title":"Liz at her best","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  They don't make them like this anymore! Do yourself a favor and live in the past. Liz is really a knock-out!  This is Classic Hollywood! "},{"Title":"Below Par Spectacle/Soap Opera","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This reminds me of Fox's earlier 1954 The Egyptian which was more entertaining, with better music, more characters, a more humane running time and no bloated budget. Elizabeth Taylor makes a petite, blowsy,  sometimes shrill Queen, with a hammy Rex Harrison as Caesar and hungover Richard Burton unconvincing as warrior Antony. The battle scenes are vague and unfinished with Cleo's entrance into Rome the main highlight. It should have been cut by 90 minutes. The DVD's 2 hour documentary (2000) is better than the film itself. While early screen tests convince that brassy Brit Joan Collins would have made a B-Movie type Cleopatra, Peter Finch and Stephen Boyd looked very promising as Caesar and Antony wannabes. But the lumbering script would have hampered everybody involved. "}{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Although not as great as Spartacus, it's not as bad as it's made out to be. Quite good actually. Perhaps it was an expensive shoot and somewhat of a failure at the box office, but nevermind about that. A movie featuring _both_ Elizabeth Taylor _and_ Richard Burton, I mean, it's a classic. The story isn't that important really. Ignoring the fact that Taylor and Burton star as the lovers, it's still a good movie. So go out and rent it. It's a classic, don't you know?!6/10  "},{"Title":"Who must see this film? Here's the answer...","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  If you're in to epic dramas, see it. If you're the least interested in the ancient world, see it. If you like great love stories, you can belive in, see it. If you're taken by excelent performances, see it. If you like the golden age of Hollywood, see it. If you like big sets and many extras you know are real, see it. If you're interested in film history, see it. And if you don't match any of the criterias, see it anyway. For the fun of it.It's the classical story of Cleopatra. The Egyptian queen that teems up with Julius Caesar and what such an alliance give birth to. I wouldn't say, it is as true to history as it could be, but it gives a vague picture of how it might have been. It portraits a life of a powerful women in a male dominated world, and a love story of many dimensions. This film surprises me over and over again, because there is always a little detail you didn't notice the last time you saw it. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  What a great epic film.  It is a little long, but it is worth it.  Some fine acting.  The only thing I can say is that REX HARRISON is the GREATEST actor of the 20th century!!!A must see for all "},{"Title":"The longest movies, is also the BEST one!","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I am so glad to see this wonderful historical story. With love, with poems. I shall never forget every scenes of it.  "},{"Title":"Bizarre Epic","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A truly strange camp classic.  The sets are distinctly and distractingly like 60s love dens and the epic scope is wrapped around an empty narrative. Liz's outfits border on the extra-terrestrial.Highly recommended!!! "},{"Title":"Forget Taylor and Burton; This is Mostly a Very Intelligent Epic","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A fine account of the making of Cleopatra has been compiled; and the movie has been seen and appreciated by millions worldwide. Everyone knows by now how an interesting historical dramatic project gradually grew into the most expensive and lengthy production in film history... incidentally, Cleopatra finally earned a profit. There are seven credited writers and four directors; but the production will always be attributed chiefly to Jospeh L. Mankiewicz. The cinematography Leon Shamroy and music by Alex Northh are also well- remembered in this film, and the costumes, sets, second-unit and stunt challenges clearly must have been immense. What is forgotten about the film is that Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor did not have to play the parts they did; and their shortcoming along with a few poorly-written lines here and there are the only negatives most persons take away from this interesting and frequently- beautiful dramatized era of Roman history. I saw this film when it premiered at the Egyptian Theater in Hollywood; I did not like the vast barge used to parade Cleopatra into Rome; but it was spectacular; and the decision to stage the important battle of Pharsalia and then use none of the footage save for the aftermath deprived us of some fascinating scenes. But I appreciate this film, even more so today, especially the recreation of Alexandria and the scenes set in Rome and within the Egyptian palace. So I will confine myself here to a look here at the actors involved. The immense cast was headed by Liz Taylor, who cannot do a classical accent and Burton who was a few years from his best work, but who here was objectionable because he was on the edge of verbal bombast and because of lack of vocal variety. On the other hand, many critics praised the fine work turned in by many others, beginning with Rex Harrison as Julius Caesar, Roddy Macdowall as Octavius, Martin Landau, John Doucette, Hume Cronyn, Robert Stephens, Pamela Brown, Cesare Danova, and others in supporting roles. Thhis expensive mounting of history sinpred many later producers. The climactic sea battle is beautifully staged, the lighting, sound, sets and other elements are everywhere sumptuous and also often intelligently-used. This epic film is a fine achievement in many ways; and that it holds together as well as it does is a tribute to expert writer and director Maniewiwcz above all. "},{"Title":"Beautiful to look at","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  1963's Cleopatra is CERTAINLY a wonderful example of classic Hollywood A huge, colorful, majestic spectacle.  It reminds me very much of BEN HUR or TEN COMMANDMENTS.  Every cent of the budget shows on screen.Even though the film becomes very slow at times (I find it best to watch it as two-parter), it does entertain.  It gets quite campy at times - I often laugh at some of the line readings - but that adds to the fun.  My favorite piece of acting in the film is Rex Harrison's Julius Caesar.  He tosses off wry observations and dry comments left and right (as to Cleo, as she angrily bursts into a room where he is having a private meeting I see you've broken out of your nursery and have come to annoy the adults!). In all - a perfect visual example of the Hollywood epic spectacular, late 50s-early 60's style.  I still prefer this kind of film-making over computer-generated crowd scenes any day! "},{"Title":"One of The Greatest movies EVER","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is one of the films that has a bad rep.  but you just can't help but love it. Elizabeth Taylor is amazing as Cleopatra, and so are Rex Harrison and Richard Burton. This movie is great and in my opinion is the second best movie of 1963(after Tom Jones). The costumes and the set are the best ever, and the acting and script are fantastic. One of the greatest films ever made, my 24th favorite. See it immediately. The best most prolific epic "},{"Title":"Lost Scenes Found for Future Restoration.","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cleopatra was going to be a six hour epic.  Then the idea of two movies. The story of Cleopatra and Caesar (with Richard Burton only seen for seven minutes. And the story of Cleopatra and Anthony.  It had to be cut by demand.  It was cut down to under four hours.  Then another demand to cut it further to 3 hours and 14 minutes.   These lost scenes are franticly trying to be found and some have for future restoration to bring it back to it's full six hour length.        Please watch the AMC--American Movie Classics Behind the Scenes documentary on Cleopatra. "},{"Title":"It's a Spectacle, but nope, four hours is too long","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Nobody can deny that the production design, the costume design and the cinematography is superb. But the story drags, the dialog sucks, and the actors, oh well...hohummmm, they could put mannequins in there and it will still win Oscars for design, costumes, cinematography, etc. Now I know the reason why this movie cannot be mentioned within the same breath as The Ten Commandments, Spartacus, Ben Hur.. I really fell asleep halfway into the movie.But on the plus site, Cleopatra's entrance to Rome is breathtaking, the sets are simply magnificent, these are the movie's greatest (and only!) triumph. "}{"Title":"Lot of  Flamboyance but Lack of Imagination !","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" So grandiose a cast, so extravagant a budget, so influential a team but the outcome is more of a snobbish representation of historical tryst. Given the immense resources at hand, it is not only the opulence, magnificence, grandeur and the awe inspiring spectacle that matters, but the subtle and moving depiction of feelings and events that usually reverberate an audience's soul.To be precise, this movie would have been a super mega hit, had it been directed by William Wyler. Wyler knew how to get the best out of Heston while filming Ben-Hur and he must have tamed and perfected Burton (by exercising retakes) to act appropriately, purposefully and out of his heart and soul to extend proper exposure and magnitude to his pivotal role in Cleopatra. Taylor with so many costly and pompous costumes did not effectively succeed to get under the skin of her imperial character.There could had been a lot of improvement in the cinematography and direction that would had lent a significant boost and thrill to this over budgeted movie. The script is weak on historical footing and its music as well does not resound commensurately with the eventful happenings.Nevertheless, it is a fairly good picture to watch but it would fail to leave any worthwhile imprint on one's mind and soul. "},{"Title":"Cleopatra I have rubbed you the wrong way! Cesar I'm not sure I want to be rubbed by you at all!","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Opulent misfire about the Queen of the Nile and her stormy relationships with Julius Cesar and Mark Antony. Runs four hours and seven minutes, and is chock full of nonsense--from the dialogue to the performances to the over-production. Despite widescreen grandeur and isolated moments of intriguing melodrama, the film is frequently laughable and ridiculous, not to mention obscenely overlong. Oscars went to Leon Shamroy for his admittedly fine cinematography; also to the costumes, the art director, and the special effects. For a much stronger film-treatment of the tempestuous Cleo, try Claudette Colbert in the 1934 version. ** from **** "},{"Title":"About Itself","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Spoilers herein.My favorite films are self-referential. I love this stuff.Some films are deliberately self-referential, like films about filmmaking or acting. But some are accidentally so, say a film about not being superficial (so as not to be trivial) which itself is superficial and trivial. There are lots of these.This film is accidentally self-referential. It is about the pitfalls of vanity and is itself vain. It is about a Burton/Taylor romance during the time of the Burton/Taylor romance. But most of all it is about how easy it is to manipulate the public with images.Egypt's rulers hung on hundreds of years past the glory era purely on the power of image. Rome's politics at this time was similarly determined by the crafty propaganda of a media elite to prop up vacuous leaders. Fast forward to 1960 where the art of film was at an all time low, the good films essentially the ones we were told were good. The film's cost is largely a result of graft and fraud on the part of the modern Romans (now incapable of governing themselves stably) who exploited the situation.The film is about poor administration of an empire and itself is an example of similar mismanagement. As a result, the moral of the story in the film is that enterprises like this film should be horrid. It is. Some scenes do have good acting (McDowall, Burton), but they are of the broad theatrical kind which was inappropriate then and laughable now. Some photography is impressive, but the eye of the camera is dead, uncreative. Taylor may have cast a spell on audiences prior to this, but she looks fat, pasty and bitchy to me. Things that should move well (like battle and crowd scenes) don't. All the filmmaking skills that are apparent in `Gladiator,' for instance, are missing here. What's left is more important to cultural anthropology than film criticism. "},{"Title":"Not even worth watching as a curiousity","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Who hasn't heard how bad a movie Cleopatra is? I certainly pored through review after review, all negative, of this infamous big-budget disaster. Still, as a fan of epic films my curiousity was aroused by Cleopatra's infamous repuatation. The number of Its not that bad after all reviews on the web also lit the fire under my rear to go rent the movie on DVD.Well, big mistake.This movie is even worse than I had expected. All of the defenders of this film point to the luxurious sets, the great acting, and the glorious costumes. I cannot imagine anything further from the truth! The costumes are laughably bad; poor Richard Burton is forced to cavort around in this absurdly short skirt that completely undermines the power of his character. He simply looks like a clown. Elizabeth Taylor's outfits are totally ridiculous, showing me more of her breasts than I'd ever care to see. It is amusing to try to guess how the next outfit she dons will display her ample bosom...the costumes use every trick in the book.Most importantly, the script is below bad....it is unbearable. Poor Rex Harrison and Richard Burton, both fine actors, are visibly disgusted by having to deliver the most horrendous and overwrought dialogue. A barren woman is like a river without any water...huh?  The viewer never establishes a relationship with any of the characters simply because they are all unlikable, poorly written, and simply annoying.The music score by Alex North is quite possibly the worst score I've ever heard for a production of this size. It is mind-blowingly bad.Worst of all is Elizabeth Taylor. Her portrayal of Cleopatra is completely incompetent. Apparently Taylor has decided to model Cleopatra after the stereotypical diner waitress; an obnoxious, loud, unsophisticated, tactless fool. From the moment she sets foot on screen the movie steps down from a D film to a F. She neither exudes any of the power or grace a queen would have nor does she know how to deliver the lines (as bad as they are) in the proper behavior. It is simply a terrible job of acting, the hallmark of her career (save for Virginia Woolf.....but that's another story) unfortunately. For other reviewers to point to her performance as one of the best aspects of this film is mind-boggling.It is very difficult to find any positives in this film. Even the supporting cast is incompetent; it is impossible not to wince when Hume Cronyn or Roddy McDowall recite their lines. I suppose the best thing about the film is the young Martin Landau as Rufio. Landau has a knack of plowing through his lines as if he knows how absurd they sound...he is the one true soldier among a parade of clowns.Do not waste your time with this film. It is much better spent with superior (in every possible way) films such as Ben-Hur or Lawrence of Arabia, films I'd rather watch for the 20th time than watch Cleopatra for the 2nd time. "},{"Title":"A big bloated corpse","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" When CLEOPATRA was released, it was the highest grossing film of the year and yet the movie almost ruined 20th Century Fox because the movie cost so much that its success could barely cover the cost of production. Hence the reason CLEOPATRA is regarded as being one of the biggest box office flops in cinematic history and there's a good reason for that undeserved rep the movie itself is the most monumentally ill-conceived project in history. The only thing going for it is its bloat. Yes, that's its main quality. Aside from the eye filling production values, everything else is wrong the script pretends to be detailed events of Cleopatra's life but in actually, it mercilessly skims over her life in the most uninvolving way. In the end, the film is more interested in telling the story of Julius Caesar and Marc Anthony than of the famous Egyptian Queen; because the dire script was D.O.A, the rest could have salvaged it on a certain level but every single actor, except for Richard Burton (who actually looks healthy here and not the alcoholic Burton), is hopelessly miscast. Rex Harrison, Hume Cronyn, Martin Landau, Roddy McDowall, Carroll O'Connor (yes, Archie Bunker himself) are cast either as Romans or Egyptians of sorts even though none of them look remotely Roman or Egyptian. Many make fun of underrated Italian Sword & Sandal films but the one thing that can be said about them is how the actors in those films were at least Mediterranean looking. Landau, McDowall, Cronyn and certainly Carroll O'Connor all stood out like sore thumbs. No amount of kitschy Ancient sets could hide that glaring fact.But those are secondary actors playing secondary roles. The film really suffers badly because Rex Harrison, as Julius Caesar, and Elizabeth Taylor as Cleopatra were truly miscast. Elizabeth Taylor is completely lost in the gargantuan production, only her breasts and the ridiculous number of custom changes make her stand out from the all-engulfing monster of a movie. The actress simply didn't inhabit her role at any level except on a superficial visual manner. Taylor looks like she's playing Cleopatra Egyptian Barbie Set than a serious actress trying to add depth to a legendary historical character. But the biggest casting error is certainly Rex Harrison as Julius Caesar. Harrison plays the Roman Emperor like your average English School Principle, yammering on inane dialogue which belies the grandeur, strength and charisma needed to play Caesar. When Caesar is killed (this is not a spoiler) by his fellow Senators, the scene looks absolutely ridiculous because, aside from asking too much power, Harrison's softy portrayal of Caesar could hardly elicit such a brutal and violent end to his life. Things are made worse during that scene as we watch Cleopatra witnessing the murder thanks to her High Priestess' magic, Taylor moaning in an apoplectic way as Caesar is about to be killed. I never laughed so much.One of the film's most unpleasant aspects is seeing Rex Harrison getting it on with Elizabeth Taylor. A truly unsexy sex scene if there ever was one. We hardly see Taylor as a pregnant Cleopatra and when she does deliver the baby, in the next scene she's already sporting an hour-glass figure, wearing a tight dress showcasing her narrow waistline. Again, I never laughed so much. Couldn't they just have waited a few more scenes before shoving Taylor in another ghastly bosom revealing dress? Like I said before, the only thing going for it is the production values. Some of it is truly grand and some of it is simply grand Kitsch with a capital K, certainly Cleopatra's arrival by boat. I mean, come on. But all of this excess amounts to nothing if the characters are more wooden and cardboard than the actual sets themselves. The entire moment when Cleopatra arrives in Rome with her son is long and detailed. It's over-the-top, for sure but I wish they had spent more time coming up with a carefully constructed script with unforgettable characters or portrayals than all that glitz. When the Cleopatra's Arrival in Rome show is finally over, it's only a few minutes after that that Caesar is killed. After going though all that trouble of mounting such and elaborate and expensive but alas empty scene, when the death of Caesar occurs, I really wondered why they bothered coming up with that time wasting scene only to kill Caesar a few minutes afterwards in the silliest possible way. His death should have been pivotal. Instead we have this big bloated corpse of a movie. "},{"Title":"Four hours of this...","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Historical epic. The triumphs and tragedy of the Egyptian queen, Cleopatra.This is the sort of film that is both impressive and also daunting. You have to admire them making a film more than four hours long on Cleopatra and her romances with Julius Caesar and Marc Antony. Whether accurate or not, it is quite the undertaking.But then, you also have more than four hours... which is quite an investment. If this was a TV mini-series, I could see that. But it is rather long to sit through without an intermission. Did people in the theater wet themselves? Perhaps, as the film remains as well known today (2016) as it was in 1963. "},{"Title":"Obsession with minutae and overacting by Richard Burton","Date":"8 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" There's a lot of great things in this film...and two negatives, but the negatives -- though substantial -- do not overwhelm the overall production.The first negative 4 hours and 8 minutes! Why was the film so long? In my view an obsession with minutiae. From what I've read, the film is more historically accurate than most such epics. But did we need so much detail? Does the detail get in the way of telling a good story? Despite a near obsession with Elizabeth Taylor in the early 1960s, this is just too long. It's a good example of when less actually improves understanding. I understand that there was some thought of dividing this into 2 films -- the first about Cleopatra and Julius Caesar, the second about Cleopatra and Mark Antony; in my view, that would have been the perfect solution, particularly because the film divides so perfectly upon Caesar's death and the ascension of Antony, and in approximately equal lengths.The second negative is Richard Burton's acting. Particularly when being expansive, Burton's style of acting probably worked very well on stage where one needs top be heard, but it doesn't work so well on film where one need not yell. Yelling rarely equals good acting.However, aside from those two downers, there's a lot of great stuff here. For one, it's a lush production...in fact, you can't help but wonder if the real historical settings looked anywhere near this good. The costumes, particularly Elizabeth Taylor's, are stunning.The rest of the acting -- aside from some of Burton's -- is top notch. This may be Taylor's pinnacle, although it's doubtful Cleopatra looked anything like Elizabeth Taylor. And it occurred to me -- could the leader of Rome and the Queen of Egypt communicate so easily in their different languages? I was more interested in the acting by Rex Harrison. I saw Harrison perform at the Kennedy Center one year, and believe it or not, I could barely hear him even though we were sitting in center-orchestra. Even the Washington Post noted the issue in their review of the play. So, I would have to say that film was more conducive to Harrison's talents...and here, he is superb. And I mean really superb. He dies almost exactly half way through the film, and it occurred to me that the studio could have easily divided the film into two parts, which was actually considered, and they would have made twice the profit by releasing them separately. At any rate, despite enjoying Harrison's performance immensely, I was sorely disappointed in the scenes relating to the assassination of Caesar. Instead of in real time, the event is seen -- without speech -- through the eyes of a fortune teller. Harrison was robbed of the dialog in what could have been his best scene.I have never been impressed with Roddy McDowall, and was not here in his role as Octavian.Although it was not a large part, I particularly enjoyed the role played by the wonderful Hume Cronyn. And it was interesting to see Carroll O'Connor in a very different role than Archie Bunker -- as a Roman senator. Martin Landau, whom I generally did not care for, was very good here as an officer under Caesar and Marc Antony.The first half of this film relies on superb acting by Elizabeth Taylor and Rex Harrison. The second half of this film relies on superb acting by Elizabeth Taylor and the drama of Marc Antony's spiraling descent toward death.On balance, a good film, although just for the record -- odd how almost all the Egyptians were White people! "},{"Title":"There's no de-Nile. This is just so amazing.","Date":"18 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Far from a perfect movie, Cleopatra still remains one of the most controversial movie ever-filmed because of its successes, The scandals behind the scenes and the effect that it had on Hollywood budgeting. In the BBC mini-series I Claudius, the Roman Empress Livia comments. that she was once known as one of the greatest beauty is in the world, there was one, but she died years before and she lived in Egypt. That was of course Cleopatra, and while she probably didn't look like any of the Hollywood actresses who played her, the legend of her still exists. I walk through Central Park past the alleged Cleopatra's needle and I have to remind myself that this was apparently another Cleopatra because the Queen depicted in this movie was one of many Cleopatra's in Egypt history, along with the Ptolemies, the cities and other Egyptian king names.Vivien Leigh, Scarlett O'Hara herself, played Cleopatra in a George Bernard Shaw play Caesar and Cleopatra opposite Claude Rains. Vivien Leigh said upon seeing Rita Hayworth walk into a room, how do you compete with that! I am curious just wonder how she would have felt if Elizabeth Taylor had walked into that room because certainly she ranks among the top beauties of all time. And like Vivian and Rita, she was a beauty who could act. well her later performances could be considered overacting, in Cleopatra she is actually very subtle.she is not perhaps the right age, but neither was Theda Bara, Claudette Colbert or Vivien Leigh. Certainly based upon what history has shown, she was also not the right color. But forgiving Hollywood its misrepresentation of history, you have to look at Cleopatra from the perspective that it was made in the early sixties.At nearly four hours long, Cleopatra ranks in my opinion along with the Ten Commandments as an extremely watchable epic. However, unlike the classic Colbert version of 1963, Cecil B DeMille is not involved in this. Obviously influenced by the success of the Ten Commandments less than a decade before, Cleopatra is a gorgeous fantasy based on the life of a Queen that truly create discussion to this day. Rex Harrison deserved his Oscar nomination to play Julius Caesar, just a year prior to playing Henry Higgins in My Fair Lady and winning an Oscar for repeating his Broadway role. He is simply stunning and there is a magnificent chemistry between him and the leading lady. I wish I could say the same about Richard Burton as Marc Anthony and Taylor, because while they might have created heat off screen, they didn't light up on screen as well. Their most memorable pairing was of course Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf, and that was because their characters were fighting rather than making love throughout the movie.Excellent detail goes into every moment of this,and in the supporting cast, Roddy McDowall in certainly amazing as Augustus Caesar. the subtleties of Brian Blessed from I Claudius playing the same role goes out the window for McDowell show me performance. this could almost your pre Chris sir to that magnificent BBC epic. Also, look for Hume Cronyn in a small but memorable role as well as Carroll O'Connor. This is a film that has so many great moments that can manipulate you into thinking Madison up a better movie that really is. Certainly, Cleopatra entrance into Rome remains one of the classic movie visuals of all time. She truly rolls here, and it is unfortunate that the film was surrounded by controversy over her affair with Burton well still married to Eddie fisher. When you look at Elizabeth Taylor and remember all of the amazing things that she did in her life time, you can't help adore her.Excellent photography and consistent and detailed direction by Joseph L. Mankiewicz makes this a film that truly should be seen on a big screen rather than on television. But if you are not willing to wait for its anniversary or a special showing, simply just get the movie and put it on, and watch it in several parts before you truly judge it. As I said, it is far from perfect but it is certainly one film that you will certainly never forget. "},{"Title":"Good as Epics Should Be","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I just have to start by saying I am a big fan of the epic even if I don't fully understand them on first viewing - I need to rewatch Lawrence of Arabia specifically. It is unfair to say that these movies aren't great since so much effort was put into them in order to make them superior in production value. The sets are massive, they require the careful direction of many extras in some scenes, and they usually have great leading performances.While this film does follow the life and accomplishments of Cleopatra, much of the time we are either focused on Caesar - the entire first half of the film - and Mark Antony, as Cleopatra was able to manipulate these men for her benefit, Antony more so than Caesar. For the film as a whole, I'd have to say that at most a third of the time is devoted to Cleopatra, so I am not convinced that this movie should be considered a character study for Cleopatra or that Elizabeth Taylor should be considered the sole lead. Though we don't see her as much as the title of the film insinuates, I suppose she is the driving force of the film, so it is a barely suitable title.It is a little annoying that throughout the first half of the film, Caesar refers to himself in the third person, so it took me about half an hour to figure out that he was Caesar.While I do enjoy epics, I don't think that this is one of the better ones out there, but it is still great for what it accomplishes. As I had stated in the first paragraph, it is impressive to see these films made in the era they come from since the production is massive and seems as though it couldn't possibly be done back in the 60's or even before then. That is what this film feels like - the action sequences are amazing and well-choreographed and very well-put- together in general. Even in unexciting scenes we have a huge amount of things to see within the frame, especially in exterior scenes where Cleopatra is welcomed in Italy and it is more like a community-sized celebration than a simple welcome. It also takes good writing and execution to keep the audience's attention for just over four hours, and I while I had to watch the two halves on separate days it had my attention until the end.This epic felt like it didn't need to be quite as long as other epics, but it was. In my opinion there could have been more improvement if Cleopatra was given more attention to obviously show she is what the film is all about, so the story lines of Caesar and Antony could have been cut down to give more room for Elizabeth Taylor's leading performance. I shall revisit this film eventually as I plan to revisit all epics I have seen - they are simply amazing films. A dream of mine if I were to become a filmmaker is to try to bring back the epic to the screen for modern audiences whether they can sit for four hours or not.3.5/4.0 "},{"Title":"Uh, long...","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Are you kidding me? There is NOTHING right about this movie. It's got lots of glitz and glitter and lavish sets and costumes, but it looks like it was filmed at a costume party in Beverly Hills. Nothing about this movie says ancient Egypt. The acting (Elizabeth Taylor being hopelessly miscast for starters) was stiff and lifeless to be charitable, the sets and the costumes looked like exactly what they were, modern reproductions of what we think ancient folks wore and lived in. All in all it seemed like a boring time in the suburbs someplace. The overall look being a complete miss. Add to that a storyline that is about as slow and event-free as anything in recent memory and you've got what all the critics originally said this movie was - a flop. "}{"Title":"Much better than its reputation; a very good movie","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cleopatra is surprisingly good. I don't know where its bad reputation came from.It looks gorgeous. They spent a mint making this flick, and they put every nickel on the screen. Great sets, truly spectacular costumes for Cleo. Let's face it when she comes up the stairs on the barge in that white dress with that gold thing in her hair, she's the most beautiful woman on earth. Throughout the film, never has cleavage been so well packaged. Spectacle has never been done better her entrance into Rome is unsurpassed. Consider that the sphinx is probably life-sized. And there will never be another naval battle like the one in this film.Several scenes are very effective because of the acting and dialog Cleo and Caesar's first scene; when they're in bed together; Cleo and Antony's scene when she demands 1/3 of the Roman Empire (Taylor is particularly good in this one); Cleo and Octavian in her tomb (Roddy McDowall shines here).There are moments of clunky dialog Cleo talking about the people after learning Caesar has been made dictator for life; in Alexander's tomb, Cleo talking about one world living in peace; Octavian's speech upon learning of Antony's death; Caesarion yelling the enemy over and over while playing on his toy horse.The cinematography is excellent (a well-deserved Oscar). My favorite shot is the pan of Alexandria just before King Ptolemy appears.There's lots of good acting Rex Harrison, Roddy McDowall, Cesare Danova; Martin Landau; and others.I also want to put in the plug for Alex North's music. It's almost always very good. The opening and closing credit music is excellent. There's an odd moment as Cleo leaves the room after Caesar learns of the attack on the moon gate, and the music sounds too loud and just inappropriate.Yes, there are slow spots, but during them just sit back and enjoy the costumes and the sets. "},{"Title":"Burton, Taylor, and a cast of thousands","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cleopatra (1963) was co-written and directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz. This movie is still famous. It was immensely popular when it was released, and is still definitely worth seeing 50 years later. (Incidentally, it wasn't a flop. People lined up to see it. It just didn't make much money, because the production costs were so outrageously high.)I'm going to stick to the basics in this review. If I start with the highest paid this, the most expensive that, the largest number of those, the review will turn into a book. Everyone knows that Taylor and Burton fell in love during the filming. At that time, this was a great scandal. Now, it probably would still make news, but we are glutted with scandal, and nobody is surprised by it.Although everyone was dazzled by her beauty, Elizabeth Taylor could act. (She was nominated for an Oscar five times, and won twice.) Harrison and Burton were both acknowledged as fine actors, and these roles didn't really force them to go down new and different paths. However, to my mind, acting honors go to Roddy McDowall as Octavian (Caesar Augustus). Burton and Harrison play characters who are ruled by their hearts. McDowell plays a character who has no heart. It's hard to describe the lavishness of this production. There really was a cast of thousands. The sea battle scenes are incredible, the interiors are majestic, and the sheer opulence of the costumes is impossible to describe. You really do have to see it to comprehend it.Harrison, Burton, McDowall. Costumes, extras, interiors, Cleopatra's barge, are all very fine. What the movie really has as its core is Liz Taylor. Her IMDb bio describes her beauty Voluptuous figure, dark hair, violet eyes, pale skin. Well, that's a start. When she's on the screen, with her extravagant eye makeup, her hair braided with gold, and her glorious costumes, you can't take your eyes off her.Viewers in 1963 couldn't know about the eight marriages, the weight problems, or the Michael Jackson connection. All of that was in the future and is now in the past. It will be sad if we only remember Elizabeth Taylor when she was a caricature of what she had been when she played Cleopatra. In the movie--and in history--great men risked empires to be with Cleopatra. And, when Elizabeth Taylor is Cleopatra, it's easy to see why.This film cries out for a large screen, but it's too long for most commercial movie houses, and it's not exactly an art film. So, you'll have to make do with the small screen. It's still worth seeing. See it in two sessions--Caesar and then Anthony. That's the way Mankiewicz conceived it, so it makes sense to view it that way now.Added note The 2013 novel Beautiful Ruins, by Jess Walter, takes place (in part) during the filming of Cleopatra. (The other part takes place in the present.) The concept involves a young starlet who plays Iris, one of Cleopatra's servants. She is whisked off to a secluded hotel because of matters that occurred during the filming. In the novel, she's blonde. For many years, directors have portrayed one of Cleopatra's servants as being pale and blonde, in contrast to everyone else who has dark hair. The blonde starlet was hired to play that role, and then things went wrong.Now, the film version of Beautiful Ruins is in production. (I believe it will feature Imogen Poots as the starlet.) So, a novel about the filming of a movie is being turned into a movie. Could be interesting. "},{"Title":"A tragic tale of the Egyptian Queen.","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I first watched this movie with my mom when I was a little kid. Though, I don't remember much from the film, I do recall being fascinated with the live portrayal of royalty and the vibrant and richness of the palace setting and the costumes the cast wore. The tragic story of the life of Queen Cleopatra as her triumphs of power and love are dramatically depicted in the movie Elizabeth Taylor gave a stunning performance as the Queen and Richard Burton gave a powerful portrayal of Mark Antony. I remembered being shocked by the suspense and mayhem when Julius Caesar (Rex Harrison) was stabbed to death, thinking why would a powerful king be assassinated, and remembered being a little sad seeing Cleopatra deliberately let a poisonous snake bite her to death. For a film fascinating a little kid like me back in the day, this film would surely be entertaining for adults, with its brilliant acting and cinematography and interesting portrayal of the historical figures. It remains one of the all-time classics movies that is worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Time Was Their Enemy","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" As legendary movie flops go, Cleopatra is not all that bad. It starts strong, presents intelligent dialogue and vibrant performances, and offers some of the most sumptuous, sensuous eye candy ever captured on film.But it also gets to be a right mess as it goes on. This is true not only for the viewer, but for the filmmakers and actors. Try to squeeze two legendary love stories with the fall of the Roman Republic as backdrop, and you are playing dice with both patience and time.After winning a bloody civil war, Julius Caesar (Rex Harrison) repairs to Egypt, in the midst of its own fratricide. Queen Cleopatra (Elizabeth Taylor) has fallen out with her brother, and enlists Caesar's support with the help of her considerable charms. The birth of a son creates new problems for Rome, and anxiety for Caesar's enemies and allies alike, the latter faction led by loyal soldier Marc Antony (Richard Burton).Cleopatra was supposed to be two three-hour movies, one devoted to Caesar and Cleopatra, the other to Antony and Cleopatra. It's ground well covered, most memorably in separate plays by George Bernard Shaw and Shakespeare, though the film doesn't list them as influences. Twentieth-Century Fox balked at director Joseph L. Mankiewicz's idea for separate movies, and the result forced Mankiewicz to trim six hours of material into one four-hour roadshow.This was a recipe for disaster. Oddly, the part of the film that suffered more, the Caesar half, comes off best. Harrison was always golden playing Shaw roles, and his Caesar is a magnificent Machiavel, dashing off crisp one-liners as he makes the acquaintance of Cleo & Co.Trust, he muses. The word has always made me apprehensive. Like wine, whenever I have tried it, the aftereffects have not been good.Later, in a tender moment with Cleopatra, contemplating global conquest, he tells her I am 52. My remaining ambition is to keep the world from conquering me.But as even the most casual student of history knows, Caesar's not around for the whole film. The rest of the time, we get Taylor and Burton in what amounted to Act 1 of filmdom's famous pairing, and neither turns out well here. Their story gets too turgid, with Taylor flashing her eyes too much while Burton screams and pouts. His Mark Antony also drinks too much, as if the producers were making some point about the actor's future downfall.By the end of the film, the actors recite some terrible lines that strain at a significance Cleopatra doesn't quite earn.Him You and I will prove death so much less than love.Her There has never been such a silence.There are good moments in the second half, too, but not nearly as many. One nice moment occurs when Mark Antony has to go to Cleopatra for assistance after he has married another woman for political reasons, and she tells him to pound some desert in a way that brings out the comic abilities of both actors. Taylor and Burton did better work this way, as sly comics rather than overblown lovers. But overall, there's just too much ham on display.The scenery is still magnificent. Alas the film does much less as it goes on to distract us from it. Many scenes involve smoke being churned up, unintended metaphor that. A climax at the Battle of Actium is strangely undernourished with a few ships and a lot more smoke, followed by a long wrap-up where Antony whines and Cleopatra sighs more than is really necessary.A lot of Cleopatra feels unnecessary, and what is necessary is often short-changed, like how Caesar gets out of Alexandria alive or why Mark Antony makes such a hash of his post-Cleopatra life. Defenders say the true greatness of Cleopatra may lie in a director's cut that remains buried in the vaults. They may be right, but watching this four-hour extravaganza didn't leave me wanting more. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"21 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I don't know much about filmmaking, but Cleopatra probably isn't an excellent movie when it comes to artistic achievement. But it is very entertaining. I was amazed that a movie that was 245 minutes long (that was the length of the version I watched (I think it said 245 on the DVD case but it might have been 248, I forget) but I hear the movie was cut down to 3.5 hours for its first American release and that the director originally wanted to have the film cut into two movies that would have been 3 hours each) kept my attention for that long. There really wasn't one boring minute in the entire movie. I've watched shorter movies that were much more boring. La Dolce Vita is a little less than 3 hours long but I was bored by it less than a half-hour in.I've often tried to watch all of The Ten Commandments (the Charlton Heston version) and I only succeeded once because it's a pretty boring movie (don't get me wrong, though I'm not a Christian I have nothing but respect for the Bible, but seriously, it's a boring movie). And The Ten Commandments is about a half-hour shorter.The only other movie in the same genre that I liked as much Cleopatra is Ben-Hur. I thought for a long time about which one I thought I liked more. On the one hand, Ben-Hur has a totally awesome chariot race and a great revenge story that was partly inspired by The Count of Monte Cristo (one of my favorite books (I haven't read General Lew Wallace's Ben-Hur, though)). But on the other hand, Cleopatra does have Elizabeth Taylor. Both get pretty corny at times but Cleopatra is definitely the more corny (but I love the corniness of these sword-and-sandal epics and I really don't mean it as an insult). They have equally impressive sets and equally dated sea battle scenes. Actually I'd say Cleopatra has the edge when it comes to sets because of Cleopatra's ship. They both have good scores but I liked Mikls Rzsa's score for Ben-Hur a bit more than Alex North's for Cleopatra. I'd say both Ben-Hur and Cleopatra are very entertaining movies but I liked Cleopatra just a little bit more. Then again, I just watched Cleopatra yesterday and the last time I saw Ben-Hur was a few months ago. To fairly say which one I liked more, I'd probably have to watch them back to back.But if we're talking about which one is artistically superior and not which one I personally liked more, I guess Ben-Hur would come out on top (Ben-Hur did win 7 more Academy Awards than Cleopatra, after all). Actually, Stanley Kubrick's Spartacus probably would but I'll admit I didn't enjoy that movie as much as either Ben-Hur or Cleopatra. "},{"Title":"Overly Dramatic","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cleopatra is a fairly good old epic film. I did enjoy watching it for the most part, but I have to admit it was drawn out to long. It felt like the movie was lasting forever, boring in quite a few places and was, generally speaking, over-acted by the cast - overly dramatic at times.What I did like about the film was the over all story, and pretty nice luxurious costuming and elaborate sets. Some of the action scenes in the movie were quite exciting and their was some sexy romantic moments as well.I would not mind watching another movie about Cleopatra if it looked good too me. But Cleopatra (1963) is not a movie that I would care to watch anytime it is on the TV - only when the mood strikes me and may never view it again.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"The Narrative Sags, but Taylor Excels","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" What more can be said about a film which has attracted - and continues to attract - so much notoriety since its release half a century ago? Every aspect of its gestation, release, and subsequent reputation has been pored over by critics, biographers, fans and - more recently - bloggers alike. Sitting through Joseph L. Mankiewicz's three-hour epic once more, one is struck by its sheer scale; in the days before CGI, every detail of ancient Rome had to be painstakingly recreated, from the sets to the crowds thronging the piazzas of Rome and Egypt. The visual effect of what was created at Rome's Cinecitta studios is truly breathtaking - a triumph of design and staging. The film is less effective in terms of characterization Rex Harrison offers us another take on his light comedy persona as Mark Antony, Richard Burton provides plenty of Welsh hwyl, while reminding us of his unique vocal qualities, while Roddy MacDowall is an effeminately evil Octavian (a performance that must have provided a template for Joaquin Phoenix's rendering of a similar role in Ridley Scott's GLADIATOR (2000)). For character actor fans, there's the pleasure of identifying other performers (Martin Landau, Robert Stephens, Pamela Brown) in small roles, but that experience does not really compensate for a narrative that sags badly in places. And what of Elizabeth Taylor? She doesn't so much give a performance as dominate the screen - in a wonderful array of costumes and make-up, she truly seems like someone whose face could have launched a thousand ships. Technically speaking, she might have given better performances but her Cleopatra is comprised of one hundred per cent star quality. "},{"Title":"Way too long... but good.","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" CLEOPATRAThis is an epic film that I had never seen before today... I thought it was never going to end.The film is good, but far far too long. It's on for 4 hours!The film is clearly about Cleopatra and her relationships with Julius Caesar and Mark Anthony.The movie stars Elizabeth Taylor as Cleopatra. Liz does a great job. She was very convincing and she played the character well. Rex Harrison played Julius Caesar. He was actually my favourite character in the movie. I thought he played it well and I quite liked the character. Richard Burton played Mark Anthony. Again, Richard played the character well. I didn't like the character, but he had a very harsh ending. The relationships these actors had together on screen was great. They all worked very well together.= and you could see the connection they had.The setting of this film was amazing. The backdrops were really nice and the sets looked so shiny and expensive. It is no surprise to know this is the most expensive film ever made. The extras were immense too... there were thousands of them.Even though I enjoyed this film, i do believe that it was on for too long. There were a lot of scenes I thought that could have been cut. The film would have been just as good if the film was on for 2 hours.I will give this film 5 out of 10.A good film but I don't think I could sit through it again. It is a watch once movie.For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"Let Me Explain Myself Better","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" OK, when I originally wrote this review some year ago, I really was out of my mind and I didn't know what I was doing so I had to just make a bunch of stupid stuff up. But this time. I am going to have a second chance to explain why I hate this movie so much.Cleopatra.This movie...It nearly destroyed the whole entire film industry.It destroyed careers, it received scathing reviews, it damaged people's reputation, but most importantly, it nearly destroyed 20th Century Fox.Yeah. That's Right. This movie nearly made them bankrupt. Can you think what would happen if we didn't have 20th Century Fox?! We wouldn't have the star wars movies, we wouldn't have The Poseidon Adventure, we wouldn't have Avatar, Predator, Alien, Die Hard, The God's Must Be Crazy, oh... and a personal favorite of mine, BORAT!Also, Animated companies later on would have nowhere to go to if 20th Century Fox wasn't around! Dreamworks and Blue Sky being the top ones.Its hard to explain why I do not like this movie. But i'll try to explain in one go. This movie is the most god awful, overlong (even for an epic), annoying and genre destroying film I have ever seen. It killed the epic and thats why we never ever see an epic film ever again. O.K Look. The way I see an epic film is that it is over three hours long, with an overture, intermission and maybe some exit music with beautiful scenery, involving story, memorable characters, great action if there is any which fits all perfectly into a movie you will be patient to sit through. Cleopatra does not do that. It insults the epic by giving barely any action, no chemistry between Taylor and Burton, overloading on big scenery that looks ugly and being over 5 hours longs. No seriously, this movie is over 5 hours long I mean it I am not lying I fast forwarded through the whole thing it was that bad. Now, Epics are at least 2 - 2- 1/2 hours long and does not have the same effect as classics as Gone With The Wind, Lawrence of Arabia and Ben-Hur do. Everyone involved in this film is all their fault. They destroyed what I loved most and we probably won't see it again. Rarely do we see an epic film such as The Lord Of The Rings films that do give a big effect on you when watching. One day. I will make an epic. Just like the old days. Something that is like Lawrence of Arabia and Its a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. Then everything will be restored. This is a subject I care about lots. I hope you can agree with me on this.11/100 D- "},{"Title":"Lavish but where's the rest of it...?,","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Where IS the rest of it?That may sound like an odd question given that CLEOPATRA runs four hours, but despite the lavish sets, clever dialogue, generally good performances, etc... there is nonetheless a certain smallness about this gargantuan piece of Hollywood history (which, if one adjusts for inflation, remains easily the most-expensive movie ever made). This smallness is hard to explain, except that I think it may have something to do with so many scenes occurring inside, with very little external shooting which remains in the final cut.As I understand, the original version was ~6 hours, which does seem a tad too long, but FOX made Mr. Mankiewicz cut the film down, which he initially did to a length of about 5 hours and 15 minutes... THIS is the version that I'd like to see (but no one's apparently been able to find the footage) but the studio then took it and hacked it down to only 4 hours in 1963, some prints running less than 3!! (Elizabeth Taylor is said to have vomited after publicly viewing the slashed-up version in London).It's also been said that the two stars missing from the four hour version (let alone the shorter one) are Rome and Egypt... I can believe it -- as there is a pronounced lack of a sense of place or location in the four hour cut, the version readily available.If they could reassemble the 5 1/4 hour cut, with that footage back in place, I wonder if the size and scope of CLEO would finally measure up to what it seems to be trying to promise at every moment. Because despite how long it already is, one senses that you've missed something throughout the movie. "}{"Title":"On Your Knees!!","Date":"16 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It's spectacular, it's opulent, it's an epic, and surprisingly the script is excellent. We weave our way through these three characters - Caesar, Marc Antony and the ravishing Cleopatra - with an exciting and turbulent storyline. Elizabeth Taylor is sultry (unexpectedly given that this was made in the early 60's) and her two male protagonists are enchanted and baffled by her. Towards the end Rodney McDowall provides a fitting denouement.It's slightly over four hours, but we would never know it! Yes the battle scene, with the boats, in the second half is somewhat farcical and not up to today's standards, but by that time the story has gotten hold of us and we want to see its' resolution. It's great cinematic experience and I feel much better than those lavish and implausible Biblical epics made in the same time period. "},{"Title":"Lots of spectacle, and some film.","Date":"24 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" How to asses a film that rides the coat tails of the reputations of public personalities? Cleopatra was made in the day and age when star-power had more command than ever before or since, and dictated what people watched, wanted, and desired more of. The names of Rex Harrison, Elizabeth Taylor, Richard Burton and many others, drew attention, and swayed opinion in terms of show business.So it was that Cleopatra was produced. Originally envisioned as a quick turnaround and stop gap measure to earn a quick buck (relatively speaking), the project became a colossal endeavor. Egos drove the project forward, and with interesting results.What we have here is a film created from, by and for the hubris of those involved and downright popularity. As such we have elaborate sets that only loosely resemble what may have been the Ancient World of Rome, Greece, Egypt, Macedonia, Germania, et al. Art-deco meets ancient Rome, complete with interior design and architecture that Frank Lloyd Wright himself might've influenced during the design of the sets; along with feminine fashions drawn right out of early 1960's fashion runways. Was this really how Classic People lived and dressed? Probably not.There are of course Burton and Taylor, or Taylor and Burton (whichever way you choose to put it), who added much needed pre-publicity to a project that was costing millions in early 1960's dollars (when we were still on the gold standard). Result; in the end what you have is a kind of overblown high-school production in terms of the emotional maturity of both those participating in it, and those who desired to see it. But, they pull it off nevertheless.The low points are the battle scenes. For a film that spent much on bringing new heights to the sword-and-sandal epic, the actual military engagements aren't much to look at. We're not watching Spartacus here, a film that gave a lot of attention to dramatic and historic detail, nor even Ridley Scott's more contemporary Gladiator where gritty realism was the order of the day, but rather production hubris in terms of striving for popularity than a true first class production. We see few troops engaged in battle, only a smattering of formations, and model boats interspersed with footage of Egyptian and Roman war galleys. Yet, for all that, it is an impressive production in terms of what went into it. I'd heard much about the film growing up, and saw portions of it here and there (all be it chopped up for broadcast). In the end it is, as with all films, a product of its time. It's not a film that I think has any great import other than the media splash it created back when it was being made. After all, that is what show business is all about.Technically; shot in ToddAO, the film has a slightly more realistic look in terms of the cinematography than other sword-and-sandal films being shot and released at the time. The acting is borderline melodramatic, the special effects are what they are The live effects are impressive, while the miniatures are paltry. Composition of shots are respectable; actors must carry the scenes as opposed to quick edits so prevalent in today's offerings.Like I say, I'm not a huge fan of the film, but it is an impressive effort for what it is. Certainly worth a look if you've not seen it before, but I'm not sure it's worth viewing again unless you're from those times, and reliving past glories.Watch at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Cleopatra-A Snake in the Grass **1/2","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Despite beautiful cinematography with the lavish sets, this 1963 film is a colossal failure. Tedious and ultimately boring, it just again proves that poor writing will do in any fine actor or actress, whether that be Rex Harrison, who received a best actor Oscar nomination as Julius Caesar, Richard Burton, as Mark Antony and the gorgeous, recently departed Elizabeth Taylor, as the seductive, vicious Cleopatra.Taylor's performance is absolutely pathetic here. At the beginning, she sounded almost churlish and her voice reflected her days in Butterfield 8, or the to-be Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? She improves after the assassination of Julius Caesar.The film takes in a lot of political considerations with the resulting entanglements. There is plenty of distorted history here. Roddy McDowell turns in an interesting performance as the overly-ambitious Augustus Caesar, heir to the dictatorshipIn summary, a totally disappointing effort. The assassination of Caesar certainly could have been better handled. It's as if they killed off the entire film. "},{"Title":"It's Not A Train Wreck. It's The Rescue Effort.","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" People are often drawn to the fact that Cleopatra was the most expensive movie of all time and, naturally, one of (if not the one) the biggest flops of all time. People, then, watch the movie expecting to see some horrifyingly fascinating disaster. What they get is a movie that provides more solid entertainment than anything of its kind. When expecting Elizabeth Taylor to be a putrid nightmare, they get her one notable performance. When thinking they'll shut it off after the first two hours (merely half the common cut of the movie), they hopefully end up realizing that *that* would be the waste of time. In other words, Mankiewicz' Cleopatra is well worth what is now a multi-billion dollar price tag, especially in a modern Hollywood where films like Troy (shudder) and Titanic (twelve concurrent shudders) are what audiences expect from movies that are longer than 140 minutes. It is almost like a prophetic attempt to save moviegoers of the 21st century by providing fans of real entertainment with the opportunity to say, Wait! It doesn't have to be like this! Yes, it's four hours long. But those four hours are packed with fantastic performances, mind-blowing spectacle (especially the Queen's entrance into Rome in the first half), and even a host of unbelievable appearances (which include Carroll O'Connor-- Archie Bunker's in the picture!) On the surface Liz Taylor seducing her way to the top in a gigantic, expensive, overblown mess of a movie. In reality, the most lasting testament to the good aspects of dreaming-- and doing-- big. "},{"Title":"Elizabeth Taylor Cleopatra is a great film but could have been better.","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This film was suppose to be two films as Shakespeare and George Bernard Shaw saw it, Ceaser and Cleopatra, and Anthony and Cleopatra, both films were aboutt 3.5 hours long, and were to be released 6 to 12 months apart, similar to the way the 3 Lord of the Rings films were released. these 2 Cleopatra films were completed, but fox studio pressured & forced the director, Joseph Mankowicz to cut the film down to the 4 hour and 3 minute version that we now have, but this only played once in New york at it's premier. The London premier was the 3 hour 14 minute version which the director was again forced to produce through edting down more footage. This is the version the most Americans, and indeed most people around the world saw in theaters. It was not until 1973, when it came on TV, (remember Sunday night at the movies?), that the 4 hour version was again shown, in 2 parts, 2 hours one Sunday, and 2 hours the next. My father, never having seen the film, told me being 16 at the time, it was a Bomb, however, as the film progressed, I vehemently disagreed, and despite his uninformed judgement, he was glued to the set both Sunday nights. when Cleopatra, i.e. Liz, is confronted by Agrippa, now Octavain's admiral, near the end of the film, and Agrippa basically states that Octavian will leave Cleopatra alone, if she provides the head of Mark Anthony, Cleopatra takes something of her necklace, a small head lke jewel, wips it at Agrippa and then says almost in a commanding, but more controlled Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolf authority, voice, Give this to Octavian as my answer!! Octavian may have two heads for the price of one, either two, or none! My father then said, Boy Liz has a good underhand softball pitch, and if you knew my father, he wasn't kidding. In any event. Because the film could only be shown once per night at 4 hours and 3 minutes, the studio forced the director to cut it down to 3 hours & 14 minutes, so it could be shown 2 times per night, i.e., more profits, at the expense of artistic vision. There has been talk about restoring the 2 films, I hope they do. I love ancient hx and Elizabeth Taylor, esp. during that period of her acting career. Also an Eyptologist, who works for the teaching co., at the end of his 36 lectures actually recommended the film stating that it was ahead of it's time, because it portrayed a more accurate picture of the queen as a intelligent noble just ruler, which she actually was, rather than just a seductress, that the roman propaganda machine painted, an image which has survived right into the 20th 21 st century. Remember, at home, just like a book, you don't have to watch the whole film or hopefully, one day, films, in one sitting. Do you have to read a book in one sitting? I think it is a wonderful film no CGI. They could only make a film like that now with computer enhancement. This was the real thing. And it did finally make a profit and continues to do so. robertbegun in 1995 to find the missing reels and restore the two films, but it only resulted in the 4 hour and 3 minute version being fully restored, with some extra footage on a 3rd disc which had been found. I would love to know if this effort continues. I for one, and both a great fan of ancient history and Elizabeth Taylor, especially roman history. Actually, despite some comments I have read, the film was remarkably ahead of it's time, painting Cleopatra not just as a seductress but a woman of intelligence, and capable of just rule, which is only really now coming to light in full, not the woman the roman propaganda machine painted her as. there were some mistakes, but trivial only. Even a Eyptologist of the teaching company actually recommended the film recently at the end of his 36 lectures. I would love to see the fully restored version as the director saw it. Rob "},{"Title":"The most mutilated epic in cinema history","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I always pitied Joseph L. Mankiewicz for his attempts to make this film one of the greatest ever made and never actually getting full control of the project in the first place. Twentieth Century Fox was one of the reasons for the poor quality of the film that is available now. The problematic production costs, Taylor's fragile health and the Burton scandal are also to blame for the negative light that the film has bathed in for so long.Originally, Mankiewicz had planned to make two films - Caesar & Cleopatra - and - Antony & Cleopatra - each, three hours in duration. At the last minute Twentieth Century Fox announced that Mankiewicz had to make one complete film involving all characters. The reason for this was that audiences would not be drawn in the same numbers if Antony & Cleopatra was released the following year and Taylor & Burton had not still been together. As a result of this Mankiewicz had to cut out more than two hours of footage that had already been filmed, leaving the film at 4 hours and 7minutes, which is it's current duration. This again was cut back to allow the film to be screened twice a day, so the film was originally around 3 hours long. The two hours of footage have never been found and it remains a sad omen to the film that Rex Harrison, Richard Burton and Roddy Mac Dowell have all died without seeing the complete finished film.When one casts aside all the drama that overshadows the film, it unfortunately doesn't add up to industry standards, or my own personally. There are some credible scenes, which may only be believable as they encounter Antony and Cleopatra during their romance, at the same time as Burton and Taylor were creating their own. Harrison and Burton do rise above the rest in most scenes; particularly Caesar's defeated speech to Antony and the Senate. Burton's, Marc Antony is as Mankiewicz wanted him. A weak, little boy inside who strives to do all that Caesar could notand fails subsequently. Burton surpasses Mac Dowell in this film I always felt, especially when Antony confronts Cleopatra in her bedchamber about her constant flaunting of the memory of Caesar. In conveying the weakness and hopelessness he feels in himself at that moment, Burton is flawless.Taylor fluctuates in her performance. At times it is believable that she is the ruler of all of Egypt. The queen who wishes to bring out the warrior in Antony. The child who needs protection and guidance from her mentor and father figure, Caesar. The mother who wants her son to be proclaimed as the true King of Egypt. The strong ruler who will defy Octavian at any cost. At other times, she appears depressed and seemingly hassled by having to play the part when there is so much going on elsewhere. In fact the true story of Cleopatra is completely overshadowed by the false 'facts', and the feeling that the film is going nowhere. Overall, Taylor does seem to be drifting in and out of a sea of consciousness and barbiturates whilst trying desperately to give a good performance. It is impossible to ignore all the drama off the set as it sears through during the film. In one of the final scenes after Antony has been taken away and Octavian demands that the queen should surrender herself to him, Taylor's state of mind is ambiguous. It could be that she is so immersed in thoughts of Antony's death, or it could be that she no longer cares about the part. Taylor has refused to discuss the film for years and probably never will, therefore leaving it in the hands of a confused audience.As far as entertainment goes, Cleopatra does not rank too highly. I think that the film is a sad documentation of the sidelines to what was supposed to be one of the greatest epics ever made. In a way it is timeless because there has never been a film with so much publicised baggage attached to it. It is by no means perfect, Taylor herself threw up upon seeing the premiere in 1963, and it is widely believed to be the film that killed Joseph L. Mankiewicz. It is far better than some other films that have been made since and deserves a place in cinema history for Mankiewicz's brave attempts at filming a movie with no stable script and managing to sign some of the world's most famous stars to make it on this basis. It is quite impressive visually, and would have been even more so had the continuity not been so poor - a repercussion of cutting out the two hours of film.Although it rarely appears in compendiums of great films, Cleopatra is a wonderful film. It's uniqueness and sad undertones make it interesting viewing, even if it is to get a glimpse of the Taylor-Burton affair in full swing. "},{"Title":"WOW! could it be produced today ?","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It is difficult to believe, still, that I bought this fabulous movie - from eBay - on two VHS cassettes for less than $15.00. In 1963, when its production - we are told - costs $40 million, in that year's currency I may have paid fifty cents !! Looking at the sumptuous sets - the gold-metallic paint must have been a huge part of the budget, not to mention the gold-plating for jewelry, etc. - and the panoramic view of the battle between Octavian and Antony (with real ships and thousands of sailors, then the huge army later), it is highly doubtful anything on such a grand scale could be made today, wouldn't you agree? The barge-scene is glorious. AND - ...that's only what we see as the film has been released as it is today - what about those other two hours that are missing? Several commentators has stated that Ms. Taylor's salary - $1 million - makes her the highest-paid actress of all times. Perhaps with inflation in today's dollar that could be possible, but I'd have to be shown in hard figures it's anywhere near what actors/actresses who are paid $20 million-and-more. In my mind, I don't think there's anyone worth that kind of money....for one film? You can be sure of one thing Ms. Taylor's take from Cleopatra was far in excess of her salary she just happened to own the patented ToddAO lenses it was filmed in. Her husband, Richard Todd, bequeathed them to her at his death. So, ANY movie shot with those lenses put money into her pocket.The use of these lenses are what makes the clarity of Cleopatra so spectacular - twice that of 35mm. Mankiewicz may have been forced to cut his film, but he can rest assured there isn't any other movie that is as brilliantly filmed as this movie is. I haven't viewed the DVD version, but THAT must surely be breathtaking. All of those people who are seeing this version are far too young to remember how grainy some regular prints were. All of these old movies are being re-released in digital-computerized formats - how fortunate we are today ! SO ....to me, it is highly unbelievable that the studios DON'T KNOW where the lost film-footage is. Huh? One day, they'll re-release Cleopatra in is original version and make millions more.This movie is timeless - Mankiewicz and Hecht had the good fortune to write from the histories of Plutarch and Seutonius....very good sources, wouldn't you say? What does it matter that some of what we see isn't factually historical? The movie could have been filmed with a much smaller budget, but all of those thousands of crafters made what we are seeing as a finished product. Astounding ! Every penny we see on the screen. Why nit-pick over an epic film in which we can get lost? I wouldn't care if it were eight hours long. In the version I have, although I can't tell you exactly where in the movie it is, you can see exactly where a large cut was made - the screen is dark for at least three seconds, then continues-on a coupla-more hours in its grandeur.As some have written, if Rome and Egypt weren't the way they were depicted, they SHOULD have been. Don't you want to believe it? Harrison, Burton, McDowall, Cronyn and the galaxy of other big stars certainly helped to make the movie an epic, but it was the great numbers of extras - some of whom we never saw - that really fills-up the screen and makes the movie so spectacular. However It IS Ms. Taylor's film - she just happened to be the most gorgeous lady of our times, and it is fitting they filmed her to highlight her great beauty - and, her acting was pretty good, too. Brava Liz ! It is so seldom we can witness (for the couple of dollars we pay) a movie so magical, why don't we just let our minds go blank and get into it? During this country's Great Depression, it was movies - even as they were then - that helped its citizens realize they could-and-would survive the poverty and remain the great nation we are. Cleopatra does the same thing today - it is timeless.P.S. the only other actress I can think of who possessed such great beauty was Hedy LaMarr - who could be filmed from any angle. "},{"Title":"Classic movie","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" For me, Cleopatra redefined the epic blockbuster movie. It is a spectacular visual treat with cinematography that rivals any of the CGI stuff today. The costumes were phenomenal, too. I remember a line about Antony always remembering his first view of Cleopatra in her gold dress, and Irene Sharaff hit it right. It's an image I am going to remember forever.The cast is perfect. Who else could pull off the arrogance of Cleopatra while still showing her soft side than Elizabeth Taylor. And who but Richard Burton could match her and be her Antony? Add in Rex Harrison as Caesar and Roddy McDowell as Octavian, and you have a cast that can't be beat! I can't think of a thing I would change about this movie. It shouldn't ever be remade! "},{"Title":"A hymn to Liz Taylor's beauty","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It's hard to argue with any of CLEOPATRA's oft-cited criticisms, both positive (costume design, epic scale, and sumptuous sets) and negative (plodding action, stilted acting, historical liberties). Beyond that familiar litany, the film remains a monument to Elizabeth Taylor, one of the most beautiful actresses that has ever graced celluloid. This goddess, shown here in all her aspects, from coquette, to earth mother, to imperious ueberbitch, to tragic victim, had violet eyes before colored contacts, a pneumatic decolletage before silicone implants, and perfect curvaceous contours before personal trainers and Stairmasters. Such an example of God-given beauty should make a believer of the most hardened skeptic! "},{"Title":"at best it's intelligent and captivating and historically interesting film-making - at worst, it's dull exposition","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It's one of the big fiasco stories of Hollywood lore the most gargantuan budget spent on a single motion picture- 47 million (the equivalent of about 260 million today)- on an epic so huge in scale that it was nearly unthinkable, however true, that it started out as a modestly budgeted production that skyrocketed by a myriad of reasons. Not least of which was star Elizabeth Taylor herself, who first stopped the first try at production with Rouben Mamoulian through her various real/fake illnesses, then second through her notorious relationship with Richard Burton that started on the set and distracted them from certain scenes (which is arguable but the point is valid). By the time the film was released it could in only a miracle recoup its budget in its initial theatrical run, and got (to say it nicely) mixed reviews.To see Cleopatra now isn't to say that history has been entirely kind to the production, but it should be said that it can be viewed somewhat on the terms that Joseph L. Mankiewicz set out for the final product. All the money is up there on the screen, in nearly disgusting detail and extravagance, yet the director has also crafted something that does, usually, have substance past the enormous spectacle and (also to say softly) lavish production designs and sets. He tells the story of Cleopatra, Egypt's most (in)famous queen, in a split-act form that is like two movies strung together (in fact it was the director's idea to have them as separate 3-hour epics, though eventually each part was trimmed by an hour and put together again), and while the latter part might work better than the former, it's an impressive, flawed, and interesting effort all the same.It might be much to go into too much detail about all of the specifics of the story, as it would take up far too much of this review. Suffice to say it's first about Cleopatra (Taylor) and her mentor-cum-father-to-her-child Caesar (Rex Harrison, in surprisingly good two-dimensional form), and then after he is killed her hot and complex relationship with Marc Antony (Burton), and the eventual war between Rome and Egypt via the new power-hungry Caesar (stunning Roddy McDowell). For this first part, which is mostly with Harrison and Taylor and a little Burton thrown in, it's a lot of exposition that sometimes is quite dull; one wonders when the big spectacle will come about, the exception of course that spectacular entrance of Cleopatra's into Rome.Yet, it's never really too dis-interesting, if only from a (Hollywoodized) historical point of view, and if one is a buff of Roman history- or, at least, Roman epics- there should be enough to hold the interest. It's when Cleopatra and Marc Antony get the most screen time in the second half, however, that things start to get a lot more absorbing; the chemistry in real life rubbed off on the two stars, and there are scenes where Burton (probably the most highly charged of the major actors) and Taylor square off like it's oneupmanship. And as Mankiewicz goes further with the story into the final battle, things pick up in the narrative that suddenly gets things boiling like a good old-fashioned epic, and there's finally a synergy of substance and style that is spotty for some portions of the film.Yes, it's probably TOO big, and TOO long, and with the hubris of the producers and its stars right up there in certain moments if not spread throughout (it goes without saying that Taylor's diva demands seem to radiate off her queen in some real specific instances). But it's no failure by any means, and it's no disaster either. At the same time it also shoots short of greatness by not being, apparently, very well organized, with no complete script and its director re-writing scenes ala Godard the night before it was too be filmed. For what it's worth, some 45 years later, it's a fine achievement that isn't overrated and maybe just a tinge underrated. "}{"Title":"Three On The Nile","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It is, of course, impossible to approach this film as just another release in a typical week because for better or worse it comes with baggage - the original director fired, ditto original writers, escalating production problems, the world press feeding frenzy surrounding the Burton-Taylor offscreen romance and last but not least Mank staying up all night to write the screenplay and then shooting all day. In some cases, notably Casablanca and The Blue Dahlia, writers staying one camera setup ahead of shooting can produce brilliant results but even Mank couldn't quite hit paydirt here. A child could discern the difference between the first half which explores Cleopatra's relationship with Caesar and the second in which Marc Anthony takes up the running and the only conclusion to be reached is that Mank was more sympathetic to the first relationship - he had, of course, already offered his own take on Julius Caesar in 1952 (trivia buffs will note that John Hoyt appeared in both movies) and more or less phoned in the Tony and Cleo segment. There are those who will savor the irony of third-rate joke actors like Martin Benson sharing a screen with Burton - though to be fair the way Burton walks through his part it's no more than he deserves. On balance this is a film that should be seen and allowances made for virtually all involved from Mank downwards who had done so much better and would, in some cases, do so again. "},{"Title":"the ultimate TV sit com","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I am so pleased to see that this truly astonishing genuine epic is being so appreciated by most viewers. I didn't discover CLEOPATRA until the 80s when I saw it on a double feature with CABARET (honestly!...an all day affair).....and the new DVD is a sensation, especially the doco explaining the production. It is unjustly maligned occasionally, but time will prove this film to be what it genuinely is awesome and fascinating. It was hugely popular when it was released too, something also overlooked and would easily be one of the top grossing films before The Sound Of Music and of the 60s. Fox should be encouraged to cinema release this again as a 6 hour event..if there are any cinemas left outside a shopping mall that could show it. Imagine if the New York Roxy had lasted until 1964....what a release combination that would have been in its day! I showed CLEOPATRA to a flatmate once in nightly 30 minute sit com sized episodes....and it works well like that. "},{"Title":"Long, but Liz makes it worth it...","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  For those of us who adore Elizabeth Taylor, Cleopatra may have indeed been lengthy, but was well worth it.  The magnificence of  Cleopatra's arrival in Rome atop the giant sphinx is still a site to behold.  My only  wish is that I could have been one of the  adoring crowd. "},{"Title":"The film that today would cost $1 billion to remake authentically!","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  CLEOPATRA was as big as its hype in 1963. Despite everything, the script re-writes, Liz Taylor's eccentricities, over-budget squabbles, the raging love affair with Burton, illnesses....the sequence in which Cleopatra makes her entrance to Rome was (on the gynormous original Panavision 70mm screen) and still IS, by far the biggest spectacle ever witnessed in movie history. Its color, panache, and ultimate precision remains a staggering achievement. Today of course, they would digitise the crowds, the elephants...probably even the actors!  Speaking of huge, Cleopatra's Alexandria Palace remains even today, the largest set ever constructed.Such was the media furore at the time over the Burton-Taylor affair, most people went to see it for all the wrong reasons and fairly negative critiques didn't engender an undying affection for the movie. Ultimately costing I believe well over $60 million, that translates today to probably half a billion greenbacks!  Only the Sergei Bondarchuk Russian epic WAR AND PEACE cost more! (but there again..the version I saw ran for almost twelve hours, over three days)So, was CLEOPATRA worth the expense?  I have to say yes it was, so long as one is prepared to invest 4-5 hours of one's life (depending which version you watch) in watching and listening. I saw CLEOPATRA at its London premiere in 1963 and it ran for just under 5 hours! - it didn't seem like it!  Debate has raged over the fact that Taylor was about as Egyptian-looking as Bette Davis. Fact is though, Cleopatra wasn't Egyptian (read your history), she was of Macedonian extraction and not with African features consequently. Evidence suggests also that she was no great looker but highly cerebral, this trait being the lure for so many males of her time. Personally I don't care if she had a profile like Porky Pig, in MY mind she looked like Elizabeth Taylor thanks very much!Some of the sea-battles scenes were a bit suss, but there again in 1963 one didn't go looking for such things quite so painstakingly. As Julius Caesar, Rex Harrison was...well, Rex Harrison! but was this a professional effort or what? They DON'T make them like sexy Rexy any more. Today's actors you watch, Harrison COMMANDED the attention and respect of the audience. He WAS Julius Caesar!CLEOPATRA was all about spectacle in parts, but an action-fest it wasn't and audiences used to seeing Charlton Heston driving his chariot like none before him, literally, carving up the opposition, found this latter-day epic a trifle tedious. It had little or no hope of recovering even its production costs in the short term. (Ultimately it did, but was not the money-spinner the studio had hoped it would be).If you want to gauge just how good this film was....have a look at the recent TELEMOVIE remake with Lenore Vareli, then watch this, if you're not comatose by then!  Chalk and cheese my friends! "},{"Title":"An undeserved bad reputation for the wrong reasons","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is overall a very good movie. The stunning visuals are obvious. The first half with Rex Harrison is definitely superior to the second half. Critics seem to prefer the Claudette Colbert version. I know of no area in which it compares with the Elizabeth Taylor version. Aside from the technical production, the acting and the writing in the Taylor version are far better. This movie however began getting bad raps from the critics when it was first produced because of the off-screen antics of Taylor and Burton which really have no bearing on the quality of the film itself. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Well the movie was great especially when Cleopatra came to the entrance of rome(i think) Elizabeth Taylor was exquisite. And suited her role well. Richard Burton acted great inthe movie and in true life loved and married Elizabeth Taylor. Rex Harrison also was good but I think he needed something more. I recomend that you see this great epic. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Classic","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Sure, art imitates life too much when you watch this movie knowing all about what went on between Liz and Dick off-camera but that still doesn't diminish the fact that as far as epics go, Cleopatra, while not in the same class as Ben Hur is as good as or better than other quality epics like Spartacus.  Rex Harrison and Roddy McDowall are brilliant as Caesar and the future Caesar Augustus respectively, while Elizabeth Taylor comes off better than you'd be led to believe since she plays the Queen of the Nile less as a sexy vamp and more as a shrewd, calculating practitioner of realpolitik.  While Claudette Colbert's take in the DeMille version is infinitely sexier, I have to agree with George MacDonald Fraser who said that Taylor's Cleopatra is probably closer to the real thing.Less effective is Richard Burton, who seems preoccupied with other things (as we all know!) and gives a performance not as good as his centurion in The Robe.  Also jarring is to see Caroll O'Connor as Casca, one of Caesar's assassins.  Granted, who knew at the time he would later become Archie Bunker, but still.....Alex North contributes the best score never to be given a legitimate CD release, while the sets, costumes and backdrops are so exquisite that in the end you can't help but think that if ancient Rome and Egypt wasn't like this, it *ought* to have been.  The makers of this film are to be commended for having overcome a lot of adversity and off-camera hijinks to still turn out what remains a very good film and worth a look at especially in the environment of home video where one doesn't need a single setting (But do try to find the widescreen laser disc or else it's not worth it). "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw the full length of the movie, not the heavily censored version of the first release. As I saw it in German TV two years back there was a speciality about it. In Germany movies are synchronised, that is the actors speak German. As they couldn't have the same voices as they had 35 years back, they left the formerly censored parts in the original version (English!), so the watcher could distinguish one from another.That gave me such a good insight into the mentality of people in the sixties in the US, as I saw what they cut out and what they let go. And I observed very fine irony and satire in the dialogs. It has for me a political dimension. And I like Burton and Taylor when they are not the glamorous pair, but acting like being real people with their flaws and bourgeoise thinking. It was not a movie about the historical Cleopatra but a movie about people, life and politics in their eternal  form. "},{"Title":"Compelling","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  After reading the other reviews on this film I have to agree with many of the comments made.  However critisizing the English accents of some players is a little irrelevant don't you think.  I suppose American accents would have been more acceptable.What has mesmerised me is the compelling nature of this epic.  It's scale, grandeur and exacting detail (whether accurate or not) is totally absorbing. If taken as a whole the film is unsurpassed in both scope and beauty. Remember the scene where Cleopatra arrives to meet Antony in her barge It simply blew me away.  I can forgive historical inaccuracies and occasional poor acting for the sheer beauty and enjoyment of this marvellous film. "},{"Title":"Four hours of time well spent!!","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Before Titanic there was Cleopatra.  The epic movie of the 60's does not only bring a historic tale to life, but it does so with wonderful acting, amazing costumes, and extraordinary scenery. "}{"Title":"after all that hoopla -- not bad","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cleopatra is one of the most notorious films in history, for often discussed reasons, not the least of which is bankrupting 20th Century Fox with its $44 million price tag.In the end, was it worth it? Hard to say, but you can't beat Cleopatra for sheer spectacle, opulence, majesty, and costumes! And for those of us who grew up in the '60s, let us not forgot that Cleopatra makeup we all walked around with.There are also some wonderful performances in this film, notably Rex Harrison as Caesar, Richard Burton as Marc Antony, Roddy McDowell as Octavian -- and let's not forget the perfectly cast Elizabeth Taylor, gorgeous and resplendent and certainly believable as both queen and seductress.The film sticks to the true history, with the exception of the children Cleopatra had with Marc Antony -- four in all, including twins. The only child shown in the film, Caesarian, didn't outlive his mother by much, as Octavian had him killed after Caesarian won support as Pharaoh of Egypt.Since the film took so long to make, one does notice differences in Taylor's appearance, particularly her weight. In the scenes filmed after her illness, she is quite tiny and in the scenes beforehand, she is a little bigger. Since the scenes seem to have been filmed out of order, it can be disconcerting. Let's face it, it's hard to stay at the same weight for five years, particularly after you've nearly died. None of it is enough to detract from her great beauty.Cleopatra eventually made more than $44 million, but that doesn't mean it actually turned a profit. In order to show a profit, usually a film needs to make three times its cost. I don't believe to this day that Cleopatra has ever done that. No matter - it was the start of a huge love affair and was yet another coffin nail in the big studio system. And with all of that, it's a well-made film that doesn't scrimp on opulence. Somehow, even with all that went on, it never lost its way. "},{"Title":"Overblown historical epic","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Was there any need to make CLEOPATRA a four-hour-plus historical epic, supposedly the biggest film ever made? I'm not too convinced. Although this film is lavish and filled with magnificent spectacle, there isn't really too much story to propel the narrative along. The result is a story that feels long-winded and overblown, with Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor chewing the scenery with relish in their performances as the doomed twosome.The first half of this production is much better than the second, focused as it is on a restrained Rex Harrison as Julius Caesar. The story is told well and the budget is high enough to do more than ample justice to the backdrops and costumes. The battle sequences are well handled and the sets are frequently mouth-dropping. A shame, then, that in the second half things slow down considerably and not much really happens.I'm the first to admit that I'm not really a fan of Taylor's Cleopatra, who seems one-dimensional throughout. Burton's Antony is better, but his character is difficult to warm to; the supporting players like Roddy McDowall, Martin Landau, and Andrew Keir are much more interesting. Although I'd never seen this film before, I ended up feeling that I'd been spoilt by later movies it's hard to take the pompousness seriously after CARRY ON CLEO, while the TV series ROME handled the same story in a much more refined way. That leaves CLEOPATRA a mildly interesting piece of spectacle and very much a product of its era. "},{"Title":"Grand epic and great Harrison","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Julius Caesar (Rex Harrison) has just defeated Pompey but Pompey has slipped through his fingers to Egypt. King Ptolemy has just driven his co-regent sister Cleopatra (Elizabeth Taylor) from the throne. In Alexandria, Caesar finds Pompey beheaded by Ptolemy and is visited by Cleopatra rolled up in a rug. After disposing Ptolemy, Caesar has a son with Queen Cleopatra. Meanwhile rumblings of descent is rising in Rome. When Caesar pushes to be emperor, he is assassinated. Mark Antony (Richard Burton) and Octavian (Roddy McDowall) hunt down the conspirators and are installed as joint rulers of the empire.Rex Harrison is magnificent. He's the perfect foil for Taylor. They have a great first half of the movie. That half represents all the greatness of old Hollywood. It has the grand productions and the actors are never overshadowed. Harrison and Taylor rises above it all. When Caesar dies, the movie goes downhill. Richard Burton is constantly overacting. It's as if he's over-compensating for something or is acting under duress. And Taylor joins right along with him in the broad big acting. Roddy McDowall is a fun villain but the second half is mostly unbearable. There is no doubt that this is a real old fashion epic. It's too bad that the second half is such a mess. "},{"Title":"The Bluray reveals Nuance not seen in Years","Date":"29 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is one of those older films that require the High Definition focus of a Bluray restoration. On the Bluray the visuals are stunning. The high level of its great scenic artistry is revealed in its full glory.The amount of detail is gorgeous. This movie was THE fashion film of the sixties. The clothes, hair and sets had profound effects on the designers of fashion and interior design for the entire decade. It may not be a perfect film, but it should be a prerequisite for film school students just for the pure beauty of its production values and its extravagance. Actually, with the level of clarity of the Bluray, performances have a new intensity. Small nuances like the raise of an eyebrow or a sneer can be appreciated more easily. Tears and sweat show vividly in scenes that appeared on the DVD to be just shine. The music score by Alex North is heard more precisely and shows why it was nominated for an Oscar. Movie scores don't get much better than this. In some ways this movie is about style over substance. It may have bankrupted Fox, but fifty years later it is still very much worth viewing. The same can not be said about Waterworld or Ishtar. As a thirteen year old artsy Egyptology loving kid, this movie blew me away when I first saw it in 1964. I still consider it close to the top of the list of my thousand or so favorite films. "},{"Title":"Cleopatra review","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Back in the day, Cleopatra promised to offer the same brand of entertainment that had been such a hit with movies like Ben Hur a massive and expensive epic with thousands of extras, huge setpieces, and dazzling star-power. It was so big, its sheer budget nearly ran Fox Studios to the ground.The film is definitely a lavish sight to behold. The settings are very expansive and imaginatively rendered; the costumes are glamorous; the actors present very passionate performances. There are a couple of major battles, where giant armies (or navies) assemble on screen and launch flaming projectiles at each other. At times, the film shines brilliantly with its ambition and glamor.However, sitting through the film is also a chore at times. It runs for four hours, and in between the more interesting and exciting scenes, there's a lot of padding with the dialogue and politics. It's not a total bore, but the distance between the major plot and character points seemed so far in between, it can test one's patience.Which is a shame, because there's much to be said about the timeless story of Julius Caesar, Cleopatra VII, and Marc Anthony. History buffs will already be familiar with the story, and the film does the whole affair decent justice. The film maintains decent accuracy, despite one or two anachronisms and liberties. The story overall is solidly constructed, and the characters are given good attention. Some of the most interesting scenes focus on the characters constantly competing for control over each other, and ultimately control over the kingdoms of Rome and Egypt. However, most of the conflict is kept subtle, and thus contributes to the slow pacing of the movie.With no expense spared on the film, it looks very lavish and competent. It's well-shot and well-edited. Acting is swell I grew quite fond of Elizabeth Taylor's portrayal of the title character, while Richard Burton, Rex Harrison, and Roddy McDowell do their best to make their characters bold and powerful. Writing is quite detailed and elegant. This production has some very gorgeous sets, props, and costumes; however, certain things look a little too plastic, and certain things (especially Cleopatra's wardrobe) look a little too 20th century. The music score is quite lovely too.This film is probably more memorable for the behind-the-scenes dilemmas that cemented its fate as a moderate box office flop. Aside from going tremendously over-budget, Elizabeth Taylor nearly perished during an illness while filming, and had to be rushed to the hospital for an emergency tracheotomy. The production had to be relocated to Rome for a while, and during the editing process, the film was wheedled down beyond the director's desired runtime. In spite of these issues, the film was considered the end of a magnificent era, in the same fashion as Cleopatra's death marked the end of a historic era.Despite the sheer length and slow pacing of the film, I am glad to have seen it, for it has its moments. I'm particularly fond of its performances and setpieces; I just wish there was more to it.3.5/5 (Entertainment Marginal | Story Pretty Good | Film Very Good) "},{"Title":"Visually- very sumptuous.","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- Cleopatra, 1963. A fictional story based loosely on Roman and Egyptian accounts of the troubling times of two ancient civilizations and their leaders.*Special Stars- Elizabeth Taylor, Richard Burton, Rex Harrison, Roddy McDowall, *Theme- The Roman system was capable of worldwide accomplishments.*Trivia/location/goofs- This film was one of the most expensive movie made due to illness of the lead actress, expensively rich film production values and restarting & moving film production from England to Roma. This film almost broke 20th Century Fox studios. Film was extremely long and was supposedly to be two films; Caesar & Cleopatra & Antony and Cleopatra. Major plot point scenes were deleted due to concern for film's un commercial running times. Many lead roles were casted and then re-casted due to booking conflicts and animosity between lead actors was rampant but accommodated. 'Cleopatra' had over 86 costume changes through the film.*Emotion- I always enjoy these costume or historic dramas, but this film while visually very sumptuous for the eye; leaves many major plot points unfulfilled. That caused me to be curiously disappointed and uncomfortably confused. The plot or story arc was less than smooth and obvious as a good film should be. I was entertained, but I was extremely interested in seeing the longer version if that ever becomes available. Rumors say it's in the works. See this film now for many reasons and I expect the longer version to be a large banquet of richness and entertainment for the viewer.*Based On- Myths and histories of Julius Caesar, Mark Antony, and Cleopatra. "},{"Title":"outstanding!","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" You might choose how ever you want to see this movie historical purpose,golden age of Cinema, gossips around the Taylor/Burton which contaminated the film...Well, you might choose but not necessarily watch it without feeling all of this! This is not historical the facts are here, they composed the movie as a dyptic centered around the character of Cleopatra but that is all. Except all the characters are exceptionally well written from the aging Ceasar revival by the love of that childish but proud woman, to the confident Marc Anthony who is conflicted by his passion and his duty, his power and the useless man he feels he becomes, to the great Cleopatra, experiencing true love for the first time... They all are devastating, they all are human, evolving in Ancient times like they could be just today. And they were who they incarnated Rex Harrison/Caesar is just this strongly experienced actor, Elizabeth Taylor is Cleopatra,famous since her young age, queen of the studios, inflexible. But still a woman, falling for her partner on screen, Richard Burton, a strong man more into Shakespeare than into the show business... and there is something that becomes appealing the fame, the money, the success, all of that provided by his Cleopatra, the rumors and the scandal.All of that were the ingredients to sold this four hour movie to a greeding audience. Yes they are some both and ancient Romeo and Juliet, some archetypes of desire and lust on screen but there is also great and deep dialogs, strong acting, wonderful sets... The sum makes it an epic movie, tying us up to our chair to follow destinies, to dive in those shinny 60's of eternal fame! "},{"Title":"colossus","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" it is more than a film. a legend ? maybe. an impressive show ? sure. a slice of too much ambition ? this is first verdict. it is a mixture between luxury of scenes and rumors behind the scene. a huge wedding cake for who not knife is perfect, not one plate is enough. so, a monument. in this conditions, I am not convinced if its artistic virtues are relevant. because, image of a Hollywood age, it is only an admirable colossus, skin of extraordinary desire to create - without any price - a masterpiece. and, of course, it is a visual delight. but, after so many years, can be more ? I do not think so. it is a case and a museum piece. trace of relationship between great actors and slice of a period vision. costumes, images, dialogs, fight scenes... all as toys of a very old childhood. only good memory, for me, - presence of Rex Harrison. and, sure, the eyes of Elizabeth Taylor. "},{"Title":"1963 may be just as ancient as Ancient Rome","Date":"1 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" For those who like historical epics, you will find much greatness within this film, even though it wasn't completed as originally intended by Mankiewicz. It remains one of the most expensive movies ever made, and looks it. Everything was built full scale, and often shot on real locations. A flawed masterpiece is what it is. Though I love Elizabeth Taylor, and she is wonderful in many ways here, particularly in the love scenes, to be honest she falls down when assuming the role of queen. Her dialog is often quite good, but her line delivery lacks subtlety and variety, her anger always expressed in the same demanding, unconvincing manner. On the other hand, she is perfectly fine when she's just acting as a woman or a mother. A good example is when she notices her son's ring on the hand of Octavian, which she understands means her son is dead. Her reaction, shown in the eyes, is brief, but deftly communicates her thought process. That is the moment she realizes she must end her own life. She is very moving, getting the most out of very little. It was the kind of subtle gesture few actors could do as well.Her love scenes with Julius Caesar (Rex Harrison), are filled with longing for the future and passion for the moment. They are mostly superior to her love scenes with Antony (Richard Burton). However, she is exquisite in the climax as Antony dies in her arms. Taylor's death scene is also beautifully done, her final line, Antony&#x85; Antony wait delivered with elegant simplicity. The same cannot be said of the earlier scene where she discovers Antony has married Calpurnia and after a long pause, screams, Antoneeeeeeeee!! So yes, her performance has flaws, but when she's good, she's wonderful. Much of what makes the film work are its visuals and to Taylor's credit, she never gets lost in the pageantry. Her costumes are just as spectacular as it gets. THe gown of gold she wears entering Rome is particularly stunning. As for the visuals, they are mind-boggling, but the interiors are often let down by the lighting. The night sequences, and especially the final sequence as Cleopatra prepares for death, however, are suitably dark and torch lit, very atmospheric, but day scenes, like the many bath scenes, are lit like a 1960s TV sit com. Where would all that light be coming from? This is ancient Egypt!! Believable lighting for the ancient world didn't really improve for decades. When Ridley Scott made Gladiator he understood how dark ancient interiors needed to be. What Cleopatra has all over Gladiator, however, is authenticity of crowds, and no digital fakery. There are two spectacular set pieces that continue to amaze, the first Cleopatra's entry into Rome, and the second, the arrival of her barge. Both occur in bright daylight, properly so. We need to see everything clearly to understand the vast scale. There is a shot of hundreds of slaves pulling a massive Egyptian sphinx that Queen Cleo and her son are perched upon. The slaves step in time to Alex North's beautifully ornate entry march. The point of view is near Cleo, looking down on the men swaying back and forth as they tug the heavy odalisque through a large city gate. The crowd of Roman onlookers is entranced as the sphinx moves slowly towards the awaiting Caesar and his assembly. As you watch this sequence you begin to realize that what you are seeing is something no different than ancient Rome itself.The same said about the arrival of Cleopatra's barge. In this digital age, massive space craft and spectacular vistas are commonplace, but this barge was the real thing. It may pale in comparison to what digital effects can do, but when viewed on the big screen, you can realize what a different time it was. Things were real. Crowds were real. And Cleopatra is perhaps the best example of this extravagance. The film is a testament to another age of cinema.Direction by Joseph L. Mankiewicz, is intelligent and forward moving, often accompanied with witty dialog. Many smaller roles are superbly played, Roddy McDowell's Octavian being a standout. And though it's common to tear down Burton's performance, he is perfectly fine as Antony. The problem, however, is the character Antony itself. He's a weak man, and he not only gives up all for his love of Cleopatra, but even battles against his own people. He's somewhat of a fool and he doesn't garner a lot of sympathy. Unlike Ben-Hur with the spurned Messala battling Judah in a chariot race, or dictator Crassus battling the slave revolt in Spartacus, in Cleopatra there really isn't any villain. We only have the frailty of human emotion. This may be more complex, but doesn't pull us through the story as emotionally. Cleopatra is basically two love stories. One ends with an assassination and the other with suicide. Not a happy ending. Still, tragedies are often more compelling than films with happy endings. So, as long as you know what you're getting yourself in for, a four hour movie with some depth and spectacle delivered at a moderate pace, you'll probably enjoy yourself. Mankiewicz got his original two-part, 6 hour film (Caesar and Cleopatra and Antony and Cleopatra) cut down by two hours to become a single film. That the story still plays as well as it does says much about the quality of the extant material. In spite of its weaknesses, Cleopatra does hold up. Viewers with patience will find the experience rewarding. "},{"Title":"A Lavish Intimate Spectacle of Political Intrigue and Ambition","Date":"7 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Enveloped by legend, myth, and derision, Joseph L. Mankiewicz's epic Cleopatra deserves to be seen and re-evaluated minus the publicity baggage long attached to the production. Whatever Elizabeth Taylor may have felt about Cleopatra, the film provided her signature role. The most famous actress of her time in the role of the most famous woman of her time is serendipity. The most famous romance of the 20th century between two movie stars portraying the most famous lovers of the first century BC is the stuff of tabloid legends.Despite drastic cutting from a six-hour two-film concept to a roadshow version of 246 minutes, what remains on screen has aged like a fine vintage. Cleopatra is not a sword and sandals epic with wooden acting, laughable dialog, and muscle-bound stars. Instead, the film is an intimate, yet complex, tale of power, ambition, and political intrigue, more Shakespeare and Shaw, than Steve Reeves and Victor Mature. The script, labored over by Oscar-winning director-writer Joseph L. Mankiewicz, is literate, often witty, and evidently relished by the performers, especially Rex Harrison and Roddy McDowall. Elizabeth Taylor ably matches Harrison as Julius Caesar in their verbal sparring during the first half, while she and Richard Burton are more than acting the parts of Anthony and Cleopatra during the romantic scenes in the second part. Although many supporting players were reduced to cameos by the drastic studio cutting, besides McDowall as Octavian, Caesar Danova, Hume Cronin, and Martin Landau hold their own with the leading trio.Cleopatra has the physical aura of an ancient fantasy, the sets and costumes are dazzling, and the recent Blu-ray release showcases John DeCuir's art direction, Irene Sharaff's costumes, and Leon Shamroy's cinematography to their best advantage since the original June 1963 release. Although the sets are too brightly lit, too spotlessly clean, too unused and unworn, and too elegantly designed to look period accurate, the Alexandria and Rome palaces are glittering showplaces, worthy of an exotic resort. The golden barge that carries Cleopatra to Tarsus and the enormous sphinx that brings her and Caesarion into Rome are jaw-dropping. While Cleopatra's entry into Rome is as spectacular as any scene in film history, Mankiewicz offers less spectacle of the cast of thousands variety than expected. There is no chariot race, and the sea battle of Actium will not get pulses racing. Cleopatra is character and dialog driven, which may not appeal to everyone. Action fans will consider the pacing slow, and, occasionally, plot gaps appear where footage is missing.Alex North's score complements and comments beautifully throughout, and the fade-in fade-out transitions to and from weathered frescoes deserved a special Oscar. The scandals whose repercussions reached the Vatican and the U.S. Congress, the mismanagement and cost over runs that nearly toppled a studio, the critical reviews that ranged from raves to pans, all should be relegated to movie history and the excellent documentary Cleopatra The Film That Changed Hollywood. The epic film that emerged from chaos may not be the masterpiece that Mankiewicz conceived, but Cleopatra is far more than detractors say. Approached without expectations and preconceptions, the film's largely accurate history, solid performances, and stunning physical attributes will reward patient viewers. "}{"Title":"Interesting Tale of Egypt's Best Known Queen","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton take on the story of Cleopatra and her famous lover Marc Anthony in this 1963 adaption. The story is one that numerous people know from history and also Shakespeare's play 'Antony and Cleopatra.' The story is overall pretty well written to match the story we are familiar with. Miss Taylor's acting is the highest point of the entire film as she plays the famous queen opposite two strong leading men of the time. Burton as Marc Antony is an adequate performance, but he is still worth watching. Rex Harrison even has an appearance as the mighty Julius Caesar and is extraordinary. If you do like historical dramas, this may be one for you but not myself. "},{"Title":"An Entertainment Flick From Taylor And Burton","Date":"11 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cleopatra is a epic drama film stars Elizabeth Taylor in the title role.The film tells the story of the struggles of Cleopatra VII, the young Queen of Egypt, to resist the imperialist ambitions of Rome.Together with Liz Taylor,it also stars Richard Burton, Rex Harrison, Roddy McDowall, and Martin Landau.The film was directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz.While the screenplay was adapted by Sidney Buchman, Ben Hecht, Ranald MacDougall, and Mankiewicz from a book by Carlo Maria Franzero entitled,The Life and Times of Cleopatra.The music score was by Alex North while the cinematography was done by Leon Shamroy and an uncredited Jack Hildyard.Cleopatra follows the eighteen years that led to the founding of the Roman Empire. The Queen of Egypt,Cleopatra VII, meets up with Julius Caesar and plans to lure Caesar to her boudoir in order to forge an alliance with Rome so that she may hold on to her Egyptian empire. When Caesar is stabbed to death in the Roman Senate, Cleopatra is left without an ally, and Egypt is up for grabs. When Roman general Mark Antony comes along, she seduces him in order to make him over into her new protector. But, under the charms of Cleopatra, Mark Antony is reduced from a an awesome and dominating general to a sniveling, drunken wimp. At the Battle of Actium, Mark Antony is defeated and Cleopatra withdraws her troops, dooming him and his army. With Egypt in peril, Antony and Cleopatra, the doomed lovers, meet each other for the last time, as the enemy forces close in.Cleopatra is an display of cinema opulence as it tries to recreate a historical epic during the times of the Roman Empire.The costumes were simply awesome and the musical score was outstanding.It was definitely the most expensive movie during its time of release especially after Taylor was awarded a $1 million contract to make the movie.Unfortunately,despite the expenses for production values,the story become somewhat boring as it became talky and verbose.Also,the pacing was slow that one may lose interest in this almost 4-hour film.Overall,Cleopatra turned into an entertainment flick from both Taylor and Burton instead of a historical epic that could have provided a landmark for cinema excellence in the future. "},{"Title":"A milestone in movie productions","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cleopatra was on one of the movie channels a couple of weeks back, and I sat down to watch it. My 18-year-old daughter happened to be home and she watched part of it with me.It was interesting to get the daughter's viewpoint on it. She's grown up with computer-generated effects; to her, Star Wars is an oldie classic, and this movie is from the paleolithic ages.I'm old enough to remember the splash this movie generated when it came out. And Elizabeth Taylor was movie royalty when I was growing up; to my daughter, she was a faded footnote to a time long ago.Daughter's view of the movie nobody would dress like the characters in the movie; there were too many costume changes; and she was unimpressed by the sets and the grandeur of the production. She also thought that the actors and actresses were shouting, that the dialogue as written was unnatural and stilted, and as read by the actors was stagey and contrived.Gotta give her that. It's all true.She also found the movie too long and, eventually, boring. So she left off watching it to go do something more important, like go onto Facebook and talk to her friends.For all that Cleopatra is flawed, and in many ways severely flawed, I still believe that it's an important milestone for anyone who is interested in the history of movies. FWIW, we take it for granted nowadays that any movie can be set anywhere, in any time-period, and with any number of people in every possible kind of setting, and we can believe it the computer wizards can do their conjuring, and we get the ancient Rome that we saw in Gladiator, we get the planet Pandora in Avatar, we get the impossibilities of Inception. We don't have to suspend disbelief, and the filmmakers don't have to limit themselves to what could be built on a back-lot or done with a cast of thousands or the trickery of mat paintings.But in 1963, the filmmakers had to construct much of what we saw on-screen in Cleopatra, and what an undertaking that was! And up until that time, that was one of the things people WANTED in a movie we wanted to be dazzled and awed, we were entertained by the the mere spectacle, the sheer grandeur of an epic like Cleopatra. The glitzy costumes? A visual treat! The over-the-top production values? Bring 'em on! The spectacle of it all? We'd never seen anything like it! And yet the movie was, ultimately, a failure because we'd reached a time where those things were no longer enough. The novelty of movies was gone; the novelty of the big-screen cast-of-thousands historical costume drama was at an end. It simply wasn't enough for a movie to be big, and stunning, and a visual treat. It had to be well-written, well-acted, it had to have a brisk pace and it had to have something to draw us in. Audiences had matured to the point where they didn't just want to look at a movie; we demanded more than a spectacle.And I think that's the value of Cleopatra. It's a reminder that there was a time when the production itself could be a star. And the financial losses suffered by the movie's backers finally convinced the studios that it wasn't enough for a movie to have big stars, gorgeous costumes, and fantastic sets with thousands of extras.And that, ultimately, is how movies get better when they reach a pinnacle of what has previously worked, and it isn't enough to make it a success. And that is the value of Cleopatra. "},{"Title":"Burton and Taylor's infamous historical epic","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In 1963 20th Century Fox released their star filled epic Cleopatra. The public didn't know until later the massive strain it had put on it's production company , director and actors. When viewed it is obvious that much money and time has been put into it to make it the supreme drama it is. Infamous for nearly bankrupting 20th Century Fox Cleopatra has remained one of the most controversial motion pictures of our time. The film itself is beautifully shot and staged. The acting is incredible featuring outstanding performances from Burton, Taylor and McDowell. However it does seem unfinished which is understandable considering the amount of footage Darryl F Zannuk removed from the film , however this does not ruin the film for me and remains true to history and is a must see for any lover of film or history buff. Bravo Burton and Taylor 8/10 "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" i thought Cleopatra was a great movie. the acting was quite good and the scenery and costumes were outstanding. this movie also stayed amazingly true to history so if you like good historical movies this is a must see. however it did seem cut (the second half in particular) so i would vote for a full restoration. Richard Burton is good as Marc Antony. Elizabeth Taylor is very convincing as Cleopatra and Rex Harrison is excellent as Julius Caesar. also great is Roddy McDowall as Octavian (later called Agustus Caesar. Cleopatra is one of my favorites. i would give the first half of the movie 10/10 and the second half 8/10 so the whole thing gets 9/10. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining...","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Yes, it's VERY long, but any movie that's four hours long is bound to have some good things in it. CLEOPATRA surely does. The director, Joseph L. Mankiewicz, takes his time developing A LOT of characters and the first hour features a terrific performance by Rex Harrison as Julius Caesar. When Elizabeth Taylor shows up as the title role, the film starts to turn into a high gloss soap opera. Taylor is strikingly beautiful but lacks the acting talent to hold her own with either Harrison or Richard Burton, who appears in the second half as Marc Antony. Nonetheless, CLEOPATRA is exceedingly entertaining. Taylor and Burton have genuine chemistry and the classy supporting cast really shines Roddy McDowell, Martin Landau and Hume Cronyn are all terrific. The cinematography is by the great Leon Shamroy, who also shot THE CARDINAL around the same time. "},{"Title":"3 hours and 54 minutes in a nutshell, well...","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  actually just 2 Hours and 2 minutes in a nutshell, because that's where I stopped watching the film. The original plan was to watch finish the film the next day, because the film became so &#145;slow' that I couldn't take it for almost 4 hours in a row, but when I shelved Cleopatra after about 2 hours, I found it to be impossible to motivate myself to watch yet another 2 hours of film on Cleopatra. It is not that this film is incredibly bad, but that it is just not good enough to spend almost 4 hours on. It is just to long. A film of this quality should not extend 2 hours, maybe 2 hours 30, but 4 hours? I cannot motivate myself to do that. Sure the sets are impressive, the acting is OK, but it is just too long and not compelling enough. Try it if you want, but if you're already bored with the first hour I recommend you do not start the second one.5,5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Elizabeth Taylor is Queen of the Movies!","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth Taylor will always have a place in my heart. And not just because she's the most beautiful woman in the world, which, of course, she most certainly is, but also because she is truly the greatest actress to ever grace the screen. This wonderful film focuses on Cleopatra, Queen of the Nile, with Elizabeth Taylor, Queen of the Movies, playing the role to the hilt. Taylor's co-star is an equally gifted performer, Mr. Richard Burton, who plays the role of Marc Antony. This was the film where Taylor and Burton first met. They fell in love while making this film, and married shortly after the movie's release.With a running time of four hours, CLEOPATRA is indeed an epic film. It is also one of the best epics I have ever seen. Thanks to Elizabeth Taylor's breathtaking beauty and powerful performance, CLEOPATRA held my interest from start to finish. It's a marvellous picture that I thoroughly enjoy, no matter how many times I see it. "},{"Title":"Hot Egyptians, Stupid Romans.","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  IF you ask me the best part of Cleoptra was the performance by Roddy McDowall as Octavian (Caesor Augustus).  He played that part so well, however there was one thing wrong with that, and that was they made Augustus out to be something something he was not.  Never before have i read that Octavian/Augustus was a cruel man.  In fact if you ask me Mark Anthony, and Cleopatra got what was coming to them in this film as well as in history. They were both so stupid, and they both wanted too much.  Mark Anthony wanted to rule the world and have that sexy Egyptian queen(cleopatra).  Cleopatra wanted everything.  She wanted Rome, she wanted Egypt, she wanted the rest of the world and yes she wanted that punk Mark Anthony.  Another thing i did not like about this film is that it made Octavian looks like he was a panzy. I have never besides in this film heard that the great Ceasar Augustus was a panzy.Roddy McDowall truly did have a great part in this movie but it was far from the leading part.  Liz Tayler plays the title character Cleopatra, and does such a good job in this role that she wins an Oscar. I THINK?  Well im pretty sure she won an Oscar for this role and if she didnt than she should have.  Rex Harrison plays the legendary Julius Ceasar and he himself does a wonderful job in that role.  Mark Anthony who shows up in this movie maybe even more then Cleopatra is played by Richard Burton, and again i'm thinking maybe he won an oscar for this movie, but than again i dont know, and again if he did not win an oscar then he should have.  "},{"Title":"A triumph of set design over story-telling.","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The good news about Cleopatra is that the sets were spectacular. Maybe Rome and Alexandria didn't look that way, but the sets do a great job of suggesting the magnificence of the capital an empire and the capital of its richest subject kingdom. Maybe the triumphal arch hadn't been built in Cleopatra's time, but it makes a great setting for her grand entrance into Rome.The costumes were impressive too, even if they more closely resemble early 1960s fashion than the 40s and 30s B.C. Elizabeth Taylor's huge wardrobe was the highlight, but most of the costumes were interesting.Unfortunately, great sets and costumes don't make a great movie, although they do show how the movie became the most expensive movie ever (which it remains, adjusting for inflation). The movie just doesn't remain interesting through its entire four hours. Even some of the battle scenes are dull, even though that's usually a highlight of ancient-world movies. (There are some good battle scenes too, however.) The problem is that the movie lacks focus in trying to tell a story. Sometimes it's a historical drama, sometimes it's a romance story, and sometimes it's just a showpiece for the great sets. Five writing credits are listed, and it certainly looks like a committee wrote it.The Cleopatra-Caesar is the better portion of the movie. Caesar is an interesting character, aware of his mortality, seeking power in spite of the burden of power, and attracted to the much-younger Cleopatra. Cleopatra wanted to rule the world, and sought it in the bedroom as well as in the throne room and on the battlefield. The historic Cleopatra's allure was said to be in her voice and her words, not her appearance; with Caesar the movie often suggests her charisma, while Taylor's beauty is a very agreeable divergence from history. Had the movie raced through the events after Caesar's death, it would have been much shorter and better.Unfortunately, the movie really drags during the Cleopatra-Antony portion, except in scenes with the delightfully unpleasant Octavian. Antony seems little more than a sucker for Cleopatra's charms, rather than a general and politician who was shrewd enough to make himself one of three co-rulers of Rome, but not shrewd enough to avoid his eventual fate as Octavian's rival. Cleopatra's goals are no longer clear, but wind down from her earlier ambition to rule the world to her scaled-down hopes to retain rule of Egypt for herself and her son. Rather than dramatizing the events, it just uses them as bridges between scenes of spectacle.With so much time to tell about Cleopatra and Antony, the movie should have been able to show more about the characters. Cleopatra makes the blunder of seducing the number-two man in a Triumvirate that couldn't last long before the number-one man seized sole power. The movie fails to tell us how someone so astute would make the mistake of choosing the wrong ally, or standing aside until she could ally with the winner. Was Antony the one who seemed likely to prevail at the time she committed herself? Did she feel the need to take a side before a victor could be predicted, and fail to charm Octavian? Or did she choose badly because she was romantically smitten with Antony? She might hide the reason from Antony, but the movie shouldn't hide the reason from viewers. The characters need motives to be interesting.The most interesting character in the Cleopatra-Antony part of the movie is Octavian. He is a much more interesting character, and the movie shows us more about him than the leads, even though he gets much less screen time.The Cleopatra-Caesar part of the movie is pretty good, and the spectacle is impressive throughout, but the story gets lost in the Cleopatra-Antony part. Maybe the writers got bored after Caesar's death; I certainly got bored after that. "}{"Title":"Epic film about an epic woman","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  First off, let me state that Elizabeth Taylor is Cleopatra incarnate. She was not only born to play the role, but I believe she was Cleopatra in Egypt around 300-some B.C. She is exactly how I picture Cleopatra looking and acting and being. In short, beautiful. This film has been a part of my life for quite some time. I remember being in sixth grade or so and renting this over and over. I simply loved it. I'm sure at that age I didn't understand everything that was going on, but I remember loving it nonetheless, taking in the beauty of the absolutely ASTOUDNING set design and the beauty of Cleopatra/Elizabeth Taylor. Plus I've always been fascinated by Egyptian history. And the story of Cleopatra is equally fascinating. When one thinks of Egypt, Cleopatra is synonymous. When one thinks of Cleopata, Elizabeth Taylor is, or should be, synonymous. Though I haven't seen her in much else, I don't feel I have to. I have seen her play the role she was created to do. Many actresses have before and since attempted to slip into the shoes of Cleopatra. Sorry. Uh-uh. Nobody has or ever will be the striking image of Cleopatra that Elizabeth Taylor is. There's something about this film...it capures the realism of life in Egypt, so much so that you forget it's a film made in 1962, and you seriously believe it is showing you video record of life in Egypt. The filmmakers did a superb job in every area. By the way, I wanna know who her handmaiden is, not the blonde, but the one who has the last line in the film, right before she dies. What a beauty, too. She embodies an Egyptian just as much. No Egyptian film has captured the art and essence of Egyptian history as much as this one. It is an epic that, like Ancient Egypt itself, will outlast time. And will be a record of Egyptian history for historians centuries from now! "},{"Title":"Really should have been a mini-series","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  	This movie not only suffered from excessive length but brutal cuts which left a lot of very important characterization on the editing room floor.  Especially Marc Antony, who we only see as the drunken sod Richard Burton was in real life, when it would have been much more profound watch the shrewd schemer he once was become the wreck he turned into at the end.  Only shadows of Antony's greatness existed in the movie, most notably during Caesar's funeral and after the battle of Phillipi. 	The first half of the movie easily outshines the second, with notable stage actor Rex Harrison as a commanding yet vulnerable Caesar.  Perhaps, having seen him before in My Fair Lady, I am a bit biased in his favor, but his portrayal of Caesar steals the show.  Harrison's Caesar is a mix of caustic wit, crafty calculation, and ruthless ambition, but at the same time an aging man who is all too aware of his mortality.  He brought the best out of Elizabeth Taylor, not only by contrasting his age to her youthful beauty, but by being the perfect opponent for her political games. 	In the second half, though, neither Burton nor Taylor nor the two together could carry the movie.  Burton in particular seemed to be only half awake in most of his scenes--in fact, he was known to miss shooting days because he was so hung over.  The real life love between Burton and Taylor occasionally translates onto the screen, but the majority of the time the passion between them was overdone and melodramatic.  Roddy McDowall was a stiff, slightly geekish Octavian, but all in all his characterization did not deviate too far from historical truth. 	Visually, the movie was captivating but occasionally too gaudy, Cleopatra's wardrobe being the strangest combination of opulence and extreme fashion designs I've ever seen.  The cities of Rome and Alexandria, though, were beautiful and very well designed.  The movie was almost worth watching for Cleopatra's entrance into Rome alone, even if the arch of Constantine exists three centuries too early.  (Pay special attention to the assassination scene It was choreographed exactly the same way in the 1957 version of _Julius Caesar_, which had the same director.) "},{"Title":"Half of a Good Film","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"      The first half of this film is quite well done. Although Taylor is not my Idea of Cleopatra. (see colbert in the original or Vivian Leigh in the Shaw film.) Rex Harrison turns in a performance that was well deserving of his oscar nomination. Authoritative and strong, yet yearning for somthing he could not have like a boy who lost his dog. Well done Rex. unfortunatly the chemistry Harrison and Talor evoke does not materialize with Burton and Tayor. while  good in the first half Taylor becomes embarassingly bad in the second. Burton seems bored and so is the audience after Ceasar's assasination. "},{"Title":"Two movies - one good one bad","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  And here we see why sequels are usually a very bad idea.First there was a great movie, Caesar & Cleopatra.Elizabeth Taylor plays the young queen Cleopatra. She is inexperienced in politics, but is a fast learner, and well used to deploying her sexual talents in pursuit of her aims. Rex Harrison is Julius Caesar, 52 years old, a brilliant military strategist and tactician, a skilled politician, probably the most powerful man in the world.The young, seductive queen captivates the senior statesman, which causes his downfall, as he mislays his sense and judgement to defy the idea of Rome. A disaster for Cleopatra, who may have set out to conquer him for political purposes, but falls in love with him.Harrison and Taylor do a great job on the May-December relationship, and the dialog crackles with electricity as they jockey for position.The sets are sumptuous, especially Cleopatra's triumphal entry to Rome, and the classical tragedy unfolds in splendid surroundings.The philosophy behind most sequels is basically Let's do the same story again, and jazz it up a bit. So they did, making Antony and Cleopatra.One of the minor characters from the first movie, Mark Antony, played in an exceptionally ham-fisted way even by his standards by Richard Burton, is shoe-horned into the role of powerful Roman seduced by sultry Egyptian Queen, played again by Elizabeth Taylor, this time delivering a performance as stupidly over the top as she was understated and sharp in the original flick. This time round, there's a spectacular royal ship instead of the giant sphinx, and you get Roddy McDowall as a fairly unbelievable Caesar Octavian, but mostly they just plod through the same plot, this time with added shouting and histrionics. Burton and Taylor at their silliest worst.It looks as though the two movies were shot one after the other on the same lot, presumably to save on the costs a bit. The producers must have realised on seeing the cut of the second movie that it was a total turkey, and decided to cut their losses by running the two movies together and showing them as one, which is how we come to have this four hour monstrosity.Watch the first half, which is a great movie, and then find something interesting to do during the second half, like waxing your ears. "},{"Title":"Much better than the critics said","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A $40,000,000 movie (in 1963 dollars) and it looks it. Magnificent sets. The recreations of Rome and Alexandria and the ships in the sea battle are all stunning. The entrance of Cleo into Rome goes on and on for like 20 minutes but it too is dazzling.The story itself is not that interesting as Cleo uses Caesar and then Marc Antony in her attempt at world power. Rex Harrison is great as Caesar. He plays him as a world-weary 52 year old but still very intelligent and clever as well as being a ruthless warrior. Richard Burton is great as Antony and Martin Landau has a big part as his right-hand man Rufio.Elizabeth Taylor is, of course, the star and to me was a disappointment. Taylor is a short women and in a film like this, can't wear heels, and that lack of stature combined with her little girl voice makes her unconvincing as the woman who makes men tremble.One of the great tearjerker endings. We all know about Cleo and the snake but what happens to Antony is even sadder since it's his own fault. I loved the scene near the end where he jumped from his battleship onto the skiff in pursuit of Cleo and then silently fell to his knees. Without saying a word, Burton makes us see that his character Antony now realizes he has just thrown away his entire life. "},{"Title":"Great in the first two hours, but a disappointment for the rest","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In the 1960s, Cleopatra was known as the biggest budget movie ever made. It was originally set at a $2 million budget, but ending up at $44 million. With such a high budget film, it makes me wonder how it could be a flop in the box office. After now seeing it, I can marvel at its grandeur of the magnificent costumes, sets/art direction, visual effects, countless extras, and amazing visual effects (especially for such an old movie). But what it lacks is the main components that make an epic film a solid story and great performances.There was much that happened in Cleopatra's life, and trying to cover it within three hours is almost impossible. I didn't see the 192-minute version, but the 248-minute version. Even this cut was missing some plots. The film pretty much is broken into almost two separate stories. The first part is about the relationship between Cleopatra and Julius Caesar. It was interesting to watch as their love for each other bloomed and the power struggles it took for Caesar to get Cleopatra's power back over Egypt from her brother.After the inevitable death of Caesar, the rest of the movie is pretty much the love/hate relationship between Cleopatra and her new lover Marc Antony. This is when the film becomes a complete bore-fest of nothing more than Richard Burton pouring out his feelings to Elizabeth Taylor, and her saying, Yes or No to him. It was so dull that even the naval battle at the end could not pull me out of apathy.As with Elizabeth Taylor's acting, she is good for the first half as a strong, determined leader, but for the rest of the movie she just wore pretty costumes and cries when her relationship goes down between Antony. I overall have mixed feelings for this movie. I would give the first half a 9 but the other half a 3. So that averages to 6/10.-Now doubt this was the starting point of where great acting and plot was not needed to make a film, as is most films nowadays. "},{"Title":"Whatever did she see in Mark Antony?","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" After all the hype, the four-hour version of this film was actually very much better than I had expected -- and more intelligent. I'd been given to understand that this was an exercise in spectacle, bad taste and overspending; nobody ever thought to mention, for one thing, that it was actually *funny*.Not in a bad way, either. We don't laugh at the acting we laugh at the sharp repartee, the sly visual digs (Cleopatra's rump rolling into view as Caesar urbanely remarks that one has to see the back-side of any piece of merchandise to judge its true merit), and at Cleopatra's artful manipulation of all the men in her life, down to the Roman soldiers, sent to march her off, whom she assures sweetly that they need not be afraid of the dark if she accompanies them. This is not the sort of thing one expects from an Epic; these are the qualities of a far more intimate drama, and other, more recent, blockbusters would have done well to mark the effect.On the other hand, the film really is as spectacular as promised, with the sort of eye-opening luxury that can only be afforded by pictures of an era where there could be no possibility of computer enhancement. The budget is all on screen, and it largely pays off the only scenes that really do look fake are some of the sea-battle shots. The spectacle of Cleopatra's entrance into Rome really is jaw-dropping as it just cranks up and up -- when you think you've seen everything it comes up with yet another surprise, right down to the ebony statues that turn out to be alive. There are a few very 'Sixties' shots later in the film of Elizabeth Taylor with hairstyles looking like Elizabeth Taylor rather than like a daughter of the Ptolemies, but otherwise her appearance is an absolute knock-out. Other people have commented on her 'shrill', 'thin' voice; I couldn't hear that at all.The main trouble I had with Cleopatra was Mark Antony. As seen on screen (there are rumours that more flattering scenes showing the character's initial achievements after Caesar's death were among the first material to be cut), the character is an unshaven, bibulous, self-pitying heap, a loser more or less from the start (in his first scenes in the second act, he is already drinking heavily), and it is not at all clear why Cleopatra, a shrewd political operator, would want to have anything to do with him, much less fall in love with him more or less overnight, still less gamble her vast possessions on backing him against Octavian the reviewer who described the character as less a tragic fallen hero than one who 'starts at the bottom and topples sideways' hits the nail cruelly on the head. The love affair one simply has to take more or less as read, on the grounds that the plot requires it. Burton and Tayor may have been passionately involved Antony and Cleopatra are less than convincing, and I'm not sure if it's the fault of the actors, the script, or the scenario.Despite the age difference, Cleopatra's scenes with Julius Caesar are much better from this point of view. Where the doomed-lovers tragedy struggles somewhat, the earlier liaison is played out almost along romantic comedy lines -- it's hard not to find oneself applauding for the spirited young Queen all the way as she bargains and smart-talks her way into power, bidding what is initially a very thin hand up into the sole rulership of Egypt -- but we also get to see Caesar's tactical brilliance, both in military and political matters, and the duelling couple are ultimately well matched. My only problem with Rex Harrison's otherwise admirable depiction of the character was the unfortunately close resemblance achieved by Sid James in Carry on Cleo; a wonderful send-up (making ingenious use of the abandoned sets from Cleopatra), but a slightly distracting one in this context! Martin Landau stands out, as always, as the honourable and somewhat harassed Rufio, dealing intelligently and diplomatically with the whims of his superiors, and loyal unto death. Roddy McDowall is weak and yet sinister as a blond Octavian, initially inconsequential and ultimately all-consuming; he is a consummate politician, not a military commander, and it is easy to sympathise with the characters who would prefer death to falling captive into his hands. I found Robert Stephens notable in the small part of Germanicus, Antony's man in Rome, and Cesare Danova as Cleopatra's servant Apollodorus.Despite its four-hour running length, the film never seemed too long. This is no Heaven's Gate, and it's no Lord of the Rings either; character is rarely allowed to be subordinate to spectacle, never mind special effects, and the dialogue is surprisingly good. I don't know how well it would come across on TV (frankly, it's hard to imagine, given the sheer scale of some of the shots), and, like Gone With the Wind, the first half is better than the second. I'd vote the first at 8, the second maybe only a 7 -- but as a whole it was undoubtedly worth paying to see. "},{"Title":"I want to see a remake!","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I grew up adoring the story of Cleopatra and thought this a very good movie, if a bit long in running time. It is extraordinary in atmosphere, costumes, casting and intensity and being someone who was and is, very interested in the story of Cleopatra I had a strong interest in seeing this.That being said, I would like to see this movie updated, I think it's about time. I'd love to see the movie redone with Selma Hayek playing Cleopatra, Ben Kingsley as Julios Caesar, Eric Bana as Marc Anthony and lastly,(and a great suggestion by my friend) Jude Law as Octavien. Simply put,it's time for a remake. I will watch Cleopatra again sometime, it's a great story although as good a movie as it is, my favorite version of Cleopatra is still the book version I Cleopatra that was released in the 70's. It's an incredible read and the story of Cleopatra is an extraordinary one. "},{"Title":"Queen Elizabeth","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cleopatra (1963) And here comes Richard Burton. Taylor's affair with Burton (while both were married to other folk) during the filming of this epic caused international headlines. Known at the time as THE SCANDAL, it caused the second great fall from grace for Miss Taylor (the first fall came when she married Eddie Fisher and was accused of stealing him from America's sweetheart Debbie Reynolds).One of the costliest flops in the history of movies. Liz received a cool million for the flick though (a record at the time) and by the end of the ordeal had catapulted her fame from simply movie star level to historical icon. The movie? Well it's long and boring but damn, if Taylor don't look good in it! "},{"Title":"TAYLOR LIGHTS A BONFIRE CALLED `THE SEXUAL REVOLUTION'","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Film in the 1960s circled around various social, political and historical themes.  My favorite is `Women Who Altered the Course of History.'  On the always unsafe British throne we saw Eleanor of Aquitaine (The Lion in Winter), Anne Boleyn (Anne of the Thousand Days), and Elizabeth I duking it out with her arch enemy (Mary, Queen of Scots).  Long before them, however, on the world's stage, we have the redoubtable Cleopatra of Egypt, making the power grab of all time.  We have also Elizabeth Taylor of Hollywood, making the power grab of all time.  A product of the ancient MGM regime, Taylor has since acknowledged her bitter personal dealings with studio boss L.B. Mayer.  Thus, when 20th Century Fox offered Mike Todd's widow the role of Cleopatra, she had certain contractual demands  a record-breaking million dollar salary, expense accounts for herself and new husband, Eddie Fisher, $10,000 per day for any work past contract termination, and, if anyone doubts Taylor's business acumen, the film was to be shot in Todd-AO, the cameras and film process of which she was sole owner.  Her final take was in excess of $7 million.  The resultant film, looking backwards 40 years, is still lively, never boring, and surprisingly accurate.  There is respect for the historical record (Shakespeare's Antony and Cleopatra also time-compresses, as does Shaw's Ceasar and Cleopatra).  But Joseph Mankiewicz's `modern-speaking' script unwisely bites off more than it can chew.  It wants to tell the whole story of Rome and Egypt during a power struggle that altered the course of Western Civilization.  We live today in Augustus Ceasar's world, not Cleopatra's.  Architecture, government, bureaucratic structure, even plumbing, all descend from Rome and the edicts of Octavian, who later became Augustus.  Hollywood on the other hand, and to a great extent `the modern woman,' live in the world Elizabeth Taylor created.  Hollywood has had its share of powerful women &#150; Garbo and Hepburn both successfully trumped Louis B. Mayer while negotiating contracts.  But Taylor negotiated Cleopatra acting as her very own corporate mogul, and the star system, and how movie stars get paid, changed forever.  But something else, something more important, happened while filming Cleopatra  the twice-divorced, recently-widowed Taylor had just married Eddie Fisher, father of two, husband of another much-adored movie star, Debbie Reynolds.  Richard Burton (Marc Antony) entered the scene, replacing Steven Boyd, and Taylor fell deeply in love.  A media storm ignited, and the entire planet watched, as Taylor was condemned by the Catholic Church; the Pope himself called her a wanton home-wrecker.  Following her heart, the most famous actress in history decided to conduct life `her way.'  Ten thousand Roman extras fill the set as Cleopatra makes her way atop a giant, rolling sphinx.  They scream `Liz! Liz! Liz!'  Taylor, dressed as a gold-clad Roman eagle, calmly walks towards Rex Harrison's Julius Ceasar and gives him a wink.  Hollywood, the star system, the media, and women, are altered forever. "}{"Title":"Disaster!","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cleopatra was released in 1963. Critics hated it and the people who went to see it saw it because there was so much controversy surrounding the films two lead actors. Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton who were in love. Cleopatra was the most expensive film ever made. It was well done in some aspects such as sets, costume and making the film look really good not to forget it was over 4 hours long however Cleopatra did not do so well at the box-office as they hoped and it made Twentieth Century Fox almost bancrupt until Sound Of Music saved it two years later. The reason well it is obvious the film is so boring it isnt even funny. The acting is overall descent but nothing to applaud about I mean Liz Taylor was probably one of the most overrated actress in Hollywood. She recieved two oscars even though her acting abilities are not higher than Marilyn Monroes ( and that is no compliment). 4/10.  "},{"Title":"One of the most under rated movies of all time.","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cleopatra was a victim of controversy.  I think that this is one of the great costume epics of the 20th century.  I think that the acting was great, the costumes, sets and locations stupendous and the story magnificent.Unfortunately, it was cut to pieces by the studio and is now being spliced together although I doubt if it will ever be whole again.  When you take a 6 hour film and cut it down to 2.5 hours you loose a whole lot of continuity and drama.I still think this is a great piece of movie making. "},{"Title":"One of the Last Great Epics","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The 1963 version of 'Cleopatra' is one of the last great epics of all time. Standing firmly beside such great epics as 'Ben-Hur', 'Cleopatra' truly is one of the greatest films ever. With superb writing and directing by Academy Award winner Joseph L. Mankiewicz and excellent acting from Elizabeth Taylor, Rex Harrison, Richard Burton, and Roddy McDowall. This is one of the last true epics. 'Cleopatra' is known as the most expensive film of all time (with inflation) and is said to cost over $440 million dollars if it were to be made today. The cost is evident through every detail through props and costumes. This movie also displays one of the greatest spectacles to see in a film Cleopatra's Precession into Rome. 'Cleopatra'  is truly one of the greatest stories and films ever. "},{"Title":"Over rated DVD format does it again.","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  No, DVD is not the second coming, as this latest release of the great motion picture CLEOPATRA confirms.  First off they put the entr'acte music at the end of disc one, instead at the beginning of disc two.  Why?  Next, where is the exit music?  Every release of this film has had it.  Thank god I have the wonderful laser disc version with its superior sound.  The only thing this DVD has going for it is the great documentary  CLEOPATRA  THE FILM THAT CHANGED HOLLYWOOD.  I have been trying to get a hold of 20th Century-Fox home video to get answers to these questions. "},{"Title":"The Queen of Denial","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Beautifully busted Elizabeth Taylor (as Cleopatra) copulates with seething lover Richard Burton (as Mark Antony), after godly lover Rex Harrison (as Julius Caesar) becomes indisposed. The threesome do not perform their best work; and, neither of the men pair very memorably with Ms. Taylor. Off screen, Taylor and Mr. Burton were lovers - but, that chemistry doesn't show. Taylor had proved herself a worthy actress up until Cleopatra - but, in this role, she faltered. Most of the time, she is modeling rather than acting. In fact, Taylor was beyond this role (which should have been offered to someone like Sophia Loren); but, the money was good&#x85; Despite all that, the film is incredibly gorgeous. The reputation of Cleopatra as either a flop or failure isn't entirely true. Its flaws are obvious, but so are its strengths. The Academy Awards for cinematography, sets, costumes, and special effects are earned (more or less). Roddy McDowall (as Octavian) should have received a Best Supporting Actor nomination, also. Writer/director Joseph L. Mankiewicz and crew do not create an extraordinary finished product; but, there are individual scenes and sequences of great beauty. The direction and photography help make the film's running time more tolerable.Better than its reputation, and marginally recommended.****** Cleopatra (6/12/63) Joseph L. Mankiewicz ~ Elizabeth Taylor, Richard Burton, Rex Harrison, Roddy McDowall "},{"Title":"Taylor the vacuum at the centre of this picture","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Why don't we come out with the truth? Elizabeth Taylor ruined this film. She never even hinted at the extraordinary personality who was descended from the blond Alexander the Great, spoke seven languages and was one of the best-educated people in the ancient world. She agreed to wear those awful pantomime costumes, in which she never once looked Egyptian. Her court dancers could have been transferred directly to the stages of the casinos of 1960s Las Vegas. The most we ever saw of this legendary temptress, who seduced the two most powerful men of her day, was a lowish neckline and a little bit of leg. On the other hand, never in the entire production did she appear regal. Princess Diana had twice the glamour.A glance at Ms Taylor's background explains a lot. She never trained as an actress, but was adopted as a pretty-faced child player by friends of her socialite parents, who had an art gallery for the wealthy in Beverly Hills. As a child star she played opposite a horse (National Velvet) and a dog (Lassie). As an adult actress, her first two films were B.O. turkeys. The notoriety of Cleopatra arose chiefly from her whoring and boozing with Burton around Rome, which gave the paparazzi and gossip-mongers a field-day. Cast opposite Rex Harrison, she appeared silly, and opposite Burton, inadequate. All those fans who can't wait for the six-hour version will still be saddled with the vacuum she creates at the heart of the action. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as its reputation suggests","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cleopatra is generally known as one of the biggest bombs in Hollywood history. However, the truth is that the film eventually managed to turn a profit and also garnered four Oscars on nine nominations. Hardly what I would call a bomb, though the film is far from perfect.Over the course of four hours (!) we follow the exploits of Queen Cleopatra (Elizabeth Taylor) as she sets her sights on ruling not just Egypt, but the entire civilized world. First she attempts to ride the coattails of Rex Harrison's Julius Caesar and later she attempts much the same approach with Richard Burton's younger Mark Antony.As the four hour running time should indicate, this is a film of epic scope, yet much of the 'action' occurs in conversation as the characters lock horns over various matters. Perhaps this is one area in which the film falters. These four hours could have used a little more spectacle (a la Cleopatra's entrance into Rome) and a little less verbal confrontation. Nevertheless, the storyline is fairly interesting, though exhausting.The acting performances are acceptable with Harrison, Burton & Roddy McDowall being particularly notable. The weakness on this front is Elizabeth Taylor's Cleopatra. While I don't think that she's really that bad there must have been more suitable choices available. Her weaknesses are particularly highlighted in the scenes that she shares with the aforementioned actors.Technically, though, the film is quite impressive. Unsurprisingly, the four Oscars won were all in technical categories. Certainly, the sets and costumes look as if no expense was spared. Mankiewicz's direction is solid and the editing & cinematography are top notch. The score, by 15-time Oscar nominee Alex North, is memorable as well.All things considered, I think that Cleopatra is worth a look if you enjoy epic films. It's no masterpiece but it's interesting to contemplate what might have been if the film had a less troubled production. "},{"Title":"Two movies in one","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" With more than $25m in advance bookings in the kitty before it even opened, 20th Century Fox's notoriously out-of-control nightmarish production of Cleopatra is far from the biggest flop of all time but is certainly the most notorious. Indeed, it only has one major problem. Unfortunately, it's Elizabeth Taylor. When she's off the screen and Joseph L. Mankiewicz concentrates on Harrison's Caesar (the screen performance of his lifetime) and the events surrounding the death of the Republic, it becomes a different class of film altogether intriguing, witty and absolutely riveting. And then the Queen of Hollywood comes on speaking Americanese (I've done nothing but rub you up the wrong way.) and ruins it all.Burton's Marc Antony is also a major problem. We have to take his greatness entirely on trust - we see him win no battles, nor does Mankiewicz attempt his own take on his famous oration at Julius Caesar's funeral. What we do see is Burton at his hammiest, flagon of wine constantly in hand, giving us a petulant drunken schoolboy much given to breathy intonations and snorts of outrage. His love scenes with Taylor, the odd well-written exchange aside, strike no sparks but all too-often come across as a camp rehearsal for Virginia Woolf. Still, he does at least get better as he goes along. The same cannot be said for Hume Cronyn, who is simply inept beyond belief here.Unfortunately, when Harrison dies, so does the film, or very nearly, only showing signs of recovery in the last half hour as Roddy McDowall's superbly realised Octavian takes centre stage. There's still much to admire - the sombre opening, some beautiful writing, North's score, the lavish production design and some fine supporting performances from the likes of Martin Landau and George Cole (yes, George Cole) - but it is definitely a case of taking the rough with the smooth. "},{"Title":"silly, uninteresting histrionics","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Liz Taylor is outclassed and upstaged by everything in sight as she interprets the Egyptian queen as a combative Malibu coquette. She's pretty trying. Her performance leaves nothing to hang this overproduction on. Albert Speer would envy this production designer. Apparently one can never have too many 80 foot wide stairways; interiors, exteriors you name it. Nowadays, to soothe one's taste for opulence you'd just go to Vegas. The distracting wide-angle lenses convert each sets parallel lines into swollen curves. Ptolemy's Egyptian cowl is hysterical. He can't even turn his head. The presentation of Cleo to Mark (the big set-piece) is absurd but memorable.The movie was so uninvolving that I was inspecting the sets, and noting that actual stone does not look rough and pebbly, like cement sprayed on formwork. Everything seems to be made out of some boho universal Zoo habitat material.One wishes that they had spent even more on this so that its failure would have driven Fox into bankruptcy and dissolution. We would have been spared Fox's current nitwit neo-con stranglehold on everything and Hannity and O Reilly would still be specks of feces on someones shoe. "},{"Title":"As Leonard Maltin agreeably put it, Saga of the Nile goes on, and on, and on...","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Since I'm highly interested in drama, I was interested in seeing this infamous film since the film's storyline is known to combine George Bernard Shaw's CAESAR AND CLEOPATRA and William Shakespeare's JULIUS CAESAR and ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA into one gigantic movie. So I borrowed the DVD from the local library and watched the film in secret during study hour in my senior year in high school. However, it took me four days and several study hour periods, as well as an evening at home, in order to finish the film. And I still want those many wasted hours back.On the first day I borrowed CLEOPATRA a number of my teachers responded in discomfort after I told them what film I was going to watch. My social studies teacher responded, Are you sure you want to watch the ill mammary glands of the Nile? And my drama teacher responded, Why the heck did you spend your time borrowing that? It seems that they were right.Its spectacular Oscar-winning production design aside, the film is riddled with flaws. It's overall a stiff and uninteresting film, and the same reaction could apply even to the history buffs who are interested in this sort of thing. The Oscar-winning costume design looks very cheap and historically inaccurate here&#151;Elizabeth Taylor's many different outfits look very 1960s and seem to be designed to show off her not-very-becoming breasts and Richard Burton's Mark Antony first appears wearing a laughable comic book version of a Roman tunic, looking more like a cheap 1960s Marvel Comics superhero than a Roman here. The massive budget goes way too far here, showing us opulent Egyptian parade scenes through the streets of Rome and tedious sea battles that seem to take hours. The exteriors look expensive, while the cheap-looking interiors are obviously filmed on sound-stages. The pretty, exotic Alex North music score is forgettable. The dialog, scripted by director Joseph L. Mankiewicz, is laughably corny and nowhere near as clever or as beautiful as the dialog of Shaw and Shakespeare. Mankiewicz wrote and directed far better films before this, including THE GHOST AND MRS. MUIR (1947).Even worse are the performances. Elizabeth Taylor was never a favorite of mine&#151;she shrieks, wails, whines, overacts, and therefore gives one of the worst, most awkward performances I have ever seen in her comical, laughable performance of the title character. Richard Burton seems to be sleepwalking through his role here. Signs of their scandalous off-screen romance are not evident here&#151;they seem to have no chemistry whatsoever, if memory serves. Even the passable performances are forgettable&#151;Rex Harrison's Julius Caesar is wasted, as are Roddy McDowall's Octavian/Caesar Augustus, Martin Landau's Rufio, and the great Hume Crowyn as Cleopatra's Egyptian aide. Students of acting will be very disappointed here.Another reason that had me interested in seeing this film is because I happen to own a CD recording of Vivien Leigh and Laurence Olivier in scenes from a 1951 production of Shakespeare's ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA. Now that I've seen CLEOPATRA, let me tell you something the recording is much better than the 1963 film. Larry and Vivien give some of their greatest, most passionate performances here and almost every archaic word is understandable due to their diction and pacing. Besides, Vivien already played Cleopatra in the 1945 British film version of Shaw's CAESAR AND CLEOPATRA alongside Claude Rain's Julius Caesar and gave one of her liveliest, sexiest, and most memorable performances here. In my opinion, Vivien is a far better actress and a far more attractive lady than Elizabeth Taylor could ever be&#151;and a perfect Cleopatra. Too bad Larry and Vivien weren't available here&#151;Larry was married to Joan Plowright and was too old for the role at the time. Vivien's mental state had tragically deteriorated and gone were her stunning, youthful looks from her GONE WITH THE WIND days. The early 1960s was a difficult, sad time for them both, since they had divorced each other after a 20 year marriage.However, back to CLEOPATRA&#151;not only is it long and boring, it's one of those films that seem to never, ever end! During the second half of the film my patience had gone and I couldn't resist but bellow at the screen several times, END! END! After the film had actually ended, I was so happy after all that torture.So, you want to watch CLEOPATRA? Forget it. Try watching Gabriel Pascal's CAESAR AND CLEOPATRA (1945), starring Vivien Leigh and Claude Rains, if you're interested in the dramatic parts of the tale. Or try watching a few History Channel documentaries or reading a few good history books on the subject if you want the cold, hard facts. Anything but this&#151;you'll be glad you skipped this one! "}{"Title":"Slow? I'll watch this before I watch 'Barry Lyndon again","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie is far from the dog it's supposed to be. Rex Harrison is wonderful as Caesar- but when he's done in, so is the movie. Too bad Liz and Dick weren't as heated up on the screen as they were off it. Still, there's a lot to be said for this movie, which almost broke the Fox studios, but actually turned a profit. Yeah, it's around four hours, but if you don't mind literate dialogue- especially when spoken by Henrius Higginus- that's not a problem. It's not Mankewicz's best- I never saw such boring sea battles- but his second-rate is still ahead of many writers of his day. PS If you want to see a real Roman dog, watch Fall of the Roman Empire. "},{"Title":"Biblical Epics","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I just got my first DVD payer after holding out for year and have become a total convert. I am watching some of the old classics of my youth, both to see them again in mint condition and to have a look at all the special features, including the documentaries and commentaries. Presently I'm doing a festival of the great biblical epics of the 50's and 60's. My local video store had THE ROBE, (1953), BEN-HUR (1959), CLEOPATRA, (1963) and THE GREATST STORY EVER TOLD, (1965-let's call it TGSET). I thought I'd write a joint review comparing them.THE ROBE was done at the tail end of the old Hollywood, a studio production whereas these others were all filmed primarily on location with the international casts and crews we often saw making movies in the later era. But THE ROBE has all the Hollywood know-how we've come to expect. Particularly important was the pacing. It's a history lesson and a reverent film but it's also an entertainment. Young Richard Burton, (he was about 28) shows the impressive voice and passionate style that made him a name actor in the next decade, (he was nominated for an Oscar). Jean Simmons is very good and the smaller parts are well cast, particularly Richard Boone as Pontius Pilate, who in once scene leave much more of an impression than Frank Thring or Telly Savalas, who do the same role in BEN-HUR and TGSET, respectively.But BEN-HUR is clearly the pick of the litter. This is true epic, full of glorious action scenes including the justly famous chariot race. But, as directed by William Wyler, it's also a very thoughtful film. Charlton Heston is excellent as the passionate and idealistic hero. Stephen Boyd is my all-time favorite movie villain. He's the one who should have won the supporting actor Oscar, not Hugh Griffith for his Arab businessman. But it's Wyler who carries the day. Noted primarily as a director of actors, (and especially actresses), he was by this stage in his carrier looking for challenges. He'd never directed an epic before. By bringing to the mix his sense for dialog and characterization, eh give this a depth you can't find in something  direct by DeMille, for example, who was more a director of pageants than movies. His use of water as constant symbolism for cleaning the body and spirit is brilliant and memorable.Joseph Mankiewicz was also known for making more intimate films than CLEOPATRA, (which is not quite biblical but close enough). Like Wyler, he brings to the project something a normal director of epics would not have and CLEOPATRA is a much more intimate film than I remembered. Sure there is the absurdly overdone entrance into Rome and the Battle of Actium. But most of the scenes take place in doors and looked like a filmed record of a stage play. Both Burton and Rex Harrison are excellent in their roles and Liz Taylor is fine, (and fine looking), as well, although I agree with suggestions that Sophia Loren would have been a better choice being more obviously Mediterranean. Like Martin Landau and others interviewed, I would like to see some effort to restore, as best as possible, the two missing hours of this film and its presentation in the two parts Mankiewicz intended, perhaps on one of the movie channels. Even in its present form, the film is better than I remembered.TGSET may be the greatest story every told but this is surely not the greatest telling of it. The film is long, s..l..o..w and mournful. It's like sitting through a three hour wake. The only scenes where anybody shows any joy are the resurrection scenes of Lazarus and Christ at the end. One scene is accompanied by the disciples singing the same mournful hymn over and over again. I don't think I would want to hang out with these guys for very long. The scenes in THE ROBE where Burton talks to the people who were touched by their relationship with Jesus and in BEN-HUR where he offers the hero water and where he is given it in return, are much more moving that Max Von Sydow's grim sermons in TGSET. We never see the results of living the way eh suggests. And the miracle of resurrections seems an almost pointless substitute. If Jesus's soul has gone to join his father in Heaven, what difference does it make that his grave no longer holds his physical body?TGSET is filmed not in the Holy Land but in the deserts of Arizona and Utah, (Christ's visit to Utah must have pleased the Mormons.) The place looks totally desolate, such that no one would ever want to live there. Indeed, the area was flooded by a damn project shortly after film was completed. Too bad they weren't doing NOAH'S ARK or the TEN COMMANDMENTS. The actors are totally dwarfed by the surrounding scenery. It makes them and their story look temporary, not everlasting. The eclectic cast with its all-star cameos was considered something of a joke in it's time. At the Last Supper, TV Land viewers can see Illya Kuryakin, Baretta and Klinger! And it's fun to see Ingmar Bergman's knight from `THE SEVENTH SEAL doing scenes with Ed Wynn, Vaudeville's `Perfect Fool'. George Stevens is quoted as saying that someday, people viewing this film will not know who the actors were and will just see the characters. He's right. They all blend in together today. The performances are all very good, except for John Wayne's gargling of `Truly, this man was the Son of God', which, as I recall, produced audible laughter in the theater in 1965 and still seems wildly inappropriate today. I remember feeling that Charlton Heston walked away with the film as John the Baptist and he still does four decades later. The acting isn't the problem with the film. It's the pace and the setting.  "},{"Title":"A spectacle that could have been...","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cleopatra (1963) with Elizabeth Taylor, Richard Burton, Rex HarrisonContinuing with the trend of the grand epics of the late 50's and 60's, Cleopatra attempted to lead the category, with everything being grand..the acting, the scenery, and the direction..Unfortunately, the producers were not successful. When I watched the first part of the film(involving Julius Caesar)I believed I was watching one of the greatest epics ever made.Rex Harrison's acting was superb, and all the conspiracies, and military strategies combined with the romance of Caesar and Cleopatra and his tragic downfall made a great movie. There however, should have been the drawing point. The next two hours were in short tedious, long and sometimes boring..The over-acting of Elizabeth Taylor(I still don't see why people are applauding her performance) becomes nerve-wracking..The many exchanges between her and Antony seem overextended and unnecessary. The battles are not even fully shown, but they are described on a diagram that Cleopatra makes. With a budget that still ranks as the highest, more should have come out. The only redeeming factor in the 2nd half was the short scene with Richard Burton where he is abandoned by the troops, and tries to attack all alone the armies of Octavian. (Best scene of the movie) This comes from a reviewer that loves epics, and doesn't mind a long movie, as long as it is beautiful or reaches a great point. With all the scandals, fired directors, and the attitudes of some actors a movie was destroyed and made into a regular ol' flick. Kudos also to Roddy MCdowall.He made a good Octavian. FINAL GRADE(For this I had to combine both grades of 1st and 2nd part) A 10 for the 1st, and a 6 for the 2nd part.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Classic Spectacle Movie","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A must see for any movie lover. Elizabeth Taylor is the personification of feminine beauty in this movie. The dialogue is wonderful! When the characters speak, it's like reading a book. And the production of course is fantastic. A real feast for the eyes. Beautifully done. "},{"Title":"I totally sit on the fence on this film.","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Liked some of the costumes (particularly the first suit Liz appears in and her 30 lb. golden dress), some however should be pitched--especially that thing she wore when she was bidding her tutor to go to Rome (Look at that junk--what ancient Egyptian would have been wearing a 1961 lounge dress and feathered turban?).Felt the growing friction between Rome and Egypt went at a good pace in Part II/Felt the earlier family friction between Cleo and her bro far too hokey and rushed in Part I.Liked and disliked Liz's performance by this fashion. If she was with Rex Harrison she was good--The scene where she's stating what her goals are for the future of Rome and Egypt had me riveted. But when she was with Richard Burton--except for Anthony's death scene and the scene where they're talking after making out--she sucked. Bad. Real, real bad. And when she by herself depending on the main male costar at the time, she's good/bad (the scene knifing of Anthony's Clothes is just too over the top).Loved the Cinematography and sets--The bulk of the dialog however left much to be desired and cover my face at some of the ways it was delivered (Richard Burton especially). Rex Harrison was ultra good--you believe he's a great, but tired leader and his love for his ambition and with it Cleopatra follows a logical progression that's exciting to watch---Richard Burton--For me, Richard Burton, not Liz who's the actor who is this film's cancer for lack of better word. He is unbearable to watch and should have been restrained--Oh why does Liz try to contract his sickness by becoming screechy and annoying too? "},{"Title":"A Leaden Performance by ET","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I wouldn't presume to question the acting abilities of either Rex Harrison or Richard Burton. Both actors left admirable legacies and deserve the credit they received while living, and continue to receive now. Both Harrison (Caesar) and Burton (Anthony) bring their acting depth to their parts that make us realize why they're revered. More than that, we care about their characters.On the other hand, or on the other planet, we have the world's most overrated actress, Elizabeth Taylor, bringing a presence to the screen that could only be equalled by most high school senior girls in a Spring play. ET plays Cleopatra with all of the consummate woodeness that only years of practice and misguided praise could account for. The film cost millions and millions of dollars in 1963, and gave Burton and Taylor a showcase for their off-screen hijinks, but failed to raise the bar even a little, except for the jaw-dropping sets.By the time ET's Cleopatra finally expires, I was remembering the old 1934 version with Claudette Colbert and wishing for the over-the-top style of Cecil B. DeMille.  "},{"Title":"Elizabeth Taylor is the only actress other than Vivien Leigh talented enough to play Cleopatra","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth Taylor gives an outstanding performance as Queen Cleopatra. She has all the right looks for an egytian queen. 20th Century Fox certainly choose the wright woman for the role. (As if Joan Collins could do it!!!!!) This film is about how Cleopatra marry's Ceasar (Rex Harrison) and then falls in love with Anthony (Richard Burton). I believe that this and Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf (1966) was the only decent film/s they ever did together. This film was took three years to make mainly due to Elizabeth Taylor's health. As in the film was originally going to be filmed in England while Liz was out there in 1961 the became chronically ill and nearly died. This is defently a must see film. One of Liz's best. "},{"Title":"Less for your money than you can imagine!","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  In 1963 two of the most important productions in the history of movie making were released. The first was Tom Jones with Albert Finney and Susannah York..  Produced for a few hundred thousand dollars and shot with rented equipment and costumes on the streets of London and in the English country side  with a supporting cast of brilliant British ensemble players and extras who stood-in just to get in a film. Tom Jones is simply one of the best motion pictures of all time.  The second was  Cleopatra with Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor, a cast as long as the Manhattan telephone directory and a budget bigger than the combined egos of the stars. Cleopatra was a total disaster. It has no redeeming quality that I know of. It is therefore important for embodying in one film, nearly everything that you can do wrong in making a movie. It is a movie that you must see if you are ever to understand what a truly good film really is.Everything about this film is disappointing from the modernized, vastly overdone costumes to the immense crowd scenes and battle scenes where everybody simply mills about until time to collect their checks and go home.  There is on life or animation to this film, just a lot of big name stars of the day posing in improbably ornate costumes.  I realize that it is nearly impossible to film historical spectacles without  having some moments that seem posed and stilted, and without having dialogue and situations that are hopelessly predictable or trivial.  I am not asking for perfection, but too many films of  spectacular proportion have been made too successfully for me to be willing to accept `Cleopatra' as anything but ego-gratification and self indulgence.   Of course Charlton Heston and Yul Brynner are pompous and stylized and predictable in `The Ten Commandments,' but the movie works.  It is exciting.  It is spectacular.  `Cleopatra is merely bloated! At least we get to see Roddy McDowall in a skirt, the mind boggles. Rent this puppy on some rainy fall evening when your sense of the absurd is up and running and your willingness to suspend disbelief is on vacation.  "},{"Title":"Is it ever going to end???","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This one is only for patient viewers. It's visually dazzling, all right, with some truly breathtaking crowd scenes (although some of them do seem to exist only to call attention to the film's extravagant budget), but it's so unbelievably draggy that it seems to last four centuries instead of merely four hours! The good acting (Richard Burton has some strong monologues near the end) is about the only thing that may sustain you for the whole duration.   (**) "},{"Title":"Wretched","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" And headache inducing. This has got to be one of the biggest shambles ever made. Everything from the clunky sets, the awful and tuneless musical score, to the campy acting mixed in with a heavy dose of self-importance adds up to a total waste of 4 hours(!!!!!!!!).Please do not waste your whole afternoon (usually Sundays) watching this on TV. Come 8 o'clock you'll regret that you wasted the weekend. It's the kind of film your grandmother would insist on watching only because it's old and therefor must be better than all the modern stuff she has grown distant from.I really must stress again this is a pile of crap. "}{"Title":"Cleopatra","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" When rumor says that James Cameron is going to shoot a new CLEOPATRA with Angelina Jolie, coincidently I was watching Elizabeth Taylor's 1963 version, whose fame is spread through its anecdotes more than the film itself. Speaking of the film, even after 50 years, one still cannot help gasping to breathe when sees all the spectacular settings, and most of the time, nevertheless, I was in a state of admiring clothes, buildings, props, small decorations and left the story behind, the glamorous vanity does some counter-force to undermine the story itself.The film lasts more than four hours and is divided into two parts, the first half is between Cleopatra & Cesar, the latter half is between Cleopatra & Antony, simple and clear. Interestingly only Rex Harrison got an Oscar nomination for BEST ACTOR that year and the love/hate intertwined couple Elisabeth and Richard got nothing at all, whose real life story was even more appealing than the tragic Cleopatra. There is no doubt I prefer the first half, the tension before Cesar and Cleopatra is exhilarating, compared to the second half, when everything turns into a vaguely kitsch love tragedy, at least the first part is much more convincing. When the story became kind of funny and unbelievable, I lost my patience, the sea battle is missing its point, cost a huge fortune to make, how come there is no single exciting battlefield, maybe it's Elizabeth Taylor's will to make her the only focus, no one else should take her thunder, sadly she managed it and it is 20th Century Fox paid for the extra bills for her lavishly bloated showcasing. If Cameron is surely to make a new version, Angelina Jolie is a sure-fire, but make sure that it is the director who makes the decision instead of actors. Hope there will be no collision cause between James and Brad-Angelina couple for the new version. "},{"Title":"Epic in every way","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This film is like the Great Pyramid itself. It's just jaw-dropping, and it's hard to believe that any amount of manpower or hard work can produce something like it. Hundreds of shots, countless thousands of details -- it just shouldn't be possible. The costumes alone could fill a museum. The sets and ships ... everything about the setting is a spectacle. The logistics of moving tons of props around, building towns and army camps, putting hundreds of bodies on the screen; and all that just sets the stage. There's artistry on every level. Cleopatra riding into Rome on that sphinx must be the most spectacular stage entrance in film history. Young Roddy McDowell going to war against Richard Burton? Actors who can fill a stage as their souls are being crushed? Elizabeth Taylor as victim of her own manipulations? Wow. Not only are films like this not made anymore, nobody could afford to do it. We've plowed ahead with all our technology and lost something golden along the way. It looks more real than most modern CG films, and the staging is so easy to overlook everything where it should be. The camera always has you firmly in the scene, where you belong -- you're not flying around like some drunken bird the way today's action films are (mis)directed. Sure, we all know how the story is going to end, but for four hours I was riveted and couldn't even the feel the bronchitis that had me laid up on the couch in the first place. Applause all around. If you're itching for one of those old epics, but can't decide, give this one a fresh look. "},{"Title":"Epic entertainment.  Elizabeth IS Cleo.","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Epic entertainment with Elizabeth Taylor an excellent choice for the part, even if she was older than the real Cleo. I enjoyed this movie very much. It illuminated historical events and personalities with color, clarity and passion. Cleopatra is portrayed as a real person, with intellect, ambition, and vulnerability, not just a lusty plaything. Multi-faceted characters, well-acted, with great cinematography, absolutely splendid sets, and music that is evocative and sultry, like Cleo, like Egypt. It's well-edited too, making a long and intricate story easy to follow. My only criticism is the usual casting of British actors in the roles of middle-easterners, which continues to today. Still, this is epic movie-making, very well done and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Mixing politics and passion","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" By the early 60s, the heyday of the giant ancient-world epic had just about passed &#x96; not because they were becoming less popular, but because cinema was becoming more introspective, not to mention less conservative, and a new generation was looking for other ways to ply the trade. But there were still enough old-fashioned (and to be honest, far more savvy) bods around to know that stars plus spectacles equalled bums on seats and fat receipts.Nevertheless Hollywood was by now a very different place, and the previously unusual move was made of leaving much of the production of Cleopatra in the hands of one man &#x96; writer-director Joseph L. Mankiewicz. Now Mankiewicz was certainly proficient at his job, but his focus was always very intimate, with humungous epics conspicuously absent from his CV . It appears he was shoved on board as a level-headed professional who could bring some order to proceedings. This isn't necessarily a bad thing; it just means he crafted a vision of an epic that was somewhat different to that of the studio heads. This is not a sword-and-sandal spectacular, nor is it even a sweeping character study like Lawrence of Arabia. Rather it is an intense romantic melodrama, in the line of the A Letter to Three Wives and All About Eve, concerning human interaction above all other things.Mankiewicz eschewed action scenes &#x96; not because he was a pacifist, but I think more because he felt them a distraction from the nobility of drama. Of course, the crowds of extras and the stupendous sets are all there, but they are quite literally backdrops. Not that Mankiewicz's sharp eye ignores them. His style was in fact all about backgrounds, in particular using background movement (or lack of it) to highlight what was going on in the foreground. In the opening scene we have hundreds of soldiers milling round, while others stand imperiously still. Which of the two Mankiewicz allows us to see at any given point helps define the importance of the moment or the character, and this is how the hordes of extras are used in all the big outdoor scenes. On other occasions he uses the cavernous halls and magnificent frescoes to evoke tones of mystery, emptiness, austerity and so forth. It's rare that he shows any of this splendour for its own sake. Forget Citizen Kane &#x96; this is probably the most outrageous example of a director's personal indulgence at a studio's expense.It is so like Mankiewicz to turn every asset he has to focus us upon the actors and their performances, and yet it is the acting itself in Cleopatra that has most often been singled out for critical drubbing. Elizabeth Taylor does not make a bad Queen of Egypt. She does however appear a little worse the wear, probably from her recent illness and the rigours of such a massive production of which she is in almost every scene. As a result she seems a little flat and lacking in conviction. Rex Harrison on the other hand breezes effortlessly through his part, and wins us over with his honest charm, even managing to bring out a touching tenderness when instructing his young son in the ways of despotism. The virile and stocky Richard Burton certainly has the perfect physique for Mark Anthony, and while he does a decent bit of grand theatricality, he is actually far better in meek and sensitive roles such as those in Becket and Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? The most applause should really go to Roddy McDowell, who relishes playing the only really manic character, and yet does so without making an extravagant mess of it.At the end of the day though this was still an old style epic production with a very professional big picture production crew, and it is their work which looms largest. The colossal reconstructions of ancient Egypt and Rome seem utterly real and boundless in their sprawl. The cinematography of Leon Shamroy (the de facto expert for this kind of picture) creates an exquisitely precise variation of warm yellows and cool blues. The editing by Dorothy Spencer is top-notch too &#x96; look at how craftily it times the ladles coming in from left and right in the first Pamela Brown soothsaying scene.Cleopatra ended up being one of those awkward pictures that was a commercial hit but a massive critical failure, and even its box office success was not enough to recoup its mammoth budget. One way or another it spelled out to the studios that they would no longer be able to do things as they had in the 50s. It was not the last of the ancient world epics, nor even the last decent one (check out the sublime The Bible&#x85; In the Beginning, made in 1966), but it is probably the last one that a studio had high hopes for and poured its all into. "},{"Title":"Cleo Deco","Date":"20 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It's always hard to know what might have been, but it's hard to believe that what got cut was two hours of exciting action sequences. In 1949 Zanuck had made Mankiewicz's A LETTER TO THREE WIVES workable by cutting (Mank wanted four wives, which, what with the adulteress in there, was probably two too many but it was the '40s when everything came in threes because there were three social classes and all the social scientists had three names). Mank's style is so uncinematic that you wonder if it was meant as a jab at Hollywood, which he never liked. He shoots in the style of the Early Silents, before the introduction of magic like cutting on movement and combining shots into scenes. Everyone in this one seems to be nailed to the floor, too. Maybe the trouble was all those uppity Italian extras. Harrison makes a good Caesar, Macdowell is over-the-top in a fun way as Octavian (how else could he have played it? he looks like Caesar's boy), and Burton is unexpectedly off form. Taylor plays the Queen of the Nile like a girl who will stop at nothing to become prom queen.What Mankiewicz was apparently trying to do was to make a sort of flattened modern version of what Shakespeare and Shaw handled ornately. So the movie is a reasonably smart but rather plodding and uncinematic filmed Rome play shot in the style of a perfume ad. You feel it's really dying to be a musical (I kept waiting for Burton to burst into a love song). A lot of the sets looked suspiciously like the ones in the film version of THE KING AND I. But they are entertaining. Thanks to the army of designers and Leon Shamroy, this movie is worth seeing once. If a movie looks this good it can be chopped up and static and still be watchable. "},{"Title":"A grand and glorious epic for the ages.","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It may have been outrageously priced and taken way too long to film combined with too much heartache for one man, but Joseph L. Mankiewicz did it by completing this breathtaking epic, which is one not to be forgotten. Elizabeth Taylor beautifully portrays the passionate queen who is willing to do anything to hold onto her throne as ruler of Egypt and avoid being swept up by the mighty and imperial Roman Empire. Her first order of business is to seduce the face of that empire, Julius Caeasr, played with dignity and grace by the great Rex Harrison. Soon, she has a son, one whom she thinks will be the next ruler of Egypt and Rome as one.The story moves on with Caesar being murdered in the Senate, Cleopatra fleeing to Alexandria, seducing Marc Antony, the new face of Rome, and finally facing her demise in Octavian, Caesar's nephew and successor. If you are a history buff as I am, you will certainly appreciate this fine-looking piece of history that is for the most part historically accurate. The sets are extraordinary to look at along with the costumes, extras, etc. It is quite obvious where $44 million of 1963 dollars went. Because of this fact, many people feel this movie is overrated and bloated out of proportion. I say all that expense was needed to tell this story correctly. The facts are larger than life, thus the movie should be as well. The acting is solid with Taylor being a Cleopatra you can't look away from, Burton giving us a Shakespeare-like portrayal of Antony and Harrison gracefully portraying Julius Caesar. The first half is slow and seems tedious and useless, but give it time. The second half flows much better as we get into the juice of the story and the real motives behind it all. It all adds up to one of the most satisfying pictures I have ever seen. It is a grand and glorious steak in a world where most movies are simply ground chuck. "},{"Title":"Epic Historical Romance Cleopatra","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cleopatra (1963) Elizabeth Taylor, Richard Burton, Rex Harrison, Martin Landau, Roddy McDowall, Kenneth Haigh, George Cole, Hume Cronyn, Pamela Brown, Andrew Keir, Cesare Danova, Francesca Annis, Robert Stephens, Gregoire Aslan, John Cairney, Isabel Cooley, Michael Hordern, John Hoyt, Carroll O'Connor, Richard O'Sullivan, Gwen Watford, Jean Marsh....Director Joseph L. Mankiewicz, Screenplay...Rouben Mamoulian, Darryl F. Zanuck, From The Book by Carlo Mario Franzero.In 1963, cinema was about to change as the times were changing. It was the year that President J.F.K. was murdered on live television and marks the real beginning of the turbulent decade. Many movies, however, still employed older Hollywood legends, often acting with newer stars in serious dramatic films. The genre of ancien times epics was nothing new and previous films like The Ten Commandments, Ben Hur and Spartacus had enjoyed enormous success. In Director Joseph Mankiewicz Cleopatra, Elizabeth Taylor portrays the renowned Queen of the Nile and the film follows her experiences from the moment she first meets Julius Caesar (Rex Harrison) to her relationship with Marc Antony (Richard Burton) to her alleged suicide by snake bite. The film has a running time of almost four hours and was an expensive, overblown historical epic that many considered to be the end of such films. Elizabeth Taylor was an established star at this point and made headlines with her numerous affairs like the one she was carrying with Richard Burton whom she would marry. Rex Harrison was doing My Fair Lady at this time. While there is much to admire, there's also many flaws to point out. The long script, drawn from an Italian history writer, is stuffy, stilted and Shakesperean. Each of the principal actors - Taylor, Burton and Harrison, each have Shakespearean style monologues in which they poetically express their loves, losses and philosophies. Far from being historically accurate, this movie portrays Cleopatra as an overly ambitious queen who loved two powerful men, the typical and flat characteristics that have been attributed to her for years. Elizabeth Taylor's performance is nothing special. She has her diva moments, such as the melodramatic scene in which she discovers that Marc Antony has married Octavia, a marriage of political significance. She flies into a fit of rage as only Elizabeth Taylor could do. She portrays Cleopatra as power-driven and mighty but at the same time feminine and vulnerable. She wears a different gown in every scene and the entire film is built around her, coming to a climax in the lavish Parade scene in Rome. Taylor was also doing things actresses of her celebrity would not do like showing more skin than previously allowed in scenes such as her milk bath. In addition, during the Parade scene the dancing slave girls show more nudity than films had previously allowed. Rex Harrison, in full British accent and demeanor, is out of place as Caesar and too old-looking. Burton does a marvelous job as Antony but like everyone else, he's hamming it up. Even Roddy McDowal as Octavian and many of the actors portraying Senators and Cleopatra's advisors, have moments of genuine hamminess. So what makes this movie so great despite all the big time drama ? There's the costumes which are beautiful to look at, the set designs and sceneries (construction of palaces and ships were made). The music by Alex North is gorgeous, full of bombastic themes and romantic, exotic melodies. And, not least of all, there's the romance. Despite the political and historical stuff, we feel a little misty eyed when we see how Cleopatra's dreams are foiled by Fate and by Rome's power. Caesar is killed and her son by him will never be king. Her love for Antony is similarly thwarted as Octavian, Caesar's appointed heir, comes after them. Her suicide scene is tragic and noble at the same time. The attention to detail is evident and the movie is among the ranks of other epic films like Gone With The Wind The Ten Commandments Ben Hur Spartacus Fall of the Roman Empire and others. The cinematography is splendid and the film was shot in the latest Panavision-type cameras, and the color is a sensual exotic feast of Mediterranean colors. But other than that, this film is one that you have to watch without paying attention to all the little flaws, the biggest being Taylor's diva-esquire scenes, which, after too many of them, makes it hard for us to sympathize with her or to care for fate. Truly a film of its times. "},{"Title":"People are too harsh","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Let me start out first by saying that people are way to hard on the director, the actors and the movie itself. This movie was extremely ambitious for anyone to do, let alone produce it back in the 1960's. People don't realize how incredibly interwoven the true story was, and people need to keep that in mind while they watch the movie. The most amazing part of this film was the fact the director stayed so close to Plutarch's (famous historian) description of how everything happened between Cleopatra and Ceasar, Cleopatra and Antony, and Egypt vs. Rome. The film had to fit many many many years into four hours, a very tough thing to do. THe acting jobs are wonderfully done, Elizabeth Taylor's portrayal of Cleopatra was spectacular. She showed venerability, and in a flash of a second could showed her tough cookie attitude. This truly is one of my favorite movies of all time....!!! "},{"Title":"Well Done!","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"       Cleopatra is a great drama. Elizabeth Taylor does a great job even though she struggled with illness while making this movie. Rex Harrison is good as Julius Caesar and is the only actor in the movie nominated for an Oscar. I was a little dissappointed in Richard Burton's part as Marc Antony. I found his character kind of weak and didn't really build up strength until the second part of the movie. The cinematography by Leon Shamroy is spectacular which won Shamroy one of the film's five Oscars. Alex North did a great job with the music score and he to was nominated for and Oscar. Despite the many problems and production delays that this film had, it turned out quite good.  "},{"Title":"Score Concerns","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  All while the viewer struggles with what's on screen in Cleopatra, there's a rather unsettling audio track which doesn't matters.It's a semi-atonal score by Alex North, in which even the ceremonial trumpets ring forth with cacophonous brassiness.  The ear searches in vain for some friendly thematic strains--yet is ultimately disappointed in the lack of character, place and mood motifs.  It's another gloomy North creation like that for the epic Spartacus (1960) merely serviceable without ever being inspired.When one looks at great cinematic works, there's often a fine score providing firm support.  Cleopatra and Spartacus lack these qualities, as does North's score for the troubled The Misfits production (1961).True, North could rise to the occasion as in Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolfe (1966) and Viva Zapata (1952). Yet in my opinion it's a very spotty career, which started with a distinctive and triumphant blaze of glory in A Streetcar Named Desire (1951).   That seminal project--North's third film--rightly catapulted him into stardom.  Alas, it was a roller coaster ride from then on.Of course, that's they way things sometimes work in the creative area, so this is not to acknowledge sincere effort, only admit to some misses along with hits.   Just too bad a miss had to be with this artistically and financially crucial production for 20th Century Fox Studios. "}{"Title":"A CORRECTION","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The film process CLEOPATRA was shot in was NOT 70MM Panavision, as stated by some here, but Todd-AO, the original 65/70MM film process that Super Panavision 70 is a copy of.If all 6 hours of CLEOPATRA is located and restored, FOX should re-release it theatrically in its original 70MM Todd-AO format. "},{"Title":"Problem with casting...","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  After watching the first half of the film, all I could think about is how horribly miscast Caesar was.  Why an English actor? There were hints of Shakespeare trying to come out, and I was turned off.  Cleopatra sort of worked and I do not think the depiction of Egypt is right.  Overall, the film starts off slowly and it picks up pace.  I was more interested in the pagentry of Cleopatra's entry into Rome and the great part is how Cleopatra's hat is framed against the sphinx, to make it look like the goatee. "},{"Title":"Wish They Would Do a Remake - Great Story - Film Missed The Mark","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  First let me say that I have thoroughly enjoyed delving into this part of history.  So much passion - extravagance and power.  There were a few spots in this 4 hour film where these sentiments were portrayed with all the impact you can possibly imagine.  But these moments are few and far between.Liz had the physical look but I couldn't deal with the directors interpretation of Cleopatra's attitude. She was bitchy and unattractive emotionally throughout. In fact most all the characters were. I've never liked Liz as an actress - she cannot get beyond admiring herself to actually express any other true emotions. Marc Anthony's death in her arms actually got a laugh out of me.Cleopatra's wardrobe and hair really bothered me.  I actually found myself gasping in disbelief continuously.  It was High Fashion meets Egyptian. The interior scenic work was horrid.  It looked like one cheap stage play set after another.  The look of the entire film lacked authenticity with the exception of the giant sphynx that Cleopatra enters Rome upon and her magnificent ship.  I loved those spectacular visuals!I could not understand why both Caesar and Marc Antony had English accents - am I missing something?  Rex Harrison lacked strength/power as Caesar and the chemistry that I was expecting between Liz and Richard did not shine through at all. I have to say Rowdy McDowell was fantastic as Octavian.  But my overall feeling was that everything was staged and very unnatural.Absolutely fabulous graphics are shown through the opening credits and seg-ways.  They were right up there with the best I've seen.  "},{"Title":"Not the last Epic Spectacular...but one of the better ones.","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Of the countless films depicting Antony and Cleopatra, this one ( and the 1934 version with Claudette Colbert) is the one worth seeing. The acting is splendid, the casting is good, the scenics and atmospheres are terrific. That's not to say the film does not have its flaws...indeed it does. But these are overcome by the intensity and passion of the performers as well as the subject matter. Due to its length and its budget, it broke the bank at 20th Century Fox in its day. It also was not a critical success at that time...but the resurgence of the film in this era of re-visitation finds this film to be head and shoulders above nearly any other attempt. Burton had many fine performances, both before and after this, but kudos to Liz Taylor in perhaps her most significant screen role...as well as to Roddy McDowell who, surprisingly, turns in one of his best performances as Octavius. The film should have made stars of Martin Landau and Carroll O'Conner, but fame was still somewhat down the road for them in the medium of television. Hume Cronyn is always a reliable presence...and Rex Harrison...what more needs to be said ? It is a long film, but it is both entertaining and engaging. See the movie. "},{"Title":"That Uh Girl!  Cleopaterer!","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I've read all these comments on Cleoparta with Liz and Dicky Boy, but I can top all of you. The first time I saw this movie I was forced to go to it and since we were in Germany at the time, I was assured that there would be English Subtitles, but someone goofed! I had to sit through the whole 4 hours listening to Liz, Dick, and Sexy Rexy speaking German. Much later I finally got to see it with an English Soundtrack, but in Germany in the scene where Liz talks about her hips being wide for child birth, my friends wife who happened to be German, gasped and said, I could never say that to my husband! We tried to get her to tell us what Liz said, but we was too embarrassed and wouldn't repeat it! In all fairness, the other night Turner Classic showed the full version of Cleopatra and for for some reason movies that were flops in their initial release seem to age like a good bottle of wine. This film has aged and I have to admit that it plays better today than it did years ago. In other words, this film was ahead of it's time and today if you see the letterbox version you see why it's a magnificent film, but if you're ever invited to see an American Film in a foreign country, don't. I not only sat through Cloepatra, but Lawarence of Arabria as well as Gone With The Wind which is a hoot with a German Soundtrack! One thing that helped much was that Cleopatra almost ran 20th Century Fox into the ground to the point there would not be any 20th anymore, and as a result we got an all time classic The Sound of Music which brought 20th Century Fox back into the black! "},{"Title":"Cleopatra, Coming at ya","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cleopatra Cleopatra, Coming at ya. I loved this movie. it was made in 1963. Richard Burton and Elizabeth Tailor are one of the best couples i've ever heard about. This movie took ages for them to make it i think as it was a 4 hour movie. This most have took them months to make. I give this movie 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Shorter would be better!","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  What a very long movie!Only a few spectacular scenes on Todd A-O with Deluxe color process,wardrobes and some dialogue are worthwhile,likewise;music score composed by Alex North is still intriguing.Liz was herself.Richard and Martin were good but Rex and Roddy were the best.All of these hardly rescued this lavish film because of its over 200 minute long which was unable to make it big,but too slow.Same essence of dialogue was repeatedly quoted in the different sets and costumes.Nothing more.You can easily cut them for about 180 min release and that would be OK!         "},{"Title":"Some good performances, but otherwise very boring","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie just dragged on and on and on, especially in the last half, with the battle scenes.  Those scenes were incredibly boring.  Roddy McDowell did a very good job as Octavian; unfortunately, through some sort of error, he wasn't Oscar-nominated.  His is the best performance in the movie.  Rex Harrison and Richard Burton were okay as Caeser and Anthony, respectively, but Elizabeth Taylor gave an incredibly lifeless portrayal of Cleopatra. She was probably up every night with Richard and was too tired in the mornings to put any energy or sex appeal into her performance.  And if you expect Taylor and Burton to steam up the screen, you'll be incredibly disappointed.  They probably saved that for offscreen.  Another lavish, grossly expensive epic that wasn't worth it.  "},{"Title":"All that expense and hard work for nothing!","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cleopatra was a monumental effort that had great special effects, art decoration and cinamatography but it was not enough to save this lumbering epic. Liz Taylor was not at her best and seemed totally mis-cast. Richard Harrison did a nice job but I could not picture him in the role of Caesar. Richard Burton was credible but certainly not memorable. Do yourself a favor and rent Ben Hur or Spartacus. They are very entertaining, especially compared to this effort. "},{"Title":"Why the Movie Cleopatra is a failure","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" History is made of truth, and it's made of myth. In his play Julius Caesar Shakespeare quotes Mark Anthony  Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears; I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him. The evil that men do lives after them; The good is oft interred with their BonesSo, let it be with Joseph Leo Mankiewicz. . This man has made too many great films, that I almost feel guilty writing this.He wrote many of the screenplays for his movies, and Cleopatra is no exception. But in this he was helped by a certain Carlo M. Franzero. This man is not credited in the DVD that I have. (English/European PAL version). I don't know the text Mr. Franzero wrote, but the dialog spoken in the movie is, in my opinion, the primary reason that makes this movie historically unacceptable.Whether Plutarch tells us the truth, and Shakespeare follows Plutarch almost to the letter, we shall never know&#133; But Shakespeare imprinted onto the English language the Roman Gravitas of speech, which the learned Romans inherited from the Greek philosophers and writers, mainly the great tragedians. It is the main reason this movie is not credible. Compare it with Spartacus. The young Stanley Kubrick left the writing of the screenplay to professionals, the acting to the best talent of the London stage..Mankiewicz, because he had done Julius Caesar 10 years before played Jack of all Trades. He also put his talents at service to the vanity of Elisabeth Taylor (an Americanized Englishwoman without English accent) and Richard Burton (a Welshman with bad accent). Rex Harrison is a comedy actor, he was miscast, but he tries very hard to make Julius Caesar credible.Hollywood, has, in general butchered Old Rome's history. It took sides with the Jews or the Christians, both not Romans. Here it does not, but it is not credible. Go see Spartacus (in the Criterion collection DVD, if you have that, and you should&#133;) "}{"Title":"A woman caught between duty and love","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cleopatra is directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz, it has music by Alex North, costumes by Vittorio Nino Novarese and Renie and stars Elizabeth Taylor, Richard Burton, Rex Harrison, Roddy McDowall, Hume Cronyn, Martin Landau, Andrew Keir and John Hoyt.Cleopatra was originally supposed to be released as two separate films, one focusing on the Queen's relationship with Caesar, the second focusing on her relationship with Marc Anthony, this was decided against and released as one film. There is a lot of lost footage for this film which people have been trying to locate for years.It was also during the making of Cleopatra that Elizabeth Taylor fell in love with her co star Richard Burton whilst they were both married to other people, their relationship became the biggest scandal of their day. The two later got married and became one of the most famous couples in the world.Elizabeth Taylor plays the Egyptian Queen Cleopatra who comes to the throne and becomes an unforgettable part of history through her relationships with Caesar(Rex Harrison)and Marc Anthony(Richard Burton), two of Rome's greatest soldiers and much respected citizens. The film shows her rise to power and how she becomes the Queen, her friendship and marriage with Caesar, his shocking murder in the senate, then her passionate love affair with Marc Anthony.Elizabeth is very good in the lead role of the young Queen torn between her duty and loyalty to her country and her love for two of Rome's greatest soldiers . Rex Harrison portrays Caesar as a dignified and fearless leader and the scenes between him and Cleopatra are tender and show their affection and admiration for one another. Richard Burton is excellent as the emotionally tortured Marc Anthony, consumed by jealousy, passion and rage, he wants Cleopatra to love him but he always considers himself to be in Caesars shadow. Roddy McDowall is memorable as Caesar's scheming nephew Octavian and Hume Cronyn is good as Cleopatra's wise friend and adviser Sosigenes.Cleopatra is a story of love,power and war and is probably best seen on the big screen. Alex North's music is sweeping and moving and the costumes are exquisite, especially those worn by Taylor. "},{"Title":"Never underestimate the power of Liz","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Everyone knows that this movie was considered risky, ultra-expensive and was probably close to not getting made about 5000 times.  However, the movie did get made and is not nearly as bad as the critics would have you believe.  First of all, Liz is beautiful and never got much credit for her acting, but she delivers in the title role.  Burton is her lover and their off-screen affair obviously fueled their love scenes. The best acting is by Rex Harrison, by far, and he got the only Oscar nomination out of the actors.  Several other familiar faces are seen, including Carroll O'Connor, Roddy McDowall and Martin Landau.I saw this with a woman I used to know, and a bottle of Scotch, on a rainy weeknight at a NYC theatre that used to show old movies.  The ideal circumstances for an epic that really should be seen on a big screen.AMC is running an episode of Back Story that delves into the making of the movie.  The episode is two hours long, which tells you you're in for a lot of backstage drama.  Believe me, they needed two hours to tell the whole story.    "},{"Title":"Was Liz Taylor too white?","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I reviewed this film for IMDb last year when I had a different e-mail address, but upon seeing more recent comments I need to make a point.Several reviewers complain that Liz Taylor was too pasty-white to play the historical Cleopatra, one saying that she should have been played by an African-American or otherwise dark-skinned actress.  Cleopatra's ancestry has been called into question in recent years by Afrocentric historians (ideologues, really) who are obsessed with the dubious notion that ancient Egypt was a black African civilization.  There's no doubt that ancient Egyptians, like their modern descendants, were a diverse people with skin colors ranging from quite light to very dark -- this is demonstrated by their tomb paintings and sculptures.But Cleopatra was a member of the Ptolemaic Dynasty -- she was NOT Egyptian, but Macedonian/Greek, and therefore was certain to have the coloring of that ethnic group, which included gold-blondes like Alexander the Great as well as brunettes.  Cleopatra's antecedents are known in detail back to Alexander's general Ptolemy, and we can be sure that she definitely was NOT African in appearance.  Ancient historians also tell us that she was not a beauty, but instead fascinated powerful men with her intellect and personality -- this is borne out by surviving coins of her reign, which depict a rather sharp-nosed woman who, nevertheless, has no African features.I recently saw the OK TV movie of Cleopatra with Lenore Varela in the title role.  This Hispanic lovely conforms to the contemporary but inaccurate concept of Cleopatra as dark-skinned, although Varela is by no means African in her appearance.  Egypt is a very sunny place, and you may be sure that ancient Ptolemaic queens didn't go outside much to work on their tans. "},{"Title":"Do yourself a favor and watch HBO's Rome instead of Michael Jackson's best friend as Cleopatra.","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Don't get me wrong, I love old movies! I especially love history pieces. I enjoyed Spartacus and Ben Hur but Cleopatra had a disadvantage I had just finished watching season one of HBO's Rome and its brilliant portrayal of Julius Caesar's last years. The only thing going for this version made roughly forty years earlier (and reportedly the most expensive film ever made for its time) is that Elizabeth Taylor is a much hotter Cleopatra than the actress picked to play her in HBO's Rome. It's a shame Hollywood was such a prude back in the days and doesn't give us any money shots of Elizabeth Taylor. I feel that's the only thing that could have rewarded me for sitting through nearly four hours of this movie. It would also help me remember Liz Taylor as a sexual goddess instead of Wacko Jacko's best friend and maybe the only person in the world who doesn't think something weird is going on in his bedroom at Neverland. And is there anything more silly than watching 5'8 Richard Burton's Marc Antony with a William Shatner beer belly? You know what I mean, those actor guts that are held in check by a large girdle... errr... I mean belt. And the music.... ahhhhh! Why does every movie made from 1940 to 1965 about anything that occurred before 1000 A.D. seem to have the exact same melodramatic score? When I invent a time machine, the first thing I do is bring back the Gladiator soundtrack by Hans Zimmer so that filmmakers several decades ago can realize that it's possible to make history pieces with a little flair in the music department. No wonder bigotry, Vietnam, and all the other insanities of the Cold War were spawned. These people had no taste in quality cinema. Some people blame Steven Spielberg, George Lucas, Francis Ford Coppola and others for ruining Hollywood, and we do get our share of Scooby-Doo and Police Academy 7 these days, but as I watch more and more films that cover the same subject matter in today's popular media, I realize how much the motion picture industry has improved. "},{"Title":"Cleopatra","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I knew two of the lead stars of the film, and I knew it was an expensive film, I just didn't know how expensive, or how long is was, from Golden Globe nominated director Joseph L. Mankiewicz (All About Eve, Guys and Dolls, the original Sleuth). Basically it is the historical epic drama, in the year 48 B.C. where Pharaoh Ptolemy XIII (Richard O'Sullivan) is supreme ruler of Egypt, having desposed of his Queen sister Cleopatra (Dame Elizabeth Taylor). But along comes Caesar (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Sir Rex Harrison) to restore some order to the kingdom of Egypt, despite being from Rome, he even sees to marrying the Queen and having a son, oh, and Ptolemy was banished. It is when Caesar is murdered that trouble starts again some years later, when his protg Marc Antony (Richard Burton, who married Liz the next year) has become smitten by Cleopatra, and she can't help herself. She is angered when she finds out he is marrying Octavia (Jean Marsh), sister of the ambitious Octavian - Caesar Augustus (Golden Globe nominated Roddy McDowall), and he quickly changes his mind, and marries Cleopatra. There is a war with some battleships shooting at each other, a bit of banter and politics, and the film ends with Antony dying, and Cleopatra following not too long after. Also starring Pamela Brown as High Priestess, George Cole as Flavius, Hume Cronyn as Sosigenes, Cesare Danova as Apollodorus, Kenneth Haigh as Brutus, Andrew Keir as Agrippa, young Martin Landau as Rufio, Robert Stephens as Germanicus, Francesca Annis as Eiras, Grgoire Aslan as Pothinus and Martin Benson as Ramos, I have to say, some of the oddest character names I have ever heard. Apparently, back then it cost around $40 million to make, today that would be around $250 million (that would beat Titanic's $250 million), it could have been because of Taylor getting sick a lot. More obvious reason would be the length of the film, four hours and eight minutes of nearly blah, sexy, blah, politics, blah, battle, blah, death, it was obvious I would doze off at some point. I much preferred the spoof film Carry On Cleo. It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design and Best Special Visual Effects, and it was nominated for Best Film Editing, Best Music for Alex North, Best Sound and Best Picture, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama. Dame Elizabeth Taylor was number 77, and Richard Burton number 70 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Taylor was number 7 on Britain's Finest Actresses, Burton was number 29 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, Taylor was number 11 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses, she was also number 13 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and she was number 7 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Women. Worth watching, at least once! "},{"Title":"Very Dull Movie","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  For all its expense,this movie is far too boring.There are great performances,the true Standout being Rex Harrison. Once his character goes there is little to keep you watching.For all its cost the Battle scenes look very cheap indeed.The documentary about the making of the movie is far more entertaining. "},{"Title":"About as long as the Nile","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm sorry to say that Cleopatra proved my prejudices of old spectacles to be true. I found it stiff and uninteresting; a near-torture to sit through. The acting was wooden and the story too slow-moving. On the plus side were the sets, costumes, and the beautiful musical score. Unfortunately, those aspects just aren't enough to save a whole film, especially if it's unreasonably overlong. "}]