[{"Title":"One one of the warmest, most deeply felt characterizations in all Western movies&#133;","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"49 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" No Western could be more out of time-scale than Lonely are the Brave, and yet, paradoxically, no central character was ever more truly Western than Jack Burns, the strange wanderer, played by Kirk Douglas&#133;Douglas in this film version of Edward Abbey's moving novel 'Brave Cowboy' is, among a number of other things, a man who hates barbed wire&#133; He showed, a similar dislike for it in King Vidor's Man Without a Star (1955), which was a traditional cattle range movie, and in those circumstances that seemed reasonable enough&#133; But Lonely are the Brave is a film set in the New Mexico of 1953 and such behavior now seems totally irrational&#133;But then he's an irrational, quite extraordinary man&#133; He rides a horse called Whisky when the world flashes past him in Cadillacs&#133; He carries a guitar and sings folksy ballads of the old West... Arriving in the concrete of Duke City he is quite confident that in order to free a pal he has only got to break into jail, fool a sheriff and make his getaway&#133; After all, it's Western territory and this was always the way of it&#133;Who and what is he? The question bears examination for he is one of the most intriguing characters in the whole Western portrait gallery... He is never really explained in the book, nor indeed in the film&#133; He is drawn and stated and the rest is left to the reader or audience&#133; You watch the way he moves, you listen to what he says and the way he says it&#133; You observe his strange actions and reactions&#133; But most1y you are left to make your own conclusions&#133;Is it a case of a fantasist totally hooked on the Western legend? Has he seen too many Western movies (probably 'B' features)? Has he read too much Western pulp fiction? Is he so deep in thought by it all that he is incapable of realizing that the world has moved on, is running out of grass, or tolerance for oddballs with a preference for grass?Is he making a protest about what the West has become, and is seeking, in his inarticulate way, after different values? Is he just pure throwback, a man belonging to another time? This figures, as he might say&#133; He would belong so splendidly, with his simple values&#133;Whatever he is, he's a profoundly tragic conception....The old friend he is there to aid (Michael Kane) has been jailed for giving shelter to over-the-border illegal immigrants&#133; Douglas calls on his buddy's wife, sensitively played by Gena Rowlands, who seems as touched and dazed by him as anyone in the audience&#133; In order to get Kane out of prison he decides that he first needs to get into it himself and so after a saloon bar fight, followed by more fisticuffs at the jail, he gets the cell he wants&#133;In jail, however, he finds himself once more knocking up against the twentieth century&#151;its mores and inhibitions&#133; The pal doesn't want to conform to the old Western pattern by making a break for it&#133; Far better to serve out his two years and then return to his wife and child knowing that his 'debt to society' has been paid and they will have nothing else to worry about&#133; This is not just pure self-interest&#133; He honestly thinks it the right thing to do&#133;So having fought his way in, Douglas now has to fight his way out&#133; This he does with the aid of files he brought with him to effect his friend's escape&#133; And out with him go a couple of characters not inhibited by fears and scruples&#133;So he becomes a man on the run, but, since he still has his horse, an old-style outlaw on the run, heading for the mountains with&#151;naturally&#151;a posse after him&#133;But no ordinary posse&#133; This is the 20th century version, supplied with all sorts of technological devices&#133; If this very recent cowboy in his strange, ancient times way, is challenging the rule of technology, it is only logical that the long cold arm of science should reach out for him&#133; It does so with walkie-talkie radios, jeeps and even a specially borrowed helicopter&#133;What chance has he? The sheriff seems puzzled by the situation&#151;that a man on a horse should dare everything against such a formidable array of gadgetry&#133; Since the enigmatic wanderer is determinedly playing out a Western drama he must inevitably come up against a compassionate sheriff&#133;The sheriff is a man doing a job, without any keen enjoyment for the job or, in fact, for anything particularly&#133; He's bored, skeptical, laconic, and you feel that he would like nothing better than for Burns to get out of his territory&#133;But while the sheriff goes about his manhunting duties in a routine way he lets slip another implication&#151;that deep, down in the lethargy and disillusion there's a soft spot for the man on a horse&#133; Is the sheriff at heart&#151;if you could ever find his heart&#151;a bit of a rebel, too?Kirk Douglas will be remembered most of all for his performance as the man out of step, out of his proper time&#133; His Jack Burns in Lonely are the Brave is one of the warmest, most deeply felt characterizations in all Western movies&#133; David Miller directed the film with simplicity and a similar warmth&#133; No more was needed&#133; "},{"Title":"A memorable movie","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"41 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This is certainly Kirk Douglas' best movie and that is saying a lot! The loss of individuality and the valuesof the West, if anything, are more pronounced today than when the film was made. Kirk's performance is perfectly understated as fits the character he portrays. No false heroics, gore, or sensationalism which all too often ruin today's movies . One reviewer commented that there was not a satisfactory conclusion... no last words by Douglas, uncertainty about his fate, and the ambivalent response of the sheriff, Walter Matthau. This is no simple movie with clear cut heroes and villains. There are only people who contend with the compromises one accepts or, in the rare instance of Kirk's character, one attempts to overcome. The affinity between Kirk and his horse are central to the theme and end of this fine film. Everyone connected in the making of this classic. I rate it a 10. "},{"Title":"a powerful portrayal of a man left behind and way out of step with the times","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"41 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  I pity those who cannot, even in a small way, identify with Douglas' character, Jack Burns in this ageless work of art. This is a self described 'lonely man,' of no use to his true love( who has married his old friend) because he cannot share his life with anyone. He acknowledges that he is of no use to anyone. Rather he is a constant threat to whatever social order he encounters. The one time he makes a commitment, to his horse no less, he loses his edge. And probably his freedom. What a wonderful movie this is.It steeps itself in the fading of the West. While much of it is seemingly allegorical, there is also a truthfulness, and a tenderness in Burns search for escape over the mountains. Someone else has commented on the similarities between Burns and Bogart's rendition of Roy Earle in HIGH SIERRA. Surely any thoughtful movie goer has experienced that rush to the mountains, that sense that time has passed you by and you are not of this place.      "},{"Title":"The original First Blood.","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"41 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Lonely Are the Brave (1962) is a film about a man who's content with life on the open range. He's the last of his kind, the wandering cowboy. The problem is the open range is disappearing around him. A guy like that can't live off the land anymore because there's no land for him to live off of. Everywhere he goes the land is either owned or forbidden for him to enter. Kirk Douglas stars as the last cowboy who just can't get it into his head how much the times have changed. Especially when he tries to rescue his good friend from the local jail. This causes more trouble than he can comprehend.What's so funny about this movie is how much of the story, scenes and situations were later used in it's quasi-remake First Blood. The basic story line and his troubles with the law are quite similar. Walter Matthau and Gena Rowlands co-star in this awesome film about a dying way of life. I saw this film several years ago on Turner Classic Movies. It's a sad tribute to the old west. Highly enjoyable and recommended.P.S. Gena Rowlands looks pretty good in this picture! "},{"Title":"A Classic Finally Unearthed","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" At Last! One of the most eagerly requested movies gets a Region 1 DVD release. For many years now collectors have been hollering for LONELY ARE THE BRAVE (1962) to be issued. So Universal have finally seen the folly of their ways and here it is in a splendid 2.35 sharp as a button Monochrome widescreen presentation that everyone will adore. Although there is in existence a reasonably good Region 2 version from Spain it cannot compare to this new release.Kirk Douglas is terrific in the story we all know and love of the free- spirited latter day cowboy who resents the conventions and restrictions of the modern day west (everywhere you go, keep out, stop, no entry, go away, get lost, drop dead). The wire cutters he carries in his saddle-bags gets plenty of use! On the run from the law because of a misdemeanour he takes to the hills with his faithful horse Whiskey in an attempt to escape into Mexico. But the rough terrain and upward climb is not easy particularly for a man on horseback. In a wonderful scene where he realizes he would make it without the animal he leaves Whiskey and begins to climb a cliff. But looking back at her and with that soulful look in her eyes as she watches him climb he just can't do it. He comes back down to the horse mumbling..... you're worse than a woman. It is one of Douglas' best and most likable roles! Being alone for a good portion of the movie he dominates the screen. It is an admirable and engaging performance plus his expert handling of the horse is quite remarkable. Giving excellent support is Walter Matthau as the pursuing but compassionate sheriff Morey Johnson (ye son of a gun - ye made it!). John Schillart gives an amusing turn as the guileless deputy. Judas priest Morey! he exclaims as the sheriff bumps his way along the rough trail at speed in the jeep. The female lead is taken by a young and quite beautiful Gena Rowlands as the wife of Douglas' jailed best friend. However the relationship between her and the cowboy is kind of puzzling! The kisses and clinches to my mind appear a tad steamy for a pair who are supposed to be just good friends.Hmmm! Also in one of his early roles is George Kennedy as a sadistic guard and watch out for the late Bill Bixby as the helicopter pilot. The only drawbacks I found in the picture is the over emphasis on the Carroll O'Connor character as the truck driver. After all the horse could have been hit by a motor cycle and end up the same way. Also the great scene where the cowboy makes that dash for the trees under gunfire and in the ensuing shot rides into a indoor exterior. Wow! I thought they had stopped using indoor exteriors by 1962! Also I thought the downbeat ending somewhat severe for what is essentially a light hearted drama and we never do learn what becomes of our cowboy!Sharply photographed in Panavision by Phil Lathrop the film based on the novel The Brave Cowboy by Edward Abbey had a fine screenplay fashioned by Dalton Trumbo. David Miller - who never really distinguished himself except maybe with Sudden Fear (1953) - does a nice job in the director's chair and composer Jerry Goldsmith provided a wistful score with one of his early efforts.Surprisingly there is no trailer but the extras do have two interesting featurettes. One called Lonely Are The Brave - A Tribute has contributions from Steven Spielberg, Michael Douglas, Gena Rowlands and a very aged Kirk Douglas. The other, blandly presented by some record producer, shows Jerry Goldsmith at work scoring the picture.AN EXCELLENT ISSUE OF AN OVERDUE AND MUCH VAUNTED CLASSIC! "},{"Title":"How Rare Are The Brave","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"32 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  I just couldn't let the previous review stand as the only review of this film. Based upon The Brave Cowboy, by Edward Abbey, Lonely Are The Brave is a very good screen adaptation of that classic work. Ed Abbey excelled at demonstrating the loss of the West, either in the environmental impacts that devastate vast areas (The Monkey Wrench Gang, Hayduke Lives), or the loss of individuality and freedom (Fire on the Mountain, The Brave Cowboy). Ed Abbey understood that the character of America survived-until recent times-upon rugged individualism that could unite with others in times of trouble. Jack Burns is an individualist who wants to live his own way, yet he had fought in WWII, and was coming to the aid of a friend. Burns does not try to make others live as he does or make them believe as he does, he simply wants to be left alone in a rapidly shrinking world with his sense of frontier dignity intact. Walter Matthau plays the sheriff who understands his adversary too well; his is the character that has lost the faith and become a collaborator. Matthau's bumbling deputies represent the federal government who stumble over themselves in order to crush Burns' freedom. Kirk Douglas considers this one of his most important films. Ed Abbey approved of the film and even makes a walk-on appearance.  "},{"Title":"Kirk Was Right","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"30 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie that never fails to impress me whenever I view it. I'm amazed that it is not out on DVD yet.As many have stated, Kirk felt that this was his favorite movie and I quite agree.  As the existential drifter searching for something that has long passed him by, Kirk delivers a stunning performance.  I felt that the character development in this film was outstanding.  Each individual plays an important role in delivering the theme of the story.I was amazed that no one wrote about the bar fight scene where Burns battles a bitter one-armed local.  There is something disturbing about this encounter...the one-armed man's bitterness and Burns' attempt to avoid the confrontation.  Handled in black and white, this scene is memorable.This film easily makes my top ten list.-Paige "},{"Title":"Natural Man Sacrificed to Progress","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Can you imagine a time when a man could mount his horse and ride across the country, camping wherever he pleased? It's the kind of life Kirk Douglas was still living as the cowboy in Lonely Are The Brave, long after the horse had given way to the horseless carriage and most people were living in towns and cities working for someone else. His only accommodation to the modern world are a pair of snips he keeps in a saddle bag for getting through barbed wire fences. A man like that is just bound to run up against the System, and that is precisely what happens when the cowboy arrives at the house of an old friend, whose wife they both loved. She tells him that her husband has been jailed for smuggling illegals across the border and the cowboy resolves to get arrested and help him break out. However, married life has changed his friend's perspective and he is content to do his time. After taking a beating from the sadistic jailer, played by George Kennedy, the cowboy escapes alone. The rest of the movie is about his attempt to elude the authorities, led by Walter Matthau as the efficient sheriff in charge of lesser lights who admires Douglas enough to hope he makes good his escape and who pursues him skillfully but without enthusiasm. Much of the story is about the relationship between the cowboy and his inexperienced young horse, who symbolizes the wild and free life being lost bit by bit. As they surmount a rugged mountain range, the extent of their trust, affection, and ties to the land become clear, while so-called civilization, aptly represented by a truckload of new toilets, threatens to do what the police can't.This is a very good movie, well-shot, well-acted, well-written, and with a very poignant theme. In it, Kirk Douglas delivers one of his best performances. "},{"Title":"Kirk Douglas' favorite movie","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised to see so many 10 ratings.   I thought this was a secret between Kirk Douglas (who used to shop in the wee morning hours at the same supermarket as I did when I lived in Hollywood in the 70s) and I .. I saw a retrospective where he said of all his movies, this was his favorite.  On my Top 10 All Time list as well.    When the movie came to Texas, where I saw it, I think it barely lasted through the opening weekend before it was pulled.   Amazed and pleased that there are so many who have seen it and rated it so highly.  Way to go guys. "},{"Title":"Species in extinction","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  I agree with Douglas in considering this his best film, in my opinion together with Man Without a Star. He is a lonely cowboy, living a meaningless life, beginning to realize his mistake about the way he lived. When he goes for his last stand, there is something desperate about it. At a certain moment we see Douglas running away from the police in the mountains, together with his horse Whiskey, when they see a wild cat (jaguar?, puma?). It is a memorable scene, because the three of them look sad, surpassed by the times, represented  by the highway that is near. This film probably was made in Albuquerque, NM, I think I can recognize the Sandia Mountains on the background. "}{"Title":"Be A Cowboy Hero","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Kirk Douglas has said often enough that Lonely Are The Brave is his favorite among the films he's done. I think of it the same way that Bette Davis says about Dark Victory that the role of Judith Traherne is 98% of me. Like the film's Jack Burns Kirk Douglas has charted his own way through life in Hollywood the way Jack Burns does. Burns's problem is that he's a man born a century too late.Run another of Kirk Douglas's classic westerns Man Without A Star side by side. Dempsey Rae in that film isn't too much different from Jack Burns, in fact they have opinions on certain subjects almost identical.But the frontier that Dempsey dealt with in that film has changed, it just doesn't exist any more. But Burns won't recognize it. I'm also not so sure how much film and television have influenced 1962's Jack Burns in the way a cowboy should behave.Kirk is returning to his home town from God knows what and meets up with Gena Rowlands who is married to his best friend Michael Kane. Kane's in jail for helping illegal immigrants cross the US/Mexican border. What to do but be a cowboy hero and bust him from jail. So Kirk gets himself in a nasty bar fight with one armed Bill Raisch and gets tossed in sheriff Walter Matthau's jail. While there Deputy George Kennedy works him over.So when Kirk's ready to bust jail, Kane refuses to go to his surprise. But that doesn't stop Kirk who breaks loose and the chase is on.The non-conformist part of Jack Burns certainly must have appealed to Kirk Douglas. He invests so much of himself in Burns it's hard to tell where Kirk leaves off and Burns begins. And he's one of the most appealing of all the roles Kirk Douglas has. You root for this law breaking maverick every step of the way.Mention must also go to Walter Matthau as the wise and laconic sheriff who really does understand Douglas's mentality as no one else really does. In a lot of ways it's like the Charles Bronson classic Death Hunt where Mountie Lee Marvin truly is sorry he's on this particular job. Of course if Douglas had actually killed someone in eluding the law, Matthau's duty would have been clear.The ending is truly an ironic one as the cowboy loses that part of him that makes him a unique American icon. Absolutely don't miss Lonely Are The Brave when it is broadcast, especially fans of Kirk Douglas. "},{"Title":"Lonely is Lonely are the Brave","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" A much under-appreciated movie, I love it. I caught a snippet of it the other night and it got me to thinking how many modern day cowboys were influenced by Burns' character. I'll bet anything Jerry Jeff Walker has seen it. Kirk's performance alone justifies the look but I can't recall another flick with so many actors in pre-star roles. For example, Gena Rowlands, George Kennedy (pre- Cool Hand Luke), Walter Matthau, William Schallert (Patty Duke's dad, Bill Bixby etc.What I'd like to focus on is a very small piece of the movie focusing on the one-armed man Bill Raisch (pre-The Fugitive). Bill starts a fight with Burns just to have something to do on a Saturday nite. The scene is a great reminder to be careful of dropping in on unfriendly/unknown bars.This movie could serve as the basis for any English/Literature major's college paper/thesis. Not surprising since Dalton Trumbo had a hand in the screenplay. "},{"Title":"Kirk's Best Western","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  An outstanding modern-day Western and Kirk Douglas' own favorite. The plot of Kirk escaping from jail, fleeing to the mountains, pursuing by cops, and shooting down the helicopter is ripped off 20 years later by FIRST BLOOD. (They even asked Kirk to play Richard Crenna's colonel part!)The numerous cutaways of Carroll O'Connor driving a big truck, which eventually hits Kirk and his horse, are needless because the screenwriter never develops this character or provides any event on his side.Kirk's vivid portrayal of a cowboy belongs to the past is definitely his best performance. Walter Matthau is marvelous as bored sheriff who provides many laughs with his assistant William Schellert unpretentiously. No wonder he later became a great comedian. George Kennedy as detestable deputy sheriff is also very effective. He repeated this villainous image in CHARADE(1963), MIRAGE(1965), and COOL HAND LUKE(1967), which won him an Oscar.Director David Miller made an excellent thriller called SUDDEN FEAR ten years earlier. He's a much underrated filmmaker. "},{"Title":"Kirt Douglas fans....Lonely Are The Brave ...is Kirt Douglas's Personal Favorite of his career","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" After all Kirt Douglas has done, this little masterpiece is his personal favorite.The Bad and the Beautiful I think is another of his films you would adore.Shot in Albuquerque, New Mexico, in 1960's, in black and white...Kirt Douglas and Gena Rolands created a sweet piece of art.As the West, of real men and women, is being paved over, for housing developments, Malls,...these characters find themselves caught in between, their love and dreams dangerously disrupted.Integrity and personal ethics at war with inhuman cruelty.Kirt Douglas's beautiful horse, deserved an Oscar, as did the horse in Cat Ballu. The Misfits was being shot at the near the same time, and has the same quiet desperation, of Marilyn Monroe and Clark Gable's last work. An Existential crisis that cuts to the bone.In an interview...Kirt said, of all my grand history of making film, this little known film, was his personal favorite. Deserves to be saved on DVD. Bravo to the cast and crew. This masterpiece will be an underground classic, that film classes will show for a 100 yrs. "},{"Title":"It's Hard to Understand Why Kirk Douglas Was Ignored for an Oscar!","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" ........................................................from Pasto,Colombia...Via L.A. CA...and ORLANDO, FL Some things never change...and some things remain the same! A college philosophy professor of mine had a penchant for utilizing this quote at, seemingly, the most inappropriate of times. After watching Lonely Are the Brave, his phrase re-surfaced and, perhaps, I finally got it.How this early sixties masterpiece has flown under my radar, and just about everyone else's, for half a century, I'll never know. From the very opening scene, LONELY has a unique way of punctuating every detail, each occurrence, that was very Avantgarde for 1962.The opening minutes are probably the most surprising of any Western I've ever seen, serving both to highlight the condition of dead-man-walking cultural anachronism of its protagonist and as a foreshadowing of events. In the Making of... special features short,(Please, don't miss it!) both Kirk Douglas (Jack Burns) and son, Michael, agree that Lonely constitutes both Kirk's favorite film and characterization. And it shows. It's hard to fathom why he was denied even the recognition of a nomination.The film revolves around Jack's quest to help his best friend avoid serving a 2 year prison term for, of all things smuggling, aiding and abetting wetbacks! (Some things never change!) But who is going to save Jack from himself? Jack's horse, Whiskey co-stars. No flippancy, whatsoever, there, just simple fact! Gena Rowlands (Decades younger here than in Notebook) does a superb job in a supporting role as best friend's wife/suppressed love interest.Most of the rest of the cast shines, especially a relatively young and unknown Walter Matthau as the very intense, but low-key Sheriff. The B+W photography and editing are both artistic and extremely well-crafted. This film holds up, as few others, to the test of time. In fact, it is perhaps more relevant today than it was in 62! What a subtle, but resoundingly powerful message it delivers. 10*.....ENJOY/DISFRUTELA! Any comments, questions or observations, in English o en Español, are most welcome! "},{"Title":"I've known & worked with men like this!","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" While I have absolutely no respect for either Edward Abbey (an eco-terrorist actually), or Dalton Trumbo (a darling of the Hollyweird left-wing elite), I have to admit that this film is one that I have in my top 100 movies of all time.I first saw it in the theatre when it was released & walked out amazed at how well they captured the character and essence of men I've actually known & worked with back in my Texas youth. Men who still lived the Old West lifestyle, and preferred horses to cars. Men who carried Colt .45's on their hips when they went to town on Saturday nights. Men who worked like dogs for little pay as long as they could live the free & unfettered cowboy life. Men who avoided romantic entanglements to prevent a woman from tying them down to a normal lifestyle with a house, kids, & bills to pay. Men who would rather fight a saloon brawl than eat a steak dinner, joking about their broken bones, missing teeth, and you oughta see the other SOB stories.People say that Kirk Douglas' character isn't real but trust me, his character is all too real to those of us who grew up being cowboys when cowboys outnumbered accountants. I've never met a cowboy who didn't get a tear in his eye when Kirk's horse has to be shot, and who didn't say quietly, Yep. I'd like to go out the same way when its my turn. "},{"Title":"Kirk's finest","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" I've seen this numerous times and only last night when I saw the last 30 minutes that I've never seen it from the beginning, but it is one of my favorite movies and absolutely Kirk's finest. Not having seen the beginning, I can obviously only comment on the what I have.The scene at the end when he's laying in the rain cradled by the truck driver, his face being splattered by the rain surpasses all others before it and most scenes of chase, injury and confrontation that I've seen in other movies. He's confused and bewildered as if he'd been abruptly jerked out of the past and dropped into the future. Where did it all go? What will happen to me? What is he seeing and feeling? His unresponsiveness to those around him, but to his horse when he hears the shot is priceless. It was neither too long, nor too short. I'll make an effort at recording it on Cable the next time it returns. "},{"Title":"Lo, How the Mighty Have Fallen","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Hadn't seen this movie in more than twenty years and so I was able to look at it from a more or less historical perspective. The story is simple. A middle-aged cowboy escapes from jail, rides his horse into the mountains towards Mexico, is pursued by agents of social control with modern technology, and is finally done in on a rain-slick highway by a truck full if ironic crappers.The first time I saw it, it seemed full of impressively new ideas. The cowboy (Kirk Douglas) is napping in the desert near his horse and is waked up by an overhead jet airplane. Douglas has a fight with a one-armed man in a saloon, after he ties one of his own arms behind his back. The juxtaposition of the old ways (a man on horseback in the wilderness) and the new (sheriff Walter Mathau with his jeep, radios, and helicopters).The chief impression it left me with this time is that it MUST have been a pretty good story because Rambo is practically a remake. The only thing is that if this were a McDonald's meal, Rambo would be extra-sized. Douglas is an ordinary but stubborn man whose alienation from society is never explained. Rambo is a superman who is deliberately mistreated by authorities despite his having won more medals in Viet Nam than anyone could imagine. Rambo whips everybody. Douglas is killed by a truckload of toilets. Lonely Are the Brave is a far more mature movie.Douglas's horse, Whiskey, plays an important role in the movie. Douglas himself may have learned how to deal in his own quiet way with legitimated authorities, but Whiskey represents the Old West. He holds Douglas up. He's frightened by noisy helicopters and betrays Douglas's presence. He slips on a highway amidst the traffic and dooms them both. Whiskey is in a sense that part of Douglas that keeps getting him into trouble.The movie, like most others of its period, strikes us as heavily orchestrated now -- booming dramatic drums and whatnot. But it's easy enough to see how a narrative dealing with alienation from modern life would have fit into the early 1960s, when this was released. The 1950s were in retrospect a period of bland and prosperous conformity. The lawns of the newly constructed and almost identical ranch houses were as neatly trimmed and manicured as the haircuts of the time. The late 1950s and early 1960s were a prelude to the last half of the 60s when all hell broke loose. Kirk Douglas seeking freedom on a horse isn't really that different from Peter Fonda doing the same thing on a motorcycle.It's not a great movie, but it is far more complex and human than Rambo. This movie is filmed without color but it's really Rambo that is black and white. "},{"Title":"The Last Cowboy","Date":"23 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Lonely Are the Brave is a western from 1962, an era when this genre was suffering changes. If you are to judge the movie from the plot outline you might consider it to be an old fashioned western, but this is not the case here. This aspect can be noticed from the beginning, when the character of Jack Burns (Kirk Douglas) is introduced. He is a lone cowboy, traveling across the land on his horse, caring little about tomorrow. He seems to be out of place in the modern world and this modern world is hostile to him and his old ways. One of the strengths of the movie is that it has a well developed central character. Kirk Douglas manages to create a believable cowboy, one that is stuck in the past refusing to acknowledge that the world has changed and he needs to adapt. Jack Burns is indeed a lonely cowboy because his way of seeing things is not shared by the others. The film also has the advantage of having a good screenplay, written by Dalton Trumbo (Spartacus, Papillon), one of the best screenwriters of his time.This was Kirk Douglas' favorite movie of his own and you can surely tell that because he gives here one of his best performances. The acting is generally good, the roles of Walter Matthau and Gena Rowlands being worth mentioning. You can also check out George Kennedy in one of his early roles, as the brutish deputy Guttierez.The movie may have its flaws, but it is definitely worth seeing by everyone. Due to its style and content the film also marks a transition from classical westerns to modern ones, so fans of the genre should not miss it.My rating 7,5/10 "},{"Title":"Lonely are the Brave","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" I believe David Miller's Lonely are the Brave is a confrontation between the modern era and the dying west. Despite helicopters, a wagon jeep, and police stationed everywhere, Kirk Douglas' Jack Burns is able to climb into the rugged mountains with his horse. This film is about Jack's escape from prison, after an attempt to persuade an old chum to break from the cell into freedom. His wife, played by the always wonderful Gena Rowlands, was once Jack's love, but, as this film ultimately proves, he's a loner and admits that to her approving of marrying his best friend.Walter Matthau is just sublime as Sheriff Morey Johnson, the man who must somehow figure out how to get jack out of those mountains and into jail. His radio operator is played by the very talented and underrated actor William Schallert. George Kennedy as a key role in the film as Deputy Sheriff Gutierrez..the man who viciously beat Jack while he was in prison one night(..though, he gets his comeuppance soon enough).The film is about all the modern means at Johnson's disposal yet he can not seem to nab Jack in those mountains. There's a nifty scene where Bill Bixby(of Incredible Hulk fame), as a helicopter pilot, is cocksure he can get Jack once they spot him from the sky. Jack, however, is able to shoot their tail downing them without harm to anyone..except a few helicopter pilots'(..and police)pride. But, they keep after him nonetheless as we watch him struggle with that blame beloved horse as he scales those mountains.Like I mentioned above, this film works best as an allegory of the dying west. It's clear Jack doesn't fit in this modern age and he's presented as a relic of sorts with no real place to go in the growing America he now resides. With an intent to go to Mexico, he works ever-so-hard up the mountains with this goal just in reach despite unsurmountable odds such as several men after him with rifles, all the radio equipment to contact each other, etc.This film is wonderful, though, because of Kirk Douglas who just exudes such charm and likability in Jack. You know he's a rowdy, smiling' sort who loves to live, and you root for him despite knowing he deserves to be in jail. It's a loving ode to the cowboys of the old west..their spirit is in every frame of this picture. "}{"Title":"An marvelous and an underrated Western movie","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This movie tells the story of a cowboy, Jack Burns, who gets himself arrested deliberately on the pretext of freeing his old friend who is already serving a sentence in the prison. Once inside the prison he finds that his friend does not want to escape and prefers to carry out his remaining sentence legally behind the bars. Thus, Jack Burns breaks out on his own. The desperation of the character, Jack Burns, portrayed by the actor Kirk Douglas, as he attempts to escape the law authorities led by a sympathetic yet duty-bound sheriff makes this movie worth watching. The theme of this movie is very simple, yet, rare. The character is a loner, who shuns modern technology, the changing society and its rules and regulations preferring the company of only his horse. Kirk Douglas's character is an individual which many of us will be able to relate to and thus, enjoy this brilliant masterpiece directed by David Miller. "},{"Title":"Modern Western That Hooks You Good","Date":"10 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" It never fails when a movie has a good story. It may not win awards every time, but every person who ever sees a movie with a good story has warm and fuzzies in that moment and somehow Karma rules the day. The Universe doesn't forget a good movie with a good story to it. Such is this movie. Kirk Douglas knew what he excelled in and what he did not. He instantly recognized himself in the lead role and he was right. You can identify with this cowboy of a man, the last of his kind for thinking the way he does to want to get away while being chased and you join him as he is being chased. Live and let live rules the day, but you cannot break laws while carrying or living that belief out..Kirk Douglas goes fine line on the subject. We are reminded that the Wild West consisted in a man, his horse and his gun for its beginnings. Here, we are treated to how the three got along and depended on each other. Great scene of a bar fight with twists and good discipline practiced by Jack Burns (Kirk). I am a big fan of food scenes in movies and this has one where Kirk goes at a plate of ham and eggs. I know sales hiccuped for both with this scene. A good meal to a cowboy is a gift and Kirk makes the scene speak just that. Highly recommended movie and I have seen this at least 5 times over the years always pleased and captured and held unto The End....enjoy all you pards out there "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Loner","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Lonely are the Brave, based on Edward Abby's novel The Brave Cowboy, is the story of Jack Burns (Kirk Douglas), a man way past his time. Burns loves the cowboy image and believes he fits that description, a loner. The only problem is that he lives in a modernized world. The landscape is closed off by barbed wire fence. Military jets fly over the desert sky. For one reason or another, Burns does not want to change with the times and still wants to be his own man.Burns visits two friends in Arizona, Jerry (Gena Rowlands) and Paul (Michael Kane). Jerry informs Burns that Paul is now in prison for helping illegal immigrants get across the border. Burns decides to get locked up and escape with Paul. For the most part, the plan succeeds, except Paul wants to take responsibility because he does not want any harm come to his family. Burns escapes and makes an attempt at the border being pursued by a sheriff (Walter Matthau) and modern mechanism, including a helicopter.Lonely are the Brave came at a time when the Western was beginning to fade in the sunset. It should be noted that released the same year were John Ford's The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance and Sam Peckinpah's Ride the High Country. All three films deal with the passing of a certain time and period. Lonely are the Brave might be the saddest of the three due in part that it was set during modern times and the sense that there are no more independent types of men like Jack Burns who still go by a certain code of honor.Kirk Douglas said that this was his personal favorite, and he is right to say that. This may be the best role he ever did in his well recognized career. It's ashame that Lonely are the Brave was not well recognized back in 1962 as it is today. The studio expected a traditional Western, but instead received a well developed character study about a loner. The supporting cast, Matthau, Rowlands,Carroll O'Connor, are also in top form. The film also features Jerry Goldsmith's first film score and it is a beauty. Philp H. Lathrop also provides excellent B&W photography to give the film a sad yet magnificent feel. Dalton Trumbo's script provides some quotes that still stick with me. The best example, when Burns says farewell to Jerry before he rides off, might best sum up the whole cowboy/loner image 'I'm a loner clear down deep to my guts. Know what a loner is? He's a born cripple. He's a cripple because the only person he can live with is himself. It's his life, the way he wants to live. It's all for him. A guy like that, he'd kill a woman like you. Because he couldn't love you, not the way you are loved.'Lonely are the Brave stands with Hud as the best modern Westerns that captures the sad feeling of a time long gone and for the men that wish to stand by their old ways until the end. "},{"Title":"As good as I remembered","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" I first saw this when I was young (about 13-14)at the cinema (half-empty if memory serves) and it impressed me so much that it stayed with me for the past 40-odd years.It was shown a few days ago on British TV, much to my delight. A wonderful central performance by Kirk with fantastic support from Matthau (one of my favourite actors). It expresses the shift from the Old West to modern times eloquently without hitting us over the head with it. Kirk Douglas has said that it was his favourite movie and it is easy to see why. The technical problems of working with that marvellous horse must have made shooting difficult. The excellent results make all the hard work worthwhile. This movie has I think become a classic which was a departure from the usual when it was released (which must be why it never garnered the rewards it should have. It is a very modern film which stands up well today. If you have never seen it make a point when you get the chance. Posted 2006 Addition October 2010 It is on TV at this very moment and I have just stumbled across it again. Just as good as ever-it never loses it's power to absorb the viewer and make you empathise with Jack Burns (the Kirk Douglas character). There are so many great actors in this movie like Matthau,O'Connor, Rowlands, Kennedy all pretty much unknown when this film was released. My enjoyment is being spoiled right now by those intrusive adverts on commercial TV-if only they could manage to show them before the movie starts and after the end instead of all the way through. If Kirk did not have such a superb body of work as his legacy then just this one movie would stand as a tribute to him and the cast and crew that brought it to the screen. "},{"Title":"I don't need cards to figure out who I am, I already know.","Date":"27 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Lonely Are The Brave is directed by David Miller and adapted for the screen by Dalton Trumbo from the novel The Brave Cowboy written by Edward Abbey. It stars Kirk Douglas, Gena Rowlands, Walter Matthau & George Kennedy. Cinematography is from Phillip H. Lathrop and Jerry Goldsmith scores the music in what was his first major studio work.John (Jack) W. Burns is an old school cowboy who refuses to adapt to the new world he finds himself in. Modern technology is alien to him and he would rather perpetually roam with his horse Whiskey than ever contemplate getting in a car or a jet. Upon learning that his dear friend Paul (Michael Kane) is in jail, it's not long before Jack himself finds he's in jail after a barroom fight&#x85;..and then promptly sets about breaking Paul and himself out. Only Paul doesn't want to go, he wont jeopardise the family life waiting for him on the outside by becoming a fugitive. Jack escapes and heads for the hills on Whiskey, with the law, and all their modern technology, in hot pursuit.Officially Douglas' favourite film in his long and varied career, Lonely Are The Brave is a wonderfully elegiac picture about a man out of his time. Boosted by impeccable lead performances, a great script and gorgeous black & white photography, it's hard to believe it was met with a lukewarm response upon its release. Set in 1950s New Mexico the film elegantly tells how the frontier is vanishing; to be replaced by progress and technology. Douglas' character, a wandering cowboy, is a symbol of nostalgia, where Trumbo's screenplay offers a cautionary observation about restriction of freedom and individuality. Themes close to home with the writer with the HUAC incidents still fresh in the memory. Lonely Are The Brave could quite easily now be subtitled the Punk Rock Western.There's a number of scenes in the piece that leave indelible marks. A rip snorting fist fight between Jack and a one armed man is high powered and potent, the farewell scene between Jack and Paul's wife Jerry (Rowlands) is sexually charged and wrought with an impending finality. The whole pursuit as Jack and Whiskey scale the rocky hills, pursued by helicopter, car and a vengeful prison guard, is gripping and laced with emotion. While the finale, tho forewarned to us from early in the piece, is one of the most heart tugging moments in Western movie history. Director Miller doesn't have the CV that his work here suggests he should have; given the assured way he crafts this story. For he, along with all the others involved (must mention Goldsmith's evocative score too), has delivered a classy bit of cinema across the board. A pertinent piece about the changing world and the characters left behind in its wake. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Powerful Movie","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Many others here have delved into this movie in depth. It was ahead of its time, for sure, and stands taller, in my opinion, than those that followed. There are contrivances that detract from this movie overall, but nonetheless Lonely Are the Brave deserves a 10. Kirk Douglas is masterful as an aging cowboy who has more of an attachment to his horse than he does to the woman he loves. Whiskey symbolizes his freedom and independence; the woman he loves is the closing in of responsibility, which he has fled all his life, and he can ride away from her without looking back. In the last scene, the old cowboy finally, like we all do, loses his innocence. "},{"Title":"Excellent film.","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  When I first watched this movie I was changing channels and stoped to see a young Kirk Douglas, the movie was so good that it had me in some sort of hypnoses and of cause made me watch on and my TV surfing stoped. Towards the end it reminded me of the movie `The Fugitive', and of cause a great ending with many different conclusions. Excellent film. "},{"Title":"Inspiring, useful reviews","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  Hearsay, in comments, that Douglas says Lonely is his favorite. Lonely is my favorite genre of the individual against society, and society must win.  This movie comes back to me often each year.  I can be watching another movie, and I say Lonely.  Well done, Kirk**** "},{"Title":"The ultimate American Tragedy","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  Kirk Douglas, grinning and fighting for a principle because he can't help it, is utterly superb. With a haunting Jerry Goldsmith musical score and beautiful black and white photography, this movie is both very suspenseful and very moving. A wonderful cast (including a perfectly cast Gena Rowlands who, in years past, considered this her best film, as does Douglas currently) and script make this the best tragedy I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Reasons to Like this Movie","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  Now this is what I would call a Movie as opposed to a Film.  Many critics center their comments on its apparent message, while I insist that entertainment is equally what this movie delivers.  The old, outdated term Movie suggests all the best traditions of the American film industry, with no obvious pretense of creating art.If this seems like a very John Wayne approach to film criticism, so be it.  Indeed, if John Wayne had been twenty years younger when this movie was produced, the role of Jack Burns would have fit him like a glove.  I'm talking about the John Wayne of Stagecoach or They Were Expendable.  To labor some totally obvious message in a film is to miss the heart of dramatic, compelling, and (above all) accessible entertainment.Kirk Douglas was a fine actor at this time in his career, and he plays the role well.  But there is a hint of Hollywood slickness about him and all the other major actors here that constitute the movie's single defect.  The superb Dalton Trumbo script calls for a more John Ford approach, with maybe some real Westerners in place of George Kennedy, Carroll O'Connor, or Walter Matthau to carry it forward.  I knew Albuquerque well in 1962, as well as the real people who lived there.  None of those actors, in spite of great talent, had the right accent or appearance for the roles they played.  George Kennedy as an hispanic deputy sheriff was particularly miscast.The best features of the movie are (a) the whole wonderful script, (b) black-and-white treatment, (c) the Sandia crest, and (c) old Route 66.  Powerful and authentic components.  Great moviemaking.  Nine out of ten without even trying. "}{"Title":"Authenticity","Date":"21 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Jack Burns personifies the true authentic man. Inner-directed, questions society's rules, its prejudices and desire to beat into submission the individual. He belongs to a race of men who no longer fit in. This movie also highlights the constant march of man v. technology, individual freedom v. governmental interference and desire to control. So many sub-plots and themes that are so timely in today's world. Open your eyes and look around you.Great character actors and actors early in their careers. The black and white adds to this film's rich texture. No fancy special effects to distract from the message. "},{"Title":"A truly wonderful LITTLE film for Kirk Douglas","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" I'll be the first to admit that I'm not a particularly big fan of Kirk Douglas, though in a long career he has delivered some truly wonderful performances and, on a more personal note, has been innovative and so willing to take on injustices (e.g. hiring blacklisted writers, making brazenly anti-war films, realistically dealing with prejudice, and early on setting up his own production company, etc.). I like this (at the time LITTLE film) very, very much. Douglas is terrific, playing a throwback cowboy, who is a law to himself, but who will not bow to injustice, and (thank God!) never really becomes a Rambo-like character. There is, under that rough exterior, a very tender side to him. The story is basically very simple, though the themes are definitely not so simple and still have great import today (especially today!). I mean where do you stand on the issue of personal freedom vs. societal needs. Or, lets say the never-ending wholesale encroachment by economic interests on OUR nature reserves (that is, my children's patrimony and my grandchildren's! Don't my babies have a right to experience something still a little wild. Isn't that in part what I served in two wars for? OK! OK! I'm getting off my soapbox.) The screenplay is quite literate but very sparse (absolutely the right touch for this film); everything flows smoothly and logically from scene to scene (Steven War of the Worlds Spielberg please take notes). The camera is really allowed to tell the story, and it is awesome. The 2.351 Panavision and the absolutely breathtaking black & white, exposes the uncredited character -- the still sometime wild and open (mid-20th century) West and the occasionally dangerous mountains and highways. It's a story of personal courage and integrity, and Douglas gives a very fine and, in many ways, understated performance. I should mention Walter Matthau, whose character (the Sheriff) is sarcastic and so very laid back and truly funny. Actually, I can't remember Matthau every giving a bad performance! Films yes, but not performances. (If you know of one, please don't tell me.) If you haven't seen this picture, go find a copy -- you won't be sorry! Naturally, like many interesting older films, it's only available on a pan-and-scan VHS copy. God forbid we should get a clean DVD of this cult classic. Believe me, this film is included in my lengthy nightly litany, begging the god(s) of cinema for a digitally restored, anamorphic transfer onto DVD. They do answer my prayers sometimes -- didn't I just now get a marvelous East of Eden (Oh Jimmy Dean, Jimmy Dean), released on a 2-disc DVD set (after waiting something like 30 years). No! No! Don't thank me, please!! Modesty forbids. "},{"Title":"One of the last real cowboys tries to adjust to changing times.","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  Liberally laced with allegory and symbolism, this is the story of John(Jack)W. Burns, one of the last drifting cowboys. When he comes to town to help an old friend who has been jailed, Burns comes face to face with the reality that the morals and courage of 'the cowboy' way are gone forever. Douglas is supported by a tremendous cast. During the course of the movie, the viewer is filled with a sense of impending doom-that is justified with the down-beat climax. One of the great ones! "},{"Title":"Kirk Douglas's favorite film.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  This is one of those quiet movies that will have you remembering it for years. It is Kirk Douglas at his best and a supporting cast of many who went on to become well known. Kirk Douglas has stated he is more proud of this film than any of his others. He should be... it is a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Great story line with excellent cast of actors","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  Many surprises in the fine film of a rebel cowboy trying to fit into the modern world. A young Gene Rowlands adds to the film's interesting twists. A superb, sensitive and unusual performance by Walter Matthau who appears to be in conflict with his job and his own dreams.   "},{"Title":"a 1962 classic and relatable to today","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" has Douglas watched too many B westerns and has an uncontrollable penchant to act out the players, in his real time? he is not a dumb person, not particularly smart, but very sincere, and convionced that being a man transcends any contemporary versions.He is Wayne and Rowlands is Angie Dickinson; but Wayne was a child like man, not a childish man, so ultimately, she does not want him, even with the physical desire.Matthew is excellent as the Sheriff, but he is not prone to acting out fantasies.../he just wants to be home at 500pm. he chases Douglas with helicopters, not deputies.there are many Americans today who seem to enjoy roaming around with their loaded rifles, chip on their shoulder, and right to carry attitude. Second Amendment! why *can't* I go to McDonald's on a Saturday with my Betsey? no one will get hurt! Clive Bundy has a showdown with the Feds..he hasn't paid them for 20 years and he has his whole posse behind him, pointing guns. Douglas similarly engages those he thinks are takin' away his freedoms.great DVD..buy it now. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Just finished this entertaining, lighthearted, if sentimental farewell to the western myth. It concerns a cow hand named Jack Burns who apparently comes riding straight into a 60s town from the big country, to Gena Rowlands, whose husband and Jack's brother was committed to a penitentiary for murder. So naturally, Jack gets into a one armed bar fight with a one-armed war veteran and is sent to jail where he meets his brother, who's grown-up, or just changed, and feels a responsibility to his wife and kid. So Jack escapes alone, and then the movie is basically hide-and-seek up a mountain between Jack and the sheriff, played by Walter Matthau in a funny performance. He's irritated that his radio man is a hick who makes his orders questions followed by right. Kirk Douglass is excellent as the lone cowboy out of time being chased on his disobedient horse whiskey by planes and helicopters. His naive simplicity and sense of confusion at the modern world makes him a likable protagonist. At it's climax the film becomes very heavy on obvious symbolism and sentiment, but this doesn't stop it from being a touching tribute to myth. I enjoyed it a lot, and the mountains are beautifully photographed. "},{"Title":"An earlier version of what possibly influenced Rambo.","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This is not a western as I went into the film thinking. Yes, Kirk Douglas does play a loner cowboy, but in the very first scene, he must cross a highway while on his horse in order to get to the farm of the wife (Gena Rowlands) of an old friend. A fight in the bar with a one-armed drunk results in him being sentenced to a year in prison, and once he gets in (immediately locking horns with guard George Kennedy), he's planning his escape. This takes him back to the widow's house and finally to the mountains where he is able to outwit the law, at least for a while.With tongue-in-cheek, cynical cop Walter Matthau sits back and watches Douglas use his knowledge of the mountains to survive discovery by Kennedy (on whom he gets delicious revenge) and the other insipid lawmen who not only battle him but nature too. Like Stallone did in Rambo (a bit more violently), Douglas is stuck between having been convicted of breaking a ridiculous law and trying to remain honorable, and as the showdown reaches into nightfall, you know that disaster is only moments away. The film is never preachy or smug, yet at times, characters come in (like Carroll O'Connor's truck driver) who just seem out of place. But everybody is there for a reason, and the end is really surprising and sadly ironic. Bill Raisch, as the nasty one-armed drunk, is one of the most hideous villains in films and his motives of hate for Douglas is absolutely vile. "},{"Title":"A Sad Story.","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Kirk Douglas stars as an independent modern day cowboy named Jack Burns who laments the age he lives in, and all the restrictive laws it represents. When Burns finds out an old friend is in prison, he makes the extraordinary decision to get himself arrested, and sent into that prison so that he can help his friend escape! Unfortunately for him, his friend does not want to escape, so Burns leaves on his own, which causes the authorities to pursue him, though he is now on horseback, and they are in jeeps and helicopters, leading to a sad an inevitable outcome...Interesting film is a well acted and directed(David Miller) story of a stubborn man who is worthy of sympathy for being born a century too late, but his stubbornness brings the problem on himself, so viewer can only relate to his plight to a point, and the sheriff in pursuit(played by Walter Matthau) is in the right. By the end, the character I really felt bad for was that horse.Look for Bill Bixby in his film debut as a helicopter pilot. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"25 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Kirk Douglas has said that Lonely Are The Brave is his absolute favorite of all the movies he has done. It doesn't take much thought to determine why he feels this way. The movie's central character, Jack Burns, is a non-conformist, someone who always does things his way no matter what society may tell him differently. There are few other movie protagonists like this one. Other merit found in the movie includes some tense moments while Jack is on the run, plus a gutsy and unconventional ending that you probably couldn't get away with today.If there is a flaw to be found in this good movie, it may be that some modern day viewers may object to the pacing. It takes about half of the movie before Jack is on the run, and some scenes do seem to run a little longer than they should. While every scene DOES provide some purpose, I think the movie would have been improved had several scenes been cut down in length slightly. But even without this correction, the movie is never boring and is always interesting. "}{"Title":"wildly inventive Revisionist Western","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Kirk Douglas is Jack Burns an itinerant cowboy looking to reunite with an old pal. But his friend is in jail for trying to help some illegal immigrants cross into the country. So Jack gets himself thrown in jail just to see him.That impulsive act seals Jack's fate and sets up a wildly inventive chase picture. Walter Matthau also stars as the sheriff hot on his trail. 'Lonely Are the Brave' is a masterful revisionist western which also has strong comparisons with 'First Blood' This film is a must for all film buff's it is also imperative to see it in Wide-screen as TV Showings unfortunately churn out well worn 'Pan and Scan' prints which don't do this classic justice. "},{"Title":"A Man and His Horse","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" In modern New Mexico, a cowboy breaks out of jail and heads for the mountains on his beloved horse, with the authorities in pursuit in jeeps and helicopters. The reason he ends up in jail in the first place is rather silly, but the chase becomes increasingly involving, thanks to engaging characters. This is basically a love story between a man and his horse. Douglas is excellent as the anachronistic cowboy. Matthau and Schallert provide the laughs as a laid back sheriff and his distracted deputy, respectively. The horse, Whiskey, is cute. Miller was a journeyman director, but he gets it right here, helped by good cinematography and score. "},{"Title":" The West as we know it has disappeared and I'm leaving with it ","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Few movies ever leave as lasting an impression as this one does. Those of us who understand the term 'vanishing breed' see the departing images in this offering. The film is called  Lonely are the Brave  and it's the melancholy story of an aging cowboy named John Burns (Kirk Douglas) living in a changing world. The picturesque western landscapes which were once free and open are now fenced in by miles of barbed wire, billboard signs and expanding modern cities. These intrusive settings are fast hemming in his free spirit as he is determined to dwell in the past. Planning to ride down to Mexico, he first learns his best friend Paul (Michael Kane) is in an Albuquerque jail and opts to get arrested to help him escape. Unfortunately, once in, Paul is content on serving his time and opts not to escape. Thereafter, Burns bids farewell and tells his friend he will see him in Mexico. Upon escaping, the marrow of this story begins as Burns becomes a fugitive and pursued by Sheriff Morey Johnson (Walter Matthau) and his brutal deputy (George Kennedy.) The cowboy quickly gains the sympathy of the audience as we see a courageous and desperate remnant of a by-gone age, deal with radios, Helicopters, state police, road blocks crowded highways, cars and interstate truckers. The movie was filmed in Albuquerque, New Mexico an apt setting for a great motion picture. The wonderful addition of Bill Raisch, William Schallert, Bill Bixby and Carroll O'Connor as the trucker is sure to make this excellent movie a Classic. **** "},{"Title":"What did they call him","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" OK recalling the bar fight and the one armed man..did the patrons at the bar call Jack some sort of name? Did the one armed man at the bar call Jack some sort of name? What was it? Anyone know? I vaguely recall Jack saying no one should have to take being called a name like that., or words to that effect. I don't think I have seen this for at least 30 years, but it was sure a memorable picture. And for Kirk Douglas designating this his favorite motion picture he acted in, well, like President Reagan said, the best thing for the inside of a man is the outside of a horse. Perhaps that is why Kirk Douglas loved this movie as his favorite. "},{"Title":"Lonely Are the Brave is Really Urban Cowboy ***","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Kirk Douglas gives a wonderful performance but the plot line here is hard to fathom.A guy (Douglas) gets much more that what he bargained for when he tries to go to jail to see a friend who has been incarcerated for helping illegal immigrants.There is a totally ridiculous unending escalation of events here. The fight in the bar, hitting the deputy when it's too crowded to jail him, his friend's wise refusal not to escape, the shooting down by Douglas of a helicopter, and the tragic end. It's just too much to comprehend.As stated previously, Douglas does a fine job as the anti-hero fighting against the rules of society.As an understanding sheriff, Walter Matthau's voice reminds me when he did comedies such as Plaza Suite.George Kennedy comes off well as the sadistic police officer taught a lesson by the Douglas character.Gena Rowlands is gorgeous in her brief stint as his jailed friend's wife. "},{"Title":"vintage classic for all time","Date":"4 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Incredible movie--one of best of all time. The poignant scenes depicting the 'toilet truck' that allegorically symbolize the destruction of the old West, of freedom, of individuality as the cowboy and horse die at its cause; the old-time technology cutting down a modern day new-fangled doodad, the helicopter; the black and white, seemingly clear-cut morality which it is not background (ala Mockingbird and On the Waterfront--these factors commend this film to be a classic forever. Anyone who has not seen this classic has missed out on a shattering emotional experience. That it is not available on DVD is an outrage. Douglas had every reason to consider this his favorite, and so should we consider it a ten-plus. "},{"Title":"A great film regarding that age between the west and modernization  in line with the Wild Bunch and Pat Garret and Billy the kid as well as Once Upon A Time in The West.","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" I saw this film as a boy @ the theatre and was surprised it was made in 1962. It obviously did well since I recall I saw it around 1970 - 72 at a theatre. Kirk Douglas performance was right on the money. The cinematography is impressive and the story line is again the 'death of the west' theme. This film left an impression and I recently saw it again and was again affected by this film. I highly recommend this film. I highly recommend it even though I am aware it may not be a film for everyone. Kirk takes us through a change of times. Here he is crossing the west and running into land cutoff by barb wires. Here you find him running into a Sheriff who clearly understands Kirk's plight but yet follows what the law dictates. You are caught up in this film if you watch it in particularly the difference of opinion between Kirk and his friend whom he tries to rescue from jail. This is not your typical film and is likely to leave mixed feelings. A great film and a great film for Kirk. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, wish I had seen it YEARS ago....","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This movie was filmed 7 years before I was born and by no means the genre that I normal watch, but as it was coming on I saw Edward Abbey's name and thought this might be worth watching.... I am SO glad I did. I have read The Monkey Wrench Gang and Hayduke lives and this movie rated right up there with those novels.... If you like Abbey, you'll LOVE this movie, no matter what you normally watch. I really enjoyed the symbolism in the opening scenes that showed the fences and signs that stated keep out and property of and then later there is a mention of a fence that has been cut. All of these things are a trend that Abbey follows in what novels that I have read of his... and it just left his signature on this movie as well. I think everyone that enjoys Abbey is truly and eco-warrior at heart. Though hopefully not in action. -Tim "},{"Title":"No big deal","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" I watched this again last night on TCM. Poorly-done in many respects. The only intelligent creature in the movie is the horse. Why would Burns lead Whiskey onto a highway in driving rain? Couldn't he have waited for traffic to pass? Simple-minded way to end the movie. Very heavy-handed with truck driver Carroll O'Connor's entrance way too early in movie; totally unnecessary. Deputies were a little too bone-headed for me no matter what or who (whom?) they symbolized. Schallert was too goofy (CS1 to CS4, CS1 to CS4; Citizens Arrayest! Citizens Arrayest!) a la Gomer Pyle. Kennedy was a stereotypical sadist; and he came out of nowhere, just dropped in nearly to get the better of Burns. Phooey! In fact, too many characters were stereotypes. Kirk was great he saved this one. But don't give him too much of the credit for handling the horse a stuntman did most of the work. I don't think you could get away now with the way the horse was treated back then. I'm sure Whiskey (or its double)suffered cuts and scrapes and maybe worse. (Whiskey looked like Randolph Scott's horse, Stardust.) Gena Rowlands was great, too, as the leading human female. Matthau was a little too understanding and a too much of a comic under the circumstances. Bill Bixby was in full My Favorite Martian form. "},{"Title":"Don't fence me in","Date":"28 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** In what he considers to be the best movie role of his career better then Paths of Glory Champion and even that unforgettable as well as cheesy and overblown soap opera Once is Not Enough Kirk Douglas is modern day, circa 1962,cowboy John W-just call me Jack-Burns. A man who's time has long since passed but he just doesn't quite know it yet.Riding into the one horse town of Duke City N.M to see a good friend of his convicted illegal Mexican immigrant smuggler Paul Bondi, Michael Kane, who's now serving two years behind bars in the local jail Jack somehow plans to crash him out of it. Stopping of to see Paul's old lady Mrs. Jerry Bondi Genda Rowlands, to get a home cooked meal Jack tells her that he'll go get Paul out of jail even if he has to commit a crime in having him ending up in it. It doesn't take long for Jack to get into trouble with the law which in this case was minding his own business. It was that dangerous and deranged one armed lunatic Lapatin played by Bill Raicsh who later would become known as the equally insane and homicidal One-Armed man in the Fugitive TV series who made Jack's wish of being thrown behind bars a dream come true. That's by Jack being beaten by Lapatin and his drinking buddies into a bloody pulp and him, the victim, being the only person arrested by the clueless police!Getting into even more trouble by belting a deputy sheriff while being booked for vagrancy the by now out of control, as well as out of his head, Jack ends up in the holding pen at the county jail. It's there where Jack finally meets his good friend Paul Bondi writing his what he considers to be the next great, after Gone With the wind, American novel. In no time at all Jack, who seems to be suffering from some kind of death wish, starts up with head jail-guard the hulking and brutal Deputy Sheriff Gutierrez, George Kennedy, by mouthing off to him. This ends up with Jack losing one of his teeth as well as a getting few bruised ribs. You always knew that Jack was a bit nuts but his plan for him and Paul to break out of prison, and thus add five years on top of their already light sentences, was about as crazy,if not more so, then anything else that he did in the movie. With Paul refusing to participate in the break out Jack goes it alone and the what seems like brainless jerk, after telling Paul that he won't, implicates Paul's wife Jerry in his escape! That's by having her give aid and comfort to an escaped fugitive, Jack, by him dropping over to her place for a quick and free meal as well 40 winks.It's now off to the hills or the High Sierra Mountains for Jack and his faithfully and long suffering mare or horse Whiskey, in her having to put up with him, as there's a five state manhunt out to get the crazy nut before he does any more damage to either himself or anyone else he comes that in contact with. Jack gets reunited with his tormentor from the holding pen Deputy Sheriff Gutierrez,who's part of the posse looking for him, whom he works over and leaves him his tooth,that Gutierrez knocked out, as a memento.***SPOILER ALERT*** There's also tractor trailer driver Hilton, Carroll O'Connor, whom we have no idea why he's in the movie until the last final moments. That's when Jack together with Whiskey meet up with Hilton on a rain slick highway with disastrous results.Oddball of a western with Kirk Douglas having the time of his life as the free living John W-just call me Jack-Burns. In fact watching the film and realizing that it was made years before the 1960's nonconformist movement became popular and really got going with the mostly young and collage crowd it may very well in a backhanded kind of way have encouraged it without even knowing it at the time that it was released! "}{"Title":"The modern cowboy","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  This is a great movie about a man who cannot find his place in the society. This film could have been directed by Sam Peckinpah, and i think has many similarities with Junior Bonner or Wild Bunch or even The Ballad of Cable Hogue. Kirk Douglas, in the role of this modern cowboy, is fantastic, as the rest of the cast. Walter Matthau, Gena Rowlands and George Kennedy. A not very popular film but a great film. "},{"Title":"solid performances","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" John W. 'Jack' Burns (Kirk Douglas) is an old fashion cowboy who rails against the modern world. He visits his friend's wife Jerry (Gena Rowlands). Jerry's husband Paul Bondi has been put in prison. Jack works to get into prison to break Bondi out. He gets into a bar fight. The cops are unwilling to put him in prison until he starts fighting them. He gets a year in prison. Inside, he finds Bondi unwilling to escape. Jack breaks out by himself. Sheriff Morey Johnson (Walter Matthau) leads the hunt for the decorated Korean vet fugitive as he heads for the hills.Kirk Douglas is magnificent. The story is a little thin. Fugitive Jack reminds me of Rambo in First Blood. His journey is compelling. His relationship with his horse starts to grow on me and that ending got to me. The ending raises the movie an extra point. "},{"Title":"A man walking to meet his fate","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" The big, the biggest movie of Kirk Douglas, with a performance worthy of an Oscar. Jack Burns is a misfit, like so many of us. Has no address, no family, no job, and going from one place to another without obligation. Lives only this day, lives what happens now. The film is a true poetry dedicated to the lonely. Burns suddenly appears in the city where he lives the woman he loved but whom he could not devote precisely because it is a solitary being, can not live with someone. This woman married her best friend, making it clear that only married not to be so. And Burns does not measure sacrifices by his friend and his family. You can be arrested only to see him in prison. And flee when their mission is accomplished. Burns is a lot like Shane George Stevens. If it were possible to join the two films, Lonely Are the Brave could be the continuation of Shane, no doubt. It would need only put the two movies set around the same time. Both one and the other, when it comes to loneliness, hopelessness, what they do? They go to the mountains, the only place that can accommodate them. Are heroes out of your time. . Lonely Are the Brave is a powerful film. David Miller made his masterpiece. A wonderful moment in film history. "},{"Title":"A Sign of the Times","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Jack Bondi is a confessed cowhand and loner, not into setting up house with anyone, but still able to love, although not in a typical fashion. What surrounds him must allow for his special brand of solitude and his slowly fading, cowboy ways.His horse, Whiskey, is fidgety, likes to play, and dislikes the encroaching roads and signs as much as Jack does. They command, as Jack lists them,no hunting, no hiking, no admission, no trespassing, private property, closed area, start moving, go away, get lost, drop dead! Please, don't read more of this if you don't want to know what takes place within the jail.Jack wants to free his friend, Paul Burns, from the local jail. Paul has two years to endure before his release for assisting illegal aliens. A previous bar brawl, which netted him an arrest, didn't open that door, so he hits a cop to earn a one year stretch, knowing he won't be there long. But Paul doesn't want to escape, which leaves Jack to break out alone to flee into the mountains with Whiskey. It is their attempts to reach the peak and down into the woods on the other side, which would eventually lead to Mexico, that takes up most of the movie.Overall, it's a good film, despite the disappointment some may feel toward the end. If the reader loves horses, then this one's for you, as it shows just how inseparable an owner and his/her mount can become. "},{"Title":"Viewpoints on the Screen","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Some 72 different reviews that I saw... most proclaim the movie as very good to excellent while one or two pan it and say 'Burns got what he deserved.' Interesting as the film portrays without really endorsing (aside from the fact that the 'to be Libertarian' Jack Burns is the hero) a man who feels that 'freedom' is valuable enough to engage in behavior that potentially could cost that rare commodity. Brave but some have said foolish. The film is engaging in that a variety of 'types' are represented. Certainly no one can argue that Matthau is a 'type' as are Rowlands (the wife in love with someone else perhaps) and the 'brutal' type of Kennedy's role. The buffoonery of some of the deputies and the over exuberance of the young Airmen... all types but mixed well in this film which I found extremely well done... and I was rooting for Whiskey all the time and there is NO mention of who owned or trained that splendid animal. The scenes urging her up the rocky cliffs was enough to suggest a Oscar for Whiskey. But the oncoming (Spoiler) 18 wheeler carrying toilets (would have been worse if it was toilet paper!) while close the book on Jack's valiant and brave efforts to elude his pursuers and get across the border(s) to freedom someplace else. The acting was superb by all and landscape, filming, locations... all really added greatly to the films attraction. Some might say that such an era is past but freedom loving people are still around who will die for it and, as many might suggest that such freedoms are waning, perhaps we'll see many such Jack Burns rising up to engage the Gutierrezs of today's oppressive society. Great film (spoiler alert)with a tragic ending but Burn's soul will not be snuffed out. Douglas is good in many films but I 'like' him in this one and, as Matthau discovered, such men are hard to corral if not impossible. "},{"Title":"A really great film disguised as a Western","Date":"9 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" I won't duplicate the synopses in the other reviews. After seeing this film for the first time, I can't believe I hadn't seen it previously. The B&W cinematography is gorgeous and definitely recalls High Sierra. The only negatives are a couple of plot devices that fall flat in retrospect.Dalton Trumbo's script, written shortly after completing Spartacus, is excellent. Having lived in Mexico during his ten-year exile from Hollywood, he obviously had an affection for that land and featured it in several of his scripts. In this film, it represents freedom, although it is somewhat ironic now that a story of freedom would involve someone trying to cross the border in that direction. This theme echoes Trumbo's similar treatment of freedom struggles in Spartacus and Papillon.One thing that may escape notice is how vividly the characters develop over the course of the movie. Matthau, then doing straight dramatic roles (Charade), changes imperceptibly from a bored bureaucrat to a person who develops a grudging respect for Douglas, the individual fighting off the police and the Air Force alone. The crucial scene is the one where Douglas has to decide whether to leave the horse, and he cannot. He demonstrates his uncompromising humanity, in contrast to George Kennedy's sadistic deputy. Douglas also has a pivotal scene where he realizes the scale of the forces against him.Douglas is excellent; his facial acting in the mountain scenes and the ambiguous ending are excellent, and it's hard to believe that anyone could climb that mountain even without a horse in tow. (The horse was terrific, too -- is there a wrangler credit?) Carroll O'Connor is fine and, it must be noted, wears his Archie Bunker hat for what I think is the first time. Last but definitely not least, Gena Rowlands is glowing in her few scenes -- in every film of hers that I have seen, you can't take your eyes off her. "},{"Title":"Kirk Douglas' personal favorite","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" John W. Burns is a cowboy living in the modern society.He travels with his horse Whisky by his side.He ends up in jail after a barroom fight with a one-armed man.There he meets his friend Paul, and Jack wants him to join on his escape effort.But Jack goes alone, riding on his horse to freedom.But will he ever get there? Lonely Are the Brave (1962) is a western drama directed by David Miller.Dalton Trumbo wrote the screenplay.Jerry Goldsmith is behind the music.The movie is based on Edward Abbey's 1956 novel The Brave Cowboy.Kirk Douglas gives a performance of the lifetime as Jack Burns.He calls this as his favorite of his own movies, and I can see why.Gena Rowlands is fantastic as Jerry Bondi.Michael Kane is great as Paul Bondi.Walter Matthau gives a memorable performance as Sheriff Morey Johnson.William Schallert is brilliant as the deputy Harry with his Right?.Carroll O'Connor is amazing as Truck Driver.George Kennedy as the sadistic deputy Gutierrez is very good, even though his character is not.Karl Swenson is very fine as Rev. Hoskins (prison inmate).Bill Raisch is the fighting one-armed man.Bill Bixby gives his debut as Airman in Helicopter.What's great about this movie is that you really like the main character.You really want him to make it, and then when his run is stopped by the truck, you feel very bad.And the friendship between the man and his horse is most beautifully portrayed.We can thank Kirk Douglas for making this picture happen.He loved the book and wanted to see it as a movie and also to star in it.So thank you, Kirk Douglas. "},{"Title":"Best Man  of the West","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies and now that I own the DVD I've seen it all the way through. I'd never given much thought to Burns' war record as it is detailed by Sheriff Morrie Johnson late in the movie. Burns was a rebel- a contrarian early in life but no doubt his character has been shaped by his service to his country in Korea. He returned to the states looking for a lifestyle that made some sense.Douglas' performance is outstanding. One minute he is trying to avoid a fight in an unfriendly bar- is he a pacifist? The next minute he tells the one armed man- Bill Raisch that he is prepared to kill him for the bad name he has called him- presumably something in the coward family. Burns is no pacifist and any fears he has, he conquers. He keeps distinguished Korean War service (Purple Heart/Distinguished Service Cross) from the WWII Veteran one armed man.My favorite scenes- Burns looking in on Seth, the son he might have had if life had gone differently. Then Burns as the noble man telling Gerry (another wonderful performance) how much Paul loves her and their family.I know Douglas has said John W . Burns is up there for him-- maybe his favorite character. Its' a natural from Matt Morgan in Last Train to Gun Hill.Lastly there's some great humor in the film- Who'd be calling me this time of night'? Matthau and Schallert give Abbott & Costello a run for the money too. "},{"Title":"It is an excellent film a must see by the younger generations.","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" I too saw this movie when it came out an thought it was one of Kirk's best Films. He had other outstanding films, but I felt that this one was the most profound. It showed the crash of the Past into the future leaving his character no place to go. Not unlike much or the history those of that had been the pioneer or the ice breaker that had opened it up for the rest to follow. And in the end they were left with no where to go as their special skills and dedication just didn't fit into the civilized communities that developed because of them. The Sheriff that cleaned out the towns and made them civilized were ask to leave as their talents were no longer required. In 1954 in Eloy Arizona, I believe that was the date, the Last Sheriff was gunned down in the streets. In 1953 we had moved from Northern California to Wellton, Arizona, just East of Yuma, and I couldn't believe that the wild west was really alive in Arizona. I was looking on Columbia House for a copy of Lonley are The Brave but didn't find one so I will keep looking. And one other movie that I particularly like is Robert Mitchum's movie Thunder Road I guess this kind of gives my age away, but they are both outstanding films. "},{"Title":"A Truly Great Film","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" One of the best films about the struggle of the individual and freedom in a society bent on crushing those concepts. Douglas is superb and the Dalton Trumbo script is one of his finest. The existential themes are deep and moving and this film can not help but touch one's heart. The supporting roles are consistently fine and the production values are first rate. Simply one of the most moving, beautiful films ever made by Hollywood and unforgettable due to the writing, directing, and acting. If I were to make a top ten list of my favorite movies, this would be one of them. A magical movie viewing experience. I could go on and on but this is truly one of the great ones. "}{"Title":"Not your standard western fare...more of a noir western...","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" KIRK DOUGLAS finds trouble wherever he goes in LONELY ARE THE BRAVE--beaten up by a one-armed man in a bar fight, confronting police officers with his fists, landing in jail, escaping and finding himself taking a beating from tough jailer GEORGE KENNEDY.He takes time out for some sweet talk with GENA ROWLANDS (her debut), before getting on horseback and evading his pursuers. That's where the brutal punishment continues--as he takes his horse into the high country among rugged hillsides and winding paths along cliffs to avoid the posse of police cars and helicopters looking for him.The movie ends on a grim note when truck driver CARROLL O'CONNOR meets up with horse and rider on a dark rainy night. There's a turnabout at the end where WALTER MATTHAU, relentlessly hunting him up until that point, decides not to identify him for the authorities--figuring he's had punishment enough by this time.So has the audience. But it's a fascinating glimpse at the troublesome life of a stubborn cowboy who railed against all the rules of life.Trivia note Understandably, KIRK DOUGLAS considers it one of his favorite films. "},{"Title":"Often a little episodic and unbalanced in tone, but there is more than enough to get stuck into in what is a rather gripping and well executed piece.","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" The first few shots of Lonely are the Brave leads us into thinking it to be a western, the film's lead lies on his back in the barren American outback of nowhere in particular with his horse and lunch-on-the-go before lying down and looking up at the skies above him on this, a typically hot and clear day. When we cut to a composition that appears to capture his very point of view, we observe an aeroplane glide overhead leaving a vapour trail; our own reaction into being duped by the film running in a somewhat perfect tandem with that of the character we see on screen he has just seen one of the many things he despises about the world in which he lives and we, the audience, have just had the proverbial carpet pulled out from beneath us in being forced into realising the film's genre is not what we thought it was. Anger might be what connects both character and audience member response; the collective emotion felt across both boards that of being brought out of one realm and then placed smack-bang into another as both we and that of whom will eventually take on the role of the film's protagonist, are brought out of the wilder, older West and right into the then contemporary one.That lead is a certain John Burns, played impeccably by Kirk Douglas; a character the film's core thesis will come to revolve around, and is more broadly speaking, related to the idea of a man of a pre-modern world indebted to mindsets and attitudes of that time coming into contact with a large, busy and relatively unforgiving modern world full of eighteen-wheelers; main roads; contemporary methods of police procedure and a far less-a accepting public. As far as characters go, Burns isn't necessarily a bad man; whilst able to commit relatively amoral acts, he has the gift of the mouth and is a kind man at the core. He strikes us as being one of those old fashioned, close to all but mythical heroes of way back in the day who's stuck in a modern world - a modern world which no longer has any towns in it that could do with a man of Burns' ilk to saunter on into and liberate of a distasteful 'grip' which is being perpetrated by those within. Henry Fonda's character from films such as Warlock and My Darling Clementine, respectively, not to mention somebody like James Stewart's titular lead in Destry Rides Again just don't know how good they had it. On another level, we're reminded of that quotation on account of Clive Owen's character in 2005's Sin City who, upon commenting on Mickey Rourke's, states that it was just blind luck the guy was born in this century and not the Roman era, as he'd have made a fine gladiator.Burns spends his days going where nature will take him; he travels with his faithful horse whom he speaks to in a manner which would suggest the beast was a human and we get the feeling he is rather close to it. On the road, we watch him come up against wire fencing detailing the regulations which ought to halt anybody from crossing it and into territory governed by big business; Burns' cutting of the fence and wading on through imitable of both his rejection of the rules which preside over the once free, open and wild west as well as his attitude on this more modern, imperialist modus operandi that companies have - attitudes which, you might say, is additionally symptomatic of a contemporary Capitalist 'western' America full of rule and regulation. Burns' eventual misadventure begins at that of a home owned by an old friend; the speaking to his friend's wife named Geri (Rowlands), whose verbal confirmation that he is living in a world which does not exist, confirms numerous things as well as the fact Burns' friend Paul (Kane) has been jailed. What follows is a deliberate attempt at getting jailed, something that sees him light up Paul's world whom initially appeared lonely and isolated whilst behind bars. From here, all manner of excursion and event unfolds.Certain scenes, mostly towards the end by which time through certain narrative turns a full blown manhunt has broken out, rely too heavily on comedic content which does not work and dialogue from the mouths of the law enforcement team which is far too rife with exposition, while the film will end with a somewhat conventional shoot-out-come-face off. It's at this point that Douglas' character, in case we hadn't already got it, seems comfortably at ease with those whom inhabit the rocky locale upon which it all plays out a mountain lion which spies him but leaves him alone running in tandem with a squirrel whom lingers about Burns' person and is duly rewarded with a nut he can scurry off with and eat. Lonely and the Brave comes off as ultimately a comedy that just happens to carry a somewhat sly; somewhat wry, sadistic tinge to proceedings as it balances John and Paul's haphazard-happenings with the ongoing plight of a bunch of cops under the forlorn watch of Walter Matthau's sheriff Johnson. The places the film will go are rather bleak but it will do so in a sporadic manner; the comedy often goofy, the overhanging sense of oncoming doom eventually feeling more and more prominent and there is certainly this sense that not everything feels as if it naturally fits together whilst you watch it, but you do go with it regardless. It is, however, to the film's great credit that the entire thing is kept under the certain reign that it is, its thesis about pre-modern and modern men and mindsets clashing doing enough in the long run, so much so that there's enough to recommend. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Lonely Are the Brave (1962) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Unique and strange Western about a cowboy (Kirk Douglas) living in modern times while trying to keep the traditions of the Old West. After breaking into jail to see a friend, Douglas then breaks out and soon heads towards the mountains to make an escape but a local sheriff (Walter Matthau) is hot on his trail. I first heard of this film many years ago when Douglas said this was his favorite film and performance. I wouldn't rank the film that high but this is certainly a unique film that works on so many levels that I'm sure I'll enjoy it more on repeat viewings because there's so much going on here that it's hard to get everything in one viewing. The first half of the film is more of a mental character study as well get to learn about Douglas as well as the wife (Gena Rowlands) of his friend who is suffering because her husband, like Douglas, is living in a fake world and they're not caught up on current times. The second half of the film is more of an adventure film and it's pretty obvious that First Blood fashioned itself after this film. Douglas is terrific in his role and really gives an emotional and tough performance. There are also a couple scenes where he has to use his comic charm and he pulls this off as well. Rowlands nearly steals the film as the wife who suffers because of the men in her life and while she's only in the first half of the film she certainly impresses. Matthau is also good in his role, although he really isn't given too much to do. I think the second half of the film suffers somewhat compared to the first half but this all leads up to a really sad and emotional ending that packs one hell of a punch. "},{"Title":"A Sam Shepard treasure chest","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" I rented Lonely Are the Brave as part of the research I am doing for a production of Sam Shepard's play True West. Lonely is heavily referenced in Shepard's play as being the last real Western movie and sort of a behind-the-scenes manifesto for the character of the older brother, Lee, himself a loner and a wanderer like Jack Burns, played by Kirk Douglas. When I was watching the movie I became acutely aware of a resemblance between characters in the film and characters in this play, particularly regarding the relationship between Jack Burns and his old friend (now college grad and gone sensible) in the scenes inside the jail-house. These two old friends are a perfect frame for an idealized projection of the brothers, Lee and Austin in True West. Not only are characters in Shepard's work seemingly directly inspired by this movie, but much of his signature technical stage business seems to be drawn from scenes in the film as well. Gena Rowlands berates Jack for his irresponsibility all while aggressively cooking a ham and eggs breakfast. Shepard often uses cooking as a background activity to important dialogue.The Movie provides amazing clues into the different minds and paths of the brothers Lee and Austin in terms of its technical realization too. While the vivid and rough character of Jack Burns is an obvious seduction for Lee. The writing of Lonely are the Brave is unusually sharp and witty and smacks of the kind of artistic inspiration Austin pursues.For anyone who is a fan of Sam Shepard's plays, especially True West, this movie is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Very Good Suspense","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  I would not call this a great movie, but it certainly was very good.  It is a bit slow-paced for modern tastes, yet the slowness adds suspense - the chase (which takes half the movie) is up there with the great all-time movie chases, although High Sierra's chase gets my vote as the top best.  As a last cowboy movie this does not reach the pathos of The Misfits, but it makes its point quite well with its visual symbols and its aura, right from the first scene, of loneliness and final days. "},{"Title":"Miller Lite","Date":"5 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" For a journeyman director David Miller had some interesting credits on his CV; Sudden Fear, Happy Anniversary, Midnight Lace, and the outstanding follow-up to this entry, Captain Newman M.D. It's well documented that Kirk Douglas has nominated this as the favourite of all his films but there is, of course, a distinction to be made between the overall film and the individual performance. I for one wouldn't like to say that Brave Cowboy eclipses say Minnelli's The Bad And The Beautiful or even Mank's A Letter To Three Wives, in both of which Douglas turned in fine performances. Be that as it may Brave Cowboy is definitely an exceptional movie surprisingly well cast with Walter Matthau and William Schallert making a fine double act, Carroll O'Connor saying nothing until the end and top-billed Gena Rowlands contributing little more than a cameo. In some ways it remains unique as a study of a man living out of his time and paying the ultimate price for so doing. Excellent. "},{"Title":"One of Kirk Douglas's better movies.","Date":"20 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This movie contains are strong performance by Kirk Douglas as a modern day rebel. Although set in the west, the movie is not a conventional western. Rather, it is a metaphor on the relationship of the individual to an increasingly restrictive society. Unlike most of his other roles, in this movie Kirk Douglas plays an affable, easy going character who has to be his own person, even if it means being alone. For the movie to make any sense, this premise must be understood and accepted. The supporting cast is excellent, led by Walter Matthau and George Kennedy, both of whom play characters that neither normally did not play. The cinematography is excellent and really brings out the stark nature of the story and the musical score adds to the somber mood. The movie succeeds in telling a compelling story without becoming grim or stagy and is one of Kirk Douglas's better, yet far less popular projects. If you like movies with a social message, then this movie is for you and if you are Kirk Douglas fan, then you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Remarkably Simple Western","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Kirk Douglas, in his memoirs, once said that this was his most favorite movie ever that he acted in. With the simplest of plots, this movie reassures the fact that simplicity is remarkable. It is even more difficult for a western to be simple and this movie has achieved that. Based on a cowboy's escapade from the police, the presentation of the story makes this movie good. This movie is a one man show - Kirk Douglas - as the movie name suggests is lonely but accompanied by his eccentric horse named Whisky. In most westerns, horses are taken for granted and used as toys. In this movie, the horse is almost like a second lead. The protagonist eats, drinks, talks and fights with the horse all along the escapade. Walter Matthau's straight-faced comedy lightens up the mood as well. It is a very simple and warm western and will be no harm in seeing it at least once.Rating  7/10 "},{"Title":"Freedom versus civilization","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" The more people there are, the more rules are needed to keep the lid on. People internalize this as a conflict between a desire to play the game versus a desire to undo the shackles and escape into some idealized notion of a freer existence. This film hits on the basic themes of freedom versus civilization like few others I have seen. John Burns (Kirk Douglas) is a cowboy/sheepherder in the southwest U.S. who is still trying to live the dream of life on the open range while Paul Bondi (Michael Kane), his erstwhile childhood friend and fellow free spirit of old, has gone the way of wife, house, and kid--and is happy for it. Between the freedom loving Burns and the civilized Bondi there is the local sheriff Morey Johnson (Walter Matthau) who is duty-bound to enforce the rules and track Burns down, since Burns committed a minor offense in order to get into jail to help his friend Paul, and then engineered an escape. Johnson exemplifies the internal conflict--accepting, and even embracing, the strictures of society, he still has that small kernel of emotion that allows him to admire (and even envy) Burns and secretly long that he not be captured, that the hope of freedom not be snuffed out. The movie is unequivocal in its message, in the end society wins. How more dramatic a statement can be made than by having Burns run down by a semi truck carrying a load of toilets? In the near fifty years since this was made, there are still some rare free spirits around, but no longer in the style of John Burns. This film could more appropriately be titled, Lonely are the Free Spirits. America often boasts of being the home of the free and to some extent that is true (particularly when compared to the large number of repressive governments), but when you think about it, what with jobs, family, mortgages, insurance payments, local laws, state laws, and federal laws, one questions just how free most people are. And it is not clear that most people really want a more unqualified freedom since, as this movie shows, it comes at a price.Douglas and Matthau are at their best here and it's a treat to see a young Gina Rolands playing Paul's wife Jerry. Jerry presages what is to come with her comment, The world that you and Paul live in doesn't exist. Maybe it never did...you either go by the rules or you lose. You lose everything. There is no lack of crisp dialog. A ménage à trois between Burns, Paul, and Jerry is hinted at and exploring that relationship might make for an interesting prequel. Douglas' horse Whiskey deserves special recognition, along with the director, since some of the scenes of the horse struggling to make his way up the mountain are thrilling and must have been hell to stage. The fight scene in the bar between Burns and the one-armed desperado is pretty spectacular as well. And after all these years the English subtitles supplied me with the Spanish word that provoked Burns to fight--cobarde (coward).Filmed in black-and-white CinemaScope the DVD I watched was not high definition, but I am not sure an HD print would be any better since the quality is superb. For lovers of black-and-white films, it doesn't get much better than this. "},{"Title":"One of Douglas' better performances","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Supposedly this is one of Kirk Douglas' favorite films--probably because of his excellent performance. However, despite enjoying the film, it was not among my very favorite Douglas films--though I did enjoy seeing him play a gentler and more realistic character in this film. Overall, I just can't see LONELY ARE THE BRAVE in the same league as CHAMPION, SPARTACUS, SEVEN DAYS IN MAY or LUST FOR LIFE--these are truly great films. However, performance-wise, LONELY ARE THE BRAVE did probably feature the best performance by Douglas--just not the very best overall film.So why did I like Douglas' performance? Well, though I have loved most of his films, Douglas is generally NOT a subtle actor and most of his performances are bigger than life (mush like most of Burt Lancaster's). You don't have the emotional outbursts like you'll see at the end of CHAMPION or LUST FOR LIFE. His character (Jack Burns) is so much more realistic and underplayed--making this a memorable film.Burns is a rugged individualist who refuses to accept the 20th century. In his mind, his is a cowboy and the modern world is a joke. He lives by his rules and refuses to try to fit in with society. Generally this isn't a major issue, but when he rides his horse into town and gets himself arrested for no logical reason (other than to him), he accidentally sets off a chain of events that were unforeseen--making him the subject of a massive manhunt! How all this ends was pretty exciting, as there was a bit of vagueness to it that allowed for a variety of interpretations--which I really appreciated.In addition to an excellent Douglas performance and a very good script, the film is improved by decent supporting performances--particularly that of Walter Matthau. While Matthau, like Douglas, often over-emotes (neither is the king of subtle), here he is very restrained and he fits the role very nicely.Overall, a lovely and quiet sort of film. It lacks the intensity, scope and impact of many of Douglas' great films but is nevertheless a film well worth finding. "}{"Title":"Western with motorway, dead or alive","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Lonely are the brave (1962) directed by David Miller is a kind of new western whose story has an ecologic side before the time when a pursued horseman by helicopter from the police and because crossing a motorway is killed by a van, when freedom of state it was reached just in time. This movie it seems now as a must of a genre that periodically is known for its announced death. But it's not entirely true because the genre is continually renewed as here as an optical illusion of the time, when Roy Rogers and Gene Autry were still known from the television serials. It was very new for the time in the sixties and surprisingly unsoiled and somewhat unquiet, strange, killing a genre without too much shootings, gray in most of the duration. Fantastic and the killer or probable undertaker was a very known actor with a small hole as characteristic sign on the face, dead or alive. "},{"Title":"Read between the spurs","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Lonely Are The Brave is an odd, basically dishonest and mixed-up piece of misplaced nostalgia and sentimentality. It attempts to eulogize the death of the wide open spaces and the alleged simple life and unfettered freedom of the mythical West while begging us to empathize with an anti-heroic cowboy, played with some sensitivity by Kirk Douglas. However, upon reflection, Douglas' character seems reckless and obnoxious, even. His apparent macho disregard for authority reeks of a childish compulsion to have his own way at any cost. He is an outcast not because he rebels, but because his rebellion is selfish. He commits himself to nothing and to no one, so his non-conformist actions ultimately seem foolish and suicidal. If his character stands for anything, it could only be for a way of life that is rootless and arrogant. In the end, he becomes a victim of the same apathy and callous disregard for communal values that his character embodied. If he was lonely, it wasn't because he was brave. "},{"Title":"Modern Times for the Cowboy Hero","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" One of those films you wish were better. Kirk Douglas is marvelous, as usual, at a cowboy struggling to survive in modern times. He doesn't want a social security card or driver's license - he wants to tame his horse and be a cowboy. Hay, what's wrong with that? The opening is captivating. After a little while, the real story starts Mr. Douglas goes to visit a friend, and learns he's in jail - so, Douglas gets thrown in jail get his friend out. Then, the film lost me. I couldn't figure out what was up with Douglas and this friend and wife, played by Gena Rowlands and Michael Kane. Specifically, I could not understand why Douglas wanted to get this lame guy out of jail - there didn't seem to be any reason (okay, I know the film gives a good reason, but the guy turns out to be not worth the effort).Now, not to give anything away; but, the film does pick up again and get better. By the end, the film makes its point well. Look for Carroll O'Connor in an ironic role. ******* Lonely Are the Brave (1962) David Miller ~ Kirk Douglas, Gena Rowlands, Walter Matthau "},{"Title":"Not a film for sarcastically....","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This movie told me that a man can be true to himself, that the movie can be his (the writer's, I think) valid true perception of the 'west'. You can find fault with the execution, the lines and the movie. You (YOU) cannot find fault with the notion. The notion being that we are here to seek our soul. We are here to pursue right and justice and validity for being alive. We may die young, we may never know why we are here but we know what is 'true'. What is 'right'. What is 'what really counts'. Which is small things. The way you greet the day. The way you treat the other beings around you. Your regard for nature and it's (non-existant) regard for you. Your realization that your life means nothing in the end. Sorry. "},{"Title":"man vs.technology slightly dated but worth an intelligent viewing","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  This film may be a bit dated now but it still holds up and is under appreciated.  As the film opens we see a cowboy and his horse.  Another Western.  But suddenly jet aircraft fly overhead to disturb our overhasty judgment.  The opening sequence wonderfully presents the theme of the film a person out of synch with his environment.Jack Burns (Kirk Douglas) is hopelessly lost.  He is psychology a little boy playing cowboy in a world of sophisticated technology that has moved him off of the page. .  Granted, as you watch you may find the technology not sophisticated by today's standards but the theme is still relevant. Technology overshadows the individual and reduces him to a mere object.  Not so different from the film Minority Report.The heart of the film relies on an extended chase sequence pitting Burns against everything the (then) modern world can throw against him. The struggle is hopeless but existential. The ending is unforgettable.Walter Matthau turns in an excellent performance as the laconic and sympathetic sheriff; and George Kennedy is perfect as a brutal and sadistic deputy.  You really should watch this film.  I can't understand why it hasn't been released on DVD.  "},{"Title":"Sorry, But Not As Good As Hyped","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"13 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" Usually I really like this man-on-the-run stories where someone is trying to chase down someone else, and this was okay, but just not as good as I expected nor as good as the modern-day films with a similar theme. Maybe I expected too much after reading some glowing reports of this film.The man on the run here is Kirk Douglas (Jack Burns) who breaks out of jail where he purposely went to aid a friend, who doesn't want to compound his crime. So, Douglas breaks out himself but the film doesn't really come alive until after he's left he home of his friend's wife Jerry Bondi (Gena Rowlands) .The chase through the mountains with a modern-day likable sheriff (Walter Matthau) on the heels of old-fashioned cowboy Douglas' isn't as exciting as it should have been, either. The finale is a shocker, although you can see it coming as truck driver Carroll O'Connor keeps wiping off his windshield. Once would have been enough.It's worth a rental but don't get caught up in any hype on this because you'll just get disappointed. "},{"Title":"Nice spare Goldsmith score-solid Douglas and LITTLE ELSE!","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  Although Kirk Douglas considers this his favorite film- and for 30 minutes he's correct in that it IS among his best- a boring and overly symbolic and farcical old vs. new and establishment vs. maverick theme gets pounded mercilessly into the ground. A dandy 45-minute short this would have been! The inevitable end is melancholy and Gena Rowlands gets the usual early sixties cameo as his girlfriend (and when isn't she great?) but this is one cult film that scores points for its relative off-beatness and not for its phony lack of commercial resistance. "},{"Title":"Naive Cowboy Who Couldn't Adapt to Reality","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" *Possible Spoilers*I thought Kirk Douglas used intelligence and good verbal skills in trying to avoid the barroom fight, but alas, that seems to be the beginning and end of his cowboy character's competence. The remainder of the movie could have been entitled Lonely are the Naive. You just knew that the cowboy was going to turn out to be a loser. The Sheriff's character was entertaining and kept me watching. And I agree with the earlier reviewer, why didn't he wait until the road was clear before trying to cross with his horse? Poor horse.Fairly early in the chase sequence the cowboy sits on the side of a mountain and watches a jeep race across the desert in his direction leaving a cloud of dust behind. That scene looked exactly like the chase scene in Coogans Bluff where the Indian sits on the side of a mountain and watched deputy Clint Eastwood race across the desert toward him, also driving a jeep and leaving a cloud of dust behind. In both movies it is a good scene. Perhaps that's why they used it six years later in Eastwood's movie? "},{"Title":"Lonely Are The Stupid.","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" This is the kind of old school Hollywood writing that succeeds more in amusing me for all the wrong reasons than making me take it seriously in any way. I have no clue why Kirk Douglas calls this his favourite movie. (Then again, we know how stupidly drawn toward idealistic, message-driven fare so many actors are.) He plays an over-idealized (still mildly put), absurdly idealistic version of a man who must have arrived to the early 60s via a time-machine. That would be the only valid explanation for his dumb, self-destructive behaviour. However, this is not a sci-fi western (there is no mention of time travel in LATB) hence I cannot take the man's behaviour - and him, as a result - at all seriously. Ol' Kirk decides to get himself arrested on purpose JUST so he can have a talk with a buddy of his who is in prison, facing a two-year jail-term! Apparently, our arrogant cowboy is far too impatient to wait a few measly days so he can visit his friend like everyone else. After a bar-room brawl fails in getting himself placed in the can, he assaults a cop(!), hence handing himself a totally unnecessary one-year jail term. Of course, he does all this with a smile, that old Kirky grin. That premise alone does not hold any water dramatically, simply because it is idiotic, too far-fetched. Kirk's character is neither portrayed as insane nor as retarded (and he didn't travel 100 years into the future). We are meant to root for him because he represents some sort of lost innocence or idealism, but to me he can only represent either insanity or fanatical idealism gone astray. (See Marxism.) I rooted for him merely because I feel sorry for the mentally ill, hence didn't feel that as such he deserved jail. Kirk's character is not a lonely brave, as much as he is a social misfit, a semi-lunatic who for some unexplained reason didn't get himself in that kind of trouble with the law much earlier (apart from the trouble he was mentioned to have had during his military service). Add to this the cheesy road-accident plot device, which is used only by writers with a lack of imagination (Dalton Trumbo), and you've got a movie that though undoubtedly well acted, lacks the minimum amount of realism needed to achieve its damn obvious hence uninteresting message about the modern age.What was all that flirting and kissing with Kirk's best pal's wife all about then? What a do-gooder! I talked to your wife, and I think she wants to sleep with me while you're in the can. No need to thank me immediately! "},{"Title":"great promise unfulfilled","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":" The opening scene of this flick about a man out of synch with his times is captivating a truly out west shot of Douglas and his horse on the wide open plains, then a jetliner in the sky behind him, leaving a trail. This promising opening is not, however, fulfilled by the rest of the picture. After establishing the rebel against the zeitgeist theme, and showing us Burns'/Douglas' rather contrived offense against the system (his attempt to bust his friend out of jail), the film's central section gets bogged down in the long pursuit of the outlaw cowboy over a precipitous mountain range up which he is attempting to guide his beloved horse. This section does nothing to further develop the rebel against his times theme, which might have been better played out if his companion had been human rather than equine (and frankly my sympathies in this flick were stronger towrad the horse than the cowboy). The frequent cutaways to Carrol O'Connor's truck driver, with his load of toilets, were incomprehensible until their meaning was revealed at the denouement. I was surprised Douglas considers this his best film. For my money 'Spartacus,' 'The Big Carnival, or 'Champion' are better bets for that honor. "}{"Title":"The Last Cowboy","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  Lonely Are The Brave (5 out of 10)Kirk Douglas says this is his favorite movie.  He must mean that it has his favorite theme or message, because, as a movie, it is quite average.  Kirk plays the last cowboy facing tractor-trailers, helicopters, fences and irrelevance.  George Kennedy, Carroll O'Connor and Walter Matthau provide adequate support.Once the second half developed, I knew I had seen this movie before.  It was called First Blood (the 1st Rambo movie.)  An out of place and time individualist bears the brunt of uninvited violence, then flees the law to the wild country.  Then there's a looooooooooooong chase.  I half expected Richard Crenna as a cowboy to come to resolve the situation.  However, this is not a right-wing apologia; it comes from the left (Dalton Trumbo screenplay.) The cowboy era is dead, and its symbol cannot survive for sequels. "},{"Title":"Did I see the same movie as those other reviewers??","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  SpoilersI must say, I was not impressed with this movie. It has its moments, mostly thanks to the supporting cast, but it really isn't that great. Lonely are the Stupid would have been a much more apt title, since Kirk sure doesn't act brave in any part of the movie. However, such a title probably wouldn't sell well. Beating up a cop simply to get in jail is bad enough (since it carried a 2 year prison term!), but it goes downhill from there.After he escapes from jail and gets his horse, he doesn't seem concerned about the trail of footprints he is leaving for his pursuers to follow. He doesn't do anything particularly clever to evade the police--just head for the hills. He shoots down the copter (luckily not killing the airmen, since he does appear to have a live-and-let-live attitude), although the crash seems a bit odd. Wouldn't shooting out the tail rotor simply make the copter spin rather than fly fast at a downward angle? It crashed more like a plane which has lost its engine than a copter with a shot-out tail rotor! But I digress...He gets the jump on Kennedy, not because of some sneaky trick of an experienced outdoorsman, but just because he happened to have left his horse to scout the trail ahead.But what takes the cake is his final act of stupidity--trying to cross a busy highway with a horse he knows is skittish! Why not wait until a break in the traffic?? It is night, after all, so eventually there should be a lull on this 2-lane road! After the truck hits him, he just lies there. No final words of wisdom. Does he die? Does he live and go to jail? The sheriff acts like he's not sure this is the same guy--could he possibly be letting him go (assuming he survives!). The ending might be deep to some, but it left me wondering why did I just waste almost two hours?The message is supposed to be that the New West is not the Old West anymore, but at no time does he act like the brave hero he is made out to be. So if the Old West was full of cowboys doing stupid things, then I'm glad it's dead and gone!  "},{"Title":"Apparently so are the stupid","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Western","Review":"  This ass deserved everything he got too bad his horse had to put up with him. Guys like him probably helped a lot in getting the Miranda/Escobedo law passed. Matthau and his deputy kept me chuckling all the way through and Kennedy was fine as the sadistic screw. Nicely filmed picture concerning a true born loser.  "}]