[{"Title":"King Kong vs. Godzilla (1962) ***","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Any insults and accusations hurled against this beloved movie will fall on deaf ears with me. Admittedly, I am somewhat biased in favor of this entertaining monster romp because it was a regular television staple all during my childhood while I was growing up. It's one of the most enjoyable giant monster movies Toho Studios ever made, and it's certainly one of the best Godzilla films of all. It can be silly, it can be jokey, and it's also a hell of a lot of fun.I have seen both the U.S. Version and the Japanese Version, and I'll have to confess that while this review will be based on the proper Asian edition, I also have a nostalgic fondness for the American Cut, which actually benefits from some added jokes (When you and the monster meet, be sure to tell him all about your corn problems!) and the exciting Universal stock music which compliments much of the action.Godzilla was still a bad guy at this point in time, and I'm among the group who considers his costume here my personal favorite (it was very much like the Aurora model kit, or maybe it was the other way around). It's not very original to bash the obvious awful King Kong suit, so I'll say that while it's definitely kind of ragged, I actually think it's appealing in its unusual weirdness. Kong is more or less painted as the heroic one of these two, and I have to tell you that I absolutely love that native song of worship which is chanted at him by the island dwellers who dance and pray on his home turf. I appreciate it even more when it's used as the title credits music in the Toho version.The story is silly and simple, but it works. Godzilla is back in town after awakening from the iceberg he froze in at the conclusion of GODZILLA RAIDS AGAIN, and so a frustrated pharmaceutical advertiser decides to send a couple of his zany cronies to King Kong's Island to capture and bring back his own monster to give Godzilla some competition. Humor is very well used here, and it works well alongside the usual rampages and city stompings.The touted battle of the giants has been unfairly maligned as looking too much like a wrestling match, but I don't see how else these creatures are supposed to tangle with one another unless they opted to stare each other down for ten minutes. Not much fun there, I'm afraid! Their climactic fight is well worth the wait and fulfills all expectations. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"King Kong turns Japanese","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Before Freddy VS Jason, before Aliens VS Predator, even before the clash of the titans that is Puppet Master VS Demonic Toys (but after Frankenstein Meets The Wolf Man, obviously), there was King Kong VS Godzilla.Before I proceed with this review, I should point out that the version I have seen is the American one, which is dubbed and had several scenes added featuring a United Nations news broadcast. The original Japanese release was apparently much more satirical in tone, whereas the American version removes all the comedy. It is still enjoyable as a giant monster movie, though.This movie originally began life as a stop-motion feature entitled KIng Kong VS Frankenstein, and was conceived by Willis O'Brien as a sequel to the 1933 Kong, gradually turning into a Godzilla movie after Toho studios got involved. Although there are some brief stop-motion sequences, it is by and large a typical kaiju ega movie (in other words, it's men in rubber suits). While fans of O'Brien's still-impressive stop-motion work on the original King Kong may be irked by the idea of the big ape being played by a Japanese guy in a suit, I personally think Kong looks pretty cool (it's certainly more impressive than the suit Toho used for their second Kong film, King Kong Escapes).There are some inconsistencies, most notably the fact that King Kong and Godzilla were radically different sizes in their respective films, but Toho got around this by the simple expedient of ignoring it. We've got two great big monsters beating each other up, so who cares about details? Also, in the original King Kong, the big ape had no special powers beyond being very strong, whereas Godzilla has radioactive breath; Toho addressed this seeming imbalance by having Kong derive strength from electricity, whereas Godzilla is weakened by touching power lines. One point that bugs me a little is the fact that, although this is the third Godzilla film, and the second to feature King Kong, there seems to be no connection to the previous movies. When the two monsters appear, the human characters act as though they have no prior knowledge of them, which seems odd when you take into account Godzilla had twice previously tried to destroy Tokyo, and King Kong did make kind of a mess of New York. King Kong VS Frankenstein was intended as a sequel to the original, but this idea was obviously dropped from the movie it became.The climactic fight between the two monsters is great fun, sort of a giant sized version of a WWE match, only with more believable physiques and personalities. Kong shoving a tree down Godzilla's throat and the big green guy responding by walloping Kong with his tail are highly entertaining moments; obviously not as spectacular as the scenes of Kong fighting the dinosaurs in either the 1933 original or Peter Jackson's remake, but that's not the point. King Kong VS Godzilla is an enjoyable example of this type of movie; if you're new to the kaiju ega genre, it's an excellent starting point. It's just a shame King Kong VS Frankenstein never got made. Maybe if we all ask Peter Jackson nicely.... "},{"Title":"Before there was Freddy VS Jason...","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Godzilla escapes from an ice berg and King Kong is found on an island that has lots of kick ass berries on it which the natives grind into a juice for Kong to drink. After throwing boulders at a giant octopus and drinking the juice, Kong falls asleep and the local Japanese TV guys ape nap him and bring him back to Japan so their boss can exploit the big monkey for all he's worth. But en route, the Japanese government order the TV guys to send Kong back his home island because they've got enough problems with Godzilla as it is, they don't need a giant monkey on the rampage as well. Kong escapes and this leads to the inevitable clash of titans as Godzilla battles Kong for the right to demolish Tokyo.The original Kong from the 1933 film was only 50 feet tall while Godzilla is 400 feet tall, so they had to make Kong a lot bigger for this film and in order to make the odds more even for him they endowed him with the ability to draw strength from lightning bolts. The King Kong suit is hopelessly phony to look at though.The American version is a travesty that serves merely as filler until the big finale, with a reporter who really makes you long for Raymond Burr's reporter man Steve Martin. Whether or not the Japanese version ever becomes available in America remains to be seen, but hey, see whatever version you can get just to see Kong ram a ridiculously huge tree down Godzilla's throat! "},{"Title":"A fun monster-rumble","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Director Ishiro Honda, who first brought The Big G to the screen in the brilliant 1954 film GOJIRA (re-edited in the US as Godzilla King of the Monsters) decided to scrap the heavy messages and themes of the original film when he made King Kong vs. Godzilla, however he does appeared to have had a great deal of fun making this goofy rubber monster classic. Godzilla breaks out of an iceberg he was imprisoned in and heads to knock down Tokyo. Meanwhile, a pharmaceutical company discovers King Kong on an island full of Japanese actors in blackface playing the natives (!) and the flamboyant CEO decides to bring Kong to Japan as a publicity stunt. The government decides to pit the two titans against each other on the top of Mount Fuji in the climatic scene of the movie. Much of this film is film is intentionally goofy, particularly the island scenes. The screenwriters decided that electricity makes King Kong stronger, but it weakens Godzilla (to make sure it would be a fair fight). Honda also put in several homages (parodies) to the original 1933 King Kong. The final battle on Mount Fuji is similar to watching WWF wrestling, except better, because they're wearing monster suits. If you want a film with epic romance and sweeping drama, you should watch Gone With the Wind, but if you're in the mood for campy monsteriffic fun like only the Japanese can do, watch this.  "},{"Title":"My Most Watched Godzilla Movie","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have the American Version and I really like it. The basic premise of the movie is given away in the title. King Kong versus Godzilla is truly the battle of the ages, between the two most famous monsters. They make the 'Alien' look like a wimp. Akihiko Hirata as Dr. Shigezawa is great in his role even though quite limited. He, as usual, is intelligent and cerebral and his statement,  or the monster will kill us all pretty much sums up the problem they are facing. His presence adds continuity to the film since he was the real hero of the original Godzilla, King of the Monsters. The main female actress is unbearably helpless and is by no means a 'Fay Wray'. The Kong suit is ridiculously poor but who cares. I guess Kong is supposed to be the good guy in this flick if either can be considered good. I loved the scene where Dr. Johnson, paleontologist(?), holds up the text book to compare Godzilla to a T-Rex and a stegosaurus. The book just has to be a part of the kids Golden Book series and I loved the when he likened Godzilla's brain to a marble. With 'K'and'G' stepping on everything in sight, I always wonder why it never seems to hurt their feet. The native girl that does the lead dancing on the island is the prettiest Japanese woman I have ever seen and in my view should have been the key actress. I watch this film more than any Godzilla movie in my vast collection. Sit back with a big bowl of popcorn and enjoy. "},{"Title":"King Kong Vs. Godzilla (1962) is a great action film!","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have always been a fan of this film. I think it was the first Kong film I had seen other than clips from the original in a documentary about movie monsters. I was always a huge Godzilla/King Kong fan and can't really decide which one I like better. I think at the time I watched this I was more into Kong so I was glad to see him come out victorious. He beat the big green guy so bad, that he was still sore in his next movie (Godzilla Vs. The Thing) where he lost against Mothra (or actually Mothra larvae) and I was glad though I still love and respect 'Zilla. This really was the battle between two of the greatest movie monsters of all time. I used to have all the Godzilla films on VHS but they were all lost in a flood but I plan on replacing them on DVD real soon. I used to have this awesome movie on VHS and look forward to buying it on DVD (along with the rare King Kong Escapes) in four days. I also loved the brilliant fight between King Kong and the Giant Octopus (I think his name was Oodaku or something) back on Faro Island even though it looked really fake. I will soon own this masterpiece as part of my King Kong/Godzilla DVD collection and be able to watch it over and over again just like the old days, reliving some great memories. I also wouldn't mind seeing this film remade perhaps by Peter Jackson as a second sequel (after a Son of Kong remake) to his new 2005 remake of the original Kong. That would be pretty awesome with today's special effects and technology though it could never live up to the magic of the original. Jackson be sure to include the Giant Octopus if you ever consider this! On the whole, this film is a worthy entry to both the Godzilla series and the King Kong series and will always hold a special place on my heart. I give this great film a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good monster carnage.","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Excellent entry into the Godzilla series, the idea of the best known monsters fighting each other was inevitable. The fact that King Kong and Godzilla are in it is reason enough alone to watch it. The American footage was obviously added in such as in Godzilla, King of the Monsters but they didn't do a bad job. I have to resolve this one little question that I have been asked many times Why didn't Godzilla win? Well, the answer to that is that when this was made Godzilla was still a bad guy, and humanity still wanted him destroyed. Because King Kong was loved so much in previous movies, it was a good idea to let him win. In other words, Godzilla was not yet a superhero. "},{"Title":"Monster-battling fun.","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Having never seen the Japanese version, I can't say whether the US version is better or worse. But I can say that this is a jolly monster-battling romp. King Kong is intoxicated by some kind of berry which grows on his island, is brought back to Japan by ruthless businessmen who intend to make money out of him. But they reckoned without Godzilla, who returns to fight the great ape. Alright, so the film completely ignores the storyline of the original King Kong film, and the special effects (apart from the land-stalking octopus, which looks really good for its time) are pretty tatty. But come on. If you're a fan of these kinds of films, you'll be hooked until the final showdown. "},{"Title":"King Kong versus Godzilla Battle of the Titans!!","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" King Kong vs. Godzilla (1962) was the meeting of the silver screen monsters. Who would win the championship title of KIng of the World? Will Godzilla squash King Kong or will he job to the old master? Can King Kong win fair and square or will he throw in the towel? Godzilla is back from it's last film. The people of earth are shaking in fear because no matter what they do to it, the mean mutated radioactive breathing lizard keeps coming back for more (and flattening Tokyo). Some unlucky people have landed on Skull Island and have awoken the slumbering King Kong. King Kong was at peace with himself (and the painted up natives) until he felt the presence of Godzilla and wants to squash the lizard. A hopped up Godzilla awaits the challenge and the two titans duke it out, the world awaits word on who's will be the winner.I totally marked out for the movie when I was a kid. I was disappointed when I saw King Kong, he looked so paper mache and nothing like the original. The fights the two had looked like a pro wrestling match. They even put in the posing, sneak attacks, cheating, use of foreign objects and what not. I wished they would release a digitally remastered version of this film in the original language. Now that would be cool!!Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Cult classic","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is not the movie to see for an epic fight between the two legendary monsters. It's a movie to see for all the fans of badly executed special effects in the true spirit of 50's scifi b-movies. In that respect, it's a true classic. If you enjoyed the Beasty Boys' video for Intergalactic Planetary, you'd love this movie as a Japanese feature length counterpart. They've got the same quality feel to them, and the same incredible special effects - and here, incredible is meant literally.Some of the highlights of this movie for me the toy plane a little boy sees hanging in a toystore and makes him stop because he badly wants it, is the same plane that flew in formation attacking Godzilla. And by that I don't mean the same type of plane, but it's the exact same plastic model! Also, true to the original story, King Kong comes from a tropical island. As we all know, the cliché has it such an island is inhabited by black people wearing banana-leaf skirts and toting spears. This being a Japanese production, the natives are played by Japanese, painted black and given curly wigs...So if you enjoy laughing at the ridiculous details in movies, love to see fights between people wearing halloween suits trying to make it look like the real thing, with some mediocre fireworks in between, you have to see this movie. If you're looking for a credible classic, such as the original King Kong movie, or high-tech special effects and stunning visuals, this is not the one for you ;)  "}{"Title":"One of the biggest hits of all time!! Well, Toho style.","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" One of the biggest hits of all time ,King Kong vs. Godzilla!! Well, Toho style. Seriously, this is the highest grossing G-film ever, of course due to Godzilla's equally popular foe. or the third installment, all four fathers were brought in Ishiro Honda (director), Tomiyuki Tanaka (producer), Eiji Tsubaraya (SFX) and Akira Ifukube (composer). Hauro Nakijima returns to play Godzilla, as he would until Godzilla vs. Megalon in 1973. but the screenplay was provided by the man who would do so for another eight films Shinchi Sekizawa. I think he did a great job, and Godzilla still isn't a hero here, but the villain. Yes!!! Cutie Akikko Wakabayashi stars, along with Jun Tazki and other notable G- actors and the performances are excellent. The first new version of Godzilla appears, looking more reptilian and having lost the distinctive ears. A fantastic suit with an excellent heat ray. Kong, well let's just say that I always thought his face needed a good plastic surgeon. Plus the weird floppy arms, but overall the suit isn't terrible (just barely decent enough to get the job done). This one is one of my favorites due to the action. As a young child, and to this day, I love it! Godzilla's entrance is probably one of the coolest ever, debunking the notion of him always emerging from the sea. His rampage scenes are well done and Tsubaraya knew what he was doing. Kong and Godzilla's first meet was exciting but I never liked how the ape attacks Tokyo instead of Godzilla. I the Japanese version version plays out more like satirical comedy of the Japanese business industry, which I view as an interesting take on this film. like a 60s satire of sorts. The American version removes a lot of this, but the dubbing ensures some of it remains. Instead, once more newly filmed scenes are added, which don't really add anything to the story but are nice touch. EXCEPT when they say Godzilla is an pea-brained idiot while Kong the intelligent one. The only other thing is how they Completely cut out Ifukube's score. It just seems at the time these U.S. distribution companies just didn't like Ifukbe's scores. Every film with a score by Ifukbe has some minor or major edit in it.Anywho, the two monsters fight a spectacular battle at Mt. Fuji that had some great moments. It's so full of kicks, flips and trips I just never get tired of it. And along the film is backed by Ifukube's grand music, a great and fun film for sure. "},{"Title":"King Kong Vs Godzilla. A great classic","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" After being frozen in an iceberg Godzilla is freed when a submarine hits into it and then starts to return to Toyko to cause havoc again. Meanwhile a company is planning on capturing King Kong for a publicity stunt so a group head to Kong's island.While in Japan Godzilla is attacked by tanks but with his Fire breath he destroys them all and continues moving on. In Kong's island the group befriend the Natives and plan to capture Kong, a giant Sqiud comes along and attacks them until King Kong shows up and beats the Sqiud by throwing rocks at it.Kong then picks up a drink made of berries and drinks it then goes to sleep, the Natives dance as the group get ready to take King Kong to the boat.In Japan Godzilla attacks a train making everyone get out and escape into a group of cars ready to go. On the boat Mr. Tako arrives to see his new publicity stunt and it's not long before King Kong breaks from the raft and escapes.King Kong heads for Japan and meets with Godzilla who is too strong for him at the moment so he leaves. The army then plan to stop Godzilla by laying out a defence trap but Godzilla easily walks on.Soon they capture King Kong and drop him by Godzilla and a huge battle of the monsters begin.King Kong Vs Godzilla is a classic monster movie that doesn't disappoint. Check this one out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The Big G and the Great Ape really mix it up in this immensely enjoyable beastbash","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A submarine bumps into the iceberg Godzilla was sleeping in and wakes the ferocious behemoth up. Naturally, Godzilla is mighty cranky and makes an immediate beeline to Japan so he can level the countryside. Meanwhile, King Kong gets discovered on a remote tropical island by two goofy adventurers and likewise gets transported back to Japan as well. Our towering monster duo hook up in Tokyo for a wild, savage, no-holds-barred paw-to-claw thingo-a-thingo duel of the titans smackdown showdown where they proceed to really dance a brutal boogie. They throw boulders at each other. Godzilla burns King Kong with his lethal radioactive breath. They grapple and tumble like a pair of gigantic deranged wrestlers all hopped up on steroids. The undeniable highlight occurs when King Kong picks Godzilla up by his tail and whips him around the air like a huge ragdoll. Better still, King Kong also fights a big slimy octopus and both beasts trash trains. This immensely enjoyable creature feature item possesses all the delectably cheesy ingredients that I absolutely adore in these kinds of sublimely silly monster movies hilariously horrible dubbing, lovably shoddy rinky-dink (far from) special effects, a booming, bombastic score, dopey dialogue (King Kong can't make a monkey out of us), exquisitely expansive widescreen cinematography, engagingly dumb human characters, and our two colossal creatures are obviously played by a couple of guys in endearingly crummy and unconvincing rubber suits. The excitable and hyperactive five year old boy inside of me thoroughly digs this delightfully dunced-out doozy -- and always will no matter how old I get. "},{"Title":"Greatest Toho Film Ever!","Date":"3 October 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There are a lot of great films in the Toho Series. Rodan, Godzilla King of the Monsters, Ghidorah The Three Headed Monster, and Frankenstein Conquers The World to name a few. However, in my opinion, King Kong vs Godzilla is both the greatest Godzilla film and Toho Film ever made.A submarine is doing an expedition in the arctic. It is destroyed by Godzilla who emerges from a Glacier. Godzilla then heads towards Japan, according to a television reporter acting like a fish that is heading back to its old waters. A man in charge of a television channel, sends a group to Farrow Island hoping to bring back a supposed monster that lives on the Island. He does this to gain better publicity. On the island a giant octopus attacks the group and a native tribe but a giant monster, King Kong, comes and dispatches the octopus. Kong is then taken on a raft back to Japan. Kong fights Godzilla and is forced to retreat mainly due to the fact that Godzilla's radioactive fire is to much for him. Japan then uses Electrical cords to surround Japan, it works on Godzilla but not with Kong. Kong is put to sleep and taken to Mount Fuji to fight Godzilla with the hope that they will both die.Godzilla and King Kong fighting against each other. A perfect idea. At the time this film was made though, both monsters were not legendary film monsters. King Kong was a bigger star and had been around since 1933. This was the first Godzilla film to be in color and it started Godzilla on a stretch where he would become the most popular movie monster. This film helped develop Godzilla, it was his first film in a while and it helped start him off on the stretch that I just mentioned.This is not the same King Kong from the original classic King Kong. If it was then Godzilla could merely step on him. This is Toho's version of King Kong. Not a bad version I must say. Kong gets in a lot of good action, fighting a giant Octopus, smashing through electrical cords, and of course going against Godzilla. In this film electricity makes Kong stronger, an interesting ability to make him stand a better chance against Godzilla. I always liked Godzilla better than King Kong but Kong is a great monster also.Godzilla is great in this film. Not only is he in color for the first time but he also once again is a villain. Awesome! The Godzilla in this film looks really good, probably third behind the Godzilla from Godzilla King of the Monsters and Godzilla vs Mothra. Godzilla is bulky has an evil looking head and just looks like nothing can stop him. Except electricity apparently. That is one thing that always confused me, Electricity did not stop him at all in Godzilla King of the Monsters so why did it work this time? Probably because in this film they state that Godzilla has the brain the size of a cherry. I think this is the only film where Godzilla's brain size is talked about, but I do not think that Godzilla's intelligence is the same in every film.The story is pretty easy to follow. Mr Sato needs a giant monster to give him better ratings since he is sick of Godzilla. So an expedition to Farrow Island Island takes place to find another monster. I guess you can always find Kong on Islands in the middle of nowhere. Once Kong is taken back to Japan the film gets really interesting as there are two giant monsters around. Also the whole tension leading up to the battle between the two is great.Acting is awesome. Not much more to add. I would just like to say that I love how on the boat one of Sato's men calls Sato a 'dumb bell and states how King Kong could kill us all and you wouldn't care. Publicity is all you want! It is funny because it is true.The monster fight at the end is awesome. Really is the best monster fight I have seen. Both get their moments, but I really can see that clearly Godzilla has the upper hand. So I guess Kong is portrayed more as the hero than Godzilla is. BUt that is OK, I love when Godzilla is a villain.One thing I would like to add. THere has been a long running rumor that the ending is different in the Japanese Version than in the American Version. All I can say without giving too much away is that you should check where bits of information you heard comes from and not believe everything you hear.Also, I really hope they do not re make this film. I know that sounds bad, but I have seen so many re makes as failures and this is the type of film that could be re made. Just let this film stand by itself.A great film. Godzilla against King Kong. GO see it, it is a classic. "},{"Title":"Monster Classic","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is probably one of my favorite Godzilla Films this is where he really shines in this movie.Same goes for King Kong.Right now I'm going to review the Japanese version since I saw it a couple of days ago.It starts off with Mr. Tako who hates the fact he has a boring television show and is upset that he has the lowest rating in Japan.so he tries to find a way to boost up the rating.he hears about a professor that there's a monster on an island and Tako falls in love with the idea.so he sends his employees Sakurai and Furue to the to see if there really is a monster.Meanwhile in the Arctic ocean a submarine find a glowing iceberg and approaches it.Back in Japan Mr. Tako is throwing a going away party for Sakurai and Furue and tells them if they don't bring nothing they are fired.Back to the artier ocean The Submarine is close to the iceberg but it's then destroyed bursting into flames.soon enough a helicopter goes to check the site and find out not only the submarine is destroyed but that Godzilla is here.The return of Godzilla is all over Japan and Military defenses have thoughts about using the atom bomb on Godzilla.soon enough Godzilla Destroyes a military base and is all over the newspapers and television.Tako is furious that Godzilla is taking up all the media and wants a monster quickly.meanwhile Sakurai and Furue land on the island and are capture by natives but demand to find the monster.soon enough Godzilla heads to northern japan where Sakurai's sister Fumiko is looking for her boyfriend Fujita.Godzilla attack a train but Fumiko is saved by Fujita who is looking for her.back on the island Sakurai and Furue fight a giant octopus and is defeated by no other than King Kong soon enough after the fight King Kong drink a juice that will put you to sleep.after that King Kong is on a raft heading to Japan Tako is happy to the fact that King Kong is now more popular than Godzilla.soon King Kong is free from his raft heads to japan and fights Godzilla so who will win this fight King Kong Or Godzilla? The Japanese version is a lot better than the USA Version Better Music,Better acting and more funnier.Ichiro Arishima and Yu Fujiki who play Mr. Tako and Furue are really the funniest out of all the characters and in the Japanese version it's laugh out loud. there a scene where Tako is talks to a guy and bets that King Kong will beat Godzilla and is about to fight this guy.there's scenes where he's on the ship and tries to pursed the other not to kill King Kong and hits the TNT Denantor.Tadao Takashima who plays Sakurai gives a solid performance but when around Furue it's funny when he's angry and yelling at him.Kenji Sahara who plays Fujita is given yet another Dead-Pan Role and gives a bland performance except when Fumiko is prated by Kong.Akihiko Hirata who plays the Dead-pan Scientist role and also gives a bland performance but not his fault really the acting is not all that bad but for those whose hasn't the Japanese version hurry up and go see it. "},{"Title":"Incredible!","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  These comments are about the American version I have seen.The editing is awful.The dialogues are horrible,and the performances suffer from it.The effects are laughable.Kong's suit is the worst ape costume I have ever seen.Godzilla looks better,but not much.The plot is absolutely insane.I don't know what to say about this film.Gorillas do not grow that much because they eat berries,they don't conduct electricity,and they do not hate amphibian reptiles.Godzilla is not a cross between a stegosaurus and a T-Rex.Pharmaceutical Chairmans do not look for monsters to pit against Godzilla.There are no black Japanese.The Japanese Goverment wouldn't pit one destructive force against another,because that would obviously lead to more destruction.Apes don't swim.Anyway,even though it's flawed and cliched,the movie is blessed with a strange charm that makes it irresistible.It is a must see.I have seen the Japanese version,and it is much better than the truncated American version.The one I saw was in widescreen,with a better score,and the characters were further developed.It was written as a satire,and had a good sense of humor.But since none cares about the characters because this film is about King Kong and Godzilla,I'll talk about the fights between the monsters.MAJOR SPOILERS are coming your way,be warned.Read no further If you don't want to know anything about the mon-stars.However,If you want to know the truth about the ending of this film,read on.We start with a confrontation between Oodako,a giant octopus which walks on land,and King Kong on his island home,Fero.Oodako is a stop motion creation,but also has a suitmation counterpart.It looks good,untill Kong grabs it,where it becomes a painted nylon bag.Needless to say,Kong defeats the octopus rather easily,throwing large boulders on it for good measure.We continue with the first meeting of King Kong and Godzilla on Japanese soil.Kong roars fiercely,throwing boulders at Godzilla,who then burns Kongs fur.Kong turns around and leaves,while Godzilla mocks him.Kong meets up again with Godzilla,courtesy of Balloon Airports.This time Kong uses his mind,attacking Godzilla from behind,throwing boulders and utilizing his reach.He manages to beat Godzilla up for a while,but then Godzilla hits him with his tail,and Kong hits his head on a rock.Godzilla goes in for the kill,smashing Kong with his tail and setting him on fire.Then,a magnetic storm revitalizes Kong,who then bodyslams Godzilla,shoves a tree in his mouth,spins him around by the tail and clearly gains the upper hand.Now,for the ending.The earthquake seen here after the giants fall into the bottom of the sea does not exist in the Japanese version.The American producers added it to make it more exciting.They also omitted Godzilla's final roar at the end.These changes created the different enduring rumor.Godzilla experts agree that Kong won,but none seems to know how.After carefully examining the ending though,I realized that no one can really say how Kong won.We can exclude the alternatives though.If Kong wanted to escape,we would have seen him rise instantly,and swimming like he was an  Olympic champion.That clearly wasn't the case,since he was swimming slowly and safely.Godzilla roared in the end,to make the audience understand he was alive.But If he was alive and kicking,why didn't he kill King Kong when he had the chance?There are two answers to thisGodzilla tricked Kong by playing possum while they were underwater.The fact that he was on top of him 2 minutes ago makes this sound dull though.The other answer is that Kong somehow knocked him out and swam away,but Godzilla came around  later.However,in the next installment,Godzilla appears breaking through the earth which complicates things at first.A second look is all it takes to clear this mess up though.The next installment,Godzilla vs. Mothra(1964)is another film.Godzilla is,of course,the villain again,but he resembles the peoples' fear of losing their land,while in King Kong vs. Godzilla(1962)he is the nuclear threat.Mothra,and King Kong resemble forces of nature that oppose man.I am sorry for boring you to death,but the point is that King Kong stands victorious in both versions.END OF SPOILERS.I spent a long time researching this movie,and I had fun doing it.If you haven't seen it,then please do.It's funny,entertaining,and ideal for multiple viewings.You'll be arguing about the ending  for ages before you reach to a conclusion.Have fun! "},{"Title":"Classic movie","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A classic monster movie, without a doubt. King Kong, the legendary giant gorilla from the US versus Godzilla, Japan's own monster legend. Sure, the script may have been cheesy, but what Godzilla movie's script isn't? The final battle between the two giants is great, something like pro wrestling and sumo, and a big finish with both monsters plunging into the ocean.I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the best Sci-fi monster movie of the 20th century","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" King Kong vs Godzilla was and still is one of the best Japanese monster movie ever. As we all know everyone loves these two monsters that have terrorized Japan with their huge menacing bodies. And we all want to know who wins, right? So 10 years after the first Godzilla movie was made, the King Kong vs Godzilla was the next hit. I love the whole idea of the story that sounds suitable and convincing enough to attract the audiences and two huge menacing monsters.The special effects and animation is very powerful for a movie made in the 60's. The Japanese actors are very persuasive and you can think that they're in a real event. The total destruction of Tokyo could never be any better. The imagination of the director's mind speaks for itself in this movie. He totally wants you to get the whole idea of the monster battle between King Kong and Godzilla. The direction is realistic. So is the acting. But character development was never shown in this movie. But I guess that the battle is what it's all about.The monsters were perfectly destructive and when they fought they sure crushed the city to its knees. This aspect of the movie makes the characters interact with the eventual situation well. That idea was well thought of. Some movies like these never show good interaction.Except for my favorite scene being the battle between King Kong and Godzilla another was when the musical natives put King Kong to sleep. That was funny. Now about the hilarious moments in the movie. Well the movie was indeed serious business but some jokes relieve you from all the excitement which is good otherwise your head would start thinking what will happen next.Most of the characters in the story play a good enough role but some are very useless. That is one of the worst part of the movie. Another is we still don't who won. This made me really mad because I was rooting for Godzilla. I mean that guy's got fire for breath, a long tail and huge teeth. What chance does Kong have.Other than that this is a movie worth seeing if you love to see cities crumble. "},{"Title":"Catch the Japanese Language version!","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Most of us saw the English language version of KING KONG VS. GODZILLA, which discarded alot of fun bits found only in the original Japanese language version of this near classic.  In it's original Japanese, this is a fun movie about these rather boob-ish guys who work for a Tokyo advertising firm going to a desolate island.  They encounter music loving natives who worship none other than King Kong.  At the same time, Godzilla re-appears on the scene, threatening to destroy Tokyo.  The film is made with wild energy, and goes with wild logic (how can you not love the scene where King Kong is knocked out with bongo music?!)  Proof that director Inoshira Honda loved his audience and wanted to make them happy. "},{"Title":"It lives up to its slogan The Battle of the Century.","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Boy, do we have the greatest match-up ever east vs west, fist vs fire, the eighth wonder of the world vs the king of the monsters. This the third film for both creatures AND this is the first time both appear in color. You don't get any better than that! So, let's jump right into King Kong vs Godzilla.Seven years after the military trapped Godzilla in ice (Godzilla Raids Again), the radioactive dinosaur is accidentally freed from his frozen prison by a nuclear sub and he quickly makes his way back to Japan. Meanwhile, an underhanded company sends a few of our main characters to Faro Island which has gained popularity for two reasons red berries with chemicals that can be useful for medical purposes and a monster god the natives feed the berries' juice to. The god is, unsurprisingly, King Kong and after he defeats a giant octopus, he gets taken by the company, but he soon escapes and heads out to confront the mighty Godzilla in a showdown that will have Japan tremble before these great titans.Undoubtedly, this is one of the best of the Godzilla movies and is the best Versus movie ever made. The Godzilla suit is great and considered a fan favorite. The Kong suits on the other hand are not so much, especially the embarrassing close-up puppet of Kong's face. Nonetheless, my favorite Kong suit is the action suit which allows the actor to grab things. I like how they used a real octopus (four total) most of the time, only using a puppet when the creature is in the same shot as Kong. There are a lot of cool and sometimes funny scenes involving both the monsters and the humans, but the scene that really makes it worthwhile is the final fight between Kong and Godzilla. It has great moments such as when the big ape shoves a tree in Godzilla's mouth only for the dinosaur to use his fire breath to get the tree out, hitting Kong in the process. They just beat the living heck out of each other! Despite an ending that left me a little disappointed and a few cheesy effects moments (Kong's face), this is the absolute battle of the century and I wish for you to check this creature feature out. All hail the kings! "}{"Title":"clash of the monster icons","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" king Kong verses Godzilla is a hilarious clash between two monster icons,the Japanese with their;Godzilla(aka;gojira)and for Americans; king Kong.even if its an actor in a monkey suit,originally i heard that in the Japanese version Godzilla wins the battle.not so after i've seen every Godzilla movie i notice the big g always returns. and he did in the next sequel;Godzilla verses the thing(mothra) since universal had released the American version,they used the music from their monster films,like the wolfman,the creature,etc;early on Kong battles a giant octopus(they filmed a real octopus and also used a rubber stand in )Godzilla of course after surviving being buried in ice cubes from the previous,Godzilla raids again(aka;gigantis, the fire monster)an entertaining monster movie from the sixties.a classic from the abundant toho studios and the home of classic monsters,universal.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Godzilla's","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This was a big leap for Kong and Godzilla first, this movie was both their first in colour. Next, Godzilla was about 50 ft. taller than Kong, which meant Kong would've had to get bigger. 3rd, was getting the copyright for Kong to verse Godzilla. This movie was close to going in the Godzilla Garbage, just like 'Godzilla vs. Frankenstein'. But it ended up being made, and with big success at the time. The story tells of Godzilla attacking Tokyo once more, destroying everything in his path. One man, who owns his a television channel, is sick of Godzilla, and sends some men out to find a beast to take him on. The men return with King Kong, and all hell breaks lose. A great Friday Flick with some friends. It is an ultimate ******* star performance. So, if you like the 'King Kong' and 'Godzilla' series, then I recommend this movie to YOU! "},{"Title":"classic B movie","Date":"26 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" King Kong had destroyed New York and Godzilla had destroyed Tokyo...so now they fight to the death in Tokyo! Kingu Kongu tai Gojira (King Kong vs. Godzilla in English) is some of the most fun that you'll ever have watching a movie. As is always the case in any monster movie, we have little need for the scenes in which the people try to figure out what to do, and prefer to see the big guys do their stuff. However, there ARE two cast members who make the movie extra fun Akiko Wakabayashi and Mie Hama, both of whom later starred in the James Bond movie You Only Live Twice.The version that I saw was the American version. I've also only seen the American release of the original Godzilla movie (with footage of Raymond Burr added). I wouldn't mind getting to see the original Japanese versions of both movies. But no matter, once the ape and lizard start duking it out, the fun begins! A true classic. "},{"Title":"The best monster clash of the millenium!!!!!!","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As I stated above, this has got to be one of the best Godzilla movies (if not the best) out there! In my opinion, it rates up there with Destroy All Monsters and Godzilla 2000. The characters are very amusing and also serious in their roles. While some actors are not in the Japanese version (Eric Carter, etc.), they are also good in their roles. The Special Effects are top notch (for their time, of course) and Godzilla is just as kicken as he always is. King Kong on the other had had a few changes. In real life, Kong isn't even near the size of Kong. So TOHO sized-up Kong to almost Godzilla size. The also added an equalizer to Kong. He grows strength from electricity. The only complaint i have is Kong's suit. Though not horribly, awful, they could've done a better job. So all-in-all, King Kong vs. Godzilla is a must have for Kong and Godzilla fans alike (even for you regular monster movie lovers). "},{"Title":"Third Appearance For Both Kong & Godzilla","Date":"1 May 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sequel to Godzilla Raids Again has American pilots discovering a floating chunk of iceberg that sees Godzilla emerge from his imprisonment, and immediately attacks Japan again. Meanwhile, a giant ape named King Kong(not connected to the two famous films from 1933) is captured by a pharmaceutical company, with plans to broadcast on television, but that is thwarted when Kong escapes to Japan as well, and the two biggest monsters in the world will do battle. Enjoyable romp is great fun to watch, and colorfully presented, even if some of the dubbed dialogue is dreadful(the Japanese version is still unavailable in North America.) The new scenes in the English-language version are silly but amusing. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest crossovers ever.","Date":"5 August 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As a kid I always wondered what it would be like if there was a fight between Godzilla and King Kong. After watching this I got my answer. This was very fun. Now to be honest, unlike most people in the US I saw the Japanese version and I never saw the English version yet. But after hearing about the English version I'm glad I saw the Japanese version first. I love the comedy in this film from both the monsters and humans. Ichiro Arishima is hilarious as the television boss. The fight between Kong and Godzilla on Mt. Fuji was great. It was both funny and amazing. The music done by Akira Ifukube was awesome as usually. Now this film needs to be remade. It's going to be King Kong vs Godzilla's 50th anniversary and it's ashame that won't ever happen. "},{"Title":"The Battle of the Century!","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" After a 7 year break, Godzilla returned to do battle with one of Hollywood's most famous beasts. Godzilla breaks out from the ice where he was left at the climax of Godzilla Raids Again and battles King Kong, who has grown over 100 feet since 1933. While not nearly as great a film as it could have been, King Kong vs. Godzilla is nevertheless good popcorn entertainment. It's a real pity that the original Japanese version is not included, as more drastic changes were made to it than any other Godzilla film to be released in the US. While the US King Kong vs Godzilla is a nostalgic trip, the Japanese cut is the superior film.A lot has been said about the Kong suit in this film, mainly how terrible it is. While Toho's special effects team were able to make one of the most famous Godzilla suits ever for this film, the Kong suit is well, a bit embarrassing. The puppet used in close-up shots was able to blink its eyes and open and close its mouth which was fine, but for most of the film the stuntman is wearing an immobile mask. However, it is still a better suit than the one designed for King Kong Escapes.If you are interested in the Japanese version, it can be found on ebay. Meanwhile, the US version is available in superb picture quality and a widescreen format. "},{"Title":"A great Godzilla classic!","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I am a huge Godzilla fan, I grew up with Godzilla, I just love seeing this awesome monster just destroy cities and fighting other monsters. I like his enemies as well but Godzilla is the Icon! This Godzilla film is a great one. The story is very good. I love how the narration and interviewing is in the film. I think the way Godzilla looks in this film is good. I love it when he roars and moves his tail and claps. As for his enemy King Kong, he too is awesome. He is very powerful and I like it when he roars. The fights between the two monsters is really good. The acting by the film's human stars are also good. I really love this Godzilla film for many reasons and its arguably the best! In My opinion this one is a classic! If you love Godzilla I strongly recommend that you do what i did and buy King Kong vs. Godzilla today! "},{"Title":"Kingu Kongu returnu!","Date":"19 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Well, this was initially a letdown after having recently seen 'King Kong' (1933) again; the comic relief is beyond belief. But once you know what it is (and, maybe more importantly what it isn't), it's a lot of fun. Kong and Godzilla are now (mostly; there was a little stop-motion in there) played by men in hilarious suits and the reporters talking to the viewer only add to that; the (miniature) sets ranged from (mostly) fun hobby stuff to (some) rather impressive panoramas. Then there are plenty of action scenes between Kong, Godzilla and the army (and even an octopus!), most of which made me laugh out loud while a few worked reasonably well. And always do I admire the creative folks who put a thing like this together.Storywise, there's quite a lot going on, from American-Japanese relations to sensationalist and commercial motives of a big company, back to a biology lesson about the size of the monsters' brains. And again, there's a love interest for Kong, but as with the aforementioned motifs, it's hardly significant to the action / comedy / adventure flick that it actually is.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"chintzy childish fun","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Okay, so this isn't really a King Kong movie.King Kong was actually the invention of special effects wizard Willis O'Brien - God to anybody who really appreciates special effects as a making of make-believe. The King Kong of the original film is a living, breathing archetype of dreams - the kind Carl Jung wrote about.THis King Kong is a flabby guy in a rubber suit.Well, but this is a Japanese film - and it should be noted that, in comparison to this rubber-suit Kong, the special effects for everyone's favorite giant lizard, Godzilla, are actually well-above par. Which is what really makes the battle between the two really work; had this Kong been any less chintzy, had this Godzilla been any chintzier, the film would have become painfully violent - or painfully silly. As it is, it is just silly enough to be chintzy childish fun.The final battle is shorter than I remember, or perhaps I just wanted it to go on longer, it's such a gas.(By the way, this film is the real inspiration for the wretched Dino de Laurentis Kong spoof of '70s - he couldn't even get the comedy right!) "}{"Title":"About the sound format","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I really enjoy this site for accurate information and data, but I have to say the sound info mono for this movie is incorrect. The original production was done with 4-track magnetic sound, which was believed lost, along with original negative of director's cut, the original Roadshow version. The duped negative of cut version and 16 mm copy of original version was available for re-release and video tape, but the Godzilla fans knew the movie was longer than they saw and original sound was stereo. They persuaded Toho to do proper research on late 80's, and thanks to their effort, the original negative was discovered from Toho's vault, along with 4-track magnetic sound negative and Ifukube Akira's original music recording. The long-awaited director's cut Laserdisc with surround sound was released on December 1991, and it became a must-have item for Godzilla fan. Sound was, once again, remixed in 5.1 for DVD release, which was great. ¥6000 Yen. It's bit of pricey, but believe me, it worth it. "},{"Title":"Good Times","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I had enjoyed this movie as a very young child and still enjoy this movie to this day. Bottom line this movie was made in the early 60's so considering this, they did the best they could with the budget and the resources they had in special effects. Perhaps, this may have looked better in stop animation, but that was not Japan's way of making monster movies. This movie marked the return of both King Kong and Godzilla. A movie of this type should be viewed for the sole purpose of enjoyment, granted a lot of elements may have not made a lot of sense e.g. mammal and Lizards are natural enemies, King Kong and the electricity but it's all in fun. Enjoy the concept of the two famous monsters battling it out; it's a B movie that is made for fun.  "},{"Title":"US version a wonderful romp!","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  SPOILERS!  I may reveal some plot, but not much.This thing is perfect sci-fi nostalgia.  I've read the earlier reviews that criticize the problem of height between Kong and Godzilla, but the movie accurately portrays them as about 6 foot tall, both of them.  Other monsters are equally believable as 12 inches or under.  In the US version, watch for Dr. Johnson's use of some kiddy dinosaur book to explain Godzilla.  It's brilliant!  The US English version also includes great translations like Do something, they're still alive! as his comrade replies Here they come now!. "},{"Title":"Classic Japanese Cinema!","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is my all time favorite Godzilla movie of all time! I really enjoy seeing ths 2 biggest monsters of all time battle it out on top of Mt. Fugi! This was the Godzilla series in it's prime, with great effects, creative plots, and really cool monsters! Its all in color and features many bright and spectacular moments! The effects are campy but exciting as well as the storyline which features many japanese stars. But beware... this is not the King Kong from the 1933 film, rather a very unrealistic guy in an ape suit... Godzilla is portrayed much better by the best Godzilla actor Hauro Nakijama who played the big guy from 1954 to 1972! The costume used in the film has a bulky and reptilian look, while Kong reminds me of a bald, bot bellied old guy. His mouth doesn't move, his eyes are all googly looking... it's just one awful suit. The one used in King Kong Escapes is much better! If you enjoy Godzilla, Gamera or any science fiction at all, this is a movie that will be on top of your vcr for many years to come. "},{"Title":"Kingu Kongu tai Gojira (1962)","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" First of all, I saw the wonderful Japanese version. Second, Godzilla NEVER EVER EVER WON, nor was he meant to. Anyone who tells you otherwise is a liar and a whore. Anyway, the film itself! It's a great satire/comedy, which is what the producers were aiming for. The first two Godzilla films were straight horror, dealing with man's manipulation of nature. King Kong is a brilliant foe for Godzilla as he IS nature. He wasn't enhanced by radiation, but he was also abused by man. So now we have man's destructive capabilities and exploitation of nature, as well as the creatures they have created. At the core of this film is a TV studio executive trying to boost ratings for a science show. We get a lot of talk about sponsors and the business before it was cool. There are a few technical difficulties with this film. Their are some very poor edits, as a single shot will cut to a different take and carry on as if nothing happened. The costumes are also of lesser quality, though some exaggerations were made for comical effect. I have many favorite moments in this film. The main one being the first confrontation between Kong and 'Zilla. They square off, beating their chests, throwing rocks, and then...they simply walk away. Backing down as Godzilla shows off his fire breath and has the upper-ground. The final battle is weird and slapstick, and has Kong resurrected by lightning hands and then gaining lightning powers ?!?! This is very enjoyable, camp stuff. You must be willing to see these monsters in a comical light, and to have some lighthearted fun. "},{"Title":"LOLGodzilla!","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's hard to take this movie seriously as part of the overall Godzilla series, and that's fine. There's nothing serious about this movie except perhaps the producers intentions in creating it. It is a classically bad giant rubber monster movie, and that is exactly what makes it great. I've watched it dozens of times, and it never fails to make me laugh. I show it to friends at parties. All it lacks is captioning in badly typed Engrish.Why is it so marvelous? Because it is so mockable! The special effects are wonderfully bad, so cheap they are glorious. Kong has duck lips (among other things). The story line is shockingly bad -- for instance, while every 'expert' in the movie claims ignorance of this Mystery monster, they also know he is Godzilla! And he's the natural enemy of King Kong! And they are going to fight! The whole script is practically on the video cover. It could not be more perfect for what it is.The added scenes for the American version are as typically awful as the hatchet job done on the original Gojira film -- it could only have been better if they'd dragged Raymond Burr back to stand around looking noble and clueless. Watching for the telling details is practically a game in itself. The humor built intentionally into the film isn't so great, but the unintentional humor can leave you breathless. The sincerity is palpable, and there is no irony. It's like Ed Wood took over the franchise for one film.Don't go into this one looking for thrills, excitement, or tension. Don't look for development of the Godzilla story. There are no such moments, and if there were, they would ruin the movie. Don't even consider it part of the Godzilla legend -- there are much better movies in the series for the serious fan. Go in expecting a good time. Get out the popcorn and MST3K it. You'll laugh your rubber duck lips off. "},{"Title":"You can't start shooting at Kong now &#150; he's holding my sister in his hand!","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" By 1962 Godzilla's career had hit the rocks he hadn't worked since 1955's Godzilla Raids Again had failed to set the box-office on fire, so it was a lucky break when King Kong animator Willis O'Brien's pitch for King Kong Vs. Frankenstein got picked up by Toho, who decided to give the local boy one more chance. Not only would King Kong Vs. Godzilla be the first time in color and CinemaScope for both beasts, but its popularity would propel a Godzilla revival as he worked his way back up through the ranks of monster mashes to stake his claim as Japan's favorite monster. Sadly, while it may have revived their careers, it's not an especially worthy vehicle for either star. Even in its original Japanese version this was played largely for easy laughs &#150; one character has obviously spent a lot of time studying Edgar Kennedy's mannerisms while another sounds like he's dubbed by Ritzik from Sergeant Bilko (Ooh! Oooh!), and that's not mentioning dialogue like You can't start shooting at Kong now &#150; he's holding my sister in his hand! or King Kong can't make a monkey out of us. The plot is nothing to write home about. After Godzilla breaks free of the ice he was trapped in back in 1955, the head of a pharmaceutical company hoping to market a giant berry with narcotic effects declares I'm sick of Godzilla. I want my own monster! Find me a monster fast! Luckily the same remote island the berries come from is the home of King Kong, who is worshipped by a tribe of Japanese actors in blackface speaking pigeon-English. After winning over the natives by giving them cigarettes (even the children), our comical capitalists capture Kong &#150; but not until after he's battled a giant octopus &#150; and plan to ship him back to Japan, which at least means that Kong aficionados finally get to see Kong being towed on the giant raft. Naturally things don't go well Kong escapes and the two monsters find themselves on a collision course, with Tokyo the initial battleground before moving on to the countryside and a grand finale pepped up (in the US version at least) with earthquake footage from The Mysterians. The fight itself doesn't exactly live up to expectations or its billing as 'The Battle of the Century!', but at least it got the big feller back in the game.There were plans at one point to incorporate stop-motion effects into the film before time and money ruled that out, though judging by the couple of brief and ineffective moments of stop-motion animation in the film that's not a bad thing. Still, there's no hiding the fact that the Kong suit isn't one of Toho's finest achievements &#150; aware that more suspension of disbelief was needed than normal, they used photos of the 1933 Kong to promote the movie. There's also some very clumsy integration of the human characters and the battling monsters, the clumsy color separation and superimposition constantly turning foreground figures into blue silhouettes. The optical printing is reportedly slightly better in the Japanese version but unfortunately the only version available on DVD to non-Japanese audiences is the heavily Americanized version, which not only deletes large chunks of the original and replaces Akiro Ifukube's score with selections from The Creature From The Black Lagoon and other 50s Universal monster movies but also stops the action dead for long stretches with wildly overlong newly shot and very static sequences with Michael Keith's UN reporter and Gig Young impersonator commenting on the action from the studio while Harry Holcombe's dinosaur expert describes Godzilla as a cross between a Tyrannosaurus Rex (which he demonstrates by holding up a picture of an Allosaurus) and a Stegasaurus with a brain the size of a berry. Even the actors can't get up much enthusiasm when Keith asks How does that sound in Tokyo? a deeply unimpressed Japanese newsreader replies Not very good. "},{"Title":"You two are going to Farro Island and find me a genuine monster whether he exists or not!","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Godzilla has escaped his icy prison and is making a beeline for Japan. No one seems to be capable of stopping his progress. In comes an enterprising businessman, Mr. Tako, who has heard rumors of a large monster on a nearby island. His plan is to have a couple of his men go to the island to get this giant beast and use it against Godzilla. The two men find the Farro Island and King Kong. Can Kong stop Godzilla, or will he also become a threat to Japan much like Godzilla? Please note that my rating is based on the American version of the film. I would really like to see the original Japanese version and may seek it out. From what I've read, the American version cuts a lot of the comedy, especially from Mr. Tako, and inserts the U.N. television reports. Mr. Tako is the highlight of the movie for me, and more Mr. Tako would seem to only make things better. He's hilarious. The U.N. news reports are totally unnecessary. The announcers do little other than describe the upcoming action which the viewer is about to see. There's no real point in much of it.Growing up in the late 60s / early 70s, King Kong vs. Godzilla was standard afternoon television viewing on one of the local channels. I seem to remember it playing a few times each year. And each time I couldn't wait to get home from school to see these two behemoths square off. While I no longer find the final fight scene the most enjoyable part of the movie, it's still one of the best encounters Toho filmed. But the fight scene no longer works for me the way it once did and I no longer consider King Kong vs. Godzilla the best film Toho ever made (for the record, I now go with either Matanga or Rodan). "},{"Title":"One of the Battle of the Centuries!","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was the most profitable of the Godzilla series. He battles King Kong, the Eighth Wonder of the World. The battle is like one between a wrestling match. The crunching and crushing of buildings are a work of special effects genius by Eiji Tsuburaya and Akira Ifukube gave a moving and super music score, introducing one of his familiar Godzilla themes that would be later heard in the many Godzilla movies that follow. Ishiro Honda had solid and visionary direction and Shinichi Sekizawa gave a funny and lighthearted script. The two lead actresses in this movie, Mie Hama and Akiko Wakabayashi, also starred as the Bond Girls in the James Bond movie You Only Live Twice. Mie Hama plays Fumiko who became King Kong's love-at-first-sight (you get the idea what happens when Kong sees her). Overall, this is an awesome movie with memorable characters, exciting monster battles, a solid plot and rousing music. The downside is that I wished the costume used for Kong would be a bit more serviceable; the suit is pretty hideous. And, I wished there was a little more city-stomping action. This American version of this movie is sold in stores in the USA. There are American inserts with American actors, which actually contributed to the storyline. But, many scenes from the original film are cut, as is most of Ifukube's score. I have both the Japanese and American versions. If you want the complete story with the original plot and music with no unnecessary inserts and stock music, stay with the Japanese versions with English subtitles (if you can find it sold somewhere).Grade B+ "},{"Title":"nice try, fellas, but no cigar","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The first thing people say about King Kong vs. Godzilla is that it should be no contest; an indestructible, radiation-breathing dinosaur as big as a skyscraper should have no trouble finishing off an ape the size of a house who can be killed with bullets.  The second thing people say about King Kong vs. Godzilla is that it's great fun anyway.One of these common observations is inaccurate.I recently watched the widescreen, subtitled Japanese cut of the film.  It had a lovely print, and I was in good company, and there was a bowl of chips on hand...and that was all fine...and yet, even in such an exquisitely cultivated atmosphere of elitist Godzilla fandom, I still did not enjoy this movie.  Big problem number one - it's slow.  How can a film be called wildly entertaining when it drags like a whale's corpse?  Big problem number two - it's supposed to be a satire, but something has apparently been lost in translation.  Okay, so advertising executives want to use the battle as a marketing ploy; that's a good idea.  But it goes nowhere.  That single joke is not enough to sustain an entire film!The original Gojira and King Kong are classic monster movies - probably the two best of their kind, in fact - so it's a real shame that they've been taped together so clumsily here.  Neither monster is done justice. Godzilla plays a tiny role; it takes him ages to bust out of an iceberg, before he melts some tinkertoy tanks and goes on the least exciting rampage since my mother last cleaned the house in a fit of pique.  Worse yet, the Godzilla suit is silly.  Why fans praise it, I'll never know - he looks like a stuffed alligator.  King Kong fares even worse; his ratty monkey costume is thoroughly risible, and a far cry from the elegant stop motion effects that had animated him DECADES before!  Kong's native isle is also badly depicted; it's populated by blacked-up extras (how offensive is that?) who carry on like refugees from a Busby Berkeley musical.The much-vaunted fight is funny - if you go for that kind of thing - although it could be so much more.  The concept that lightning is the source of Kong's power seems absurd, since it has no scientific grounding (what, do all apes love electricity or something?) and no basis in the original King Kong.  The indecisive ending is also something of a disappointing cop-out.On balance, this is my least favorite Godzilla film, because it eschews the traditional Japanese mysticism and social commentary of the series in favor of imitating (poorly) an American classic.  Better entries in the series include the original Gojira (best seen in Japanese), Godzilla, Mothra, and King Ghidorah Giant Monsters All-Out Attack (avoid the American DVD, the translation stinks), Godzilla vs. King Ghidorah, Godzilla vs. Mothra (1964), and Terror of Mechagodzilla (also best seen in the original cut, since the Americans heavily edited the ending!). "}{"Title":"Another masterpiece","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  KING KONG vs. GODZILLA is one of the best Godzilla films of the 1960's. It moves along a quick pace, and it never drags the auidence down (atleast IMO). This was one of my first monster films, so it means something special to me (however, I'm sure it doesn't matter to you anyways). Not to mention, it's a light-hearted comedy, something you don't see in Godzilla films now a days.However, I cannot stand my hacked, mutilated version of the film. It's simply god-awful! The dubbing is horrible, half an hour (or atleast from I heard) of monster action is taken from the film, and the 20 minute american footage (intotal) of the americans telling us that Godzilla is a retarted monster (the size of a cherry? Please!) is completly stupid. The Kong suit looks ridicilous (this is is a step down to the orginal one), and some of the music is ALMOST unbearable. However, there are postive sides.The story and plot are well executed, the characters are interesting and likeable, the Godzilla suit looks fearsom, a lot of comedy, and some nice, descent special effects, but a step down off MOTHRA (it's a sequel, don't ask me how). The ending is perefect, it's also questionable, and it lives you wondering who actually won. The fact that Kong won doesn't bother me at all! A great film, given a bad treatment, for peeps out there, don't waste your money on the american version like I did, I suggest you get the orginal. Overall, another masterpiece, a 10/10!. "},{"Title":"SPOILER!King Kong wins.Deal with it.","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Oh yeah,Kong wins.And there is NO other version of the movie.Take my word for it.The other version ends just like the one we've known and loved.And let me tell you why and how Kong defeated Godzilla.Spoiler alert!Again! Kong smacks the lizard around for,say,six minutes and then he tosses him into the sea.But the overweight dinosaur holds on to him and as they tumble down a cliff he ends up on top of Kong!Godzilla is on top of him and they come crushing down at the bottom of Tokyo Bay.The monsters keep fighting,causing a massive earthquake(or the earthquake just took place,I can't tell for sure).Kong won't give up.Using all of his incredible strength(which was actually multiplied when he was charged full of electricity)he grabs his tormentor,and forces him into the chasm the earthquake had created moments ago.(In the sequel of this film,Godzilla vs. Mothra,the lizard first appears breaking through the Earth's crust).Godzilla couldn't do a thing about it.He couldn't win this fight.Universal and RKO Radio allowed Toho Co. to use the character King Kong after convincing them that Kong would win.And so,he did.When you'll finally see Kong swimming back to his island home,you'll feel that this movie didn't let you down,even though it's effects were laughable,it's script was insane and it's leads were stiff.Kong proved that he was the undisputed king of the monsters all along.But then again,we all knew that anyway,didn't we? "},{"Title":"Too Bad the Original Version Isn't on DVD","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Even though this is one of my favorite Godzilla films, its too bad that the original version without the added American scenes has never been released in this country and in all likelihood never will. From all accounts, in its original form, this film was a perfect satire on runaway commercialism and the consequences that can happen if people go to far in the pursuit of money. The character of Mr. Tako is probably the greediest man in the history of filmdom and he almost causes the destruction of Tokyo in pursuit of the almighty dollar, or in his case yen. Hopefully one day Universal will come to its senses and release the original Japanese version in the US. "},{"Title":"And the new heavyweight champion of the world is&#x85;","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A submarine crashes into an iceberg, freeing Godzilla from its frozen grip; meanwhile, over-sized ape King Kong is captured by a pharmaceutical company and shipped to Japan. When the radioactive lizard heads for Tokyo, smashing all in its path, some bright spark has the idea of using Kong to bring an end to the scaly beast's rampage. Cue even more destruction as the pair duke it out on Mount Fuji.King Kong vs. Godzilla is far from what I would call a great film (quelle surprise), with a preposterous storyline, dreadful performances, and woeful special effects (crappy men-in-suit monsters and lots of miniature model-work, none of which is very convincing). It does, however, mark the only time to date that cinema's mightiest ape and its greatest mutated lizard have gone head to head, which makes it a must for monster movies fans, no matter how manky the creature suits are.In addition its legendary monster smack-down (which includes the unforgettable sight of Godzilla getting a tree shoved down his throat), this silly Japanese/US co-production also offers plenty of (unintentional?) laughs, including Japanese extras blacked up to play natives (who perform a prolonged dance routine to pad out the running time), Kong getting sloshed on berry juice, a giant octopus latching itself onto Kong's head, and the great ape taking a hot air balloon flight. "},{"Title":"If you have to watch Godzilla, make it this one.","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" How do Godzilla and King Kong ever run into each other? The answer is worse than the special effects in the this,the 3rd Godzilla movie. With clearly visible zippers and lots of continuity errors,this movie isn't half bad. The monsters get more screen time in this one and it features lots of ridiculous action.That combination makes this one of the best movies in this very long and boring series. If you watched all the Godzilla movies in order,this one would make you expect good things from the franchise. Then after watching several terrible movies with interchangeable plots,monsters and humans, you will be extremely disappointed at what is essentially a series of unwatchable poop starring a monster that died in the first one. "},{"Title":"The first Godzilla movie in color","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This was the first Godzilla movie I saw as a child, and practically the first movie I've seen with special effects. I was impressed with the details of the miniature buildings and tanks back then, but by today's standards they are not so realistic. In older generation Japanese, this Godzilla and the one appeared in the next installment Godzilla vs Mothra seem to have special place in their hearts. They are affectionately known as Kin Goji and Mos Goji and several large sized Godzilla dolls have been made modeled after them.As I watch Toho's monster movies starting with the original Godzilla, then Godzilla raids again, and Rodan, I'm surprised to see how modernized Japan looks in this movie. I mean in 6 years between Rodan and this movie people seem to have moved into the future all of a sudden. Of course from then on they just kept the pace until they've become the second largest industrial power in the world. In this sense, this movie was watershed moment for Japanese movie industry. It showed that they've arrived in the world. They've licensed the character King Kong from RKO and made their Godzilla battle King Kong ( was this a challenge, saying now we're ready to take the big American creation ? ).Anyways, it was entertaining probably because the movie is just fun to watch with many humorous moments, and packs so much energy into acting and action. Also in this movie, you'll see youthful Mie Hama before she starred as the Bond girl in You only live twice. "},{"Title":"FOR THE KIDDIES ONLY","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a huge Godzilla fan, but I was never able to warm up to this entry in the series. The mawkish comedy is very irritating and would unfortunately begin to creep in from here on.With battles that resemble  third-rate wrestling shows and a story that's pretty uninteresting, this one really does nothing with the two great movie monsters. And that Kong suit!!! OY! It looks like a hairy, mutated duck-creature. Well, at least we get to see Kong get drunk, and we get another batch of unintentionally hilarious Japanese actors in blackface as the natives of Kong's island. Skip this one and head straight for the far-superior GODZILLA VS. MOTHRA (aka GODZILLA VS. THE THING). "},{"Title":"Good fun when the monsters are battling.","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Viewers' note this review applies to the 91 minute long Americanized version, with new scenes (written by Bruce Howard & Paul Mason and directed by Tom Montgomery) added.Two cinematic titans duke it out in this amiable bit of cartoon like nonsense. There's a minimum of human story to interfere with the generally entertaining mayhem; this is geared more towards younger audiences, who should enjoy the action and the effects. There is a serious theme at play, as the filmmakers point out the folly of human greed and hubris.A pharmaceutical company, led by Mr. Tako (Ichiro Arishima) sees dollar signs when they learn of potentially valuable red berries that only grow on the remote Farou Island. They've also heard of the big monster that rules this island, and Mr. Tako hungrily lays claim to Kong once he has been captured. While this goes on, Godzilla is freed from captivity inside an iceberg (!) and he goes on his usual rampage. The two monsters are naturally drawn to one another and it's a given that the fight will be on at some point.The additional American scenes only serve to undermine a movie that already has a playful and silly quality. Ridiculous American dialogue doesn't help any. But original Godzilla director Ishiro Honda is in fine form, giving us a solidly entertaining movie that marked the debut of the big lizard in both colour and widescreen. It sure is an exceptionally nice looking picture. Special effects are as variable as to be expected, but the creatures are enthusiastically performed in the best man-in-a-costume tradition.And not only must Kong do battle with the big G, but he makes quick work of a giant octopus (on land!) as well.The battle scenes do prove to be worth the wait.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not the best for ether monster but still very fun","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is the 3rd King Kong movie. It also the 3rd Godzilla movie. Better King Kong movies would be King Kong (1933) King Kong (1976) King Kong (2005) and the 2nd King Kong movie Son of Kong. I'm not going to name all the Godzilla movies that are better. But here some examples. The first one Godzilla King of the monsters. The fourth one Godzilla vs M.O.T.H.R.A. The sixth one Godzilla vs monster zero. This is better then the second one Godzilla raids again. The best Godzilla movie is the remake from 1998. Maybe you don't think so. That's OK. But if you are really mad about it get a life you chowder heads. But still this is very very good movie. All the King Kong movies are. Most of the Godzilla movies are very good. Two iconic monster battle can't go wrong. Good fun See it. Classic. Most see. "},{"Title":"Extremely goofy but good hearted monster romp","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's hard to hate too much on a movie like 'King Kong vs. Godzilla'. It is extraordinarily goofy and the uneasiness adapting the film to American audiences is plain to be seen. When it exploits the title characters and we get to see the monsters delivering the goods than I say it works in a very Ed Wood kind of fashion. I think one would be surprised going into 'King Kong vs. Godzilla' when they find out that the monsters are not exploited at all. In fact I would say that they are only really in the film for about a third of the whole movie. Well, when one goes into a film called 'King Kong vs. Godzilla' and doesn't see the monsters than well...The film does a lot to build up the supposed story. A pharmaceutical company wants to capture Kong to advertise a new line of berries found on Skull Island. We get to meet the company's comical C.E.O and his goofy underlings who provide some humor that I don't think is fully compatible with American audiences. Godzilla comes and then we spend a great deal of time talking about how the military intends to stop him. I'm sorry but this stuff is so boring. I found every scene without the monsters to be an almost chore to sit through. I suppose the material with the C.E.O and Skull Island was a little easier to stomach but not by much really. I wanted monsters. How many times do we have to listen to the military dissect how they intend to kill Godzilla? Every film has these moments and it never changes. Godzilla if we haven't learned by now simply crushes whatever they throw at him and so these moments are pointless narratively and do nothing but add filler to the script. Give me monsters!This film also is interesting in that a conscious effort was made to make it palatable to American audiences. There are extra scenes sprinkled in with actor Eric Carter(who surprise surprise never did anything but this for the most part) as a UN newscaster. These scenes look like they were filmed in the break room at Universal. Everything about the American footage is pathetic and amateurish. It's embarrassing to watch because at least the Japanese footage has momentum to it. Whenever we cut to the American stuff the film grinds to a screeching halt. The film has bad enough pacing problems on it's own, it doesn't' need the help of the Yanks. They choose the worst possible places to insert the footage too. We often get it right after a monster scene, the last place it is wanted.What does work? The Monsters. The problem? They are not on the screen nearly enough and we miss their presence when they aren't. Don't get me wrong these aren't expert portrayals of monsters with character and soul. These are men in fake rubber suits but they are endearing and fun. When Kong and Godzilla duke it out it is magic. "}{"Title":"Cheap and rubbery monster movie with some tacky fun","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A pharmaceutical company is on an expedition on a remote island when they stumble upon none other than King Kong. Seeing the chance for publicity, the CEO demands Kong's capture and return to Japan. This the expedition do but how long can their chains hold such a monster. Meanwhile , another famous beast, Gojira, escapes from his iceberg prison and heads to Tokyo. The only hope appears to be to let the two titans battle one another and hope that the winner is weakened to the point of being beatable afterwards.I have not watched many Godzilla films but felt I should give the genre just a bit of my time considering how many other things that I watch. Watching it now I found myself only looking for hamminess, without ever really holding out much hope for excitement. This comes with the genre territory I suppose and in this regard Kong v's Godzilla delivers the terrible nonsense that you are looking for. Ther good thing here is that we have quite a few monster moments, including several fights. None of them are any good of course but they are quite funny to watch as they are quite laughable.The human cast do not have much of a story to carry this time around because mostly we have the device of UN updates of the monsters. It is a crass device that suits the product but yet is also clumsy and annoying in the way it cuts suddenly into and away from the action. The only bit of story is on the island which is amusing, not least of all because of the Japanese actors all blacked up! So it does have a cheap sense of fun within it, but I doubt this is reason enough to seek it out. Alien v's Predator is similar in approach and most people hated that for the same weaknesses that this film has (and more). Fans of the genre will enjoy it and you need to try and get into the mindset for it if you're going to get anything out of it. "},{"Title":"A fine piece of work","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Since I was a kid, I always wanted to see that film. I never had a chance until today. I brought the DVD with KING KONG ESCAPES. I think that in this film, Kong looked like a big fat diseased orangutan than the gorilla we knew from 1933. Godzilla, well he had some changes which lead to the Godzilla we knew for the later films such as his signature roar. I would like to say that the surviving piece of music in the Japanese version is the natives song as they are chanting to Kong.Speaking of Kong he looked like a giant hippie in a way. He was shaggy, he was drinking wild jungle juice, he was holding on to a girl (which is a far cry from the 1933 original), and sniffs some white powder, that came from missiles causing him to fall off the Diet Building (a la Empire State Building). Speaking of which, Kong's rampage was an homage to the original version. The Akira Ifukube score is never heard in the US version, but you hear music from such films as CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON, FRANKENSTEIN MEETS THE WOLFMAN, and MAN-MADE MONSTER. Yes, this film like GODZILLA KING OF THE MONSTERS, this film has footage of American actors and scenes bing shot into the movie. The floating satellite in space must of been footage from THE MYSTERIANS (1957) or BATTLE IN OUTER SPACE (1959). One of them. As for the octopus fight, I was surprised that it was a real octopus, which made me think of those bug bug/lizard movies where they use animals on miniature settings.Stop-motion effects can be seen in this film. There are two shots. One where a giant octopus grabs a native and where Godzilla does a kangaroo kick on Kong. (The kangaroo kick was later used by Gorosaurus in KING KONG ESCAPES (read my comment on that film) and brought up to a new level for the big G in GODZILLA VS MEGALON.) Originally they wanted Toho to invite Darlyne O'Brien (Willis O'Brien's wife) to the Japanese premiere of the film, but she kindly refused, because her husband was heartbroken when he found out about this movie on the newspaper, VARIETY. Sad eh? Originally he wanted the film to be a stop-motion American film called KING KONG VS FRANKENSTEIN, where the monster was made up of animal parts, and after many rejections, he sent the script to producer John Beck and he sent it to Toho where they are doing FRANKENSTEIN VS GODZILLA. And the rest they say is history. With that film being a box-office success being the record-breaking Godzilla movie of all time, this film is worth watching. I highly recommend it! Rated PG-13 for violence and thematic elements. "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review King Kong Vs. Godzilla (1962)","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" One's an American monster created in the 1930s. The other, a Japanese counterpart created in the 1950s. One an over-sized ape which scaled the Empire State Building in New York, the other an over-sized lizard which trampled the streets of Tokyo. What do you get when you put the two together? An animal slugfest which forgets about human characterization. I mean, who would care? This is the first movie which combined two well known monster icons, and unleashed them against each other in Japan. And the first time that both creatures appear in colour too. While the plot is secondary, it takes you almost an hour before the two finally meet, and treated to a short fight with Kong walking away scratching his head. Not a good start to a fight, but naturally, Godzilla would win given his fire-breath. Initially that is, until Kong gets upped in strength by electricity.Fans of both Kong and Godzilla will naturally be pleased with director Ishiro Honda for keeping in some iconic moments which defined both characters. For Kong, a television crew sets out to Faroe Island (a departure for Skull Island) in search of a mysterious beast whom the local island inhabitants worship. They ship him to Japan, until they're ordered by the government to not bring Kong to their shores. At the same time, Godzilla gets thawed from some iceberg, and instinctively makes its way to Japan, first stop being Hokkaido, before journeying southwards to Tokyo.Kong gets a nod with its short stint scaling a building, while kidnapping a Japanese lady along the way. However, he seemed short of ideas in tackling Godzilla, only be throwing huge boulders at the lizard. I'd give Godzilla one-up in its creativity in trying to take Kong down.It's kinda tacky watching this film now, with both monsters given the CG treatment (Godzilla by Hollywood, and the upcoming King Kong by Peter Jackson). Men in rubber suits are obvious, and the closeups are kinda funny, especially Kong's rubber face. But like most Japanese monster movies, the miniatures are a sight to marvel at. Must have been a chore building them, and having them torn down with such ease by Kong and Godzilla must have been painful.So who wins in the end? It depends on which version you're watching. The version I'd watched from a DVD from the library@esplanade, Kong defeats Godzilla offscreen, and swam for home. In my opinion, Godzilla should've roasted Kong, but that's another story for another day. "},{"Title":"Both of the originals are better","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" That's true. Even though the originals, Godzilla (1954) and King Kong (1933) were in black and white, and this is in color, I still think they were better. For monster-movie fans, this movie could be heaven on earth. The two most popular giant monsters in movie history together against each other. But then, why does it (partly) fail? The biggest problem about this movie is that Kong looks really ridiculous. He looks like he comes straight from some sort of kid movie, and is not as terrifying as he should be. Godzilla looks OK though, but he hasn't that much screen time in the movie. Kong gets more focus on himself here. Another downside is that this movie hasn't got as much city-trashing (that I really love) compared to other Godzilla movies. Still, I have to credit Toho for the last fight between the two monsters. That was a really entertaining one. "},{"Title":"Very good Goji film from the early years *spoilers*","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was never a fan of King Kong vs. Godzilla as a younger child.  The film just always seemed to be so much below Godzilla Raids Again (before it) and Godzilla vs Mothra (after it).  A few years ago, when I became obsessed with Americanization of foreign films and with getting as many original language films as I could, I found out why.  The American producer of the film basically sliced half an hour of footage out, removed Ifukube's awesome score, and put in a rather dull news man to give realism to the proceedings.  This makes the Americanized version seem like nothing more than a typical monster movie from that period.  Then I saw the Japanese version.  I had been hearing for a few years just how different it was.  I had no idea!  The film is great.  That's all there is to it.  The story also makes a point to make fun at advertising and commercialism through the ever changing Mr. Tako, who is utterly INSANE in the Japanese version.  The ending is actually the same as in the American version, only without the spfx ripped from The Mysterians to display a flood.  The only difference is that Godzilla roars, showing that both monsters survived the battle to deal their vengence to humanity on another day.If you want to see the movie, shell out the extra couple of dollars and get the Japanese version.  You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"The best of the Godzilla movies until 1984","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I like this movie a lot, although I do have qualms about it, some are personal. The special effects are by far subpar. The characters of King Kong and Godzilla are swapped, for instance Kong never had the ability to get strong from electric voltage, Godzilla did, he's made of nuclear energy. (Maybe spoiling)On a technical sense Godzilla should have won, he could have toasted Kong. Although Kong is definitely stronger, thats probably what they played the film on.      Also Kong for some reason to me looked like he was really old in this movie, the only thing that could make me believe that would be if this was a sequel to King Kong (1933), because he'd have to be like 60 in this movie. I really have to complain about the actor playing Kong, He made so many HUMAN movements. I've never seen ape run with its arms wailing in the air.    They also could have made this ending much more dramatic, thats where I come to my personal point. I saw this when I was 10, I thought when it came out it was brand new, no idea it came out in 1962. My argument then was, when I was young then I wrote screenplays and before this was released on video, so when this came I felt they ripped me off. I've realized since that they had the idea first, although I still think my screenplay was better. Well, anyway no matter how subpar the quality of the movie is, it is still a great film. "},{"Title":"Best Two Out Of Three Falls","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It was around this time that the Japanese cinema started mixing and matching the various monsters their cinema popularized and who did more damage than Curtis LeMay ever did to Tokyo. Godzilla gets thawed out of an iceberg near the North Pole and starts heading for his favorite stamping ground which is Japan. In the meantime scientists have found a giant ape the natives worship on a tropical island and he's captured and they start towing him towards Japan. Of course he breaks loose and starts swimming for there any way.Of course this all is to lead up to the conclusion of a grudge match. Vince McMahon could not have staged it any better, in fact those two monsters did put on a better show than some of his performers do.I remember seeing it cinema way back when and it's just as fun today as it was then. Seeing all those paper mache sets destroyed once again as Japan once again applies for monster disaster relief in the wake.So what do you think the next combination was? "},{"Title":"Cover art on VCR box is wrong.","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I noticed right off the bat, that the VCR box cover art for this movie, showing each monster's heads, was wrong! Especially King Kong's head! The head on the cover art is from the 1976 version of King Kong, not this movies version! This movie version of King Kong is obviously the Japanese version of King Kong. Not that there is anything wrong with that, it's just that I can't understand why they used another movie version of King Kong, unless A They knew that their version was totally different from our's! B They knew that their version of Kong sucked, so how better to attract American's interest in this movie, then to use our version as an enticer! C The artist's of the cover art for the VCR box had no idea what Kong looked like in this movie, so they went with our more recent version. But, all in all, it's not a bad movie! It's just the best part and (Spoiler) only part of the movie, is toward the end, when they finally meet and (Spoiler) fight each other. "},{"Title":"Not the best Godzilla film but fun to watch!","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I enjoyed this film, not because of the acting, script, etc. It's one of those films that you want to see over and over. The things that bring my rating down are the dubbing,the stupid-looking Kong costume and some of the scenes(i.e.when the military fires rockets that have Berry-Juice in the warhead to put Kong to sleep. They then float him away with balloons!). The things I did enjoy were when Godzilla climbs out of the ocean onto land and there are tanks coming out from underground bunkers, when Godzilla blasts Kong right onto his chest during one of the battle scenes and finally, when Kong approaches the village and battles a giant Octopus. Grab the popcorn, turn off the lights and enjoy the film! "},{"Title":"Better than Ali/Frazier.","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lets get ready to rumble!!!!!!!!!! In the far corner of the city weighing in at 127 tons. 407 feet tall. Wearing a rubber lizard suit. He represents the island nation of Japan. He is the slayer of the shipping lanes. The smasher of cities. The self proclaimed King of all monsters. The one and only.........Godzilla!!!!!! *Applause*. In the other corner wearing the world's largest ape suit.....he represents the United States. He hails from Skull Island. He weighs 125 tons. He is a 396 feet tall. He is world greatest gorilla. The most sinister simian. He is King kong!!!!! *Applause*.A classic camp battle. So much for Ali versus Frazier being the fight of the century.  "}{"Title":"A battle of equals?","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The year was 1984.  The place Tokyo.  It was a battle of wrestling champions; the AWA's Rick Martel vs. the NWA's Ric Flair. It was a match that was not necessarily about titles, but rather bragging rights.  So, how did the promoters script the match?  A double countout. No winner, no loser.  The debate rages on.Similarly, King Kong vs. Godzilla is a battle of cinematic monster champions.  America vs. Japan.  You might expect that since this was Toho's movie, Godzilla would win, but you'd be...well, you'll have to watch the movie to see how it plays out.A pharmaceutical company scientist has some berries that produce a non-addicting narcotic, but they only grow on one island, and it's guarded by a giant monster.  The company's executive, jealous of the coverage Godzilla is getting, sends his people to bring the monster back to Japan.  Did we happen to mention that the primitive islanders don't necessarily want him to go?The island looks suspiciously like the one where Mothra lives.  Hey, maybe those twin fairy girls stop by to borrow a cup of wheat germ or something. King Kong is worshipped as a god by the locals, who mash these berries into a drink.  The natives then beat their drums and dance waiting for Kong to appear.  When he does, he drinks the berry juice, gets wasted and passes out.  The natives dance and sing joyously around his body.  Gee, people think born-again Christians are strange.Kong is brought to Japan to fight Godzilla, who for the most part is minding his own business.  Godzilla scares Kong off the first time, which annoys the drug company executive to no end.  They finally do get it on, but it's a long time coming and not an interesting fight.  Sterno says watch an old Ric Flair tape if you want a good fight. "},{"Title":"One of Godzilla's best. (WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS.)","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not only is this film immensely popular, but it's also the highest grossing Godzilla film of all time. It actually surpassed the original classic!Despite what you might think, the ending is the same in both versions. In the Japanese version, both kaiju's roars are played at the end. In the US version, only Kong's roar is played. THAT'S IT.To sum up, it's got everything a fan would want Tolerable human scenes & great monster scenes. First meeting of the 2 Super Heavyweights is OK, but climactic battle on Mt. Fuji is absolutely unmissable. "},{"Title":"Heavyweight Battle","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Certainly not as gritty or thought-provoking as either King Kong or the first Godzilla, this film is still a great deal of fun.  After Godzilla is roused from a US expedition awakening him near the Artic, King Kong is kidnapped from a small island as a means to defeat the seemingly undefeatable menace to Japan.  We are treated to Kong defeating a giant Octopus on his island, and then several battles between ape and lizard.  The film has excellent miniature sets and as always a tuneful score.  The film is in vibrant color and the US version(which I saw) has a news-like segment used to explain the happenings.  It really does not add to the film nor does it greatly detract from it either.   "},{"Title":"East meets West","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Bruce Lee and Chuck Norris did it. Aliens and Predator did in in video games. Dracula and Frankenstein did it. Freddy and Jason will do it inevitably. But for now, we can settle with King Kong and Godzilla hammering it out with Tokyo as their arena.This is the best of the Toho series, with the two most famous of all the giant monsters battling for domination. It was inevitable that they would meet, and the results are some of the greatest rubber-suit battling ever put to screen! I personally didn't mind all the American-added scenes in this film....after all, they just make the film more silly, and no one takes these things seriously anyway. In the meantime, the plotline is pretty good-- it probably would have help up well as a serious film-- and the the monster outfits are so outrageously fake that they're laughable. But that's what Godzilla movies are all about! Their effectiveness are measured by how loudly you laugh at them. LOOK OUT FOR THE GIANT RUBBER OCTOPUS!**** out of **** "},{"Title":"Kong and Zilla in a Wrestlemania event.","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As a viewer one can't help but laugh watching this.   Two actors? In rubber suits as the giant ape and lizard duke it out with each other both getting and taking a licking.  Is there a plot? Well actually there is kind of but who cares!  This film is terrible but it's so bad it's hilarious and fun to watch. It has many of the elements that make up professional wrestling including lots of dialog culminating with the actual clash.  Remember don't take this picture seriously. "},{"Title":"One of the better entries in the series","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is going to be a review of the Japanese version, as the American edit of the film cuts out several establishing scenes, rewrites the comedic dialogue to be overly serious (but still keeping some comedic scenes), and adds generic stock-cues from other Universal films.As for plot, the basic premise is that Godzilla has been inadvertently released from his icy prison in the arctic, and humanity's only hope is the mighty King Kong, who was recently captured and brought to Japan (before accidentally being freed on the trip there by one of the film's comedic characters). The film takes a little bit to get going, which can be bothersome for some viewers who only want to see the monsters, but it makes up for it about 1/3rd of the way through when Godzilla reaches the shore of Japan and starts causing destruction. The destruction and battle scenes are top-notch, and it ends with one of the most iconic duels in cinematic history. Every second of the final battle is entertaining and memorable, whether it be Kong humorously shoving a tree down Godzilla's throat or Godzilla knocking Kong over, only for Kong to come back with a surge of electrical power.The human characters are also pretty memorable, if not a bit one-note. My absolute favorite has to be the bumbling Mr. Tako, who, throughout Godzilla's rampage, appears to be getting progressively angrier.The humor in the film, while funny at times, can clash with the overall tone of the movie. There are some legitimately funny jokes, but I feel as if they don't really work well when the next scene consists of Godzilla or Kong destroying buildings and such. The special effects are standard Showa Godzilla fare consisting of cheesy-looking suits with a couple instances of puppets/one very jarring shot with stop-motion. Despite the dated effects, it gives the film that certain charm the older Godzilla films had. Eiji Tsuburaya had a knack for doing a lot with what he was given, and was willing to experiment in some scenes (like the aforementioned jarring stop-motion shot).The soundtrack is, without a doubt, my favorite OST in the series. It features the first appearance of Godzilla's iconic theme, and OST's usage matches perfectly with the film. All of the tracks have this grand feel to them, highlighting the presence of the two giant monsters.Overall It's a fun film. It features clever comedy and fun special effect scenes. The film's tone is a little odd at times, but it's still a fun time. Make sure to track down a Blu-Ray copy of the Japanese version, as the current American release of the film only features the American edit of the film (for some reason). "},{"Title":"A Noteworthy Addition to The Classic Toho Franchise","Date":"14 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" King Kong's original special effects artist; Willis O'Brien wanted to produce a sequel but wasn't able to drum up much interest. American producer John Beck struck a back door deal with Toho resulting in the licensing of Kong to the Japanese studio for this cult classic mash-up. King Kong Versus Godzilla would become the top grossing film in the franchise and a huge international hit. Willis O'Brien didn't even get a story credit. The enormous popularity of this film largely cemented Godzilla as a popular culture icon and ensured he would continue to reappear on film for decades to come. The American version of the film includes atrocious dubbing and cheaply filmed new material of actor Michael Keith as a newsanchor who spoon-feeds audiences information and stock footage special effects cribbed from 1958s' The Mysterians. The myth concerning the dual endings determining which monster won based on the country in which it was shown persists even today. King Kong Versus Godzilla is not a great film but it's a landmark in the series nonetheless. "},{"Title":"King Kong vs. Godzilla","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" King Kong vs Godzilla Japanese Version 7/10 One of my favorite Godzilla movies has got to be its battle with the legendary King Kong. The start of the film is captivating solely because of the island music chants and drums that are unforgettable and catchy. Having Godzilla's storyline pick up from the iceberg after the movie Raids was I thought very necessary and the scenes when the main characters visit the savage island where King Kong lives might be the best in the movie. Unlike many Godzilla films that try to be comical which fail miserable I felt this one was actually funny at times providing good breaks from the monster action. The battle scenes are top notch and I thought the animation of King Kong, who is definitely unique and Godzilla were supremely created. The Toho King Kong vs. Godzilla Japanese version is a can't miss! King Kong vs. Godzilla English Dub 5/10As much as I enjoyed the English dub King Kong vs Godzilla as a kid it's hard to look past the horribly stuck in American plot points from the UN Center. I just couldn't quite seem to be able to look past the general plot when it was so choppy. However, KKVG being the first Godzilla movie in color was very cool to see. The King Kong flipping arm motions was hilarious yet believable and this is the first movie where Godzilla appears to be a little cartoonish with his movements. At this point though the dark grim feeling that the original Gojira and Raids had is completely gone, this in my eyes is disappointing. The fight scenes are amazing to watch and I was pleased the way they had them start from the northern iceberg of the Artic and South Pacific Island to the heart of Tokyo, Japan. Check out the Japanese version if you don't mind subtitles because it is much better than the dub story-wise. Both of them together I rate a 6/10 "},{"Title":"What The Heck?","Date":"15 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A pharmaceutical company captures King Kong and brings him to Japan, where he escapes from captivity and battles a recently released Godzilla.I am still new to the world of Godzilla, but this film is something a little bit strange. I had the pleasure of seeing it on the big screen at the Patio Theater in Chicago, but even in its full glory I was more than a little bit confused.Some of this film's unusual aesthetic an probably be attributed to its English version mutilating the Japanese original, with the use of UN reporters. Unnecessary. But no one can explain how the King Kong costume is so terrible. Yes, we all know it is a guy in a suit... but this suit is awful. "},{"Title":"Not the best nor the worst Godzilla film.","Date":"11 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As a child I grew up on the original Toho Godzilla films since my mum got them on VHS from discount store every week for a while. This is one I never got to watch as a kid and I got round to it recently, Must say its better then 'son of Godzilla' and 'Godzilla '84' but not as good as 'Mothra vs Godzilla' or 'Destroy all monsters'. The version I saw of this film was the English dub, and i hear the Japanese original dub is better and longer, will check that out at some point possibly. The suits wern't the best(probably one of the worst Godzilla ones) Kong had two face masks and one looked decent and the other looked pretty bad really. Plot was good but went at an odd pace(the TV parts). Good film over all, as I mentioned before its not the best and not the worst in the Godzilla series of movies. "}{"Title":"King Kong vs Godzilla review","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Here it is the most gargantuan battle of monsters anybody could come up with. From the west, there's the massive gorilla that was worshiped by natives and went on to climb the Empire State building. From the Far East, the giant fire-breathing lizard spawn from the atomic age that crushes entire cities. This film unites the two iconic titans in a vicious match of pure bestial muscle power.As cool as it all sounds, the film may inspire more absurd laughter than actual thrills. When the two beasts collide, King Kong throws his arms around in a hokey ape-like manner, while Godzilla throws a hissy-fit and flaps his arms erratically. In the confines of gaudy rubber suits, it looks incredibly silly. The actual mass destruction is plentiful, but these scenes seem so few and far-between. By the film's end (after a ridiculous scene where Kong is airlifted by balloons), the conflict just kinda fizzles out with no clear winner or loser. It's a cheap and dated film with horrid special effects and bad costume work; even if you look past that, the execution is so weak that it can't be taken seriously.Of course, if you don't take it seriously (and you probably shouldn't for monster flicks anyway), then it's still pretty fun. Fans should get a kick out of the epic clash, despite all its cheesiness and flaws.The story is pretty standard stuff; most characters exist to simply to provide a human conduit for the audience to follow as the monsters roam around. The plot does take a few stupid turns (seriously, King Kong flying around on balloons? And since when can he grow stronger with electricity?).This film is pretty cheap, featuring okay photography and editing. Acting is pretty cheesy, and is made even worse with terrible English dubbing. Writing is pretty nutty (possibly marred by the changes of the US cut). This production uses some cheap and gaudy sets, props, costumes, model-work, and some horrid-looking compositing effects. Music is okay.This film has had a pretty spotty history. For the US, parts of it have been cut out, and many new footage has been cut in, in a manner similar to Godzilla King of the Monsters. I don't know what the exact changes are, but the added news reports and exposition feel quite forced, and some of the explanations given seem misinformed, and possibly biased to appeal to Americans. Even in Japan, parts of the film have gone missing (some of which has been restored for home video releases), and the overall condition of the film has been poor. This film is probably best seen for watching the two titular beasts duke it out, in all their cheesy rubber-suit glory. It's not a good film, and the story is pretty dumb (at least for the US version), but if you ever wanted to see two of the biggest and most popular monsters engaged in epic combat, this film has its moments.3/5 (Entertainment Pretty Good | Story Marginal | Film Marginal) "},{"Title":"Godzilla goes ape.","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Let's get the simple plot out of the way Godzilla wakes up and starts heading towards Tokyo, where everyone knows he will just start tearing the place apart, so Japan decides to borrow King Kong when he is discovered living on a small island just off the coast of . . . ummm . . somewhere not TOO far away from Japan (the exact location escapes me even though they show it on a map quite a few times during the movie). King Kong is set upon by the mighty lizard and it's a smackdown to see who will be left standing. If you're a fan of this type of stuff (and I never even realised that I was until I found myself enjoying this so much) then this is just more happy viewing for ya. The charmingly unrealistic miniatures, the rubber-suit monsters, the mix of poor trick photography and re-re-recycled footage. Many moments in the film provide laughs (some intentional and some unintentional) and there's never a dull moment but it's like the cinematic equivalent of a Marmite sandwich; cheap and not very filling but you either love or hate it.See this if you like Godzilla movies, Rampage (the old video game), anything featuring men in rubber monster suits. "},{"Title":"The Japanese and International Toho prints are a 1000 times better than the US print","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have always liked this movie. It was also the first Godzilla movie to be made in color as well.The only gripe I have is that the American version is butchered and slaughtered beyond recognition. Whose bright idea was that? First off, they changed the plot in the US version. King Kong vs Godzilla is SUPPOSE to be SILLY people. It is NOT meant to be taken seriously like the US edit makes it out to be. The original plot mocks commercialism and publicity seekers. However, they decided to add UN scenes which do not add up to anything at all.Second, most of the soundtrack has been changed from Ikufube's score to stock music of various Universal movies, making things more out of place.Third, the dubbing in the US version is AWFUL! I seen the official Toho version of this movie dubbed in English and even if it was not the voice actor's first language, it is way better than the atrocious Universal dubbing.So with that off my shoulders, I recommend you get the official Toho print and skip the US version.Ratings (US version) 3/10 Ratings (Official version) 9/10 "},{"Title":"Don't you just love it?","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" King Kong vs. Godzilla, it had to happen some time, right? I mean how many years before this film were people probably pitting them against each other? I actually like to call this film America vs. Japan, just because I think that this film was Japan's idea, but it was also intended for Americans to watch. But this movie was so much fun to watch just because how funny it was with the lip syncing. It's like the Japanese men coming into King Kong's territory and acting like American tourists was pretty hilarious. I always just loved watching this film as a kid and I think I still do get a kick out of it.Godzilla is once again attacking the city, now obviously since Japan has pretty much tried everything to get rid of him, and they keep on failing, they call upon a bigger giant to help fight him off. They get King Kong, but things may have been over their heads when they take King Kong to Tokiyo and he ends up destroying the city. But eventually him and Godzilla do meet up for the ultimate battle of well, bad clay figurines? But of course, Tokiyo's buildings are just gonna get destroyed throughout the battle since the people think they had everything under control.King Kong vs. Godzilla is all in good fun and is a cheesy movie to watch. But that's what makes it such a great bad movie, the cheesy lip syncing, the damsel in distress who just can't stop fainting, the music to calm down King Kong, it all just works. I would recommend it if you are a fan of the King Kong or Godzilla movies. This is a pretty fun film to watch, you can even MST3K it to make it an even bigger blast.6/10 "},{"Title":"The showdown between King Kong and Godzilla","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  An American submarine gets destroyed when it touches an iceberg in the seas of Hokkaido, Northern Japan. The crash sets Godzilla free from the iceberg wherein he was caught seven years ago! Godzilla soon heads towards the coast of Hokkaido, where he is welcomed by Japanese army tanks and missiles. Meanwhile Mr. Tako, the hyper-nervous head of a pharmaceutical company, becomes obsessed with finding the legendary ape god King Kong who is said to be living on Pharoh Island in the Pacific ocean. He sends his men Sakurai and Furue to the island in order to bring King Kong to Japan to improve his company's publicity (??). After several trouble on the island, they manage to return, but King Kong escapes and soon arrives in mainland Japan, where Godzilla is heading south, enroute to Tokyo! The two meet, and in the following fight, Godzilla emerges as the winner. But then Kong regains his powers through electric energy and attacks Tokyo! The army manages to put Kong to sleep and bring him and Godzilla together again. The showdown between King Kong and Godzilla takes place near Mount Fuji.This is it - the battle between the two most famous movie monsters of all time. West against East; King Kong, the Eight Wonder of the World against Godzilla, the King of the monsters. One of the greatest monster film classics, it was released to celebrate the 30th anniversary of King Kong. It was the third film in the Showa Godzilla series and also the first Godzilla movie in color and Cinemascope (or Tohoscope, how Toho studios called that). And it was my very first Godzilla movie to see!  King Kong Vs Godzilla became the most successful Godzilla movie ever in Japan and the only one that was even more successful than the original eight years before. And it is the monster movie everybody has heard of, but it seems very few people actually saw it. And very, very few people outside Japan have ever seen this film in it's uncut, 97-minutes glory. Ishirô Honda was back at the helm, and Akira Ifukube composed one of his most impressive soundtracks ever. Typically, it was completely removed by the film's western distributors! Instead, we hear sound from Jack Arnold's Creature from the Black Lagoon and other stock music... Again, the film was cut and badly dubbed, and senseless, downright ridiculous new scenes were inserted - the results here are even more horrible than with the first Godzilla film. Unfortunately, this film also marks the point where Godzilla movies started to become (too) silly at times. But no movie is perfect, and this for shure is a must-own for EVERY science-fiction fan out there. In it's original version only, of course!  "},{"Title":"Good Fun Action","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" 0s/40s.King Kong vs Godzilla (1962) *** (out of 4)Do we really need a story in a film with a title like this? Either way, a pharmaceutical company travels to a far off island where they are searching for some magical berries but they end up stumbling across King Kong. Meanwhile, Godzilla breaks free from the iceberg that has been holding him and he immediately heads towards Tokyo to cause havoc. Soon the company realizes that their only hope is to have King Kong re- located so that he can fight Godzilla and hopefully destroy him.KING KONG VS. GODZILLA is a film you could beat to death if you decided to miss the point of the film. I really don't think this film was meant to be looked at as a serious melodrama. I don't think the producers made it to try and capture an Oscar. I also don't think the goal of this film was to match the original GOJIRA or KING KONG movies. No, I think the goal of this movie was simply to make you smile and have a good time. Yes, there are countless flaws in this film but there's really no point in letting them destroy the entertainment value. We could point out the horrible performances or the horrid special effects but if you see these as a negative then you're missing out on some fun.There's no doubt that this is one of the more entertaining monster mash- ups out there for a number of reasons. For starters, it's just a lot of fun seeing these two historic monsters going to battle for a very good portion of running time. Movies like FRANKENSTEIN MEETS THE WOLFMAN and THE WEREWOLF VS THE YETI are a lot of great fun but whenever the big battle happens, more times than not they are extremely short and somewhat disappointing. That's not the case here because when Godzilla and King Kong finally meet up, it's a terrific fight that will have you cheering and there's no question that there will be a smile on your face throughout the entire thing. Seeing these two monsters jumping around, kicking, punching and throwing is meant to be entertainment. It's not meant to be something political or serious so just sit back, watch and enjoy.The film has an obvious low-budget, which means we're given some pretty bad stuff. The special effects are all pretty bad but this here adds to the cheesy fun of the picture. There's been a lot of talk about how awful the King Kong costume is and I agree it's horrible but this too adds to the charm. The Godzilla suit is a bit better but that's not saying too much. Again, some will probably be upset over these things but to me it just adds to the charm. There are a few good things including the cinematography and I also liked the music score used in the American version. It's borrowed from CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOOn and I think it fits the film and especially the fight scenes very well. KING KONG VS. GODZILLA isn't a masterpiece but it shouldn't be put down because of thing it's not. The thing is a kid-friendly, silly action picture that manages to deliver the type of goods fans will expect. "},{"Title":"The Fix Was In - Kong wasn't even in the same league with GZilla.","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sorry but...All of a sudden writers make these these things happen to level the playing field1)Kong is now 400 ft tall (He was no better than 30 ft. in 1933 - someone said he got that big after eating the berries? Huh? What? His son was no bigger than 20ft either. btw)2) One line is thrown in during the fight by an onlooker to justify that lightning re-energizes Kong - Lightning makes Kong Stronger...again huh? what? when did this happen?3) Godzilla's radioactive breath simply singes Kong's chest instead of engulfing him in flames (remember the power-line towers in Tokyo?)Sorry, but the fix was in. Godzilla dominated and bewildered Kong during that whole fight. If you think otherwise then get back on your royal barge and float down the river denial.Also, Godzilla came back to make how many movies? How many did Kong make? He went back to his island in disgrace until he had to fight the robot Kong (not a bad flick). "},{"Title":"I have my own theory on what happened.","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" *** WARNING SPOILERS ***A few minutes ago, I typed out a HUGE comment on this movie! But, my finger slipped & I closed the web page, deleting my entire comment! But, I guess I did you people a favor. Most of the comment dragged on about my childhood interest in Godzilla.Anyway, I saw/bought this movie way back in May of 1998 when I was 11 years old. For nearly two years a question remained in my head Who won, King Kong or Godzilla? And now I can finally find out! I thought.Way back when I was in 5th grade, a couple of my friends started to talk about this movie. They all said that they saw it & they all had outrageous claims about the ending. Some said King Kong won, others said Godzilla won. Heck, one of them even said King Kong beat up Godzilla & started to chew on him! I hope your as baffled as I am. I know it sounds like I'm making this up, but I'm not.Anyway, back to May of 1998. Of course, I was rooting for Godzilla & I started to get high hopes when the Big G trapped an unconscious King Kong in a huge fire. And then came the lighting, which hit Kong, woke him up & gave him electric powers like some sort of giant Pokemon. The fight then leads to Godzilla & King Kong both falling in the ocean.Suddenly, out of no where, an earthquake pops up, which causes an avalanche of boulders to fall into the ocean. The earthquake stops, the dust clears, King Kong rises out of the ocean, swims safely out to sea & Godzilla is no where to be seen. THE END (King Kong roars). Shocking, positively shocking.I personally don't agree with TOXPISTOSOU. Here is my theory on what happened) King Kong & Godzilla both fall into the ocean, but Godzilla landed on top of King Kong. Being the one on the bottom of the ocean, King Kong begins to feel the ground shake. Being the (ahem) thinking animal he is, King Kong realizes that there is an earthquake going on. Although still injured from the fall, King Kong begins to swim away from Godzilla as fast as he possibly can. Godzilla, wondering why King Kong is fleeing from him, begins to swim towards him. But, before Godzilla can catch up to King Kong, he is buried alive by the avalanche of boulders.All & all, it's a pretty decent Godzilla movie. Here it is again, folks. The pros & cons.....PROS(1) It's full of surprises. (2) The fight between King Kong & Oodako (the giant octopus) is pretty good. (3) At first, the ending really makes you wonder what happened when King Kong & Godzilla fell into the ocean (even though I came up with my own theory). (4) Godzilla's first appearance in color. (5) Godzilla has a new & improved roar! (6) The part where King Kong shoves a tree down Godzilla's throat! (7) Well, it's pretty much all about King Kong fighting Godzilla!CONS(1) The King King suit looks pretty ridiculous, especially when they show his face up close. My friend says he looks like Homer Simpson! But, he hated this movie, anyway. (2) Why the heck does King Kong look like he's chewing something when he drinks the berry juice?! (3) The Godzilla suit looks pretty ridiculous too. Especially it's head, it looks like a car ran over it! And why the heck does it have 3 toes instead of 4? (4) The Indian-like chant for King Kong seems to drag on for about five minutes. (5) A little kid that want's to smoke, what kind of movie is this?! (6) Mr. Tako is pretty annoying. Godzilla should have squashed him!My overall rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Secrets and lies.","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Americans deserve to remake this movie. The Japanese version has Godzilla winning the winner takes all (literally) battle. But when the Americans heard about it, they bought the rights, reshot the ending and made King Kong victor... just because he was from an island that was in America! I guess they deserve this small victory. If taking this action and spoiling an artists vision is all they want, then i guess we'll call it even on the 'saving the world' front.American film makers showed just how stuck-up and competitive they were when they changed this movie. If the American version is on the multiplex or at the video store - don't get it. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie of the Entire Godzilla Series","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  King Kong Vs. Godzilla was the most popular Godzilla movie ever made...which is very surprising because it is also the absolute worst Godzilla movie ever made as well.The original Japanese script holds up better than the US version, being a satire on commercialism and advertising that comes through much better than the US adaptation. The inane, story-stopping commentary by the United Nations reporters (and the leaden performances of those actors) are missing...making the narrative a bit more logical.The ultimate problem King Kong's costume. No attempt was made to make it lifelike. Bob Burns' has a better gorilla outfit than this one, which looks like a badly-made kids' halloween costume. Considering the grandeur of the original Kong and Godzilla movies...there was no excuse for this.This movie did not have a Roger Corman budget and should not have looked like it did. "}{"Title":"Had A Lot Of Potential, But The Effects Aren't Toho's Best.","Date":"5 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" REVIEW - So from watching King Kong first and only hearing allot about Godzilla as a kid, somewhere in my brain, it was kind of obvious that this idea would come up. Two of the most famous monsters of all time duking it out, and this was new in people's minds when they made it. So what's the history?HISTORY - Well in the late 50s, Willis O'Brian was going through some troubles in his career, having many ideas that he wanted to put on screen thrown out by studios. Looking for a way to bump his career up again, he went back to the giant ape that got him fame and decided to fill a few ideas to bring Kong back to the screen. Though remaking the film entered his mind, the idea of Kong fighting another famous monster was to him a better approach since the 1940s had made big bucks off Universal Monsters teaming up in fighting each other with Frankenstein Meets The Wolfman, and House Of Dracula. Being a fan of the Frankenstein Monster in novel and film, he began to write a script for King Kong VS Frankenstein. Meanwhile in Japan, Toho Studios had just made their first big successful monster film that began the Kaiju genre. Enter Godzilla or Gojira, a film that showcased a man in a dinosaur suit stomping Tokyo as a symbol of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima. The film was a successful hit in Japan, America and around the world in 1954. So much that Toho made a sequel called Godzilla Raids Again where he battles another monster Angirus. Toho would later make other Kaiju films such as Rodan and Mothra in the late 50's. Losing a bit of steam after a few films, producer, Tomoyuki Tanaka decided to bring Godzilla back in a widescreen color feature. The question was who would be his competitor?Being fans and insipid to make Godzilla because of the original King Kong, Toho thought that the idea of bringing the two monsters together would make big money not just in Japan and America, but around the world. So they went to RKO personally to pitch the idea. RKO agreed, but did not tell O'Brien. Wow, dick move guys! Shortly after the deal, Marian C. Cooper heard the news and was rightfully angry about it since he created the character. What followed was one of the many battles over the course of 6 and half decades over the rights of King Kong. In this round, Cooper lost.CHARACTERS - The movie is a Kaiju film, meaning that the monsters come before characters. But I will try to talk about non monster characters the best I can, even though there bland and very forgettable. First there's Mr. Tako, who is the most memorable of the cast. Playing a Denham like role, his character is more comedic than brave, always acting hyper and on some sort of drug that makes him twitch. The two guys hired by Tako to explore the island are bland, boring and uninteresting. The only scene that I gave a crap about them is when they confront Tako on the ship porting Kong to Tokyo. Fujita is bland. Fumiko is only there for Kong to have a love interest. The Army General is there to be the 2 dimensional general guy and the natives, um, they're Japanese extras painted to look African. Kind of racist there Toho. VISUAL EFFECTS - With this being a Godzilla movie, all the effects were done with men in monster suits and model sets. Allot of scenes from the movie are memorable like Kong's encounters with Godzilla and a giant Octopus. And although Godzilla looks great and the rest of the effects and sets are standard issue, Kong looks terrible. The suit has a visible zipper and the arms are long and skinny, not at all like a real gorilla. The masks look like a combination of a 5 year old clay sculpting of Kong 33's long face made tiny compared to the body and puppet on strings facial features. They also dumbed down Kong's character, making him a tad stupid. TRIVIA - Now as allot of people have covered that there was an alternate ending were Godzilla won the battle, I have two theories about this rumor. 1st this rumor started in a series of children's book by Crestwood, explained in the Kong edition. 2nd, if Godzilla did win, I don't think the ending would have been so victorious. OVERALL - Though the idea is awesome, the movie is kind of poorly made. Don't get me wrong, I love Toho and the effects in this film are mildly good, just not there best. "},{"Title":"At times too goofy, but still worthy of the King Kong and Godzilla names","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" King Kong and Godzilla! Too legendary movie monsters- but which one would win in a fight? That's a question long asked, so having the two monsters in one film and pitting them against each other makes King Kong vs. Godzilla a definite curiosity.King Kong (1933) and Godzilla (1954) are both great films. King Kong vs. Godzilla isn't as great- part of this relates to the too-goofy-for-its-own-good English dub. When a Japanese explorer repeatedly wails about his corns (My corns always hurt when there's a monster nearby!) you just want to hurl something at the screen. I read here on IMDb that a lot of the goofiness only appears in the English dub, that's not what they're saying in Japanese. Given how thoroughly the original Godzilla was mangled as Godzilla, King of the Monsters! (1956), I am totally not surprised.Nevertheless, when you have those scenes without dialogue- the much-anticipated action scenes you expect with both King Kong and Godzilla films- this movie doesn't disappoint. Sure, some of it is a little repetitive- guess what, they're attacking trains again, and Godzilla can still walk through electrical wires without being hurt. And, considering special effects, this isn't the most impressive Kong we've seen, and neither the ape nor lizard benefit from colour, though they're both passable. But the fight scenes are actually kind of thrilling. The ending is ambiguous- only Kong is seen emerging from the waters when both monsters fall in. That may be the best way to end the movie- even if King Kong vs. Godzilla is a Japanese production, Kong is so legendary, and Godzilla so indebted to the original King Kong, that Godzilla triumphing over the ape simply wouldn't do. At the same time, there's no reason to be sure Godzilla is dead. We'll call it a draw- which is fair enough. "},{"Title":"Hugely entertaining tongue-in-cheek monster movie","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  King Kong Vs Godzilla was the third Godzilla film and the first in colour.Gone was the serious intent of the first films.Instead we have a deliberately humourous and silly romp which set the tone for many of the Godzilla films to follow.And,despite it's reputation as a bad film,it's great fun.Atleast,in it's original Japanese version.As with most of it's successors,the first 20 or so minutes set up the characters,than the monsters begin to take over the film.This one is almost nonstop action from about a quarter of the way in,with the monsters almost constantly causing peril,climaxing in a battle between the two which really has to be seen to be believed,as Godzilla and King Kong behave like WWF wrestlers,it's not the best monster fight but may be the funniest.Yes,it's ridiculous,but it's supposed to be.Akira Ifikube's score pumps up the exitement,but sadly the effects are often quite poor,especially the gorilla suit which is simply atrocious.This and the imitations of a few scenes from the original King Kong sometimes horrify people,but as a all-action,light-hearted romp the film pretty much succeeds.Sadly most people in the west have probably only seen the 'Americanised' version,which is a mess.For some reason it was decided to cut much of the intentional humour including some surprising satire,add scenes of American reporters with a dinosaur book,add footage from previous Toho film The Mysterians,replace most of the Ifikube's score with inferior stock music,and so on.The US version is quite fun in it's silly way,but the Japanese version is far,far superior.and deserves a release in the west. "},{"Title":"A classic Smackdown between two monster icons.","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, maybe one, for the monkey suit is pretty bad.  Still, for illusionary and character purposes, it kind of works.  Even though the actor playing Kong doesn't act like a monkey, he does act like a bipedal, thinking animal, on which the American footage educates us.  The WWE style fight itself between the two icons is superb.  Too much fight in the ten or so minutes to describe here, but I assure you things get smashed, and punches get thrown.  Sweet-ass moment  Kong shoves a tree down Godzilla's throat! While Godzilla did act on instinct, Kong used his mammalian brain, along with electricity! Unfortunately, the brawl abruptly ends when they fall into the sea. But what happened under there?  For Kong, apes can't really swim, and he was full of electricity!  Logically, the amphibious Godzilla should have won.  But this wasn't meant to be viewed by Mr. Spock, it's meant to be a mindless yet fun movie-brawl. The rest of the movie leading up to the main event is a slow, talky, and not very good pre-fight show, with no undercard.  This included a scene where the big ugly ape gets drunk on berry juice and is entertained by a group of dancers!  So if you decide to watch this, get some beer and potato chips, cuz the battle itself is worth the agonizing wait. "},{"Title":"You Can't Keep Good Gargantuas Down...","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  **May Contain Spoilers**Godzilla breaks out of an iceberg and heads for Japan; along the way ol' Butane Breath melts down some toy army tanks and incinerates an oil refinery.  Meanwhile, some intrepid explorers go to Faro Island in search of King Kong.  One of them looks like Don Knotts.  In one scene that wouldn't make it past the P.C. police of today, the explorers endear themselves to the natives by teaching them how to smoke.  The islanders are terrorized by a giant octopus until a man in a hilarious King Kong suit shows up and kills it.  Kong drinks juice from narcotic red berries and keels over&#150;-drug abuse along with tobacco abuse!  The comatose ape is towed halfway back to Japan on a raft before the authorities halt the expedition; then he comes out of his stupor and goes the rest of the way under his own power.  More scale model houses and trains get trashed before the inevitable showdown.  Godzilla repeatedly singes Kong with his fiery breath.  Kong tries to cram an uprooted tree down Godzilla's throat.  The two throw Styrofoam boulders at each other and hurl each other butt-over-bandbox.  I'm told that in the original Japanese version Godzilla wins; in this doctored American version it's Kong who swims away victorious. The whole mess is needlessly padded out by an eternally smirking UN reporter (Michael Keith) making stupid comments on the action.   RKO actually gave the filmmakers permission to use the name and character of King Kong.  You have to wonder if they read the script beforehand.   "},{"Title":"Battle of Monster Legends!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sure they had to change King Kong somewhat to make the battle viable as Godzilla has all those atomic powers but film should still excite most Toho Fans. The Godzilla suit looks good but the Kong suit looks awful so one has to be a bit forgiving.The film starts off slow and drags at the beginning mainly due to the addition of boring American UN segments (in the American version) and editing of the original film. Still when Monster Stomping Action--be it against Japan or each other is finally on screen the film is a treat to watch especially the climatic final battle. "},{"Title":"Kong Is King!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm tired of listening to Godzilla geeks (er..fans) whine about the ending. Look, KING KONG is the superior monster plain and simple! Since Kong is the first of all the Giant monsters out there, it's only fitting that he wins the fight. He's like the Superman of the Giant monster world. The one who started it all. And yes he does win. When this film was released in 1962/63 Toho Studios said King Kong won in their press materials. As for Kong himself, unfortunately in this film he looks terrible. He was nothing more then an actor in a sweaty flea-bitten monkey costume staggering around drunk all the time with long crooked arms, a dopey face and a sagging chest and pot belly. Tsuburaya wanted a less threatening Kong but ended up embarrassing the mighty simian. Godzilla on the other hand, looked great, more dinosaur-like then ever before with monolith proportions to his body, a cool head and almost human like eyes. Hands down the best Godzilla suit design ever! The great climatic brawl was one for the ages. This movie was billed as the Battle of The Centuries and it lived up to the hype. The fight started at the foot of Mt. Fuji, went through Atami Village and ended up in the Pacific Ocean! Throw in a pretty cool night-time fight between King Kong and a giant octopus (Giant Devilfish) on Kong's Island, Godzilla trashing a train at night, Kong ripping through power lines, and climbing the Diet Building, and Godzilla trashing a Nato base in the Bering Sea, and you have a fun fast paced movie. I hope one day someone does a big budget remake of this. "},{"Title":"Bad? Yes! Funny? Yes! Take it seriously? NAH!","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Alongside Gojira tai Hedora,this has to be the most hillarious Gojira movie I have ever seen!The funniest things about this film .Where one of the guys use silk string and hangs from an apartment,just to scare and show off to his sister and his friend his sister loves. .Where King Kong fights a Giant octopus (and yes,that's a real Octopus!). .The bickering of the suitmation actors,which was unfortunatly cut from the North American versions,BOOOOOOOO! .Gojira/Godzilla literaly lights Kong on fire and Gojira's victory dance. .Where Kong gets lifted by a bunch of baloons and airplanes! .The game of toss the boulder.That is some hilarious highlights of this cheese classic,but please watch the imported versions of this if available. "},{"Title":"The ending is exactly the same in BOTH versions","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The myth that this movie's ending was changed by American distributors is completely untrue. I have both versions of the film and the American one is certainly edited badly but the ending is the same. If you are a fan of Godzilla then do your self a favor and get the Japanese versions of all of these films. "},{"Title":"A hoho from Toho!","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  How can people hate this? Well,maybe the American release,but the original version ain't that bad!It's because people are taking it seriously!It's not meant to be taken seriously!This (and many others)Gojira movies is soooooooo hilarious.Dig the semi-shot King Kong suit!Oh yeah,just to let people know,Gojira was NEVER 400ft tall! In this one,he's the same size as Kong,which is 50ft.In Gojira 1984,he was 80ft.Then starting with Gojira tai Kingu Gidora he was a whopping 100ft! "}{"Title":"Godzilla would have crushed him in a second!","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was younger, and something always really bothered me about it.  King Kong was supposed to be 50 ft tall, and Godzilla 400.  In the movie it looks like they are almost the same size.  I think in real life, heh, that Godzilla would have just either stepped on him or burned him with his radioactive breath.   "},{"Title":"The fight was fixed!!!!","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I am not wild about this movie, mainly because of the outcome here in the US. To me King Kong should not have stood a chance against Godzilla, but you know how it goes. In Japan there was one winner, and here there was another. Other things I don't like about this movie are the totally stupid ways they invent weaknesses for Godzilla. Since when is a creature that was spawned from radioactivity weakened by electricity? It makes no sense! And why would that same lighting that so hurts Godzilla power up King Kong a mammal who should be as susceptible to shock as any other monkey? It makes no sense! Any why, oh why does Godzilla's radioactive fire breath not set a giant monkey on fire rather than just a bit of smoke? Once again it makes no sense! On the plus side their first encounter goes exactly as it should, with Godzilla making the monkey turn tail and run. Other than that though, these two should not have been matched up...for one they had to increase King Kong's size so it wasn't even the one we have in the US anyway, so why tilt the fight to his favor in the US? Though from what I have read now it seems there is not a cut of this movie where Godzilla wins...still should have, but apparently no. I read it in a Godzilla book that there was an alternate ending so whoever wrote that really needed to do more research. "},{"Title":"What a ham!","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the stupidest movie I have ever seen! The acting is bad, and the monsters look bad! Even the King Kong remake is better than this! What a disappointment! Skip this one! It deserves to be flushed down the toilet! "},{"Title":"...Laughable...","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you have the ability to see this in a funny way you can actually spend a good deal of time laughing your heart out with it. I don't know if it was meant as an... action  film, or something of that nature, when it came out but I remember well that we watched at least half of it with my flat-mate during a night before term exams and it looked much more interesting and fun than the subject we had to study (Steve?).Of course the filming, the production, as well as the whole concept is primitive but that's what makes it so funny after all. Get into the mood and enjoy... 5/10 so that I can keep part of my credibility as an imdb voter! "},{"Title":"Shoddy Effects, Weak Writing, Bad Acting and the Worst Monkey Suit in Motion Picture History","Date":"24 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is the point where the Godzilla franchise shifted, not so subtly, from sci-fi horror to sci-fi camp. It's got all the trappings of a generic early '60s monster stinker atrocious production values, two badly undercooked competing story lines, awful voice-over work for both American and Japanese actors, and a total lack of moral compass. Glaringly reworked for western audiences, the plot doesn't make an awful lot of sense. Dry, boring news segments savor more screen time than anyone, while an over-ambitious plot attempts to retell both monsters' origins on the cheap and fails spectacularly. The effects work is a laughingstock; an abundance of blatant toy miniatures barely manage to keep themselves upright, and the scale of both creatures varies wildly from one scene to the next. Kong's costume (with its sporadically stretching forearms) is the creme de la creme, a creation so shoddy it would have been laughed off the set of an Ed Wood movie. Terribly hokey, humorous in the most eye-rolling ways possible and completely lacking in reverence for either classic monster, it's a total catastrophe. "},{"Title":"Entertaining in spots but mostly terrible","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" King Kong vs. Godzilla really should have been a fun meeting between the two legendary movie monsters. It was both of theirs' first films in color, Godzilla's first in seven years as well. If almost certainly not a great film, King Kong vs. Godzilla could at least have been campy fun, but for the most part, it is simply cringe-worthy.The main failing point of King Kong vs. Godzilla is the script. No, I am obviously not expecting great writing from a film like this, but there have been several other installments in the series, such as the two prior to this and several after the 80's revival, which at least provided interesting characters and a solid, sensible plot. King Kong vs. Godzilla is really just all over the place, jumping from one scene to another without any sort of coherence, it's just not a very good movie, and the 'humor' fails miserably. The actual meeting of the two monsters is far from the cheesy fun of Mothra meeting Godzilla in the following installment, and is just a big mess.That said, the movie isn't without positive points. 'Skull Island' is probably one of my favorite movie locations of all time, and I quite enjoyed the cheap-looking but fun rendition of it, here, and they even threw in a fun octopus that oddly enough looked better than King Kong himself did. It's important to note that Ishiro Honda is back in the director's chair and he does the best he can with this mostly horrible material, really, and for a film that is such trash, this is really quite well-made in general.King Kong vs. Godzilla isn't a bad idea; I would pay to see a newer version with state of the art special effects granted Roland Emmerich isn't directing, but this original rendition is just a failure on all counts. Luckily it did revive Godzilla, however, and we would see many other installments in the series, some worse than this, some just about average, and some that can even be called excellent.3/10 "},{"Title":"A  low for Godzilla and King Kong","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" To start the comment I would like to say that I found nothing interesting about this movie,for a start the fights are too short,the dubbing is poor and the plot is not good enough.If the plot isn't recognizable to you its about a doctor who sends 2 explorers on a mission to an island to see if Kong really exists but at that time Godzilla breaks out of an iceberg and is heading for Tokyo...soon the explorers find Kong and take him back to Tokyo unaware that he will fight Godzilla.King Kong vs Godzilla is cheesy and I don't think they call it a classic because in my opinion its not and never will be and I know its the 60's but come on!the 33 version of King Kong has way more action but at least this movie is better than King Kong escapesand God Im not going to talk about that movie in this comment.If you are disappointed with this movie don't say I didn't warn you. Avoid at all costs "},{"Title":"The idea that never stopped (trying to think of a cleaner word to use)","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" And I can come up with no better way to describe this thing that these Godzilla movies were in the past. Here, may I make a suggestion for the future of the series? It's really going to knock your socks off... Take Godzilla, Rodan, Mothra, King Ghiddorah, Mechagodzilla, and maybe Gadzuki, and make them all wear Japanese flag colored jump suits! Give them even bigger gigantic counterpart robots they can get in and have that robot form into a super bigger counterpart of Godzilla! You can give the creatures names like Billy and Kage. Anyways, after all this have the Power Monsters fight for truth and justice while going to high school! Try to find out why Godzilla has a crush on little Suzie in Home Room. And after all this is done add in aliens from the X Galaxy sending metallic-organic counterparts of all of the monsters that look nothing and act nothing like the beasts and have them attack Earth in an attempt to conquer it! Oh, don't forget the girl with the wire... she's so direly needed "},{"Title":"not everything from Japan is good","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Apart from the first Godzilla movie (you know, the one that had scenes with Raymond Burr spliced into it when it was marketed to the West), I hate these types of Japanese movies. This is especially true because these were about the only Japanese movies seen in this country when I was little so I naturally assumed ALL Japanese movies sucked! Boy, was I wrong--it's just these type of films. If I had allowed the shabbiness of this movie and other Godzilla pics, I never would have been introduced to the splendor of Akira Kurasawa's work or classics such as Kaiden, Onibaba or Kiru.Am I being too hard on these movies? Let's see. A man running around in a stupid looking dinosaur suit fighting another man in a cheesy gorilla suit that looks NOTHING LIKE KING KONG, rotten dubbing (I generally prefer subtitles, but as this is a kids movie it is natural they dubbed it), and crappier special effects than you'd see in an Ed Wood movie. Yep, given all this, this movie (as well as Godzilla versus ANYTHING else) stinks. I think I'd rather be stabbed in the groin with an ice pick than see any of these movies again. "}]