[{"Title":"One of a Kind","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"50 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I am somewhat surprised at a few of the negative comments in this forum regarding the movie. Although I see 95% positive, the ones that dislike the movie because of the romance between Dallas and John are particularly distasteful.They point out an age discrepancy, and call John Grandpa Wayne, good grief! John Wayne was 59 yrs old at the making of this movie, and the actress that played Dallas was 27. In real life those kind of romances happen all the time, why would anyone be surprised when they happen in fiction?The animal scenes are exquisite. I doubt there will ever be a movie like this made again. This is how animals get into the zoos, they just don't walk in there and say sign me up!I like everything about this movie; it is a diversification for Wayne, who was already maybe the most diverse actor in Hollywood history. (consider The Conquerer vs. The Quiet man). It has love, comedy, drama, and animals!Plus all the actors in the movie were given great character depth. I am sure many people have heard of the baby elephant walk, but did not know it came from this movie.Its such a fun movie, I have to give it a 10, because there is no way to make it any better. What a great achievement of direction, producing, and animal filming!  "},{"Title":"so much fun","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"41 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  HATARI! is a film I could watch over and over for all eternity. I've loved it since I was a kid. John Wayne and a great ensemble cast are fun to watch as they have adventures in Africa capturing wild game for zoos around the world. Most of the laughs come from Red Buttons's comic relief Pockets, who does everything from make sly comments to building a giant rocket in order to capture monkeys. The capture sequences with the larger animals (especially the first and second rhino chases) are thrilling, with the actors themselves right in there with the animals. The almost three-hour running time flies by before you even know it. Throw in one of Henry Mancini's greatest scores and two pretty girls, and you've got a fun-filled adventure the whole family can enjoy for years and years. "},{"Title":"Great film for the whole family","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"39 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Hatari is one of the best non cowboy films John Wayne ever made. And the supporting cast is superb. This one is a must see for the entire family. Red Buttons brings the humor, John Wayne the adventure and Else Martinelli the romance. All you need is the pop corn. The kids will get a big kick out of this movie as I did growing up. Many funny scenes in this movie. We have rockets going off, monkeys being trapped and a rhino that just wont give up. And don't forget the two baby elephants running thru the streets.And yes, there is plenty of action for the adults too. This picture was made in Africa and has beautiful cinematography. And the actors preformed their on stunts in this movie. John Wayne can not only rope a horse, but a rhino too. I don't want to give the movie away if you haven't seen it. The movie is about three hours long, but it will fly bye. It is a fast pace movie. And by the way, Hatari means danger in Swahili. "},{"Title":"Funny, gem of a Wayne movie set in beautiful Africa","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"35 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have loved this film since I was a child, and have found even more things to enjoy about it since I've grown up! Now, my 4 year old daughter is in love with all the animals (and she thinks Pockets is so funny). In fact, we have to play it at least once a day! If you haven't seen this film, it is definitely worth your time. The scenery is beautiful as are the animals they capture. This performance of John Wayne is one of his funniest, and the supporting cast are just as great. You have no problem believing these people truly do this for a living, and Red Buttons will keep you laughing.This has something for all ages exotic animals and Red Buttons' antics for the kids; adventure and romance for the adults. Give this one a try, especially if you are looking for a good family film you all can enjoy! "},{"Title":"Hawks' African 'Buddy' Film a Wayne Classic!","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  HATARI! may be the most enjoyable of the Howard Hawks/John Wayne collaborations (their other pairings produced the classics RED RIVER and RIO BRAVO, and the RIO BRAVO 'remakes' EL DORADO and RIO LOBO), and is exceptional in several ways; at 157 minutes (2 hours, 37 minutes), it may be one of the longest 'buddy' films ever made; nearly all of the animal 'chase and capture' sequences involved the actual cast members (professional handlers serving as stunt doubles were only rarely used); and the filming began with virtually no script (which was written based on the 'on location' footage in Africa, after the cast returned to California). At 65, director Hawks was still in top form, and the risks he took paid off...HATARI!, despite it's length, is never boring!The story focuses on a season with a team of professional hunter/trappers, capturing animals for zoos and circuses. With a breathtaking opening scene of a rhino chase, costing them the use of veteran driver, 'Indian' (legendary actor Bruce Cabot), the 'family' dynamic is quickly established, with rugged Sean Mercer (Wayne) both boss and father-figure to the group. As he and the rest of the 'family' (Red Buttons, Hardy Krüger, Valentin de Vargas, and Michèle Girardon) meet 'Indian's' replacement, 'Chips' (Gérard Blain), Mercer has an even bigger headache to deal with; beautiful photographer Anna Maria 'Dallas' D'Allesandro (Elsa Martinelli) has arrived, to shoot a magazine spread. A 'traditional' Hawks leading lady, 'Dallas' is feisty, sultry, and attracted to Mercer, and the older man, uncomfortable with the ease by which she fits into the group, as well as his own stirrings, tries to make it clear that romance has no place on his agenda (in much the same manner as he did with Angie Dickinson in RIO BRAVO...and with the same results).While some elements of the story are dated and politically incorrect (shooting a baby African elephant, even as a 'mercy killing', would be a major offense, today, as it is an endangered species), the combination of spectacular 'hunt' sequences, and the warmth and easy camaraderie of the cast in the subplots make HATARI! a rich, rewarding experience.A major plus for the film is a very atypical Henry Mancini score, combining tense, African-influenced themes for the chases, and the very funny 'Elephant Walk' to punctuate 'Dallas's' relationship with her adopted pachyderm 'children'. The baby elephant scenes are film highlights, as is the rocket capture of a tree filled with monkeys, and both rhino chases (which clearly shows Wayne in some real danger!)From the opening rhino sequence to the closing 'Honeymoon' scene, HATARI! is a grand entertainment, and escapism at it's best! "},{"Title":"Hatari","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"28 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This, among others, is one of my favorite movies. I have the movie and my Granddaughter and I watch it often. She likes all the animals in it. Being an animal lover myself, this is the perfect movie with a perfect cast. John Wayne was remarkable in making this; he acted as if what he was doing was something he did everyday. Very natural. Red Buttons was cute, funny and great in the role of Pockets. The casting director couldn't have done a better job by putting him in this part. As far as that goes, all the actors were made for the parts they played. The scenery is exceptional. Not sure if they were actually in Africa or not. Even if it wasn't made in Africa, you believed they were there. The music was what brought the whole thing together. Gave it feelings. "},{"Title":"The most hilarious John Wayne movie","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"27 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie in 1962. Today it is still as fresh and funny as it was forty years ago. And it is so politically incorrect! It should be put on a pedestal!!! Think about it cool and suave dudes out in the wilds of Africa capturing wild animals for zoos!  It's great to see those these folks, rousting beasts during the day, dancing around the piano, while they hold a martini in one hand and a beautiful girl wrapped around the other. The Henry Mancini music is a pleasure to listen to. Just try to obtain a rare CD of the Hatari soundtrack. The humor in the movie is largely supplied by an adorable Red Buttons, playing a former New York cabbie who currently acts as manic truck driver for John Wayne on his daily quest to capture animals. And why is Buttons now driving in Africa? His explanation is that the animals are like New York drivers, so he feels right at home. So run, don't walk to your nearest video rental joint. Rent this baby and spend the next few hours laughing with a movie from a different time and world view. "},{"Title":"The best of the John Wayne movies","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is fast paced but seems leisurely.  It is filled with exciting animal chase sequences but is really a romance.  It is my favorite Red Buttons movie as well as my favorite John Wayne.  One of the things that I really like about this movie is that the supporting cast carry so many scenes without John Wayne overwhelming them.  All of the characters get developed as if they actually have a life off-screen. This is a very entertaining comedy that never seems to lose its appeal to my whole family. "},{"Title":"Great Family Movie","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time when I was about 7. I am in my later 30's now and still enjoy seeing it anytime I can. This is a movie that I would be interested in buying it was so entertaining. This was a great movie back then for me to see, and a movie that I would be happy to sit down with my children and watch now. It is clean fun with a lot of humor. My favorite parts of the film were when they were working with the animals, which was most of the time. The baby elephants added quite a bit to the movie and made it fun. Excellent family film. If you enjoy animals and have a few hours to kill, I recommend you rent this one. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Hatari is a fun movie to watch at any age and Red Buttons is hilarious as pockets. I saw this movie when it first came out in the 60s and as a young teenager I fell in love with Michele Girardon (Brandy). Unfortunately, I found out years later that she died of cancer as a result of too much smoking. The subplot of Pockets (older guy) falling in love with Brandy (the younger woman) while the other two girl chasers(Kirt & Chips) compete for Brandy's attention, is well performed. I still see Hatari whenever it comes out on AMC or Turner Classic Movies. If this type of movie was produced today, I wonder which collection of movie stars would be willing to star in it. -Julius "}{"Title":"Fun movie for the entire family","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is what family films are all about. A piece of my childhood as I watch this film for who knows how many times. A lot of fun and some great action photography. This is a movie worth watching.The cast is pretty cool a well. It's hard to believe that this film was made more than 50 years ago. It still holds up as one of the better fun/action movies. Most of the cast has long since passed away but to see them in their younger years is still a treat. The movie really doesn't have a serious plot but that doesn't take away from the fun. It's a two hour plus movie but you are never bored. The animals at times actually steals the show. Give it a look-see. You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Sensational  and wonderfully filmed story  about  zoo-suppling animal hunters in Tanganyka","Date":"9 December 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ¨Hatari¨ is an awesome mixture of moving action , sunny adventure and light comedy about some wild-animal trappers , and in Swahili language it means ¨Danger ¨. A team of professionals who holds each other to high standards in their job have a common objective , the animal trapping in Tanganyika . As it follows the travails of a group (Hardy Kruger , Red Buttoms, Michelle Girandon , Gerard Blain , Elsa Martinelli, Bruce Cabot among others) of safari hunters led , of course, by John Wayne , undergoing adventures , risks , and amusing situations . They form a lively community , preservationists working a game reserve and interwoven with friendship ,camaraderie, integration , professionalism , romance and self-respect .Superb blend of adventures and comedy ; effortlessly switching between love story and humor . This is a fascinating flick upon a sympathetic group in that includes adventure ,crisp banter, romance, and noisy action . It contains Hawks' usual issues as a community decided to build their aim on a dangerous territory , friendship , conflict and attraction between men and women, importance of the group and comradeship among people and ample shots over prairies and African savanna . Though John Wayne acted his part in about a thousand ways for Hawks over decades , and he could not be more exciting as intrepid hunter . Impressive chase scenes through its riveting footage of the real capture of wildlife in that the risk of the hunt are stunningly evoked . This Howard Hawks's adventure-comedy is mainly the same, loosely plotted story Hawks made over and over again for years . As this could easily be seen as ¨Only Angels have wings¨ transferred from the Andes to the African savanna. Furthermore , ordinary improvisation , and free-screenplay for that reason many scenes were spontaneously realized by Hawks who was continuously telephonying to screen-writer Leight Bracket to America . It only Hawks had been able to do as he wished and stars Clark Gable and John Wayne , but the King passed away and stood Wayne at his best . Colorful cinematography by Russell Harlan who won Academy Award nomination with dangerous shooting in which animals destroyed three cameras . As we are watching several African animals , without use of stock-shots, but they are actual Hyenas, Gnus, Elephants, Crocodiles, monkeys ,Buffalos and spectacular Rhino hunts . Marvelous score by Henry Mancini with notable and popular themes as ¨ Baby elephant walk¨ and song titled ¨Just for tonight¨ by Carmichael and Johnny Mercer . The picture has the usual Howard Hawks message¨ ¨Every time get real action , then you have danger¨ and all his habitual themes emerge naturally and gently. This phenomenal film results to be one of the best productions about Africa chase and is developed in relaxed pace and tone , constituting a real masterpiece. "},{"Title":"My favorite Movie","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie is simply beautiful and exotic. Yes it is pictured on the border of Tanzania and Kenya. The scenery, animals, music and actors are perfect combination. My favorite tunes are the Baby Elephant Walk and the Ostrich dance!. I liked Pockets and Mama Tempo - specially her accent is so refreshing and so nice to hear. It brings back the beautiful memory of Kenya and the plains of Savannah and those umbrella trees back. The last scene is so hilarious starting from the baby elephants looking for their Mama tempo and the scene ending with the four poster bed trampled by the elephants. This movie is worth watching. John Wayne as usual is very commanding and offers another masterpiece of great acting. Wonder how they shot the rocket in to cover the tree. They did not have any photographic tricks those days. Every scene includes something new, like a tamed cheetah walking around the house! The house itself is so cool and just makes me want to visit Africa! "},{"Title":"Hawks and elephants","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" As most Hawks' films, Hatari! a light and unpretentious film in which the plot doesn't really matter, the most important things are the characters and their relationships. Although here both are not very deep, they are responsible for some great moments. The cast is good, specially Red Buttons in the traditional Walter Brennan role as the comic relief and the best friend of John Wayne, who plays the tough guy who wants distance from women after being left by one, nothing new in his and Hawks' careers, and seems to be having a lot of fun. but the elephants are the ones who steal the show. Mancini's score is pretty good, one of his best, and the pacing is slower than the director's screwball comedies, but faster than Rio Bravo (which is a little too slow), and because of that and the other elements mentioned above, it's perhaps the best one to begin with him. "},{"Title":"A changing Africa for Hollywood","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" As I've written before in other reviews, the great success of King Solomon's Mines and The African Queen led to a demand by at least the American movie going public for a little more realism in films involving Africa. Tarzan films and other such stuff from the studio back lots just weren't going to cut it any more. Hatari is one of several films to follow in the wake of the two I previously mentioned and it's one of the best.John Wayne, Red Buttons, Bruce Cabot, Valentin De Vargas, and Hardy Krueger are a group of animal trappers working for Michele Girardon. Cabot gets gored while trying to get a loop on a wild rhinoceros. While he's incapacitated, Gerard Blain joins this crew.Another addition is photographer Elsa Martinelli who's a tenderfoot in the jungle and a lot of the comic situations stem from that fact. We've got her getting John Wayne interested and Michele Girardon has some of the other guys in an uproar over her. I won't say who she winds up with.Howard Hawks directs some nice comic moments here. A running gag is how Elsa Martinelli keeps on getting adopted by stray baby elephants. Red Buttons devises a Rube Goldberg scheme to capture wild monkeys that should not be missed.But I think some of the best scenes are simply those showing the trappers going about their dangerous job of obtaining wild jungle animals for the zoo. These men are professionals who take pride in their work, a running theme in a lot of Hawks films. Incidentally Hatari was nominated for Best Color Cinematography, losing to Lawrence of Arabia. No more sound stage Africa for the public.I've often wondered if John Wayne was talked into this film by William Holden who at that time was the owner of the Safari Club in Kenya. Possibly this film was offered to Holden, I'm sure he also would have done a creditable job. Holden and Wayne were very good friends and if I'm right, Holden gave the Duke a real good tip. This is definitely one of John Wayne's best efforts.Hatari is a bit dated by technology now. Tranquilizer guns were not invented yet. If they had been, the trappers would have had a lot easier time of it. Still it's a fabulous treat. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but long John Wayne African Western with plenty of good wildlife scenes.","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  John Wayne is in charge in this Howard Hawks directed African Western. His character reminds me of Sam McCord in North To Alaska.  This time around Elsa Martinelli is Wayne's romantic interest.This is not your standard John Wayne movie. He doesn't get to use his fists once. The emphasis here is on comedy rather than violence. Veteran comedian Red Buttons is on hand for wise cracks and some very funny moments. His capture of hundreds of monkeys is one of the film's better moments.Some of the action is almost slapstick in character.  Elsa Martinelli's baby elephants steal the show.  Martinelli's character seems to be a magnet for homeless elephants. Ultimately, they have a central role in the film's finale, a fast and very funny tour around a Kenyan town.There is plenty of exciting wildlife photography in this film, perhaps too much.  The film tells the story of one season on a game ranch that captures animals for zoos.  There is little real  plot.  Much of the suspense revolves around the dangers of capturing rhinos.  A rhino gores Bruce Cabot in one of the early scenes.  Later, he cautions Wayne to avoid them. Wayne of course ignores him and ultimately they capture a rhino.Although enjoyable, this film reminds me of a Disney real-life adventure. There is little character development, a slim plot and the whole thing takes far too long. Henry Mancini's score is  very nice, particularly the cute Baby Elephant Walk.  There is also some great stunt work, including a jeep crash in which two lead characters are messed up. This film is exciting and worth watching, but don't expect any great moral message.  It's not here.  "},{"Title":"Fun and Romance in Africa with the Duke","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have certain John Wayne movies that I enjoy very much and this movie is one of them. It's funny, witty, filled with unsuspecting romance and the beautiful backdrop of Kenya. A cute and feisty French photographer whose on assignment to film catching of animals for a zoo, and injured employee, a driver afraid of animals also falls in love and there's also two young men vie for the affections of the owner of the game reserve. And exciting scene with the photographer being pursued by John Wayne and three baby elephants. The ventures of seven people in the catching of animals of Africa and of the pursuit of love. Bring the beauty of Kenya into your living room and a love story for all. "},{"Title":"My favorite John Wayne film","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was 2 years born after this films release.I remember watching it on TV when I was a kid.A wonderful, action packed film.Best thing about it is Henry Mancini's soundtrack. It is fantastic!!Now having the film on letterbox/wide screen DVD to see the whole picture is great. You need that for this film.It is a bit dated now of course, views on woman & so on.Leigh Brackett. A name I know, being a Star Wars fan & collector, she worked on the script to The Empire Strikes Back before she passed away.The Africian scenery is wonderful.Course, mistakes in shots that you can clearly notice. Editing mistakes I mean.No curse words, loyalty between the co-workers/friends.Good to see. "},{"Title":"Great stuff","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This an excellent movie!!! John Wayne is John Wayne. He plays the head of an African catch team before it became unpopular with the public at large. Red Buttons is great as the comedic sidekick Pockets. He is always tinkering and trying to come with a great way to catch. He finally does with the rocket monkey net. Elsa Martinelli, as Dallas, is excellent as the reporter with a mans first name who shows up when all are expecting a male reporter. This of course starts rivalry between the men for her attentions. The baby elephants she adopts or she gets adopted by are funny and the scenes in the town when they are used to tracked down Dallas are so funny and well done. I don't know how the did it but it rocked!!! Bruce Cabot, who was a leading man in his own right when he was younger, plays the Indian, basically the number two man on the team until he is injured and sidelined by a rhino. This leads to a search for a replacement and that is when things ratchet up with between Hardy and the new guy, Chips. This is one of the very best movies that John Wayne did. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Forgive me but I'm not much of a John Wayne fan but I did find this movie hilarious and the young photographer steals the show. Makes me wish there was a sequel to it. I know how much work it is taking care of animals but I think 3 baby elephants would be fun to have, at least for awhile. My husband and I have 3 cats so of course we loved the scenes with the cheetah. What a beautiful animal. The guys all trying for the attention of the lady boss makes for a great side story. Always fun to see how the opposite sex reacts to each other when they have to work with each other, even more so when they have to share the same place to live for any length of time. "}{"Title":"Outstanding adventure film.","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is one of the best adventure films that play in eastern-Africa. The story is simple but yet entertaining. It looks as if the actors had a lot of fun. Why was there no sequel? I would have liked to see the Duke in another role like this. He would not have made a good look as Quatermain but Lettow-Vorbeck would have suited him perfect. The guide line is chasing wild animals, whereas the chasing two white men do after a white woman is more disturbing and superfluous.There is a lot of humour and action of the harmless kind so that there was no need to introduce the rivalry of the Frenchman and his eastern neighbour. The best performance is that there are no special-effects. They are simply not necessary. This is always serving to improve any movie. The movie is realistic. Movies nowadays look not only artificial, in reliance on technical possibilities too often the producers and directors forget to be engenious and skillful. I am sure that films like The Lord of the Ring will lose their attraction in near future. They are a big spectacle, much noise, nothing more. "},{"Title":"Geography, blankets, and Swahili","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Since I recently spent two weeks in Tanzania, I wanted to add some information to the reviews that have already been posted. These comments are mostly related to geography. The film credits state that it was shot in Tanganyika. Tanganyika joined with the island of Zanzibar in 1964, the year after Zanzibar gained independence, and adopted the name Tanzania. So, we can now say that Hatari! was filmed in Tanzania. In the opening rhino chase, the vast, stream intersected plain with the lush green hills in the back ground is most probably in the Ngorongoro Conservation Area. Ngorongoro Crater is the floor of a huge, collapsed volcano. The inside of the crater is approximately 10 by 16 kilometers and is surrounded by the remnants of the crater which are 600 meters high. After the accident John Wayne's character radios Arusha Control. He mentions that it will take 5 hours to get out of this crater and drive to Arusha. Arusha is also in Tanzania. The Arusha Clock Tower is visible at least twice in the chase scene near the end of the film, confirming that filming was indeed done in Arusha. Snow capped Mount Kilmanjaro is visible in the distance at 41 minutes into the film as the Frenchman walks into the compound. The next time we see a shot in that direction, Kili is hidden by clouds. It is perhaps interesting to note that the Maisii in Northern Tanzania now wear Maasai blankets that are factory made. In Hatari! they are wearing ocher colored cloth. There is some Swahili spoken in the film. Hatari! is a great film to look at either before or after a trip to Northern Tanzania. "},{"Title":"Hatari means Danger in Swahili.","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Hatari means Danger in Swahili. It should also mean Great Fun! Hatari (1962) is unique to John Wayne's incredible resume of films in that it takes place in Africa, what was then Tanganyika (currently Tanzania).The Duke and Howard Hawks made several terrific films together, regardless of the often-terrible dialogue Hawks used in his Wayne films and the flat-out unconvincing, unrealistic manner in which it was sometimes delivered larger than life, but seldom believable. These films included Rio Bravo (1959) & it's close-enough-to-qualify-as-a-remake bookend, El Dorado (1966). But their Hatari is tied with Rio Bravo' as their finest effort.Hatari is without a doubt one of the most enjoyable films you'll ever see. It's funny, at times hilariously so; it's action-packed; and it's romantic. It's the last remnants of old Hollywood movie-making at its finest.The co-stars are great always amiable Red Buttons & beautifully thin babe Elsa Martinelli as well as Hardy Kruger, girl next door-type beauty Michèle Girardon, Gérard Blain, the suave Valentin de Vargas & old Duke pal Bruce Cabot.And you can't forget Henry Mancini's atmospheric score, including the subsequent hit, Baby Elephant Walk; and Russell Harlan's Academy Award-winning cinematography, shot on location in one of the most beautiful places on earth.You will love Hatari! "},{"Title":"By the way, how you doing with the Big Bwana?","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The first time I saw Hatari was on a Boy Scout excursion to New York City during it's original release year of 1962. I had no idea at the time who John Wayne was, let alone any of the supporting players in the movie, but I did like wild animals. What young kid doesn't? Since then of course, the Duke has moved on to that big rodeo in the sky, as his legacy survives in the many fine Westerns and war films in which he appeared. Hatari in some ways might be considered an African Western, replete with sidekicks, drinking and pretty women, with a fair share of action adventure as the Hatari gang captures wild game for America's zoos. As such, the film doesn't have a whole lot of story line going for it; it's more of a series of vignettes of Wayne's character Sean Mercer rallying his men on to collect giraffe, zebra, leopard, buffalo, rhino and a proverbial barrel of monkeys. Though in this case it's a tree full of monkeys thanks in large part to a clever design masterminded by Pockets (Red Buttons), complete with a red and white silver rocket and a huge fish net. The fact that it worked makes it worth the price of admission alone.In between the animal chases, director Howard Hawks sprinkles his movie with comic interludes like the goat milking scene, the ostrich roundup, and the kissing demonstration that the pretty photographer Dallas (Elsa Martinelli) plants on Wayne. Of course, Red Buttons has his share of comic moments as well, though at times his timing seems forced, especially when he nags his partners to retell their versions of the monkey capture.I must say, my admiration for the film's players rose a considerable notch when I learned that they did all their own work in capturing the large game. The rhino scene in particular left me wondering how the animal didn't severely injure himself, much less it's occupants.Some dozen years following the film's release, I had the pleasure of going on a photographic safari of my own to East Africa. The locales mentioned in the movie such as Arusha and Manyara were on my itinerary, though by that time Tanganyika no longer existed, having merged with Zanzibar to form the new country of Tanzania. Along with wild game locations in neighboring Kenya, that trip remains the highlight of my travel abroad.As others have noted in their postings, I would highly recommend Hatari as solid family entertainment, although John Wayne does let loose with a 'hell' while wrestling the buffalo into the transport cage. It must have been one of his milder curses that survived the final cut. "},{"Title":"Simply the best the Duke can offer","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Don't miss this movie.  It's almost 3 hours long, but it doesn't seem like it.  I would sit down at any hour of the day or night to watch this film; it never bores.  Elsa Martinelli is cooly funny as the love interest.  Her spark lights up the film.  Red Buttons is fantastic as John's manager; and Bruce Cabot tries his darndest to act like a womanizer.  There's plenty of real excitement, too, in the animal chase scenes.An amazing film that always entertains.  "},{"Title":"Movies don't get much better than this!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What do you wnat? Big names? Howard Hawks and John Wayne qualify. Adventure? The rhino scenes are as good as it gets. Comedy? Red Buttons' plan for capturing monkeys is a classic, as is the final chase scene with baby elephants. Oh, and it also has one of Henry Mancini's best scores.I never seem to get tired of watching this movie. I have it on VHS (2 tapes, although it would fit on a T-160). It's one of the few that I'd also buy if it became available on DVD.Perhaps the best combination of everything that makes movies (not films which seems to always involve subtitles) enjoyable.Almost perfect. "},{"Title":"A must see for John Wayne fans.","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A must for John Wayne fans. I can remember vividly, my Dad taking me to see this movie. The movie has everything from good looking guys to pretty women, baby elephants and pretty scenery. While John Wayne's character is not his usual macho guy, he is still wonderful. The animal catching scenes are exciting,more so when you know that the actors actually performed their own stunts. Red Buttons is his usual delightful self as the subtle comic relief. His invention to catch a tree full of monkeys will leave you laughing. While these days the idea of hunters going to Africa to round up animals to sell to zoos is very politically incorrect, it makes this movie no less enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A family-friendly African adventure just after Tanganyika became Tanzania!","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie has it all1.) adventure;2.) wild animals;3.) beautiful settings;4.) beautiful ladies;5.) a great story;6.) a great cast lead by John Wayne;7.) a great director, Howard Hawks;8.) a great musical score by Henry Mancini that 'accidentally/incidentally' spawned the #1 worldwide hit-song...Baby Elephant Walk;9.) a lot of comedy;10.) and, a lot of enjoyment by whomever sees this movie! ) John Wayne is the tough but fair leader he always is. Hardy Kruger and Bruce Cabot are his tough right-and-left-hand men. Gerard Blain is the 'new-guy' who makes a great impression. Red Buttons is the helpful and innovative guy who is also the comic-relief. AND...Elsa Martinelli and Michèle Girardon are the beautiful ladies who complete this African safari adventure.Why would someone so young and beautiful kill herself!?!? RIP Michèle Girardon.I HIGHLY RECOMMEND this movie to anyone from the ages of two to 122! ) "},{"Title":"HATARI  (Danger)-  Totally 'safe' to watch with children","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Wow! was longing to see the lighter side of The Duke 'John Wayne' and here my wait is finally over. No more fighting the villains of the west but catching the wild animals in Africa. Another great movie brought by Hawks with Wayne in the main cast. One must appreciate the classical way the movie team brought the wildlife scenes. You may fail to appreciate these scenes as it is commonly shown in satellite channels these days, but must we remember the movie was shot in 1960s. The famous 'Baby Elephant walk' theme by Mancini was more than a feeling. BTW, I'd salute to the humor played by Red Buttons in this movie was such a fine icing on the cake. "},{"Title":"Hatari! means Danger!","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" With the cast doing up close and personal stunts with African animals, including in the capture sequences, there was more actual danger in this film than most! In Hatari!, John Wayne leads a group of professional animal capture experts, filling orders for zoos worldwide. Their season of hunting is complicated when one of the group is gored by a rhino, and by a female photographer (Dallas) who shows up. When Dallas begins to accumulate a nursery of baby elephants, things get even more complicated.A budding romance between Sean (Wayne) and Dallas is by no means overdone, but does provide a few of the many amusing moments in this excellent tale, full of slice of life moments on the African veldt and in the hunters' compound. Such solid acting talent as Red Buttons, Bruce Cabot, and Hardy Kruger help fill a delightful cast which operates with perfect chemistry.Listen closely as the cast prods and pushes a zebra into a capture crate. You'll hear John Wayne say Get him the hell in there! While common even in family hour programming for decades now, you didn't hear even hell and damn in much movie dialog in 1962! LOL Another treat is the rocket shot to capture monkeys.This is a one of a kind movie. If somehow you haven't seen it yet, make sure you do. You won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"perhaps wayne's finest","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" thanks to howard hawks (who had a knack for realism) john wayne seems very much the animal catcher...in fact all of the crew seem to be on a documentary film due to their supreme realistic approach to their characters...its hard to realize sometimes that this is a movie and not a documentary type film...it is one of the few movies that allow wayne to come up with egg on his face...which makes for great humor....it is definitely a classic....and in my opinion...john wayne's best...(with the rooster cogburn films...a close second place)....hatari! is a very unique film indeed...cant remember any other movie that captures that realism so well........ "},{"Title":"John Wayne plus Wild Animals equals African Excitement.","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" One of my favorite movies of all time. The story of a team of tough men in Africa capturing wild animals for zoos. This came out in 1962 when I was eight, and I spent that summer in Denver with my Granny. She took me to the movies as much as I wanted, and the movie I repeatedly chose was Hatari! I have no idea how many times I saw it, in the dozens likely. It has most of what you want from a movie John Wayne, action, adventure, romance, great music, comedy. The cinematography of Tanganyika is stunning, the score by Henry Mancini is one of his best. You will easily recognize the Baby Elephant Walk even though you probably didn't know where it came from. Besides John Wayne at his manly best (playing a character with more depth than usual), Red Buttons consistently steals almost every scene he is in, and his monkey-rocket sequences are simply hilarious. Wayne appears to be doing most of his own stunts, and the animal capture scenes are often scary, with Wayne appearing to be in real danger a number of times. The dialog and plot twists are very mildly corny in an early 60s kind of way, but this doesn't detract from the movie at all. Very strongly recommended for anyone wanting a slightly old-fashioned action adventure with a sprinkle of comedy. "},{"Title":"Overlong but enjoyable","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Wayne heads a good ensemble cast in this enjoyable if overlong adventure yarn about the exploits of a group of people in Africa which catches animals and sells to zoos. It's all very lighthearted with plenty of time for comedy, although some of it does seem forced. Given the three-decade difference in their ages, the romance between Wayne and Martinelli is rather embarrassing to watch. The animal capture scenes are exciting. The baby elephants are cute, as are the two women. The year this movie came out, Marilyn Monroe died of drug overdose at age 36. Girardon, who plays Brandy, would also die of drug overdose at age 36. Hawks is one of the great directors but he has handled these themes (the camaraderie among men in danger and romance between aggressive female and reluctant male) better before in films like Only Angels Have Wings and Rio Bravo. "},{"Title":"entertaining Slice of Africa!","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Never saw this movie until today on AMC. I always skipped over it when I saw it listed in the TV Guide. Never been one to watch or care for African flavored flicks. However, I did like English Patient but missed Out of Africa and wasn't thrilled with Gorillas in the Mist. For some reason, this is a perfect Sunday afternoon type of movie. I watched it while answering emails and having coffee. Typical John Wayne tough guy with a heart character who leads others on some kind of adventure..does he in every movie he is in? And John Wayne always has some much younger female beauty to deal with..although he makes it seem like a nuisance and like he is a father to her more than a lover! The scenery, the animals and the african safari make this an entertaining movie, and they don't make them like this anymore. If they do, they don't use major leading actors like these! The action scenes are good. The whole essence of the movie made me feel like I was 8 and at my grandmas house eating cookies and drinking milk while watching a larger than life adventure! Watch it, because it is pretty much a Cable staple.   "},{"Title":"Classic, good adventure, decent personal involvements.","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A classic. Good clean adventure, comedy, decent personal involvements, no animals injured. My children and grand children all enjoy this film. Could be used as a learning tool for grades 5-8 with the realistic native scenes and the methods used to procure animals for zoos worldwide. "},{"Title":"Fun and excitement","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hatari! is one of my favorite John Wayne movies.   If you just want a really fun movie this is it.  The movie doesn't really have much of a plot (except for maybe the growing relationship between Sean (John Wayne) and Anna Maria) but it's a great adventure movie.   The animal chase scenes are awesome. The scenery is too.  John Wayne, as always, is great.  My favorite scene was when they finally captured the rhinocerous. THAT was pretty good excitement! Some great camera angles were used in that scene.The film alternates between the chase scenes and quieter scenes at the camp. I even thought those were interesting also as they dealt with the relationships between various personalities on a safari.Hatari! is hard to beat for just excitement and fun.  A must see. "},{"Title":"A Real Treat","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This work is more than the sum of its parts. I won't detail each and every element, but the acting is common to the era, as are the male characters and their attitudes concerning women. What really bowls me over with this film is the wildlife footage, the set layouts, and the beauty of the vistas.The Duke's base persona firmly in place here, he leads a group of rag tag roughnecks into the African wilds. This time, with a female photographer! It's a hoot! I can't help but think this is where the television show Daktari sprang from? And Clarence the cross-eyed lion. Anyone remember him? This is fun for more reasons than I'll give here, but the era's prejudices and total lack of political correctness is part of the fun, so if you're easily insulted, I wouldn't recommend any of the films of this time period. LOL As it stands, I loved it as a kid, and still find it amusing and entertaining.It rates an 8.3/10 from...... the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Another fan of Hatari...","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I suspected the movie I happened by on the AMC cable channel was HATARI...and lo & behold ) The first and only other time I recall seeing this movie was as a child living in Calcutta (INDIA) at the time ...somehow the music (baby elephant walk ) and the scenes were permanently etched in my memory. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS MOVIE for capturing a certain sentiment of a bygone era ...the 60s...he he he..it's so quintessentially and humorously American (John Wayne, et al) --- the stereotyped American/Euro folks in the backdrop of the African wilderness with the animals and the locals...great scenery with lots of animals too...SEE IT..!!! - Cheerios "},{"Title":"Typical John Wayne Movie","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" TITLE HATARI release in theaters on June 19 1962 and the time on this movie is 157 minutes. Hatari! is a 1962 American film directed by Howard Hawks and starring John Wayne. The title means danger in Swahili, which was mentioned in the film as well. Portraying a group of hunters, the film presents an interesting if antiquated portrait of Africa still dominated by non-Africans. The film is extremely popular because of the dramatic wildlife chases and the magnificent backdrop scenery of Mount Meru, a dormant volcano. Hatari! was filmed on location in Tanganyika, (in what is now northern Tanzania). Many scenes were filmed near Arusha, Tanzania on a hunting ranch, Ngongongare Farm, owned from 1960 by actor Hardy Krüger. The film gathers its several characters from different parts of the world Sean Mercer (John Wayne), Pockets (Red Buttons), Anna Maria 'Dallas' D'Allesandro (Elsa Martinelli), Kurt Müller (Hardy Krüger), Brandy De la Court (Michele Girardon), Charles 'Chips' Maurey (Gerard Blain), Luis Francisco Garcia Lopez (Valentin De Vargas) are, respectively, from USA, USA, Italy, Germany, France, France and Mexico.SUMMARY The picture opens with Shawn Mercer and his crew sitting in a hole as Shawn scans the countryside looking for a Rhino that standing in the mild of a herd of Wilder beast. As they take off for the Rhino Shawn decides to let the Rhino run for a while to tire him out. However, the Rhino is having nothing to do with it and is hitting everything in sight. The Rhino gores the jeep that Kurks driving when the Indians gets gored himself. After working on the Indian, Pockets tells Shawn that the Indian needs to get to the hospital. Kruk goes back to the compound to get Brandy to take her to the hospital to wait for word on the Indian. The Doctors tells Shawn that the Indian isn't going to make it because of his blood type. The Doctor throws Shawn and his crew out of the hospital so they go across the street and get drunk. When Shawn gets back to the compound and gets ready for bed, he finds a woman in his bed. The next day Shawn and his crew head out looking for a baby giraffe. After lassoing the baby giraffe, the crew now has to get him in a crate. Shawn gets a call from the hospital letting him know that he can have the Indian back in three to four days. A new guy comes walking into the compound looking for a job. Shawn nicknames the young man Chips and takes him down to the shooting gallery to see how good he really is. The next day the crew heads out looking for another animal. This time the crew finds a Zebra and Shawn takes off after him. With Shawn sitting in front of the truck, Pocket drives through a watering hole and Shawn gets cover with water. Shawn tells Pocket's that one of these days his' going to ring his neck.QUESTIONS Who was the woman in Shawn bed, Where did she come from? Who is the lady and what is she doing in Shawn's compound. Did the Indian live? If he lived who gave the Indian the blood he needed? Does Shawn get all the animals he's looking for? Does anyone else get hurt? MY THOUGHTS I loved this movie for several reasons. I loved the where the movie was shot and the scenery. This movie is filled with action and adventure and does keep you on the end of your sit. However, there's really no leading lady in this movie and that's the bad part of this film. I still like this movie because John Wayne makes any movie worth watching so I'm giving this movie 7 weasel stars. You can also buy this movie at Amazon.com "},{"Title":"why only a few votes???","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  this surprises me big time!! not just that this movie is spectacular, with the best scenery and wildlife shots, great acting, funny, full of action and the little elephant song ). i dont know many people that have not seen this movie, and i certainly dont know anybody that didnt say thumbs up. i know this is one of the movies people watch repeatedly. its hard to understand there is just over a thousand votes. "}{"Title":"My favorite John Wayne film","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie about 20 times and its appeal never fades.  The nice mix of comedy and action make this my favorite John Wayne film.  Each of the supporting characters are so unique and well-developed that it is truly an ensemble piece.  Even the music is wonderful.  Elephant Walk is still so reconizable that I can't help but smile every time I hear it. "},{"Title":"Great action, romance, and laughs rolled into one!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One of John Wayne's best, non-western, movies.  Good cast, but the real stars in many respects are the animals.  Great mix of action, as they try to catch, not kill the animals.  Good mix of romance, with one major romantic entanglement (John Wayne and Elsa Martinelli), will they or won't they and one minor romance (Red Buttons and Michele Girardon), how did that happen?And last but not least, great fun with the baby elephants and the capture of the monkeys, scientifically??!!!  A great movie the whole family can enjoy. "},{"Title":"9 out of 10","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One of Hawks' most underrated movies, a great, very enjoyable, tremendously entertaining, funny, action-paced, suspenseful and exciting adventure saga with charming romantic interplay and well-drawn, imminently likeable characters. Falls short of masterpiece, but has John Wayne excelling in the lead as well as a bunch of great actors in typical roles. A superb classic. "},{"Title":"Ignore the trolls, this is a great adventure film","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The political attack on this film is bewildering and annoying; it's such a parody of outraged liberalism that I can't help wondering if it's not the work of right-wing trolls pretending to be liberal to anger readers here.At any rate let's knock down the most obvious fallacies of this attack 1. In the Trivia section here, it is charged that the film was made under an apartheid regime because John Wayne supported it. Hatari was filmed in Tanganika, and there was no apartheid in effect in that country at the time. (Apartheid was a legalized caste system only ever in effect in South Africa.)2. While the native African populations are kept largely in the background, there are no denigrating remarks made concerning them, but instead an insistence that their traditions be respected. The film's social structure is actually constructed to emphasize cultural pluralism - the focal group is made up of a German, several French descendants, a Swiss-Italian, a Spaniard, a Native American, an American Jew (Buttons as Pockets) and of course Wayne - an Irish Catholic playing the only WASP in the group.3. The homophobia charge directed against the film has to do with a single line, when Dallas asks Pockets why Wayne's character doesn't like women, and Pockets says she suffers under a misapprehension. I'm sorry, this is homophobic? I watched this movie several times over the past 40 odd years and I never noticed this until I read it on IMDb? Well, maybe it's not really there.4. It is charged that the film has been censored for homophobia, sexism, racism and smoking (?!) in television broadcasts. Maybe in the troll's fantasy world. The film has occasionally been shortened due to it's length.5. The film, it is charged, is sexist, using women as mere objects. Of what? Dallas, the female lead, is aggressive about her job, about her desires to experience Africa, about her sexuality. And she's hip and intelligent, intimidating the older (and old-fashioned) Wayne on a number of occasions. If this defined sexism, there would never have been any need for feminism.6. Smoking - it should be pointed out that smoking is as much a right-wing issue as a liberal concern (it insults fundamentalist Protestant aesthetics). There's no denying that a lot of smoking takes place in this film. It was made when the preliminary studies on the dangers of smoking were just coming out and their veracity contested by the tobacco companies, and after a long tradition of heavy smoking in the cinema. The smoking behavior of the characters is just one of the things one tolerates if one wants to see a good film of the era.7. It is suggested that the animals - especially the elephants - were mistreated during the film and killed off afterwards. There's no evidence to suggest this, reports that the actors themselves were involved in the capture of the animals are counterfactual evidence against this charge (what you see is largely what actually happened), and it is known that the baby elephants died four decades later of natural causes in zoos.Now onto the film itself The acting is largely insufficient (as plagued most Hawks films of the '60s). It is episodic. The plot, such as it is, meanders. The conclusion does feel somewhat artificial.But it's largely a fantasy about a real way of life that most of us hardly knew existed before watching the film. And it's a fascinating way of life, fantasy or real.The film is a kind of Western set in Africa, without a villain but with chases aplenty. It's an adventure film and a romantic comedy. Its canvass is wide, its strokes are broad. And it is character centered - if you like these people (and I do) you will have no problem liking this film. "},{"Title":"Going on a Safari with John Wayne isn't as cool as I thought it should had been! This movie was just alright.","Date":"3 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie directed by Howard Hawks hasn't aged well, since it came out in 1962. Shot in Technicolor and filmed on location in northern Tanganyika in what is now Tanzania. The story didn't have that epic 'Call to Adventure' feel that it should had. I think, it hurt that director Howard Hawks decided not to use a plot for the movie, instead letting the characters develop and tying it together with Book Ends. The movie plays more like a romantic comedy, than an adventure movie. Most of the film, has John Wayne's animal dealer character, Sean Mercer trying to fight off the sexual advance coming from newbie, animal photographer, Maria D'Alessandro AKA Dallas (Elsa Martinelli) and her non-stop nagging. It's seem a bit odd, for the movie to have a romantic pairing of then, 27-year-old Martinelli with Wayne, a man twice her age. It's also a bit jarring that her character falls immediately attracted to Sean, despite the fact that he treats her brusquely and distrusts her. The love story gets a little creepy, when Sean Mercer find out that other men, are fighting over, Brady de la Court (Michèle Girardon), a colleague's now adult, daughter. After all, most of these men, help raise her. The European actresses that play them were the worst. They come across as very annoying. The rest of the cast are a mixed bag, in acting. Hardy Kruger as Kurt, the German driver, and Chips (Gérard Blain), the French straight shooter, sounds and look like villains, than heroes with their think European accents. Red Buttons as Pockets, the team joker, was pretty fun to watch. I still don't buy him, as a rocket scientist. Not one bit. The sequence with the rocket to capture monkeys is a bit, out-there and comes out of nowhere. Other characters like Luis Francisco Garcia Lopez (Valentin de Vargas) are pretty forgettable. I really forgot that he was in the film. John Wayne was alright as the main lead. It's pretty believable, that he would go to Africa, and go on Safari missions. I just wish, they didn't tied him up, most of the time, with these tiresome romance sub-plots. I was really hoping for more powerful drama and adventure. Something like 1966's Born Free, or 1952's The Snows of Kilimanjaro. Don't get me wrong, the movie does have some good action sequences with real life animals. Call me, nostalgia, but it's just nice to see animals being part of the film, rather than CGI creatures. Hatari is so fascinating to watch, because of that. It's nice to see the big name movie stars work with truly wild animals. It's funny in a way that some scenes had be redubbed to cover up Wayne's swearing at them. It was beautiful shot. Much of the film revolves John Wayne's team, chasing wildlife in jeeps and trucks across the African plains, roping and capturing animals for zoos & circuses. The way that they drive full blast through herds of animal in top speed was intense and somewhat dangerous. The way, the movie shot the chase with the rhino has influence filmmakers for years to come. A good example of this film, influence art is 1993's Jurassic Park. The car chase with the T-Rex kinda mirrors the Rhino scene in this film. One of the lamest action sequences in the film, had to be the scene where Chips shoots a crocodile that is threatening Kurt. The crocodile was just stock footage, and you never once, see the creature on screen with the main actors. As far as we know of, no animals or people were seriously injured, during filming, but there has been stories leak of random animal attacks, such as leopards. While, the movie characters are not, technically poachers, since, they're hunting during the season. There is a lot of things about this movie that today's society might find offensive or look down upon. After all, this movie portrays, an activity that is now, deem illegal in most Africa countries; which is wildlife catching. This procedure is banned today over concerns of exhausting and killing the targeted animals. I can see why, there was a lot of scenes of wildlife animals getting significant disturbances in their natural habitats. The rhino in the end, looks like he was so much pain, and about to pass out. It was a bit disturbing! While, I'm definitely not an animal-rights activist or part of PETA, I see these acts of 'animal-kidnapping' kinda cruel, because it can often affect hunting, breeding and feeding patterns of the animal herd that the wildlife hunters took members from. Thank god, that most zoos, today, only take animals that are injured or neglected. Most of the animals in zoos, are often from breeding or SSP (Species Survival Plan) programs. So you really can't make a movie, like this, today, without some kind of protest. While, I find this movie kinda upsetting, Hatari does have some good scenes with animals that I love. All of the scenes with the three baby elephants was very charming and cute. Even, if you never heard of the movie, Hatari, you probably heard of that famous whimsical tune from by Henry Mancini Baby Elephant Walk that came from this film. Another memorable musical moment is jazz duet of Stephen Foster's Old Folks at Home (Swanee River). Henry Mancini did a good job with the score. While, the music didn't sound anything, close to epic, it did capture the lifestyle of the 1960s where everybody smokes and drink way too much. I just wish, more of a John Barry's Born Free, type of a feel. The humor is a bit dated and cheesy. There were some really funny moments that I kinda like, but some were a bit politically incorrect, such as the black face scene. Overall Hatari is fun movie with some cool animals and beautiful scenery. It's one rare movie that need to be watch. At least, once. "},{"Title":"lighter spirited John Wayne","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I previously reviewed McLintock! and said I disliked it because the film was too slapstick and dopey. However, while Hatari! also has a lighter tone than most John Wayne flicks, the pieces fit together well and the overall experience is very satisfying. It just goes to prove that Wayne does not need to be killing Commies or Nazis to make a good flick. His acting and allowing a little bit of tenderness in his characterization, as well as the acting of the supporting cast was very good. As a result, this is more believable than most Wayne flicks (though few really approach reality). BUT, considering most of his fans don't mind this and are willing to suspend belief, the film is successful and good fare for the whole family. "},{"Title":"a fun movie","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Lets state first of all its not the Dukes best film or Howard Hawks best film but its a great way of spending a couple of hours on a cold winters day.There are no bad guys in this film just a bunch of characters who hunt down animals for the zoo.The animal hunting scenes are good and well shot making good use of the african landscape.Henry Mancini's music is a delight with the elephants a standout moment.The inter action of the hunters is good with wisecracking remarks the best of which come near the film beginning.Red Buttons is a good comic foil to Waynes tough guy, but even Waynes tough guy image is gentlymade fun of.A film for the family I first saw it in Hartlepool at the ABC cinema often referred to asthe forum great memories.Watch and enjoy 7/10 "},{"Title":"Love the Hat!","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  John Wayne at one of his many peaks, Hatari! gives Wayne a different setting to give orders and bumble with women. The music is some of the period's best. Irecall seeing it as a young kid and loved the jeeps (that never seemd to run out of gas), the animal scenes, and of course John Wayne.I would love to get a hold of that hat of his, with the extended bill. "},{"Title":"The honor belongs to the elephants","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one the funniest adventure films I've ever seen. Russell Harlan's camera work is top notch and John Wayne gave one of his best performances. But that what this film makes so legendary are the little elephants and of course Henry Mancini's Baby Elephant Walk. "},{"Title":"Classic Hawks Fun","Date":"14 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 'Hatari!', which means 'danger' in Swahili, is one of Howard Hawks' most delightful late period films. The story centers around a group of men (and 1 strong woman) who capture wild animals in Africa and then sell them to zoos. Trouble starts for the group when a beautiful photographer, played by Elsa Martinelli, comes to the camp to capture them at work. She's not ready for the toughness of the job the team does and soon realizes she'll have to adjust her decidedly metropolitan ways to be successful.As in many of Hawks' pictures, the main characters are professionals and are good at what they do. The friction with the photographer stems primarily from her not being a fellow pro at capturing these animals and thus the threat she poses to the group's solidarity and, perhaps, safety. Hawks plays much of the picture for laughs (the milking goat scene with Red Buttons had me howling), but he gives us a great sense of adventure and danger in the spectacular sequences where they chase down rhinos and giraffes and other animals and attempt to capture them. The cinematography in these sequences is nothing short of astonishing and must've been incredibly difficult to capture on film. The characters are richly written by the great Leigh Brackett and the inevitable romance that ensues between Elsa Martinelli and John Wayne is nicely written and, at times, very funny.All in all, this is a classic Hawks' film. It has a bit of everything a fan of Hawks will like a group of professionals working together, lack of a 'plot', strong willed women, great comedy, fine cinematography, and witty dialogue. It's rather long at 157 minutes for probably some tastes, but I was never once bored during this lovely gem. "}{"Title":"A really fun film that I have watched many times since 1962","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" One of my favorite John Wayne films which I first saw while in the Air Force on Taiwan in 1962. I have watched it many times since and have a DVD version. The cast chosen for this film is excellent and like a lot of films that I consider favorites, I can see what appears to be the stars having a lot of fun making the movie and working together. That kind of chemistry always adds to quality of any film. In this case, Hatari is right on. Elsa Martinelli is up to the task of the romantic encounter with John Wayne. Indeed they are very convincing. The action scenes are very good and Howard Hawks who produced and directed the film claimed that the stars did all the wild animal captures without stunt doubles. In fact some of the film required dubbing because of the swearing by John Wayne during those captures. Good Henry Mancini musical score with a song by Johnny Mercer and Hoagy Carmichael to help. Great international cast gave this film a really interesting mix. I loved the African vistas from what was then Tanganiyka in East Africa (now Tanzania). I will pull this DVD out to watch many more times in the years ahead. "},{"Title":"Bringing 'Em Back Alive - The Hard and Honorable Way","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" As with another favorite of mine (The Greatest Show on Earth), this movie is best viewed in a documentary frame of mind. It shows how African game was captured alive for zoos and circuses back before the invention of the tranquilizer gun and drugs that would not kill the animals. It shows the confrontation between men and beasts - and that the men don't always win.John Wayne's Sean Mercer is 'the leader of the pack,' a bunch of genuine characters Pockets, a man without fear behind the wheel of the catching truck, who is actually terrified of wild animals; Kurt Mueller, Grand Prix racing driver who demonstrates his intrepidity behind the wheel of the herding car; 'the Indian,' multilingual and a wolf in any language; 'Chips,' a Frenchman who is Kurt's backup man and sometime rival for the affections of; Brandy Delacourt, daughter of the pioneering owner of the Momella Game Farm and the nominal boss of the others; Luis, an ex-bullfighter whose skill with a lasso is invaluable; and Dallas, a professional photographer sent by the Basel Zoo to document the animal-catching - and a total African greenhorn.The team has orders to fill and goes about it professionally, despite the presence of a newbie and the loss of the Indian's services due to a rhino goring in the first 5 minutes of the movie. Howard Hawks documents the difficulties of bringing 'em back alive when you have to get ropes on the beasts from a moving truck in such a way that you don't harm them. Hatari! also documented the tribal habits of the Masai and the Warusha back when Tazania was Tanganyika in a way that's more Wild Kingdom than Hollywood and adds immeasurably to the depth of the movie.There are comedic moments Dallas taking a bath and having Sonja the pet cheetah walk in on her; Brandy declaring her undying love for Pockets after he falls off a fence - on the same day her two suitors Kurt and Chips have been hurt in a herding car rollover; the adoption of Dallas as 'Mama Tembo' by the Warusha in honor of her becoming surrogate mother to three elephant calves; the Your Father's Feathers chase in the compound when three ostriches get loose; Pockets attempting to milk a billygoat to feed Tembo, the first of Mama Tembo's three babies; the costumes the team has to assemble to help Pockets capture 500 monkeys with an improbable invention; and Tembo and his two brothers tracking Dallas by scent through downtown Aroosha. But what's really important are the animal-catching sequences. Very few animals are taken from the wild these days, and those that are, are caught by use of tranquilizer darts. Hawks did us a great service by showing how it was done in the old days.The two love story subplots don't get in the way of the action, but you won't watch Hatari! for them. This movie is all about the hunt and the capture, where everything from antelope to zebra is taken alive and the men and women are proud of their skills. By rights, it should have won for Best Documentary, particularly if as has been claimed the actors you see on the screen really did catch the critters themselves in realtime. Some people won't like it because it's not always politically correct, but it's an entertaining and educational film that stands up to repeat viewing. Add it to your library by all means.As a postscript, I believe it is the earliest movie (in terms of release date) to ever have inspired a video game, Jambo Safari, which lets the player try to do what Sean, Pockets and Company do. It's not as easy as they make it look, and it's great fun! "},{"Title":"john wayne in africa, what could be better.","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  great scenes of hunts in africa intertwined with story. john wayne the hero again, great filming, and red buttons is funny,comical and credible as pockets. elsa martinelli is a great sexy and beautiful dallas. and they all fight for dallas's attention.a wonderful story intermixed with the baby elephant walk music. "},{"Title":"Hatari means fun","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hatari is one of my favorite John Wayne movies, it never gets bogged down in any message but fun and romance, Red buttons is at his funny best as pockets the loved starved truck driver, Hardy Krüger, Gérard Blain and Bruce Cabot are the tough guy girl chasing drivers, Elsa Martinelli plays the cool beautiful zoo photographer who falls for the big Irish lug Wayne. One of Wayne's funniest movies with a big slice of adventure thrown in.8 out of 10Tell me again Shawn about the rocket?  "},{"Title":"Something for everyone.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Big, colorful, star-powered classic African adventure which set the standard for the genre and inspired such diverse producers as Ivan Tors with Daktari (and feature film Clarence the Cross-Eyed Lion) and Steven Speilberg with The Lost World (especially the round-up scene).  Something for everyone  adventure, comedy, romance, nature and baby elephants...and let's not forget, John Wayne.  Lots of fun.  "},{"Title":"This one has EVERYTHING...","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Length, Action, Sexy Girl, Comedy, Scenery, Wild Animals, you name it, it is here!  Great movie!  John Wayne is at his best.  Red Buttons delivers a superb performance.  Elsa Martinelli is also at her best here!  That 7.4 IMDb Weighted Rating is definitely too low... it should be a lot higher!  A SOLID 10!   "},{"Title":"Howard Hawks Solid Work","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Howard Hawks always seems to be able to take anything & make it good. With this film, he makes it even better than the sum of its parts. The script is a light romantic comedy.John Wayne is no longer a young matinée idol, but a mature star who is in fine form here. Elsa Martinelli is remembered most often in this film than the others of her career. Red Buttons is great in support in this film. Hardy Kruger is very good in this film too.The real stars of this are the locales & the variety of animals. Hawks camera work is something of real beauty as this film feels very much like Africa. The film is longer, almost 2 1/2 hours than a lot of Hawks films, but it is so well done that you don't notice the length.The slap stick ending of this film in a way might have inspired the slap stick ending of McClintock the next year. The main difference is in this one you get real elephants action in a funny sequence carousing through town. In McClintock, Wayne, Ohara, & an Indian attack hold together the actions. This is one of the earlier films that illustrated how animals needed to be treated better & kind of paints a portrait of a life where catching animals for zoos etc. was done as a living & what kind of conditions these folks had to endure. The sequences with the truck & rhino are particularly well done from a realism point of view. "},{"Title":"Danger!","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Director Howard Hawks re-teams with John Wayne, who heads a cast that also includes Hardy Kruger, Red Buttons, and Bruce Cabot, who play animal wranglers in Africa who capture wild animals(like Elephants, Lions, and the elusive Rhinos) for various zoos who are willing to pay for their exclusive services, in order to display these magnificent creatures in captivity. These men, when they aren't hunting, are fighting, drinking, and gambling, as well as pursuing women, which now includes a Swiss photographer who has just arrived to take pictures of the men, and their hunting, when she isn't taking care of baby elephants...Bloated film that was likely more fun to make than it is to watch, since animal lovers like myself will be less than enthralled by the capture of wild animals who should instead be protected in their environment! Though nicely filmed, even amiable to a point, it cannot overcome this inherent problem. "},{"Title":"Nowadays you'd need CGI to film HATARI! . . .","Date":"14 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" . . . because most of the African animals shown in this flick have been slaughtered to extinction by ISIS terrorists since HATARI! was shot in the 1900s, just like the JURASSIC WORLD dinosaurs. And it's small wonder that these critters even made it to the 1970s, as you watch HATARI!'s MAD MAX-like convoys of leaded gasoline guzzling jeeps running amok all over the countryside, crashing into this species and that. Obviously, most of the animals being kidnapped by John Wayne's pirate outfit are destined for the bush meat market. Wayne's procurer-in-chief character--Sean Mercer--all but admits this, when he notes that the 500 Vervet Monkeys his crew of White Europeans has just rounded up will yield only $6,000 in aggregate--the price of meat, NOT zoo exhibits! Speaking of bush meat, Wayne is not very interested in the chick throwing herself at him here (zoo photographer Dallas) until she's converted into a low-maintenance lover, through FGM--courtesy of the Warusha tribe which forcibly adopts her. (Though this scene, 98 minutes into HATARI!, is not presented as graphically as similar material in this year's GREEN INFERNO, Sean's reaction to Dallas' modifications proves her FGM is more finalized than that of INFERNO.) If this is somewhat of a HATARI! low-light, getting to hear Henry Mancini's Baby Elephant Walk tune in two variations is the main highlight here. "},{"Title":"Hawks, the African King","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"   When you read the way Henry Mancini reached the music for Hatari! you´re sure he really made it. And when you listen the score it´s the hearing of adventure´s landing. The thrill of it all. Wait and see!      Once there was a time when the next step into fantasy was as real as wild life. The excitement you feel at the view of John Wayne running after the zebras and specially the rhinos, and the pleasure you get from the whole group at work and at leisure (days and nights of slender and beautiful Elsa Martinelli, funny fellow Red Buttons or the non-tense rivalry, basically a cause d´une femme, between french Blain and german Kruger), well, this is more than you´re used to see in a movie. Howard Hawks made it, and he really knew how to put a script in a breath of eternity.   "}{"Title":"This movie is a lot of fun - with a few goofs - most already listed","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie, so much so that I have watched it several times on DVD. As always for any movie my criteria is 'was I entertained?' and I was certainly entertained. Red Buttons as Pockets was a delight. In fact all the performances were very good. The humour was fun, the scenery was beautiful and the animal chases were exciting and the baby elephants were cute and Sonja was gorgeous. Aside from things like the changing water level when Kurt and Chips Jeep was stalled in the river and after several references to 15 pounds and one reference to a shilling, when Pockets was taking up a collection to buy some goats he asked for 2 dollars from each person, but most things were fine and Pocket's rocket was great. The one thing that really stuck out for me as being very wrong was when The Indian aka Little Wolf was gored by the rhino, Pockets said (I think this is what he said - it's not in the Closed Caption and I'm a little hard of hearing) 'this tourniquet isn't doing any good' and then on the radio Sean said The Indian was bleeding badly and they would be at the hospital in about 5 hours. If Pocket's statement and Sean's statement were both accurate The Indian would have bled to death long before the 5 hours was up, probably in the first hour! Once I got past that rather lethal goof I sat back and just had fun. "},{"Title":"There is more to a film Hatari! than the Star","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Since many of John Wayne's later films were of the May-December romantic theme, this sub plot came as no surprise. I found that the musical score, the awesome scenery and the supporting actors, especially Red Buttons who is a superb physical comedian, makes it a light weight but enjoyable film.  "},{"Title":"One of the finest film collaborations between Howard Hawks and John Wayne","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Of all of the films by the legendary Howard Hawks, this one is probably the very best. And of all of Jophn Wayne's many screen appearances this is one of my top three favorites, along with The Quiet Man and The Hellfighters. As good as John Wanye was in westerns and war movies both, it is his adventure/comedy films that are some of his finest work. Along with Wayne, to make this a memorable film is Red Buttons (Oscar Winner for Sayonara) as Pockets, the main comedy relief and central mover of the plot. Also, a familiar face from many of John Wayne's later movies is Bruce Cabot( who came to fame in the first version of King Kong in 1933.) This film has got everything adventure, a beautiful setting in what is now Tanzania, strong cast, that actually did all of the animal capture scenes themselves, and the incredible sound score of Henry Mancini. You need to include this film in your top fifty. "},{"Title":"An adventure in Africa about a group of chain smokers.","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" More than anything else, this movie is about a small group of people who chain smoke...that almost seems to be the focus of the movie. It is set in Africa, as this group of people attempts to capture several different wild animals. Plus there is the side story of a couple romances. That basically is the whole movie...which is not so great, sadly enough. It is somewhat entertaining as they made their efforts to capture some of the animals. However it became more and more redundant and boring as the group of people continue to chain smoke at all times except while they are pursuing the wild animals. There is also some jeopardy involved in the risk involved in capturing the animal. By the end of the movie they have 3 baby elephants and these elephants provide a fair amount of comic relief and substantially improve the story. "},{"Title":"it should be an hour, its two and a half.","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Hatari! contains a few cute lines, delivered as only John Wayne could. That aside its entertainment value lies mainly in the spectacle created by Hollywood actors frightening, harassing, molesting, exhausting and enraging dangerous wild animals in their natural habitat (a practice now banned in Africa as it places huge unnecessary stress on wild herds of animals). Where did the dead elephant come from? who knows! At least one crew member was injured badly by an animal, and one was mauled to death. The dialogue is slow and two-dimensional, there is a severe pacing problem as the movie stretches on and on with really no plot. For a brief moment, Wayne's character speaks with respect about African natives, but that is somewhat overshadowed by the fact that the black members of the team are never addressed by name although they are the ones actually dealing with the animals. If you are into animal abuse, black-face, misogyny, may-November romance and two and a half hour long ordeals with zero plot, this is the movie for you! "},{"Title":"John Wayne Wrestles Rhinoceros!","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Hawks assembled a cast of international knowns and unknowns, moved the whole production to an African Arcadia, and filmed a story of adventurers who run down wild animals and capture them alive for sale to zoos. They are joined by a stylish photographer, Elsa Martinelli, with whom the leader, Wayne, winds up. Two of the younger members, Kruger and Blain, compete for the affections of Michelle Girardon, the daughter of Wayne's former partner, but she winds up with the unprepossessing Red Buttons.We get the usual sense of male camaraderie, of professionals whose bonds exclude intruders from the outside. When Martinelli first appears on the scene, the men at first don't want her around, especially the slightly bitter Wayne. When she sits down to play a tune on the piano, Wayne tells her, as Cary Grant told Jean Arthur in Only Angles Have Wings some twenty-three years earlier, You'd better be good. Of course she is.The comedic misunderstandings are enjoyable, as they generally are in Hawks' movies. The best takes place when the men return from a celebration drunk and find the stranger, Martinelli, in Wayne's bed. Hawks invited the collaboration of his cast and crew in making up funny lines and bits of business, never hesitating later to take credit for all of them.The scenes involving animals are sometimes thrilling. That climactic chase of the rhino is a tongue biter. Here is this two-ton monstrosity with the head of a dinosaur, entangled in ropes, while men try to coax the maddened beast into a wooden container on the truck -- and Wayne is actually there, counting coups, leaping around and shoving its flanks. Not bad for a man his age (53) with only one lung.Other animal scenes are more cute than anything else. They mostly revolve around the three baby elephants that the gang adventitiously acquire. The little elephants imprint on Elsa Martinelli and follow her around wherever she goes. The sly tune that accompanies these scenes was written by Henry Mancini, who composed the slightly jazzy, somewhat gentle, and African-tinted score for the movie. If someone alone the lines of, say, Dmitri Tiompkin had done the score, it would have been an entirely different kind of movie, full of fire and bombast. Not a WORSE movie necessarily, just a different one.I don't know that the performances count for much in a leisurely paced comedy-adventure like this. Wayne and Hawks hadn't worked together that often but they always got along well and it shows. Hardy Kruger plays his role with deliberation as usual, as if he's always thinking two or three moves ahead in a chess game. Red Buttons is likable and there are times when it's possible to believe that he's actually in his role and not just being Red Buttons.The rest of the cast can't act or, if they can, it's impossible to tell because they're roles are so circumscribed. Gerard Blain was a heart throb in France at the time and it was thought his presence might boost the film's appeal in Europe, but the fact is that he's not given much to say or do, and he's so much shorter than the others that it's noticeable. The writing has its moments when it doesn't fit too. Michelle Girardon is supposed to have just emerged from her adolescent growth spurt and become a young lady, generating the attention of the young men, whereas she actually is pretty, tall, and rather bulky and should have begun attracting attention ten years earlier.All together, an enjoyable movie. The kids especially should get a kick out of it. As for the adventurous scenes of hunting down those wild animals, half-way through this second viewing, I found myself wondering why the hell they didn't stop tormenting these poor beasts. Don't they have it tough enough? Do they really NEED John Wayne wrestling them to the ground? "},{"Title":"Hugely Enjoyable, but shows it had no script","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When I read a user's comment that the film had no script, I realized why the last episode of 'Dallas' suddenly walking out on Sean looked so contrived, serving as an excuse for the hilarious elephant chase which culminates in one of the best wedding-night bedroom scenes in cinema history. The film is salutary viewing in 2009, given the superb animal chase sequences done without CGI. In my 4 years in Britain, I never once saw the film telecast, although it was a runaway hit in Kolkata when it was first released in the early 1960s, kept coming back as Sunday morning screenings in various cinemas, and was re-released in the 1970s. I made my teenage daughter watch it on cable this year, and she loved it. My only gripe Brandy is a lot better looking than Dallas! I should add that as a six-year old, this was my first encounter with John Wayne, and I became an instant devotee, which I remain to this day, although this is a film in which he has little to do except just be there. What a presence! "},{"Title":"Rugged, good outdoor fun in the African sun.","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I remember going to see this in 1960's as the first sit down movie my family went to. I think I fell asleep half way through. Up until that point, I had only been to drive-in theater's.A very typical Howard Hawkes movie. The men are macho, larger than life, and the women have a quiet strength that shows through during tough times. The film suffers from a too large cast, unfunny forced dialog, and unbelievable romantic angles that make me cringe a little. Maybe if William Holden instead of John Wayne had been cast as the main star, the romance could have been carried off. John Wayne was never at his best as a romantic lead. What is best about the movie are the excellent on location filming of animal captures, and chases. * * * out of * * * * *.A bit of trivia. At the beginning of the film, the drunken, rowdy gang sing a song called, I believe, Whiskey, leave me alone. This same song was sung ten years earlier in Hawkes film, 'The Big Sky' that starred Kirk Douglas. Also, does anyone else notice how much these people smoke? You cannot go more than a couple of scenes without someone either bumming a smoke, or lighting up one of their own.  "},{"Title":"Should Have Quit After The Rhino Scene","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"15 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This kind of adventure movie wouldn't be made today, and that's good. You don't need action every two minutes but films like this NEED more oomph to them. There is no excuse to have an adventure story, especially set in the wilds of Africa, be this slow. Filmmakers today wouldn't have a long story drag this much.It starts off with a bang with this rhinoceros chase, but after that it goes downhill fast. Once in a while, we get a quick animal-chase scene but much of the time is taken up with stupid romance stories, and they are stupid in here. The ending was also very weak, too, a silly hunt through town for John Wayne's girlfriend.At least all the characters but one (Red Buttons, in a very annoying role) were likable. They tried to insert some comedy but much of it, especially with Buttons, was just plain stupid. The French accents in here sounded nice, I'll give them that.This movie ran 157 minutes and seemed like eternity at times. "},{"Title":"Typical!","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hatari is what I would call one of those classic movies that has to be seen,'cause most everyone you know has already seen it.A typical John Wayne flick,with all those white macho men rounding up savage beasts and managing to survive in that great expanse of Africa.Although a movie that is filled with stereotypes,Hatari does feature some good music and good acting(especially the outstanding Red Buttons).Hatari to me seems just a slightly better substitute to Survivor(Africa). "}{"Title":"A safe, tame Howard Hawks movie","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hatari! sounds like a good idea, with John Wayne and his troop of goofballs hunting down African animals to catch and sell to zoos, and when when they are out doing that the movie's a thrill to watch. But unfortunately there's a bunch of nonsense about a female photographer inexperienced in the African wild, played with great emptiness by Elsa Martinelli. She's a twig of a lady and not as nearly as interesting as Michele Girardon, whose character has been around animals since she was a baby. There are a bunch of other guys, too, most of them there to act silently and toughly and to swarm around the two girls. There's also Red Buttons, who at times can be genuinely funny, and then at others the film cuts to him at an awkward moment so he can spout off a one-liner that's equally awkward. Even though the movie was apparently shot in Africa, the character development scenes manage to look like any old Hollywood soundstage. In previous Howard Hawks films, the parts that were the most fun were the dialogue scenes. And the more people talking the better. But Hatari! grinds to a halt every time they decide to move the characters' stories forward. Hawks doesn't blend the characters and the action, he makes them take turns. Who cares about these people? I want to go back out on safari! The movie's disappointing, although it doesn't really seem three hours long. Its light unimportance keeps it moving along swiftly. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"What Is The Plot?","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am sorry, people. I don't want to be a kill joy. And I do normally love John Wayne movies. So, no, I am not one of those intellectual liberal types who are just anti-John Wayne. That said, I HATED this movie! It was the dumbest movie I ever saw! First of all....what's the PLOT? There isn't any! It is just a string of incidents one after the other that drag on and on. And the film drags on for three hours....No, don't worry, I won't add a spoiler actually you can't because there is really no beginning, middle, or ending to this movie.People. Save three hours of your lives. Don't waste your hard earned free time on this movie. If you like John Wayne, as I do, there are plenty of other great Wayne movies to choose from. Rent or buy any of them and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Hatari means hyena in swahilli","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Fairly good, but too long, film with some really good scenes showing animals being captured with trucks. This must really drive the PETA folks into a slobbering rage. In between chases the film bogs down at times with dumb, unrealistic dialogue and action. Once again we are asked to believe a young, good looking woman is going to instantly fall head over heels for Grampa Wayne. There were some funny scenes I must admit, but too much of the comedy was corny and forced. Not Wayne's best. "},{"Title":"the animals steal the show (what show there is, anyways)","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Incredibly insipid movie.  The acting is intolerably pathetic, the script even more so (both of them a few notches below a sub-par Gilligan's Island episode), and the plot unintelligible.  There are two things that save this movie from the absolute bottom of the barrel  the Mancini soundtrack (with the exception of the ditty for the final chase scene), and the animal tracking scenes.  The filming for the actual animal captures is truly magnificent, even more so with the knowledge that the actors themselves were responsible for all the action.  Essentially, if one dumps all that tepid plot, erases all the actor's lines, and edits out all but the animal chase sequences, Howard Hawks would have had a damn fine movie on his hands. "}]