[{"Title":"an underrated and misunderstood classic","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"43 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Children of the Damned has generally been considered grossly inferior to Village of the Damned.  I beg to differ as the point of both movies is quite different.  In Village of the Damned the children were the result of alien insemination (presumably) and were simply evil.  In Children of the Damned they are the result of a jump in evolution and they, themselves, are unsure of who they are and why they are here.  The mystery is cleared up however when Paul makes a very eloquent speech near the end of the movie where he states that they have realized that they are here to help mankind.  This speech no longer exists on the video version.  It apparently was edited out at some point.  However without it the ending makes no sense.  The dropped screwdriver is played as a tragedy in the movie which contradicts the impression that the children are evil.  In fact what the movie is about is a religious theme about how mankind kills its saviors. "},{"Title":"Superior Children, Superior Sequel","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The inexplicable appearance of a group of children, advanced 1 million years beyond Mankind's genetic development, causes fear among the governments of the world. When the authorities try to contain them, the children respond with deadly telepathic force.This is a rare instance of a sequel being better than the original. The 1960 adaptation of John Wyndham's Midwich Cuckoos, filmed as Village Of The Damned, was a highly memorable and influential movie in its own right. However, it was also a product of post-war British film making complete with cozy, somewhat gentrified attitudes to class, sex and an illusory rural idyll. This was exemplified by George Sanders' typically suave performance as the smoking-jacket clad, martini sipping hero. Children Of The Damned is a much tougher affair. This time the action takes place in the dark, grim, urban backstreets of early sixties London - not so much swinging as downright gothic.Rather than the aliens invaders of the first film, the children here are a human super-species, socially and intellectually incompatible with the rest of humanity. They don't seem to mean any harm, but their eerily cold and quiet presence provokes the authorities into a fearful contemplation of what they might do. John Briley's adult and intelligent script takes an insightful look at how our inherently insecure systems of authority might hunt and destroy that which merely suggests a challenge to their control.The cast is excellent. Ian Hendry and Alan Badel as the two conscientious scientists trying to fathom the children's secret, are terrific. They bounce Briley's sometimes caustically witty lines between them with a delightful, naturalistic touch. The rest of the cast play it for keeps too, imparting a sense of urgency and, as with Alfred Burke's government man, icy menace.The children themselves are surprisingly well played. No brattish over-acting here. Instead, the group of young, multi-racial actors exude a perfect sense of other-worldly calm, and, when necessary, chilling ruthlessness.The film's technical credits are excellent. Cinematographer Davis Boulton's vivid black and white images ensure that Children of the Damned is one of the best photographed British films of the era. The special effects are simple (glowing eyes) but startlingly effective. The late, great Ron Goodwin was a composer best known for comedies and war films, but here he provided a subtler kind of score which suggests both the child-like and the ethereal. It was one of his best.The main plaudits must go to director Anton M. Leader. His handling of actors, the imaginative staging and his pictorial compositions, particularly towards the climax, are outstanding. For example, the scene depicting a group of gunmen trying, somewhat disastrously, to capture (or kill) the children in a derelict church is a tour de force of tension and horror. Yes, horror. This movie may have children in it, but it isn't a children's film.In all, this is much more than a quick cash-in sequel. It deserves credit for making an early stab at confronting the ethics of genetics, and for being, along with the Quatermass movies, that rare thing; a thought provoking, grown-up science fiction film.  "},{"Title":"Forgotten semi-sequel to Village of the Damned","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"32 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Five super-intelligent, emotionless children are discovered around the world.  They also have the power to control peoples minds (their eyes glow when they do this).  They're all taken to London to be studied but they escape and barricade themselves in an old, abandoned church.  But what do they want?Not as good as the original Village... but this sequel showed real promise.  It's effectively filmed in moody black & white and has some very talented British actors giving good performances.  Also the kids themselves are extremely spooky--especially when their eyes are glowing.  It also shows how various countries want to use the children for their own gain.  It also leads up to a (sadly) violent climax leaving most of the questions unanswered.  Basically, it's a cop out and that's too bad.  If you're going to set up a situation like this at least give it an ending...don't just end with violence (although that may be the point).  Some people think this is better than the original but I disagree.  Still, I was never bored and admired the direction and photography.  Worth seeing, if you can handle the lousy ending.   "},{"Title":"Interesting British sci-fi (but not a sequel!)","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although it is often referred to as a sequel to Village of the Damned, the plot differs in enough ways to make the claim seriously questionable.  No mention is made of the events in the first film.  The only real similarity is that the story concerns six children who are perceived as a threat to mankind because they possess strange telepathic and mind-control powers.Unlike the first film, however, the children are of different nationalities (not identical blonds, as the children in the first film) and they do not mature at an accelerated rate.It's as if the basic premise (six superintelligent kids who are a threat to mankind) was reworked into a new story.  The children are explained as being quantum leaps in evolution (not alien offspring, as in the first film).  And yet the story never clarifies why they were all born at approximately the same time in different parts of the world (coincidence?).  When one sympathetic government agent asks the children, Why are you here?,  the children reply We don't know.A line of dialogue by a major character, stating that the children are here to help mankind, was later edited from the film.  Too bad.Mankind, rather than the kids, are portrayed as the bad guys.  Despite some confusion over these basic plot elements, director Anton M. Leader does deliver a clear message concerning the hate, fear, and intolerance which society feels towards anyone who doesn't fit in, as well as the greed for power which nations feel in their efforts to gain dominance over each other.  "},{"Title":"Highly overlooked masterpiece","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not really a sequel to the original classic, but rather its own story with its own things to say.  This is, in fact, a powerful allegory about our violent world, the suspicious nations that make it up, what those nations teach their children by way of example, the state of religion in the modern world, etc.  Very smart, and beautifully shot in glorious black and white. If you're looking for a horror movie, you might be disappointed, but as an allegorical fantasy it's top of the line. "},{"Title":"Outstanding 60s sci fi","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Children of the Damned is not so much a sequel to Village of the Damned as a supplement to it. This time it's children in the heart of London who are displaying terrifying powers. Instead of personalising the story as in the first film, this time screenwriter John Briley enlarges the scope to encompass some  philosophical questions what right does man have to interfere with evolution? Who's more scared, the adults or the children?And of course, nature vs. nurture? Highly recommended, Children of the Damned is a fine example of British science fiction filmmaking, as good as Five Million Years to Earth.  "},{"Title":"Slightly better then the first one","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Title Children of the Damned (1963) Director Anton Leader Cast Clive Powell, Barbara Ferris, Ian Hendry, Alan Badel Review Having seen the first film (Village of the Damned) and loved its eerie ideas of children with powerful psychic powers taking over the world I looked upon the opportunity to see its sequel Children of the Damned with great anticipation. Would it be just as good as its predecessor? The story is about these very intelligent kids with psychic powers that start to sprout all over the world. Women start giving birth to these kids all over the planet, sometimes women who have never been with a man or women that aren't married. So as would be natural in a situation such as this, the government starts to take notice of these kids and sees in them military intelligence potential. So, each country tries to grab a hold of their special child and of course they have plans to exploit these kids in the military endeavors. Unfortunately for the governments of the world, the kids are not up for it.This is a flick from the early 60's, and at that time creature features where very popular (Dracula, Frankenstein, Giant Spiders, Giant everythings) so when a series like this one shows up where its got no special effects, no monsters, no men in suits destroying the city...well you kind of get to wondering, will it hold interest? It is a horror film and people expect to get spooked...but no monsters or effects? Yes, thats right, the creatures in this film are just kids and believe me thats enough. I thought it was great how this series of films managed to be so good without the monsters and effects. Its just a good chilling story, with a good premise and great performances.The first one was about presenting us the kids. Suddenly there they where amongst the town of Midwich in London. There they were using their powers on people and there they were killing whoever got in their way. But that first movie never answered any questions. It just asked them. Who where these kids and what did they want? And thats where this sequel comes in.For a moment there while I was watching it I thought the answers where never going to come and that the filmmakers where going to continue toying with the audience and keep us in the dark about the kids purpose, but low and behold, this sequel actually gives us some insight on why the kids are here.There's a lot of great moments on this film that shouldn't be missed, for example when the kids lock themselves up inside of a spooky old church and barricade themselves in it. I loved that weapon that they created with the giant old piano in the church! That has to be one of the coolest and most original things I've ever seen on any movie! Awesome moment.The last 20 minutes of the film are really gripping and tense so I suggest that you stay all the way to the end and not give up on this film. The filmmakers really came up with an interesting situation that turns red hot in the suspense o meter with the kids facing off with the military. I know its an old movie, and I know its not as fast paced as todays films, but dammit, this is a gripping, intense and suspenseful tale. Screw special effects! This is a good story! The only thing I didn't like was that I thought the look of the children on the first one was spookier. I liked the fact that they all had blond hair. The looked like drones or clones of some sort. The big distinction with the sequel is that the kids are all from different nationalities and are all different looking. One is Indian, one is African, one is Chinese and so forth. I just thought it would have been creepier if they were all from different parts of the world yet looked the same. Still its no big deal because the children are just as scary once you get into the movie.Anyhows, I highly recommend this great sequel if your into good story and suspense in your films (even if they are in black and white and old) well then your in for a treat.Rating 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"The perfect contraception campaign!","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (Small Spoilers!!!) Children of the Damned got released as a sequel to `Village of the Damned', though not officially and not starring George Sanders. Yet, both films are fascinating, prominent Science Fiction efforts and still some of the most jaw-dropping films I ever saw. A study, let by the United Nations results in bizarre and alarming findings. Six children, from all corners of the world, score unusually high on intelligence tests. It becomes even more remarkably when it seems that none of them has a father and all of them have label mothers. One mom even declared her boy is `not from this world'. While psychologists and other prominent scientists from all over the world search for explanations, the group of prodigies together seek shelter in an abandoned church&#133;.Things are getting more and more frightening when it turns out they're telepathic and able to hypnotize humans with their minds and eyes&#133; Children of the Damned offers suspense from the beginning till the very end, with a few breath-taking climaxes in-between. I rarely saw a movie that has such a constant tense-level. The silent, yet intriguing children are terrifically cast and often they look scarier as most other cinema-madmen! I know it sounds like a cliché by now but&#133;This is SF like they only could have made it in the old days. Scriptwriters nowadays simply can't come up with such ingenious and creative plots anymore. The script is intelligent (with a few interesting lectures on genetics) and the black and white cinematography helps increasing the tension even more. And, if the high entertainment values aren't enough yet&#133;Children of the Damned also raises a stunning ethical debate and it severely questions the statement whether humans are a superior species or not. Impressive AND thought-provoking! What more could you possibly wish for?   "},{"Title":"An excellent and absorbing semi-sequel to the outstanding Village of the Damned","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This surprisingly strong semi-sequel to the outstanding Village of the Damned centers on six highly advanced mutant kids with remarkably sophisticated intellects and acute psychic abilities from all over the globe. They all band together in London at an old rundown and abandoned church seeking refuge from a scared and uncomprehending adult world that wants to destroy them. A very tense and compelling stand-off ensues, with both the kids and the adults alike trying to figure out the proper course of action for this highly unusual and potentially dangerous situation.This film benefits from the same substantial strengths that graced the original low-key, unflashy direction that wisely downplays special effects in favor of focusing more on the absorbing story and exceptionally well-drawn characters, uniformly fine acting from an excellent cast (the kid actors in particular are all terrific while Ian Hendry and Alan Badel are superb as the gay couple protagonists; this latter element is handled with refreshing taste and subtlety), a smart and thoughtful script, beautifully crisp black and white photography, a pleasingly eerie and ambiguous tone, and a stimulating subtext about how people automatically feel threatened by and hence want to kill anything they can't easily understand. The uncompromisingly bleak and tragic ending is genuinely heartbreaking. Moreover, the political aspects of the story give the movie an extra stinging edge and the theme of prejudice is effectively addressed with genuinely poignant and provocative results. Overall, this picture is one of those rare glorious instances where a follow-up is every bit as comparable in top-notch quality to the sterling original. "},{"Title":"Children of the Damned","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Little Paul is specially gifted as are other kids around the world(six to be exact)brought together because the UN is fascinated with their intellect..bad mistake. As in the previous VILLAGE, these children are conceived through a female without sexual activity as the source of childbirth. Whatever these children are, they have the power of mind control and can force others to do their will.Two British scientists, Tom and David(Ian Hendry and Alan Badel)wish to study them, understand what makes them tick and why they are so advanced in intelligence. Yet, other governments are worried about these children as they are different and not understanding something always increases fear & paranoia. The six unite on their own and barricade themselves in an abandoned church creating a unique weapon that runs off of solar power and produces such strong sound waves it kills anyone whose ears are open to it. We see their power early on when two of Colin's(Alfred Burke)men are attempting to find them in the church. One shoots the other and leaps from the balcony at their command afterwords. Susan(Barbara Ferris), Paul's aunt, is the adult they use as a beacon between the humans and themselves. She's their voice/mouthpiece..their spokesperson.Because of their unique abilities to see and hear through each other no matter how far apart they are(..not to mention, their abilities to read the thoughts of others and have the power to manipulate minds), governments decide they must be eliminated as these children seem to pose too great a risk to be left alive. But, attempts at execution fail when it's realized that the sound device can kill when some men walk into the church. Tom is able to shoot the device but also kills one of the children. Exiting with some of the kid's blood, it is analyzed and seen as being not of this earth. Through further study a renowned doctor informs Tom and David that these children have the cells of man advanced a million years. The climax shows the military planning an attack on the children. David tries every way possible to stop further violence just wishing others would question the children's purpose on the earth. The answer exposes our urge to push the trigger without much thought. In hindsight, we often wish to eliminate what we don't understand.What a pleasant surprise! I can't believe I'm saying this(because I'm such a fan of VILLAGE OF THE DAMNED), but this is actually on par with the original if not slightly better. The film's got a good head on it's shoulders. We, the human race, are put in question this time as the children are more motivated through survival because they are often threatened by those who wish to kill them right away without attempting to understand them. Though-provoking little sci-fi picture uses dialogue instead of special effects to get it's point across. "}{"Title":"Ambitious but deadeningly dull","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Children of the Damned is morally and politically more ambitious still than the original Village of the Damned, exploring the notion that humans are perhaps far worse than the cuckoos in their midst. Unfortunately it's also very dull, good performances from Alfred Burke and Ian Hendry notwithstanding. There's no real involvement or forward momentum, and it exists in a vacuum &#150; the events in the first film are never even acknowledged. But the saving grace of the Region 1 DVD at least is screenwriter John Briley's audio commentary, dealing with the themes of the movie as well as taking detailed diversions into the effect of the blacklist on Hollywood, the exile of US talent to Britain and the artistic and political freedom that MGM UK's sheep farming activities gave them! (There's also a brief harbinger of things to come with a photo of Gandhi overlooking Indian politicians debating killing the children in the film Briley would go on to write Attenborough's biopic.) "},{"Title":"A Name Only Sequel To A Classic","Date":"16 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a film is a success, it is almost inevitable there will be a sequel to it. The classic 1960 sci-fi film Village Of The Damned is no exception to that rule and 1964's Children Of the Damned would be that sequel. While any sequel to Village Of The Damned would have big shoes to feel, this film doesn't quite live to the standards set by the original film. In fact, it is easy to say that Children Of The Damned is very much a sequel in name only that, contradictorily, requires knowledge of the original film for it to make sense as well as being a terribly dated Cold War parable.The film certainly has a respectable cast. Ian Hendry and Alan Badel play Tom Llewellyn and David Neville, who both give believable performances as the two scientists who uncover the children and their powers. Barbara Ferris plays the aunt of one of the children who ends up becoming a spokesperson for the children while under their control. Alfred Burke gives perhaps the film's best performance as British government agent Colin Webster whose involvement only makes the situation worse as the film goes on. Together they are a cast that is more then a match for that in the original film.One of the film's problems though is in its title characters the children. Due to whatever reason, gone are the seemingly normal yet otherworldly and menacing children of the original. These children are the exact opposite. They are utterly normal children from five places around the world who lack any of the otherworldly feeling or menace of the original children. Even the special effect used on the eyes when the children are using their powers isn't really used and, when it is, it just doesn't look stand up to the effect used in the original film. The result is that perhaps one, single essential element of the film that needed to work just doesn't work.The production values of the film are excellent. In particular the stark black and white cinematography of Davis Boulton gives the film a strong sense of atmosphere and menace throughout which helps the film immensely. The production design of Elliot Scott give the film the same feeling as the cinematography, especially in the form of the destitute church the children come to occupy for much of the film. One element that improves in this film is the score by composer Ron Goodwin that, after a rather mixed result in the original film, is never out of place and put to good use throughout. The success of the production values helps the film out immensely.Along with the children, the script is another essential element that ends up having a rather mixed result. If anything, the script presents this film as a rather confused sequel to say the least. The script seems to require that the viewer have seen the original film to understand all the events taking place. Yet the film seems to spend most of its time wanting to distance itself as far as possible from the original film. The result is a confusing mix the plot and events make little sense without having seen the original film but the story might as well be anything but a sequel. It also doesn't help that the film, by the admission of screenwriter John Briley, was more or less meant to be more of a Cold War parable. The children can be viewed as scientists around the world who the major Cold War powers (represented by the government officials in the film) want to put to use building ever more powerful weapons of mass destruction. While this would be a good idea to have explored somewhere else, this film doesn't really seem to be either the place to do it or even do it well. If anything the script seems to be drowning in good ideas (such as the revelations that come out in the films last few minutes) that are never put to good use. Also the Cold War parable gives this film something the original doesn't have a terribly dated feel to it. The result is that the script is a rather mixed affair.Children Of The Damned, even when viewed on its own and not as a sequel, is a rather mixed affair. Despite a fine main cast and excellent production values, the film's supporting cast (the children) and its script both are rather mixed in their results. When viewed as a sequel however, the film comes across as a rather confused sequel that requires knowledge of the original film for it to make sense as well as being a terribly dated Cold War parable to the point of becoming a sequel in name only. All this means that, while a decent film, it never quite works either as a sequel or as an original film either and is a bit of a letdown overall. "},{"Title":"The Damned - united by fear!","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Village Of The Damned' ( 1960 ) ended with the Midwich children blown sky-high by a bomb in a briefcase. Four years later, 'Children Of The Damned' appeared. As John Wyndham had never written a follow-up novel, it was left to John Briley ( later to write 'Gandhi' ) to concoct an original work. Psychologists Colonel Tom Llewelyn ( Ian Hendry ) and Dr.David Neville ( Alan Badel ) are investigating the backgrounds of a group of children from different countries, all of whom possess incredibly high levels of intelligence. The mother ( Sheila Allen ) of one tells them she was a virgin when her son came into the world. When she bawls him out, he forces her to walk into the path of a lorry.The children escape from custody, taking refuge in a derelict church in London. Attempts to force them out meet with little success - the children use their powers on the adults each time. Finally, the army is brought in...Not as good as 'Village' but nevertheless a solid British sci-fi film. Strangely, the first film's events are not mentioned. The Midwich children had blonde hair, these are dark. Their eyes still turn white whenever they use their powers though. The Midwich kids were believed to be aliens - no-one in 'Children' considers this possibility. Instead they are said to be the next stage in human evolution. Not evil as such, they only kill when threatened. Exactly what they are doing on Earth is never revealed. Asked to explain themselves, one says enigmatically To be destroyed!. How did they manage to build a solar-powered machine that kills by amplifying the sound of the church organ? A difference of opinion arises between the Hendry and Badel characters. Llewelyn thinks the children should be allowed to live, Neville believes they pose a threat to Mankind and need to be destroyed. Once again Ron Goodwin's music is wonderful ( particularly effective is his use of an electric organ whenever the children use their powers ). The director, Anton M.Leader, later worked on American shows such as 'Get Smart!' and 'Lost In Space'. He does a good job overall, building suspense to a shattering climax as the army accidentally destroy the church ( and killing the kids in the process ). No further films in the series appeared. Some mistakenly regard Joseph Losey's 'These Are The Damned'( 1963 ) as part of it, but apart from the idea of deadly children ( radioactive, not super-intelligent ) they have nothing in common. "},{"Title":"A puzzle wrapped in an enigma and so forth.","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unlike the original, Village of the Damned, this film skips the introductory stuff and begins in medias res, with the kids already six or seven years old, half a dozen of them, spread around the world in different countries. There is no explanation of how they were born except in the claim of an English mother that she'd never been touched. In principle, that's okay. But in this instance it means there is no dramatic introduction that's the equivalent of those disquieting first scenes in the original, in which Midwitch is shrouded in some kind of invisible cloud that renders people unconscious the moment they enter it.What I mean is that there isn't a lot of mystery in most of this movie. We see the kids drawn together in London. They hardly speak. Some of them never utter a word. And they hole up with their pretty, blond adult servant in a dilapidated church, resisting all efforts to get them to return to their normal lives.Why are they there? (Or, let's say, why are they here?) We don't know. They don't know either. They manage to share thoughts with one another without speaking. They put together some solar-powered machine that blows the minds of anyone approaching them with even the slightest of hostile intents. And they don't hesitate to kill people who try to exploit them.They're both sinister and lethal. And nobody knows their goal. There is a big argument among the military and the scientists about whether they should be destroyed or not, and one of the children is shot dead during a killing spree.Finally, the community deems them too dangerous to survive and brings to bear enormous ordinance to exterminate them and clobber the deconsecrated church they've barricaded themselves in.There's a lot of rather obvious Cold War intrigue going on. Every nation wants to take its own superchild and put its brain to use. (For a surreal example of this theme, read John Hersey's novel, The Child Buyer.) The Cold War material is right up front, but when that dilapidated church first appeared I wondered whether religion were behind the story. It was. The child who was killed is brought back to life. And the children stand hand in hand while they're martyred. I won't get into too detailed an explanation of exactly HOW religion fits in because, mainly, I can't. I didn't understand the thing.The narrative seemed to be going in a direction similar to that of The Day the Earth Stood Still. I am sacrificing my life to convince you that you should stop your bickering. And yet, if that is in fact the message, it comes across as if written in proto-Indo-Hittite. What's left at the end resembles the cloud of dust that settles over the now-demolished church.I'd like to be able to recommend it more highly but it's left me as confused as the screenplay. I think, if I hadn't a clearer idea of what I was aiming for, I'd have left the original alone. "},{"Title":"A film with a message. But what is it?","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Children of the Damned is often regarded as a sequel to Village of the Damned from three years earlier, and was officially described as a sequel to John Wyndham's The Midwich Cuckoos, the novel upon which the original film was based. The film's premise is basically similar to that of Village of the Damned, that of super-intelligent children being born to otherwise normal parents. Whereas the children in the earlier film were all born in one small English village, those in Children of the Damned are from different parts of the world- Britain, America, Russia, China, India and Africa. (As the film was made at the height of the Cold War, a year after the Cuban missile crisis, this list of countries had obvious political significance).Although the children are super-intelligent, they do not seem to show any normal human emotion. They rarely speak to outsiders, although they can communicate among themselves by telepathy. Like the children in the earlier film, they also have the power to control the minds of others. The six children are brought to London, so that they can be studied by scientists, where their presence leads to much discussion not only among the scientists but also among the British authorities. The Government send Colin Webster, an intelligence agent, to remove the British child, Paul, ostensibly to secure his safety but in reality so that his powers can be exploited by the British defence industry. The other governments involved have similar plans for their own children. The children, however, succeed in escaping from their respective embassies and take refuge in a disused London church. (The now-ruined church of St-Dunstan-in-the-East was used for the exterior shots; the interior was presumably a set).The two scientists we see are Tom Lewellin, an idealistic psychiatrist, and David Neville, a geneticist. They are originally close friends, but come to hold different views on how the children should be treated. Neville comes to see the children as evil, and agrees with Webster that they should be destroyed. The more compassionate Lewellin argues that the children have only killed in self-defence and that their lives should be spared.In Village of the Damned the children were alien invaders from another world. It would perhaps be incorrect to describe them as evil (it is unclear whether they have any concept of morality), but they are certainly malevolent and hostile towards humanity. Children of the Damned was advertised under the tagline So young, so innocent, so deadly - they came to conquer the world!, which would support the view that the children in this film too are aliens, but this is not borne out by the story itself, in which it is suggested that they are not from another planet but rather represent a future stage in mankind's evolution and that they have somehow (by means that are never explained) travelled in time rather than in space.The main difference between the two films is that Village of the Damned was simply a thriller, albeit one of the best science-fiction thrillers ever made. Children of the Damned, by contrast, was evidently made as a film with a message. The trouble is trying to decipher exactly what its message is. I was interested to see the comment by another reviewer who stated that, originally, Paul was given a speech in which he stated that the children are here to help mankind. This was omitted from the final version of the film (certainly from the version that I saw) in which he merely makes the fatalistic, and chilling statement, that the children are there to be destroyed.If Paul's original speech had been kept, and the children had explicitly been presented as benefactors of mankind, it might have been possible to view the film as a religious allegory along the lines of Whistle Down the Wind with the children as Christ-figures destroyed by those they came to save. Certainly, there are elements in the film that hint at such an interpretation. Paul's mother Diana states that she was a virgin when she gave birth to him, and the paternity of the other children seems equally dubious. The scene in which another of the children, Rashid, is brought back to life after being killed recalls both the Resurrection and other episodes from the Gospels such as the raising of Lazarus. The fact that much of the film is set in a church may also support this interpretation, and the fact that the church is disused may be symbolic of the way in which humanity has drifted away from the Christian message.I should, however, point out that there are also elements which seem to militate against a religious interpretation. The children are responsible for several deaths and, whereas these can all be seen as killings in self-defence, this is at odds with the Gospel story in which Christ rejects the use of force, even to defend himself against his enemies. (He who lives by the sword shall die by the sword). In the final scene, when the children are themselves killed, this seems to be a tragic accident rather than a deliberate act. It may be that, in its final form, the film may simply have been intended as a pacifist or internationalist tract about the need for co-operation and goodwill among the nations of the world and towards those who are different from oneself.The film is visually striking, with its stark black-and-white photography (something else it shares with Whistle Down the Wind and the strange, otherworldly look of the children themselves. It is an interesting attempt to make a film of ideas (something to which the science-fiction genre seems well suited), but I found that its ideas were often muddled. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A Quantum leap in development?","Date":"28 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Another group of children, this time scattered all over the world and not having the tell tale blue eyes and blond hair, have been reported. The British government has had them brought to London, five of them that is, the sixth being British. We're not necessarily blaming aliens this time. Could it be aliens or has man taken a quantum leap in development? That's what Alan Badel and Ian Hendry who are scientists want to know. But Alfred Burke representing the government sees only two alternatives, make use of their telekinetic and mind reading powers or destroy them.Not quite a sequel to Village Of The Damned, Children Of The Damned adds a few new wrinkles to the situation humankind finds itself in dealing with these super kids. Barbara Shelley who is the aunt of the British kid gets taken over and essentially becomes den mother and spokesperson for the children. The might of British defense has definitely met its match.In the end a rather sensible solution is arrived at and not by the grownups.Nice suspenseful science fiction story. "},{"Title":"I believe that children are the future...","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Six children from six different nations, each gifted with superior intellects and telekinetic powers, are tested by scientists keen to discover the limits of their capabilities. Inevitably, the children come to the attention of shady government types who wish to exploit the children for the purposes of national security, or failing that, destroy them. In fear, the children join forces and take refuge in a derelict church, where they are forced to strike back at those who might wish to do them harm.Children of the Damned is generally considered to be a sequel to the excellent Village of the Damned; however, when viewed like this, glaring anomalies prevent it from being a fully satisfying experience. Children of the Damned is therefore best viewed as a standalone project; seen in this way, the film is more than worthy of any sci-fi/horror fan's time&#x97;an intelligent, thought-provoking piece that raises religious, ethical and philosophical debates and which, depending on how the somewhat ambiguous ending is interpreted, also delivers a prophetic warning unless humans can overcome their innate distrust and fear of that which they do not understand, there can be no hope of survival for mankind.Opinion about which of the 'of the Damned' films is better is seriously divided, but given the choice, I would always go for the freaky, blonde-haired and undeniably malevolent mutants of 'Village' over the normal looking, multi-cultural, and possibly benevolent saviours of mankind from 'Children'. Guess that's just how I roll... "},{"Title":"Interesting sequel","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really enjoyed the first film Village of the Damned and while I admit this is no where near as good as that I still found it interesting enough and it did raise a few questions. I do admit that the children were dangerous and untrusting, I thought it was because they knew that we here on earth were a threat to their existence. So on that level we can understand why they acted the way they did. The ending I found sad and ironic. Like I said, this is not as good as the first film but I do think its worth a look. "},{"Title":"Ingenious, subtle and brilliantly effective.","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Beautifully made and strikingly ambiguous sequel to the creepy original. This time, the kids are not so obviously evil and while the revelation that they are evolved humans comes completely out of the blue, it is a nice touch. The film looks fantastic, the sharp b&w photography is gorgeous and the script is witty and intelligent. The final revelation as to why the children are here is genuinely chilling. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but not as demented as the first","Date":"20 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Convinced there are more children out in the world, a UN study finds the other remaining children and brings them to a secure church in London for study, only for the continued misuse of their powers to force the world to rid themselves of the children.This one turned out to be quite enjoyable if only slightly flawed overall here. What really stands out here is the film's rather enjoyable and exciting action scenes that are wisely kept to a few needed spurts here rather than placed throughout the film as a whole. The race around downtown London and on through the different back-alleys and side-streets looking for the children while she's in turn followed by the agents that leads into their church hideout makes for a fine time, as does the different attempts to barnstorm the church and try to appeal to them, which is quite a fine series of actions here with the attempts broken up by having the children forcibly bringing the intruders to harm themselves, stopping them with the implementation of a loud, boisterous weapon and finally by talking in vague threats about what's going to happen to intruders in the future. The finale attempt to see what to do with them makes for quite a fun time here with this one really getting the action out here in regards to the military utilizing their weaponry here in grand order and launching a full-scale attack against them in a flurry of explosions, shelling and gunfire that culminates in the deadly bombing that brings the church down in quite a spectacular manner here for a thrilling finale and one of the films' best scenes overall. This, though, is really all that really works here as this one does have a few small flaws with it. Much like the original, this one seems quite uncomfortable with blatantly exclaiming how the children came about, as this one provides no explanation whatsoever for what happened to bring these children along, why those events were completely ignored after what happened previously since this one is decidedly concerned with continuity as this manages to take place in that same universe quite distinctly, so being able to skirt around the issue as clumsily as done so here is a big distraction. As well, the big issue of how the different nationalities are represented here seems to contradict the first one where whole villages were targeted so this one-from-around- the-world makes no sense. Likewise, the finale here with the continuous arguing about the children's importance in helping the nations of the world destroy each other is never really tied into this one or why it should mean anything other than being completely ignored by everyone which in turn forces the children into action every time out, and to continually force the issue each encounter makes them simply asking for their consequences more than anything else. This here is really the main thing hold this one down as it is.Today's Rating/PG Violence and violent acts against children. "}{"Title":"A Decent Sequel","Date":"16 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Scientists discover that there are six children who each have an enormous intelligence. The children are flown to London to be studied, but they each escape their embassy and gather in a church.While this sequel will never have the sort of cult following the original has gained, it is not bad in its own right. What it does is create a story that spans nations, making a not so subtle argument about the advantages of working together rather than being at odds with one another. Coming out in 1964, this was no doubt a jab at the Cold War.There is also the theme of self-preservation. One character remarks that if the children are allowed to grow up and have children of their own, they would some day inherit the earth. This would be an affront to humanity. Or at least humanity as we know it... evolution, which may be great on the whole, looks terrifying to those who are left behind. "},{"Title":"Not as good as its predecessor but still very much worth it","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well this is the sequel to Village of the Damned (1960). However none of the characters from the original reprise their role in this movie. It is a complete different story with different characters. The only similarity is the cuckoo children who are once again the main attraction of the movie. The children are this time only 6 (4 boys, 2 girls). It is no more only blonde kids like in the original. Here the kids have different nationalities, are from different races and skin color. But language isn't a barrier for them as they communicate mostly through their minds. They seem more powerful than before being able to see, read and hear what the others of their kind do. But their main weapon remains their hypnotic powers using their glowing eyes. Bundling their forces even enabled them to revive one of the kids who was supposed to be dead. The problem is that the movie hardly brings anything new. The characters are also less developed as in the original. Good role however from Barbara Ferris as Susan Eliot. Nice and believable is the conflict between psychologist, scientist and the army. It's kind of a deja-vu also from The Thing from Another World. "},{"Title":"Alike in Appearanc Only","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This turns the intent of the original around and makes the children victims and the humans the bad folks (at least the government and the military). In science fiction, those who have moved way beyond us in evolutionary development are seen as threats, pure and simple. It has been used in stories where we automatically assume and advanced alien arrival means bombs will soon be dropped. Kill them before they kill us. This is understandable, but it gets in the way of our moving our own world along. Here, the blond haired, spooky eyed children (who aren't children in the conventional sense) make an appearance and are destined to meet. They have been conceived in non-traditional ways and have parents who don't have a clue. Eventually, moral people see what is going on, but must butt heads with the larger culture and the protective forces. This is nearly as disturbing as the original. However, other than the appearances of the children and how they came to be, this is an independent film and has no connection with its predecessor. "},{"Title":"Dense and Demanding Concerns About Many Things&#x85;Chilling Follow-Up","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It has the Same Theme as Village of the Damned (1961), a Surprise Hit, so the Inevitable Sequel Followed Three Years Later with Mixed Results. It is Widely Shouted that THIS IS NOT A SEQUEL from Various Quarters, Does it Really Matter That Much?The Children in This Film have the Same Super-Intelligence and Glowing Eyes that Paralyze and Can Read Minds, have a Hive Mind of Their Own, and can Manipulate Mere Humans with a Stare.This One is So Heavy with Social, Philosophical, Cold-War/Political, Scientific, and Biological Concerns it is No Surprise that it Never Fully Makes a Whole Lot of Sense and is a Bit Clunky Trying to Come to Terms with Such Deep Demands.But it is At Times Quite Chilling and After a Talky Slow Start the Second Half of the Movie Kicks Some Serious Butt. Once the Children Enter the Church All Hell Breaks Loose. There are a Number of Things Like a Dog Sparking a Horrific Revenge, a Solar Powered Hydrogen Gizmo Using Super-Sonic-Sound to Incapacitate, and the Killing of One of the Kids.Overall, the Movie Looks Great and is Claustrophobic with Confined Streets and Interiors with Sharp Angles and Low Key Lighting. The End May be Unsatisfying but it Sure is Unexpected Proving that Accidents Will Happen in the Fog of War and if Something Can Go Wrong, Something Will Go Wrong. "},{"Title":"average horror movie","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have tired to watch this one before but I just could not get into at time so, I gave this movie another go.I thought it was decent movie, it had some really good creepy moment with kid scenes but the rest of the movie did little tame at times. I did get a little bored in the middle of the movie but then I really enjoyed last 20 mintures of movie and number of things going at the same time but I wish there more to the aftermath of the movie. just to end it after that. The acting was decent from the whole castI am going to give it 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An outstanding sequel to Village of the Damned","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The children in this movie don't exactly give off an air of evil and otherworldly deception the way the children in Village of the Damned do. This is more sci-fi than horror, and it's still just as excellent. Six children, each from different countries around the world, have extremely high intelligence and scientists want to study them, but the children want to be together, not lab rats (I don't blame em'). Nina, Paul, Mi Ling, Rashid, Mark and I can't remember the name of the last child, these children aren't evil but still very eerie, with telepathy and intelligence beyond normal human measure. The soundtrack was great, the acting was excellent, all in all a very entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Reasonable 'sequel', but pales compared to the original","Date":"22 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Version I saw UK DVD box set release Actors 6/10Plot/script 6/10Photography/visual style 6/10Music/score 6/10Overall 7/10Children of the Damned is widely known as a not very good sequel to 1960's Village of the Damned. I found that it had definite problems, and was generally weaker than the original, but it seems to me to be a perfectly good film in its own right.It's not a conventional sequel either. While close enough that it might reasonably be accused of plagiarism if it did not credit the original (and the John Wyndham book upon which it is based), the two share no characters, and have different directors and writers. In addition, the plot of Children makes no reference whatsoever to the events of Village, and in fact, the miraculous powers of the mysterious, eerie children obey different rules too. Children of the Damned is not even based directly on a book at all Wyndham's 'The Midwich Cuckoos' has no sequel. In almost every respect, they are effectively completely separate tales.The directing is pedestrian and, while the script has some good lines and commendable pacing, its Cold War paranoia theme had been done before and better in the likes of The Day the Earth Stood Still and Invasion of the Body Snatchers. It also exhibits some uncertainty as to its genre, beginning as a buddy detective (weak) comedy, then edging into spy thriller, before the sci-fi/supernatural elements take over. While this is not necessarily a disaster (witness From Dusk Till Dawn's exuberant mish-mash of genres), it does not bode well.The acting is possibly the biggest problem. As I have said, the two main characters at the start interact like buddy detectives, but their banter is not very funny, for a start. More significantly, the cut-glass 'received pronunciation' English accents common in film and TV at the time were OK for Village's wealthy rural setting, but seem incongruous for inner-city London.Finally, while it is disguised by a new plot device of making the children almost mute, they are evidently less well-drilled, losing the most eerie qualities of the wonderfully atmospheric Village of the Damned.Finally, I was very disappointed by one detail that underlies the story. The children initially inspire fear and suspicion because of their uncanny intelligence, and the implication seems to be that they are right in this. Intelligence is the best of things, not the worst, and I frown upon anything that portrays it so blatantly as dangerous and scary. "},{"Title":"An Excellent, Complementary Sequel","Date":"21 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 1960 sci-fi/horror thriller Village of the Damned, five small communities around the world had been put to sleep by a mysterious agency and all their women capable of childbirth immaculately made preggers. The resultant children had evinced powers of mental control, a hyperaccelerated physical development and a hive mind; by the end of the film, all the children had been slain by their panicky respective nations. Thus, a follow-up to this classic film would seemingly have been an unlikely prospect. And yet, four years later, that sequel, Children of the Damned, made its unexpected appearance. Released in January 1964 and sporting the alarming advice to Beware the Eyes That Paralyze! on its promotional poster, the film turned out to be a remarkably satisfying sequel, featuring all-new characters, a completely different story line, and a wholly different feel, as compared to the first picture. Another product of MGM's British branch, and again sporting an intelligent and adult script, first-rate acting and gorgeous B&W cinematography, Children can proudly hold its head high next to its famous forebear.In the film, UNESCO has, for the first time, given a standardized IQ test to kids all around the world, and with startling results. Six children--four boys (from the U.K., Nigeria, India and the U.S.) and two girls (from Russian and China)--have turned in tests that indicate identical, impossibly high IQ scores. The six are brought together in London for study, and psychologist Tom Lewellin (the great British actor Ian Hendry) and geneticist David Neville (Alan Badel) begin their examination. But the children--who also demonstrate the same psi powers, hive mind, freakishly glowing eyes, and powers of mental coercion as the kids in the first film--soon band together, kidnap the Brit kid Paul's pretty Aunt Susan (Barbara Ferris), and hole up in an abandoned church, while the heads of their respective governments ponder how to get them back or, possibly, destroy them. It would seem that a murderous showdown between the freakishly gifted kids and the panicky world leaders might be inevitable again....There are several salient differences between VOTD and COTD, despite their surface similarities. Of basic importance is the fact that the kids in the first film are suggested to be alien in nature, and with their uniform blonde looks, they certainly do appear otherworldly and unsettling. The children in the sequel, on the other hand, are supposed to be biological sports who have miraculously arisen simultaneously. The kids in the first film are not sympathetic in nature; those in the second most definitely are, especially with their differentiated cute looks (the little Chinese girl is adorable) and after the audience learns that the kids are wholly human, just evolved to a point perhaps a million years in mankind's future. There is more agonized soul searching as to what to do with these problematic children in the second film, with Hendry very much our moral compass, and while both films end on a decided down note, the events of the latter picture seem even more tragic, due to the sympathetic nature of the kids here. COTD, as screenwriter John Briley tells us during the DVD's commentary, is more of a moral fable of the Cold War, whereas the first had been most clearly a science-fiction scarifier. And if possible, the six kids of the sequel cause even more of a worldwide tizzy than the 12 alien kids of the British village of Midwich in the original outing!As to the similarities, both films boast absolutely first-rate, moody B&W lensing (by cinematographer Geoffrey Faithful in the first film and David Boulton in the second) and taut direction (Wolf Rilla in the former; Anton M. Leader, who otherwise worked almost exclusively for television, in the latter). As in the initial outing, the most memorable scenes in COTD for the viewer will most likely be the ones in which the kids use their powers to punish perceived threats on the part of their elders. Hence, in the sequel, Paul attempts to kill his mother by forcing her to walk in traffic; one government agent is coerced to shoot another and then to walk off a high balcony in that abandoned church; the children use some kind of sonic device to stop the attack of foreign kidnappers; and three British officials are compelled to slay one another by stabbing and strangulation. Two other similarities that the films share crackerjack, literate scripts and remarkably fine acting down to the smallest bit players. Very much a class act all the way, this is one sequel that really does live up to its original, complementing the first while piling on new layers of meaning and additional food for thought. An all-new suspense shocker, that promotional poster proclaimed, and for once, the advertising hyperbole turns out to be precisely true! This is superior, adult entertainment all the way! "},{"Title":"More Smart Children","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anton Leader directed this semi-sequel to Village Of The Damned that stars Ian Hendry as a sympathetic psychologist in charge of studying six children of high intelligence and different nations who have gathered in a church for an unknown purpose. The military is also involved, and have surrounded them, unsure of how to proceed, as the threat is undetermined. Needless sequel doesn't even refer to the events of the first film, despite the title, and is also quite dull and uneventful. It does have fine acting, and some interesting ideas of course, but doesn't handle either of them well, and result is a misfire; stick with the superior Village instead. "},{"Title":"Contraceptive Notions","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a London classroom, child psychologist Ian Hendry (as Tom Llewellyn) and genetics scientist Alan Badel (as David Neville) observe fair-haired student Clive Powell (as Paul). They are astonished by the young lad's ability to accomplish a difficult block-building task, in record time. It turns out young Powell is super-intelligent. He's also very strange. Investigating the boy leads Mr. Hendry and Mr. Badel to his self-described virgin mother, who almost immediately suffers a mishap. Powell's aunt Barbara Ferris (as Susan Eliot) moves in to care for the boy. Working for the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), Hendry and Badel find a total of six strange-acting children, from all around the world...This follow-up to Village of the Damned (1960) deviates significantly from the earlier film. In the opening credits, it is noted to be a sequel to John Wyndham's story (originally called The Midwich Cuckoos). During the film, we are given an alternate reality concerning the origin and purpose of the children in question. It's unfortunate screenwriter John Briley's story doesn't exactly demonstrate continuity with Village, Children of the Damned is engaging. An obvious attempt at diversity is welcome, and the co-starring couple has a living arrangement and relationship open to interpretation. Anton Tony Leader directs through an artful atmosphere. Mr. Leader's lack of a feature film oeuvre was a plus for television.******* Children of the Damned (1/29/64) Anton M. Leader ~ Ian Hendry, Alan Badel, Clive Powell, Barbara Ferris "}{"Title":"We are here for the same reason you are.","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Children Of The Damned is directed by Anton M. Leader and written by John Briley. It's a thematic sequel to Village Of The Damned from 1960 which was based on the novel written by John Wyndham. Plot finds 6 children identified by UNESCO to have special powers that if used in unison could have devastating consequences for mankind.Interesting and atmospheric if ultimately lukewarm as a whole. Retreading the plot from the superior first film, it's amazing that this take actually has very little to do with the 1960 darling. Confused? Well you wont be watching this since it's very talky and the makers are intent on making us listen. Listen to some moral quandaries, Cold War politics and even a touch of existentialism. All nicely wrapped around 6 not very creepy kids who actually aren't very evil at all. The acting is fine, notably the taut turns from Ian Hendry and Alan Badel, while David Boulton's black & white photography carries a suitable bleakness to it.Well made but all too often dull; where Briley's script isn't as clever as it wants to be, the film is mostly saved by some technical smarts and a boldly gloomy ending. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Children of the Damned","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Children of the Damned(1963)-Yes, it did seem that living together and being soft-spoken intellectuals they may have been (the two men) gay, but remember the one scene showing them coming out of two rooms? What's more in the old days, probably to save money, sets were designed to show people living together. A good example is the recently shown 1951 THe Day the Earth Stood Still as the heroine and her son live in a shared rooming house with shared eating facilities and we see the interaction of the other guests. Some lookalikes in this movie The young blonde boy could have passed for Peter Graves when he was young; Ian Hendry bears a resemblance to President Bush; Barbara Ferris bears a resemblance to Rebecca DeMornay.Also interesting is the soldier who answers the phone saying Montez as his name. It might mean the Spanish immigration to England "},{"Title":"Superior pseudo-sequel","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" With a dash of German Expressionism, a pinch of Italian Neo-Realism, a streak of BBC docudrama and American anthology series' like Twilight Zone, Children of the Damned is a far superior sequel to Village of the Damned. In fact calling it a sequel is rather silly as it shares little from the original, which is an excellent thing. The title even manages to hold far more significance as the plot thickens and we come to understand the possibilities. Politically and morally layered, draped in the fears of the cold war, the film sheds its predecessor's country attire and enters the labyrinthine London streets for what is essentially a chase and standoff film. Though somewhat episodic (director Alan Leader primarily directed TV) the film offers some great set pieces and scientific and moral quandaries. The handling of the children as something other than the evil little beings of the first film is a testament to screenwriter John Briley. The sci-fi elements are kept to a bare minimum though are used in far more creative and exciting ways than VotD, which heightens the terror and curiosity until we reach that inevitable question of why can't we all just get along? to startlingly effect. "},{"Title":"More alien children turn up - keep away from them","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Children of the Damned is the sequel to Village of the Damned and, although not as good as the original, is still enjoyable.More alien children are found and are all bought together in one place, London. There are examples of children born in India, America and China. These children are as dangerous as the Midwich ones and it isn't long before they start controlling people to kill each other. They all gather at a London church when the military star firing and a big explosion at the end destroys the church, taking the children with it.The cast in this one includes Ian Hendry (Journey to the Far Side of the Sun, Theatre of Blood), Alan Badel, Patrick Wymark (The Skull) and veteran star Bessie Love (The Lost World 1925).Children of the Damned is worth looking at, even though not as good as Village of the Damned.Rating 3 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Like getting underwear for Christmas!","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many of you out there can relate. When I was a kid, like any other kid, I adored Christmas. However, like most kids, there were times when I got presents that looked wonderful--until I opened them. Getting underwear or socks were such presents. Well, CHILDREN OF THE DAMNED is like a pack of underwear at Christmas. It looks great, you really anticipate it and when it arrives you are thinking is this all that there is?!?. That's because the first film, VILLAGE OF THE DAMNED, was an amazingly good movie--one of the best of the 1960s. Yet, this eagerly anticipated sequel is a horrible, horrible film--rotten in just about every possible way. The only other original film and sequel that may THAT much different might be WILLARD (a fine film) and BEN (a sequel so saccharine that I feel nauseous just thinking about it).So why is CHILDREN OF THE DAMNED so darn bad? Well, in the original, these children were alien creations with super-advanced brains and telepathic powers they used for evil. They viewed outsiders the same way we might view ants! Yet in the sequel, these children are creepy looking and gifted BUT they just want to be left alone and be given respect!!!!! What happened to all the terror?! In VILLAGE OF THE DAMNED, the kids talked in a creepy monotone manner as one voice AND they used their powers to force people to drive into walls or kill themselves. Here, they just whine about wanting understanding!!! So, a sequel to a horror movie has become, instead, like a live action version of the comic strip Wee Pals!!! Ugghh!! Now that is scary!! The production values are okay--so I am giving it two stars. This is generous, as the plot is just horrid--an abomination and a complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"Inferior Sequel Changes Gears","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Village of the Damned was a real classic. So this in-name-only sequel has a lot to live up to and, not surprisingly, it fails. How does it fail? For starters, the children are no longer menacing like they were in the first film. This time they just want to be understood or whatever. This film is not a sinister, slightly subversive sci-fi horror film like the first. It's more of a drama with some touches of the original's plot elements to spice it up.Sequels that change gears do not necessarily have to suck. Look at Curse of the Cat People, a brilliant follow-up to Cat People but a completely different kind of film. Unfortunately there's nothing significantly interesting going on here to elevate it above the middle of the pack. It's watchable but not great. See it with extremely low expectations. "},{"Title":"Children of the Damned","Date":"22 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Children of the Damned may be a sequel to 'Village', but it really is a very different story all together. In COTD, the children are not evil little alien minions like the ones in 'Village'. It is very hard to tell if the children are the bad guys in the movie. They don't kill humans in this one unless they are at risk of being attacked by those same humans.Like the original, the kids are very intelligent and keep to themselves. The children in COTD lack in the spooky department though. They were much more effective in Village of the Damned with their blond hair, the way they spoke, and even their movements. Of course doctors want to find out what these kids are. They eventually discover that they are human. They test the cells of one of the boys they kill. It is human, but a much more advanced one. The cells are advanced by a million years.Children of the Damned lacks at building up the characters. In Village, there were root-able characters but in this one it's all so straight forward. The human characters are actually the bad guys in COTD, so we never really relate to them or want them to succeed over the children. I also thought this one dragged on a little much compared to Village of the Damned. It's a decent sequel, but a pretty average watch. It failed to keep my attention throughout.5/10 "},{"Title":"Damned waste of time!","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though Children of the Damned does bear some thematic similarities to 1960's Village of the Damned, it's not a sequel, but a confused allegory that is not only tedious and talky, but ultimately without point or purpose. The children of the title are ill-defined and ultimately uninteresting. Handsomely mounted, Children of the Damned is one of those films like Night of Dark Shadows(1971)where you sit and wait for something to happen. Village of the Damned was a minor classic;compact, chilling and clever, and it hooked you from the start. Even if you haven't seen Village of the Damned, Children of the Damned is bound to be a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Children of the Damned (1963) **1/2","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" CHILDREN OF THE DAMNED (1963)Follow-up to VILLAGE OF THE DAMNED (1960) is not quite up to the original, but this sequel takes things a step further as more potentially dangerous, advanced alien children cause concerns to mankind. What's interesting this time is the switch to seeing children of different countries now possessed (India, Russia, America...). There's more of a serious political undertone to this story, which works in its favor. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Useless sequel","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A sequel to the creepy Village of the Damned (1960), Children of the Damned fumbles some key points and what works is just rehashed from the original. Of course, George Sanders is not back. The eerie children are back, this time from several different countries, but they're missing the trademark light hair. The sequel tries to provide more of an explanation of what the children are- not alien hybrids, it turns out, but humans from a million years in the future. That was something I didn't really want to hear- it contradicts the original, which kept the children's origins unknown but with strong hints of extraterrestrial influence.Minus the more conclusive explanation of the children, this movie is not all that different from the original. Once again, we have the children killing would-be attackers with their mind powers; once again, we have the humans debating whether the children should be killed, with one suggesting they can be of use to the human race and should be spared. In the end, troops seem to explode the church the children are staying at- but the original had established troops are no threat to these children. The children in this movie seem to want to be destroyed, but why? Because the makers of the film couldn't think of another way to end it? In the end, this movie is unsatisfying and pointless. "}{"Title":"Unambitious, straightforward thriller","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Marginally entertaining time-waster, a sequel to 1960's Village of the Damned, has super-intelligent, multi-cultural children dominating all grown-ups with their imposing mental prowess. Impossibly straight-faced thriller isn't dull, however it certainly isn't as stylish as its predecessor, though this screenplay thankfully dispenses with the psychological subtext and gets right down to business. Amusing parallels to the later Boys From Brazil keeps it interesting, but the eerie impact of Village is sorely missing and the cast (Alan Badel, Ian Hendry, Barbara Ferris) just goes through the motions, as does director Anton Leader. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Why are you here?","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" That quote pretty well sums up my thoughts on the movie. Village of the Damned was such a perfect little chiller while Children of the Damned is so imperfect it's astonishing. It really is an unneeded sequel and it has very little to do with the first film. The only common plot points are the children having those hypnotic powers (not to mention eyes) and not having a father. Other than that, the writer changed just about everything. These children aren't even evil! Add to that that it's very, very hard to get into it and you have the makings for a painful 89 minutes. It's just boring. As an allegory for the Cold War and the evils that men do, it does work. It's obvious that's what the writer was going for here. But it's still painfully dull. The movie raises so many questions and answers none of them. I suggest avoided this one. "},{"Title":"So young, so innocent, so dull - they came to bore the world!","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This sequel is not at all comparable to it's predecessor. There were no adequate explanations as to why they suddenly reappeared, their former growth rate uncommented on, their ability to read minds obviously diminished and all in all sloppily acted. In the final massacre they actually made some attempts at sporadic humour, but without any sparkle it quickly became almost grotesquely perverted. "},{"Title":"Good premise and a promising beginning but the last halve of the movie is ridicules.","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie starts of as a really promising science-fiction/thriller in the same style as movies such as Invasion of the Body Snatchers. Judging by just the first halve of the movie, this movie could had really grown into a science-fiction classic, if only the second halve of the movie had been just as good instead of just utterly ridicules and unlikely as it was.Village of the Damned, of which this movie loosely is a sequel, already wasn't exactly a masterpiece but it still grew out to be a classic, mainly thanks to its atmosphere and original story. Children of the Damned is in many ways similar to its predecessor. It has a promising concept and story but the execution of it all is just plain weak at times, which makes Children of the Damned nothing more than just an average science-fiction flick that just doesn't leave a lasting- or good impression.I loved were the movie was heading to in the beginning. The story seemed promising and it all seemed like good enough material to make a good and pleasant horror like science-fiction movie with. But then suddenly the movie takes a not so positive turn, from the moment on when the children hide in the church. The story becomes utterly ridicules from that moment on and on top of that it also becomes uninteresting and not always totally understandable. I still don't exactly understand what the purpose and plan of the children was because the second halve of the movie is told so weak and ridicules. The movie had potential but all of that is ruined in its second halve.The acting was quite solid and the movie had some good and interesting characters in it, that deserved a better character-treatment. There still are some good and memorable moments in the movie and fans of British science-fiction/horror will still find plenty to enjoy in this movie but it just isn't one of those movies that leaves a very big impression. The story-telling, in especially its second halve, is far too weak for that.Just as bad/good as its predecessor.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}]