[{"Title":"Get Off Roz's back!","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"43 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For years I have read that Rosalind Russell was miscast as Mama Rose in this film production of Gypsy.  I disagree.  I thought she brought great humanity to this hard-boiled character.  Russell proves that no person's persona is black or white, but a mixture of both.  In short, her performance is excellent and very touching. "},{"Title":"Everything's coming up roses because I CERTAINLY let it entertain me!","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"37 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have LOVED this musical for about seven years... and seen both Roz & Bette's versions... now, I know most people prefer Bette... but I don't.  I mean... I've read reviews where people said Forget the '62 version... go rent Bette's!  Maybe I'm crazy... I mean, I adore Bette Midler to death, but I think Roz did a better job of actually PLAYING the part.  Sure, she may not have the vocal talents of Midler and Merman... but who does?!  She's more of what I imagined the real Rose Hovick to be... and she's just so... I don't know.  The way she delivered her lines... it was perfection.  She also made me feel just a tad sorry for Rose... now I never saw Ethel Merman play the part, but Bette never made me feel sorry for Rose.  Roz does.  And that's a great talent whenever you can play a part where you have people hating and yet, at the same time, feeling sorry for the character.  She was absolutely brilliant in the part and I don't see how people cannot recognize this!  I also enjoyed Karl Malden in the role of Herbie better than Peter Reigert (I believe that was his name).  He brought such life to the role.  And although Cynthia Gibb did a good job of playing Louise... Natalie Wood... I mean, who can top THAT?  Natalie Wood was GREAT!!!!  She was perfect as the sort of quiet, shy child that grew up into a glamorous queen of the striptease.  Diane Pace who played Louise as a child did a FINE job too!  Cute little girl.  And then... Morgan Brittany (who is billed as Suzanne Cupito) and Ann Jillian as Baby and Dainty June... how awesome is that?!  Who knew that Ann Jillian could SING?  I sure didn't.  Paul Wallace was awesome as Tulsa... lots of talent.  It's a GREAT movie, even if it WAS a bit altered from the Broadway play... but hey, the play was a bit altered from the true life story so... what does it matter?!  A GREAT MOVIE, HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!!! "},{"Title":"Bravo to Russell and Wood!","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Rosalind Russell, a true world-class actress, brought perfect line readings and comic timing and delivery, along with a nice patrician air, to the role of Rose, and no one has matched her -- before or since. I've seen every Mama Rose -- Merman, Peters, Midler, Lansbury, Betty Buckley, Andrea McArdle, Mary McCarty, Joanne Worley and Giselle MacKenzie -- and none of them touches Russell in the role, certainly not in the kind of nuanced humanity she brought to it. (There have been a lot of caricaturing, mugging and over-acting in this role.) And Natalie Wood is the only actress I've seen to do anything remotely three-dimensional with the underwritten role of Louise/Gypsy. Bravo to both! "},{"Title":"Well, I liked it.","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" No, it didn't have Ethel Merman. Most films didn't have Ethel Merman. That's because Ms. Merman was always something of a Sherman Tank personality- regardless of vocal strength- and her vocals and mannerisms would've been entirely too big on film. The jury will be forever out as to whether or not Rosalind Russell did her own singing or was partially looped by Lisa Kirk, but it ultimately doesn't matter. She captures perfectly the nuance of a driven stage mother whose ambitions cause her daughters to simultaneously love her and be frustrated by her. (In hindsight, the best possible Rose probably would've been none other than Judy Garland, named in an early casting package. Can you imagine?) As it is, I thought the most amazing performance came from Natalie Wood- who appears to age roughly fifteen years throughout the film. Note her first appearance in the film celebrating a lonely birthday with a baby lamb; she looks roughly thirteen years old. All through the troupe's vaudeville adventures she remains in the background until the train depot sequence; she then grows up overnight- first as a counselor to her mother (as 'Rose-Louise'), then begins to find her voice in the Wichita burlesque sequences as a seamstress and bit player with the strippers, then finally in the star strip, we actually see her turn into Gypsy Rose Lee- all grown up and gorgeous. Wonderful support from manager Karl Malden and sister Ann Jillian. "},{"Title":"Rose!  Rose!","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This enjoyable class act has Natalie Wood as Gypsy Rose Lee and Rosalind Russell as her overbearing mother Rose.  And they are both terrific.  Ok, so Russell isn't Ethel Merman and the OBC has that bit of an edge where the songs are concerned, but as an actress she is great in this role, especially in the scenes where June and Louise (Gypsy-to-be) are auditioning and she constantly interrupts; and in the Mr Goldstone number. Natalie Wood looks the part and gives Louise a sympathetic edge, particularly in 'Little Lamb'.  The best musical numbers of the lot though are Tulsa's song and dance number rehearsing his imaginary double act, and the truly brilliant 'You Gotta Have a Gimmick'.  It is also a joy to see Karl Malden in a nice supporting role as Rose's long suffering beau Herbie. "},{"Title":"Interesting, Lively Fictionalized Biography; Fascinating...","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Gypsy is a very difficult movie to have achieved from a writer's standpoint. As is true of Dr. Zhivago and The Searchers, much of the film is told from the point of view of a younger person, who serves as the viewer's alter ego within scenes while the central character does little. This book, play and film was the result of Rose Louise Hovick's biography of herself and her mother before and at the beginning of her celebrity as Gypsy Rose Lee, burlesque icon. The film is filled with famous songs and comedy scenes, alternating with moving confrontations that for once gain by having been real ones. Among the songs are Some People, Everything's Coming Up Roses, All I Need is the Girl and You Gotta Have a Gimmick, Small World and more. The memorable comedic scenes involve the repetition of Dainty June and her boys coming onstage in various guises, with a two-person cow dancing behind her; the three strippers who try to teach Louise how to succeed; the children singing, Momma Get Married; and Please Mr. Goldstone in gratitude to the producer who inexplicably likes their corny act. The moving scenes are Herbie, Mama's boyfriend, trying to convince her to give up her hard-minded pursuit of show business fame, Louise realizing the girl a young boy dancer says he needs is not she; her realization just before she goes onstage at a burlesque theater at her mother's insistence that she has one talent--she is a pretty girl, etc. the songs by Jule Styne all work, but only some are classics. the direction of the film by Mervyn LeRoy is very good, economical, and only occasionally look staged the device of theatrically closing out a scene by artificially dimming the lights for me works in this fictionalized biography; we get as viewers the feeling we are seeing glimpses of an interesting life, partly because of this device. Costumes by Orry-Kelly, Howard Shoup and others, the cinematography of Harry Stradling, Sr., excellent period sets, art direction and more are major assets to this colorful but never-splashy musical success. not the last of director LeRoy's here is that we see theatrical scenes and scenes in a theater as well or better handled than in any other film I know. The actors including the three strippers, Faith Dane, Betty Bruce and Roxanne Arlen are wonderfully funny; Benny Lessy as Mr. Goldstone, Louis Quinn, Guy Raymond and Harry Shannon get all they can out of their small parts. the children who play Rose's girls are all good, particularly Ann Jillian as June. As Herbie, Karl Malden is energetic and first-rate at conveying his love and his desire for a normal life, for the children and himself. Natalie Wood is too thin-voiced to be great but she is a seasoned performer and underplays Louise intelligently. As Rose, Rosalind Russell occupies the active center of almost every scene. There is another way to play Rose other than as someone coldly obsessed with fame; I saw Giselle Mackenzie do the role onstage as a caring obsessive, one who would not be denied justice for her children as she was for herself. But Rosalind Russell is alternately brassy and wheedling, working everyone for exactly what she needs while pretending to be pushing for the sake of her daughters. She is intelligent, always interesting and frequently epic in her hunger for what has eluded her in her own performing career. And in Rose's Turn we see that her extraordinary charisma and courage were indeed something special. This is a show business biography of unusual believability and intelligence for all its laughter. And a memorable musical biography that works differently on film, but does work very effectively. "},{"Title":"Everythings Comin' Up Rose for Those Who See Gypsy","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Let's start out with this Just because an actress or actor was a hit in a Broadway Show doesn't mean that they are perfect for the movie version. Ethel Merman was great as Madam Rose on Broadway, but she's never been a crowd pleaser in the movies. It's true that she did the movie version of her Broadway hit Call Me Madam but it was not her name that brought the people to the movie theaters; it was Donald O'Connor, Vera Ellen, George Saunders and Billy De Wolfe. Even in There's No Business Like Show Business the cast of Dan Daily, Mitzi Gaynor and Johnny Ray were the ones who brought the paying movie public to the theaters. It's true that at one time 20th Century Fox was going to film Gypsy with Ethel Merman and Mitzi Gaynor playing Gypsy Rose Lee, but that didn't pan out, so Warners bought the rights and Rosalind Russells husband made a deal that would give Rosalind Russell the right to make the movie.So, what about Rosalind Russell singing her songs In Rosalind Russells autobiography she states, No matter what anyone says, that's Roz up there singing the songs. Well, that's not exactly true and one of the proofs is that on the soundtrack album they don't give Russell the credit for singing her songs. Actually most of the singing was done by her, but when it came to Everythings Coming Up Rose she just couldn't hit the ball into the outer-field, so Warners paid Lisa Kirk a hefty sum for dubbing that song for Russell. Now, whether Natalie Wood could or could not sing is not a problem. After all, neither could Gypsy Rose Lee, but Woods numbers at the end of the film as the stripper are excellent, and she favored Gypsy Rose Lee more than Mitzy Gaynor would have.So, why doesn't a lot of people like this movie version of Gypsy? Well, to thoroughly enjoy it, stop comparing Russell with Merman. That's a beginning. Merman could not bring the people into the movie theaters, maybe so on Broadway, but there is not enough Broadway fans out there to pay for the cost of the movie, but there were with Rosalind Russell, Natalie Wood, and Carl Malden. The next thing You have to see this movie in a movie theater where you can experience the sweeping Technirama Wide Screen process with Stereophonic Sound. Seeing this movie on T.V. doesn't get it although if you can get a Letter-Box Version of it with a very big T.V. screen, it can be quite enjoyable, but the movie theater is the best place!As far as other versions of Gypsy are concerned Bette Midler was awful in the role of Madam Rose. They should have lowered her singing into a lower key. She just sounded like she was straining to get to her top notes that you wondered if she was going to make it, and even though Midler said she was born to play Madam Rose; Oh no she wasn't! Bad version. Didn't have the slick quality of the movie. I saw Mitzi Green do it on the stage, and even though she was no Ethel Merman, she did a great job in the road company. Joann Whorley of Laugh in Fame played Madam Rose at Dayton, Ohio's Kenley Theater and she quite frankly rocked the joint. She was loud, brassy and wonderful, but if anyone is Ethel Mermans successor, it's Tyne Daly who played Rose at Lincoln Center and won a Tony, and the critics said that Merman would be proud! So, even though I'm not really a fan of Rosalind Russell, if you erase Merman from your mind, this is a wonderful, rousing, screen adaptation of Gypsy and it shouldn't be missed! "},{"Title":"A wonderful film.","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great film.  It is not an exact duplicate of the stage show, but what movie musical is?  Funny Girl on film is not the same as Funny Girl on stage, but both are very entertaining.  The same is true here.Rosilind Russell shows us the shades of a character that is very complex. She didn't do her own singing, but, so what?  She did a great job of performing during the songs, and her overall performance throughout the movie is wonderful.  She is not Bette Midler, but who is?  For that matter, if you listen to the multiple versions of the cast albums and soundtracks, I am not sure you wouldn't find Angela Lansbury's performance the best one out there.The rest of the cast is also wonderful to watch.  To this day, I cannot watch Natalie Wood in the Little Lamb number without tears coming to my eyes.  Her interpretation of a lost little girl who always plays second fiddle and doesn't even know how old she is always gets to me.  And the duet If Momma Was Married, with Ann Jillian, is a memorable number.  For those who didn't know Ann Jillian could sing, she has played on Broadway for years, most notably in Sugar Babies.I think we all can appreciate the fact that this is a version which can be loved on its own, while still having a similar degree of affection for the 1993 version. "},{"Title":"Terrific Film Musical","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a terrific filmization of the 1959 Broadway show which starred Ethel Merman. Although some may argue that Rosalind Russell is not effective in the role of Mama Rose, I can't see how anyone could complain. Russell is excellent in the role, she's funny, entertaining, and sincere. Although I understand her singing voice was dubbed, it still sounds more pleasant to me then the loud, brash singing of Merman that I heard from the Broadway soundtrack album. As for the others, Karl Malden is great in his role, as is Ann Jillian as June. The real star here, to me, is Natalie Wood who is both believable in her role as the neglected Louise, and stunning in her transformation to Gypsy Rose Lee. The moment where she looks in the mirror prior to her first solo performance (I'm pretty!), is one of the best screen moments ever.The songs and musical scenes here are all wonderful too, If Mama Was Married is a great duet between June and Louise, Everything's Coming Up Roses is terrific too, as is Rose's Turn and most of the others. If there is one complaint to be made about this film, it's that the wonderful Together, Wherever We Go number was cut out. Worse then that, no prints with that number intact seem to exist on 35mm. Other then that, though, it is a great film with excellent Technicolor photography and excellent music. If you love musicals, see it, and be sure to see it in the wide screen version. "},{"Title":"Gypsy In My Soul","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" By all accounts La Merm was the cat's pajamas in the Broadway production. I wouldn't know and I care even less; I've always found Merman something of a joke, just a belter with all the subtlety of the Jerry Springer Show but Roz Russell in this movie is sensational. Okay, so Lisa Kirk helped her out vocally but NO ONE helped her ACT the bejeezus out of the ultimate control freak stage mother from hell. She did that all on her own AND managed to give us flashes of her great warmth. The Book is more than usually faithful to Gypsy's autobiography which appeared in 1957, two years before the Broadway opening. There really WAS a cow and Newsboys and when the boys were replaced with girls after June DID elope with one of the boys, it WAS her older sister who decided to rename the act Rose Louise and her Hollywood Blondes - and YES, they did tour in a tent. Basically all Jule Styne and Steve Sondheim had to do was add words and music and they did. In spades. This is definitely on the short-list of all-time great Broadway shows/scores, right up there with Kiss Me, Kate and Guys and Dolls. Both those shows were filmed and neither was wholly successful (Marlon Brando in a Sinatra part? You're kidding, right?) but Gypsy is a TOTAL joy and a total success. Every number enhances our knowledge of the characters and/or moves the story on and every melody is MELODIC and every lyric LITERATE. There's absolutely NO comparison with what passes for a Musical today. This is real Golden Age material and for 'Golden' we may as well read Jurassic. A 10 star gem. "}{"Title":"Gypsy not perfect, but well worth watching.","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of my favorites, but I do wish Ethel Merman had been given the chance to do the role in the film. Rosalind Russell was brilliant as Mama Rose, but her voice wasn't really up to the task. She really chews up the scenery as only a diva can. Mama Rose is really a role for the bigger than life stars and Ms. Russell filled the bill perfectly. Karl Malden was a surprise in this role. He was really quite good. (As a kid, I recall him from TV, so I didn't know what a solid career he had in movies prior to his television years). Natalie Wood was properly demure and gave it as good as she was allowed. As mentioned in the other review, the story centers on Mama Rose, so Lousie (later Gypsy Rose Lee) takes a backseat to the action. If you're a fan of musicals, this is a must see. For a contrast, see the 1993 remake done for television. It starred Bette Midler who was really good in the role, too. I also saw this on Broadway when Tyne Daly took on the role, so get a recording of that show if you can. She was really good in the role. "},{"Title":"Gypsy is tops","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I never saw Gypsy on Broadway, but I thought the movie version was great! I feel Roz Russell was NOT miscast as Rose and she gave a very funny, convincing performance.Natalie Wood was perfect in the role of Gypsy Rose Lee and who could have been sweeter in the role? Incidently, Natalie does her own singing in this movie and Roz Russell's voice is dubbed in parts.By the way, Marnie Nixon dubbed Natalie's voice in West Side Story, but can you think of anyone else who could have played Maria with such breathtaking magic? There is a reason why film directors like Robert Wise cast someone like Natalie Wood in musicals. She may not be a professional dancer or singer, but she brings something else to the picture... a larger-than-life screen presence that makes the audience care about what happens to her. Many talented Broadway performers are passed up for this very reason. They just don't have that certain screen presence that is going to sell tickets. That's life! "},{"Title":"Retitle This One - Rose Gypsy's Monster Stage-Mother From Hell","Date":"19 November 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In my opinion, this 1962 film, based upon the 1957 book Gypsy A Memoir written by Gypsy Rose Lee, herself, would have faired so much better had it been presented as a straight drama. I certainly found that both the musical numbers and the frequent lapses into comedy really weakened the overall punch that this film undoubtedly could've produced had these unnecessary elements not dominated a good part of the story.I also thought that Rosalind Russell's character as Rose Hovick, the ultimate, overbearing stage-mother-from-hell (who tyrannized the entire story) was given way-way too much attention and screen-time for my liking.From start to finish Russell's willful, one-note character literally chewed-up every bit of scenery with her loud, controlling and bossy histrionics. I found that this decidedly annoying character lost the novelty of her appeal within the first 30 minutes of the story.I also found that Gypsy's 143-minute running time to be almost unendurable to sit through. If a good 30 minutes had been carefully edited from this production I think that it would've been so much easier to enjoy.This movie just went on and on and on. (Ho-hum!) And its story just seemed to be going around and around in a vicious circle that ended up, in the long run, going absolutely nowhere at all.Another serious problem with Gypsy was the miscasting of Natalie Wood as the title character. From my point of view, Wood (though undeniably attractive) just didn't seem to possess the crucial dramatic resources to draw upon for this very demanding part. Wood simply played her part sweet & simple and this inevitably reduced her Gypsy to being nothing but an unambitious square - In other words, she was an accidental success.Yes. I fully understand that this film was clearly a product of early-1960's movie-making and that strict censorship was still in full swing back then - But, with that said, I really thought that it was completely laughable that Gypsy Rose Lee's meteoric rise to becoming a very hot burlesque queen was depicted as though just a sly wink, a sexy wiggle, and the revealing of a naked shoulder (and nothing else) was all that was required of her to achieve this special status of striptease royalty.Even though Gypsy was obviously a big-budget production that might have worked its intended magic as a stage play, on screen it was a truly disappointing let-down that certainly left a whole helluva lot to be desired.All-in-all - I would never recommend this film to anyone. "},{"Title":"An unusual musical","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an unusual musical film, loosely based on (not directly copied from) the Broadway musical of the same name, using the music by Sondheim & Stein. (Among its better known songs are Everything's Coming Up Roses, Let Me Entertain You). The Broadway play was loosely based on Gypsy Rose Lee's fairy tale version of growing up under the strong hand of her mother (Rose Hovick) along with her younger sister, June Havoc, who earlier escaped Momma Rose's clutches and much later became a stage, movie, & TV star.Rosalind Russell's performance (Momma Rose) has often been criticized as being inferior to Ethel Merman's although Russell (IMO) delivers a very strong performance. Much of the difference is that in the stage version, most of Momma Rose's dark side is not shown; in Russell's version, one sees a slightly more realistic version of Momma Rose.Russell's Momma Rose increasingly becomes (IMO) an unlikeable character rather than one brassy, funny, and larger than life. This is a bit closer to the real Momma Rose (read Noralee Frankel's Stripping Gypsy for an excellent biography). Momma was an extremely demanding woman, more than a bit psychopathic, who not only pressed both of her daughters to earn money for her but also drove them emotionally away. Karl Malden as Momma Rose's put-upon lover-in-waiting stands in for the many men Momma Rose actually conned and he brings enough sympathy to his role that it adds more fuel to disliking the Momma Rose that Russell brings to life. Natalie Wood is a very believable Gypsy.An interesting film, both for its presentations of family relationships and for an era. If the film was less detailed, shorter, possibly its emotional impact would have been closer to that of the stage version. As it is, Momma's selfishness, her determination to get whatever she wanted at any cost, becomes dominant and one is thankful her two daughters escaped.The difference between the versions of Momma Rose presented in this film and that of the stage musical stimulated me to read Frankel's excellent biography (Stripping Gypsy), Preminger's (Gypsy's son) Gypsy & Me AKA My G-String Mother, plus June Havoc's Early Havoc & More Havoc. (Plus Abbot's less helpful biography of Gypsy American Rose.)Fascinating family to explore! I also read Gypsy's fantasy, Gypsy, a Memoir, the foundation on which the musical was built. It's interesting storytelling but a fairy tale. Momma Rose died a few years before Gypsy, her book, was published. On her death bed, Momma Rose died putting a curse on Gypsy as Gypsy was trying to comfort her. But a great story is more acceptable than the truth and, besides, Gypsy had learned quite well from her mother the marketable advantage of spinning interesting stories! "},{"Title":"All People Will Be Content With Gypsy ****","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Superb. Outstanding musical with the great Roz Russell proving once again that she had what it took to step into the role of Mrs. Rose Hovick, the definition of a backstage mother who pushed her daughter more than Lillian Roth's mother did if that were possible.Russell totally captured the role of the matriarch who gave everything for her daughters success. Karl Malden was quite impressive as Herbie, the manager who loved but ultimately could not marry Rose.To me, Natalie Wood was miscast here. She was too wooden as a young Louise, but certainly garnered attention once she was introduced to the world of stripping.The songs and dancing are superbly staged. Some people can be content playing bingo and paying the rent, Mama, Mr. Goldstone and Russell's finale, where she lets her hair down and shows that the career meant for her children was what she really wanted for herself.I had a dream certainly comes true here. Really a shame that Russell never won an Oscar and wasn't even nominated here.In memory of June Havoc, Baby June in the film, who went on to quite a career. Remember Ms. Wales in Gentleman's Agreement? "},{"Title":"It's Roz's Turn","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As much as I would have liked to see Ethel Merman do the screen version of her last great Broadway triumph of Gypsy, no one should have any complaints about what Rosalind Russell did with the part. In fact unlike so many of her contemporaries who did a lot of junk at this period, Ms. Russell was getting some of the best roles in her career in her later years. Gypsy is based on the early life and career of Gypsy Rose Lee, arguably the most famous stripper of all time. But the woman was propelled in her career by the stage mother to end all in the person of Rosalind Russell. Russell lives vicariously through the lives of her daughters, one of whom who later became actress June Havoc finally got out from under by running away and marrying at the age of 13.With one daughter left played by Natalie Wood, Russell concentrates all her efforts with her. Nothing fazes this woman, not the Depression which together with talking pictures killed vaudeville and the stage stardom she believes is her due. I'm still trying to figure out why it never occurred to her to take the act to Hollywood as so many did back in the day.With a little help from Lisa Kirk in the vocal department, Russell delivers the Merman songs in her own style in a grand manor. Mama Rose is a difficult part because it's so easy to let a domineering role like that slip into caricature. Karl Malden is fine as well as her agent who would like to settle down, but can't because Russell will brook no interference in her life's mission.Natalie Wood is fine as the young Gypsy Rose Lee and unlike in West Side Story, she sings her own stuff, most memorably she urges us to Let Me Entertain You. Songs like Small World and Everything's Coming Up Roses are given good production numbers.Gypsy ran from 1959 to 1961 on Broadway for 703 performances which is a hit by anyone's standards. Only one member of the original Broadway cast Paul Wallace who plays Tulsa, one of the boys doing backup with the Hovick girls made it to the screen. He gets a specialty number, All I Need Is The Girl and sad to say that Mr. Wallace was probably born 30 years too late. He would have had a great career in screen musicals. After Call Me Madam which Ethel Merman did do for the screen as well had mediocre box office, Jack Warner wouldn't even consider using her. He wasn't thinking of posterity, just box office. Still Rosalind Russell's performance is a good one for posterity as well.Don't miss Gypsy the next time it's on. Mama is going to see to it that you don't. "},{"Title":"The Wallflower Blooms","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Based on the hit Broadway play, Mervyn LeRoy directed this under-appreciated musical gem. Rosalind Russell is Mama Rose, the mother of all stage mothers, grooming her two young daughters for stardom on the vaudeville stage. She pays special attention to her youngest child, blond Baby June, while Louise is relegated to the background. As time goes on, the vaudeville craze fades with the coming of talkie films, and now her bubbly blond darling, Danity June (Ann Jilliann), is desperate to break free, deserting the family act. Rose is forced to start from scratch, with wallflower Louise (Natalie Wood, who was always in her sister's shadow), as the headliner in a new act, which basically goes nowhere. One day, Rose and her troop, now called Rose Louise and her Hollywood Blondes, wind up in a burlesque theater, and young Louise finds herself drawn into the the role of a stripper. She sheds her shy persona and becomes the world's most famous stripper, Gypsy Rose Lee.Ethel Merman originated Rose on the stage, but Roz Russell does more than an adequate job, despite the fact that her singing voice was dubbed in some musical numbers. She is strong, overbearing, a little eccentric, but at the same time, she commands the audience's sympathy when she realizes that her ambition has just driven her daughters away, and she finds herself alone, with no one to live through anymore. Natalie Wood gives a touchingly vulnerable performance, her thin but endearing singing voice expressing Louise's pain and confusion in extraordinary volumes. Since she was groomed by an obsessive stage mother herself, Wood really had the the material to draw from; her lessons from the real Gypsy Rose Lee undoubtedly helped in her character's transformation from a shy girl to sophisticated stripper (the striptease numbers are fabulous). Who doesn't shed her a tear when she sings, Little Lamb, or feels enthralled as she performs Let Entertain You? As she studies herself before a mirror prior to her first night on the burlesque stage, she sees her beauty for the first time - I'm pretty - I'm a pretty girl, Mama! When she makes her mark, she engages in an argument with her controlling mother, bringing both to a heartache, and later, an understanding. You really could have been something, Mother, Louise informs Rose after catching a bit of her performance on the empty stage.Having seen the 1993 version starring Bette Midler, I still prefer this one; no matter what anyone says, Roz is not miscast, and this film does not, in my opinion, have any clumsy moments; it is a vintage Hollywood musical. Karl Malden gives a comedic and committed performance as Rose's suitor Herbie, who wants her to marry him and who wants to provide a home for her kids. A young Morgan Brittney plays little Baby June; seeing her makes you think of her as the Jon Benet of the 1920s. It's finally on DVD, as it deserves to be; the letterbox enhances the film in a way that pan-and-scan videos never could.Everything's coming up roses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "},{"Title":"Dynamite production","Date":"30 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A movie with an odd trade-off. While its a pity that Ethel Merman's knockout stage performance wasn't captured on film and her vocal renditions are of course inimitable she was never the most subtle of actresses able to convey delicate emotions. Therein lays the trade-off while Rosalind Russell was not an accomplished singer and is dubbed throughout the film she was a far superior actress enabling her to infuse the overbearing Mama Rose with emotional resonance. While she will never be a sympathetic character Roz provides some insight and offers a little understanding into her mad drive. The real Gypsy Rose Lee was assuredly more calculating and tough than she is presented here but that's an author's prerogative. Natalie Wood makes her beautiful, vulnerable and shimmering with star quality but until the great showdown scene near the end the character is really secondary. Karl Malden fills out the only other really important part as Herbie with terrific sensitivity. The music is all sensational and You Gotta Have a Gimmick is wonderfully performed. Unfortunately a few numbers were cut to keep the running time down for theatrical showings but even without them this is a high quality production from the last days when the studios still knew how to effortlessly manufacture this type of musical. "},{"Title":"Yes, but....","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Great songs, great performances across the board....The only thing is that Mama Rose is such a loathsome character. She manipulates everyone around her, and subjects her children to years of privation and uncertainty in pursuit of a successful stage career for June. When June, who has been happy to be top of the pile within the family troupe, finally takes off in her own direction, Rose transfers this to Louise - who isn't very talented and doesn't really want it. On the point of finally giving up - which Louise and long-suffering doormat Herbie both want - Rose makes a last-ditch attempt at success by forcing Louise into stripping. It turns out that Louise is pretty good at this, but she too pursues her own career in her own way. Good for her, I say.It is clear from very early on that Rose is doing it all for Rose, no matter how much she says she's doing it for the girls, and every time I see this film - and I've seen it quite a lot - I badly, badly want to see her get her comeuppance. But she never does. For me, the key scene is when Rose reads the letter - a firm but loving letter - from June, explaining that June is cutting loose. After a long period of stunned silence from Rose during which Louise and Herbie excitedly make plans for a normal life, Rose comes out of her funk and wildly expounds her ideas for putting Louise on the stage. She comes across as, frankly, deranged at this point, and Louise and Herbie hug each other closely in utter horror, which I shared.But that can't take away from the songs, or the performances, or Natalie Wood's luminous beauty. "},{"Title":"A Missing Piece","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After seeing many productions and the remake, I have to say Roz was my favorite Rose. My biggest disappointment comes from the foolish excising of Together from the film.Even though the lost footage is added as an extra after the film on the DVD and Video, there is a verse missing. I was told that there are no more 35 mm prints in existence of this film but, I do not have statistics or proof to back this up but, I am sure there must be a copy of this film with the entire song in tact and Karl Malden's Verse in You'll Never Get Away From Me. I have no clear reason as to why Together... was cut and I would like to know why but, I am in hopes it can be found somewhere and added in another video release undamaged.-Tony "}{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I guess Roz Russell's singing, which was dubbed, was a bit underwhelming, but she has great presence in many of her songs, such as Rose's Turn. She gives a pretty complex portrayal of Mama Rose that shows she has some heart. Though I wish I'd seen Ethel Merman, Miss Russell is a worthy substitute! Natalie Wood is quite good, too, giving much depth to her portrayal of Louise/Gypsy.  Ann Jillian is good, also, as Dainty June.  Karl Malden does overact, but that's only a small complaint.  Great songs and good performances make this worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Are you kidding?  This is a classic, feel-good movie!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I put this on whenever I feel low and it really picks me up! Rosalind Russell puts in a very well-rounded performance has energy enough for everybody and has a wonderfully strong and emotionally-charged vocal style that you cannot help but take notice of.  Miscast????  I can't think of any way of improving that performance.Natalie Wood grows from plain child to beautiful woman before you're eyes (Look at me, Mama - I'm beautiful!)The strippers are fantastic - funny and unforgettable!  Especially the brassy one with the trumpet!Karl Malden is his usual wonderful self.Stick all that together with great, memorable songs and a timeless script and this film will never, ever get boring.A classic!But why not available on DVD and CD?! Scandalous!!!  "},{"Title":"The limelight","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Gypsy a musical based on the life of Gypsy Rose Lee takes liberties with the true story, its a clunky musical drama with some comedy, rather tame by today's standards as its not erotic or sexy, the musical numbers are rather forgettable and goes on for too long.The film is dominated by Rosalind Russell's overbearing and pushy stage mother who wants to make her children stars. She plays it loud and brash. Karl Malden is the put upon suitor who wants to marry her but gets nowhere as she loves the limelight too much.Natalie Wood plays Gypsy as someone who is sweet and innocent, a vaudeville act who stumbled into stripping and ended up being a successful showgirl. Even though the film was made in 1962 and there were censorship rules, its too wholesome. Burlesque is supposedly rather sleazy and she was a stripper for goodness sakes but here we hardly get to see any bare flesh and when Woods does her turn, the men are going crazy when all she has done was show a bit of shoulder. "},{"Title":"Excellent, underrated adaptation of a classic Broadway musical!","Date":"9 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Rose Hovick is a mother to two young girls June and Louise. Rose is determined to get her girls into the footlights of the theater, and tries to drive her daughters toward success, much to the consternation of her long-suffering beau, Herbie Sommers, a candy salesman, who wants to settle down with Rose and live a happy family life. However, Herbie tries to assist Rose as best as he can, while Rose continues to ignore his marriage proposals. Tired of all the attention, June, who Rose pushes the hardest, elopes with one the chorus boys in the act Rose has put together. Hurt at first, Rose then works on Louise, the less-talented of the girls. With vaudeville dying, they unknowingly book a job into a burlesque house. Through a succession of events, Louise then becomes the world famous burlesque artist Gypsy Rose Lee. Jealous of the attention Louise is getting, Rose becomes more pushy and interfering, and argues with Louise, who demands that Rose leaves her life forever. Left alone, Rose finally realizes what she has done, and reconciles with Louise.This excellent film should be used as an example of how to rework a stage musical for the screen while retaining what worked in the original. Director Mervyn LeRoy clearly loved this musical, and working with cinematographer Harry Stradling, stages the scenes as though they are being performed on a stage, giving it a theatrical and cinematic look at the same time. The performances are broad enough without being too overdone for a film production. Rosalind Russell gives a fine performance as Rose, one of the greatest roles ever written for a musical (she was dubbed in this film by Lisa Kirk, who matches Russell's speaking voice quite well). Russell gives Rose a toughness and a vulnerability that works well. Natalie Wood is excellent as Louise, and sings well here (she was dubbed for WEST SIDE STORY). Her dressing-room confrontation with Russell at the end is a powerful piece of acting. Karl Malden, whose role is usually overshadowed in stage productions of this piece, gives a performance equal of Russell's, and does everything to make himself stand out. The screenplay by Leonard Spielglass is extremely faithful to Arthur Laurents' original stage libretto, with only minor changes here and there (one song was shortened, and one was cut, which can be seen on the DVD). Those iconic songs by Jule Styne and Stephen Sondheim are given the grand treatment by the Warner Bros. Orchestra. Fun entertainment. RECOMMENDED. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"12 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Karl Malden a lover here. I have seen him in Streetcar Named Desire and On the Waterfront, where he definitely does not have humorous parts. In this movie, he is even a clown and star of a children's show; a vaudevillian of the first water, with outrageous clown clothes and disguise to boot. It was a joy seeing him in this movie, especially when he starts wearing the business suit and following Mama Rose (Russell) and her girls around.Rosalind Russell totally wonderful. Mama meant well, but was glaringly embarrassing and loud-mouthed. She did favor June in the early days, while Louise felt totally left out. I loved it later on, when Louise (now Gypsy) told Mama to get lost and get a life, lol.June was well done. The dancing was superb, and played by two actresses for the younger and older parts. The boy chorus line supporting her was good, too.Natalie Wood great, too. As Gypsy's younger tomboy self Louise, I felt she did a good job essaying the sister who was always in June's shadow. As the grown up Gypsy, she looked fabulous and a gorgeous knockout.I liked all the music, and all of the songs.The strippers were a riot, especially Tessie Tura. "},{"Title":"The Stage Mother from Hell","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Gypsy is a musical based on the memoirs of a notorious stripper. Before you get too excited, I should point out that in 1962 the Production Code was still in force, any striptease shown in the film is very tame and watered down and anyone hoping for anything racier than the sight of Natalie Wood in a bikini will be in for a disappointment.Indeed, for much of its length Gypsy is not about striptease at all and its ostensible heroine, the future Gypsy Rose Lee, is not the principal character. Contrary to what I once thought, Gypsy Rose was not an ethnic Romany. Her real name was Louise Hovick and she was originally from Seattle. The main character in the early scenes is her mother Rose, played here as the stage mother from Hell. Rose Hovick drags her two daughters around the country in an effort to turn them into vaudeville stars. (The film is set in the 1920s and 1930s, a time when vaudeville was going into decline because of the growth in popularity of the cinema). The star of the family act is not Louise, who displays little talent for show business, but her younger and more talented sister June.At first the act, Baby June and Her Newsboys, enjoys some success, but eventually June, by now a teenager, rebels against her domineering mother and elopes with one of her backing dancers. (One might have thought that a childhood like this would have put June off showbiz for life, but in reality June Hovick went on to become a successful screen and stage actress under the name June Havoc. Her subsequent career, however, is not mentioned in the film). Rose then turns her attentions to Louise, who seems an inadequate replacement for her sister. Louise, however, gets an unexpected break as a performer in a burlesque show- much to Rose's disgust, as she has always regarded striptease as immoral.(I should perhaps point out that this film well exemplifies the dictum that Britain and America are two countries divided by common language. In Britain the word burlesque, in the theatre or anywhere else, means a satire or parody. It does not have any connotations of striptease. There is no such word as vaudeville in British English, similar entertainments being known here as music hall or variety theatre).I am not familiar with the work of Ethel Merman- I have never seen any of her films except Airplane! and certainly never saw her on stage. (She died when I was in my early twenties). I am therefore unable, unlike some of the other contributors to this board, to join in the debate as to whether she or Rosalind Russell should have been cast as Rose. (Merman had created the role on stage, but Russell got the part in the film for reasons connected with cinema and theatre politics). I have to say, however, that I thought Russell was very good in the role, at least as far as her acting is concerned. Her singing is another matter. Her rather gravelly singing voice was dubbed in some songs but not in others, and the overall result is far from satisfactory.Indeed, the acting in Gypsy impressed me more than did the singing or the music. Russell, whatever her shortcomings as a singer may have been, makes Rose an entertaining sacred monster, the sort of woman whose antics might be fun to watch on the screen but who in real life must have been virtually impossible for her daughters to live with. She receives good support from Karl Malden as Rose's long-suffering boyfriend Herbie and from Wood as the naive, sensitive young Louise. Wood, incidentally, was allowed to sing her own songs in Gypsy, even though her singing voice had been dubbed the previous year in West Side Story. Producers were not always consistent about such things; Audrey Hepburn, for example, did her own singing in Funny Face and Breakfast at Tiffany's but not My Fair Lady. Perhaps the makers of Gypsy allowed Wood to sing because audiences might not have accepted that Louise lacks talent as a singer or dancer- a key plot point- had she been voiced by someone like Marni Nixon.As a musical, Gypsy is not a great one. Although Stephen Sondheim's lyrics are often effective, few of the songs really stick in the memory, except perhaps for Everything's Coming Up Roses and Let Me Entertain You. You Gotta Have A Gimmick is memorable not for the music but for the antics of the three strippers who perform it. As a character-driven drama and a portrayal of showbiz life, however, it is a very good one. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not an Ideal Version, But Not a Disaster Either","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think Rosalind Russell gives a fine performance as the ultimate stage mother in this adaptation of the Broadway musical. But unfortunately, the score sounds terrible as presented here, and that's a shame as the original Jule Styne/Stephen Sondheim score goes down as one of the best ever written for the stage.Natalie Wood and (especially) Karl Malden lend able support in their roles, but any production of Gypsy has to belong to its leading lady, and Russell capably manages the task.The movie doesn't really look right -- under the direction of Mervyn LeRoy, it's clunky, ugly and static.So this is not the definitive screen version of the stage property; in fact, a definitive screen version has never been made. Perhaps this is one property that should just remain on the stage. But this film is also far from a complete bomb.Grade B- "},{"Title":"one of the top 10 of all musicals","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There is very little wrong with this version compared to the newer Bette Midler version. Rosalind Russell, Karl Malden and Natalie Wood are perfectly cast and the whole production sails at a brisk pace to be one of the most constantly entertaining movies of all time. If you have only seen the newer version, you will be amazed how it is so inferior to the original. Pure entertainment at its best & should have won many more awards than it did! The real Gypsy Rose Lee actually saw this film and greatly admired it (according to her son...the illegitimate one of Otto Preminger). The DVD version is an excellent transfer but has almost no extras. Two deleted scenes and no commentary but the colors are fantastic. "},{"Title":"Russell and Wood Shine!","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although the television remake is truer to the original script Bette Midler was a dreadful Mama Rose she peaked way too early for us to care about her. by the time Rose' Turn happens we want her to shut up.  Roz Russell has so much more depth in the role playing the caracter, not just the songs. True she is a bit weak vocally but she is always on key and the emotional levels are right on.  Natalie Wood is charming as Louise and Virbrantly sexy as Gypsy. her transformation is flawless.Malden is avery good Herbie but too bad they cut together The three actors would hae been a joy to watch in that number.  Over all this is a very good film. not perfect but it hits the right chords. "},{"Title":"A good musical with great songs","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"    Some people think the timeless role of Mama Rose in the film adaptation of the Broadway smash Gypsy should have gone to it's originator, the Broadway madame, Ethel Merman. But I think Rosalind Russell does the role more justice than Merman. Merman had no real talent; all she did was make a lot of noise whenever she sang a song. Yes, Roz gives the part more flair. Natalie Wood (although her singing was dubbed for a few songs) is perfect as Louise-cum-Gypsy Rose Lee, and you really can't think of any other teen idol of that era to play an entertainer like Gypsy. Karl Malden is Herbie, Rose's boyfriend in the show but in real life he didn't exist. Gypsy Rose Lee's Biography on A&E shows Mama Rose as something of a short-fused woman who was rumored to have killed a hotel manager in the '20s due to his constant pestering of her family. I really don't believe it so it kind of sounds like something contrived from pure imagination. Ann Jillian is a cute little Dainty June (complete with pig tails and baby doll makeup) and Betty Bruce, Faith Dane and Roxanne Arlen light up the screen as Tessie Tura, Miss Mazeppa and Miss Electra with their rendition of You Gotta Have a Gimmick--one of the highlights of both the stage and screen versions. Roz of course, is the center of the show, despite the title of the show, and takes center stage in the big finale with Rose's turn and then makes peace with Louise at the very end of the movie. Although not very accurate with the real-life story, Gypsy offers a great selection of songs, dance and fine acting!  "}{"Title":"Yeah! Get off Roz's back!","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Rosalind Russell gave Mama Rose heart and vunerability.  Recreating a role for film that was done on Broadway by someone else is challenging, and Roz did it with style and class!  I've heard the Ethel Merman soundtrack and all I can say is that I thank God that the producers opted to go with Ms. Russell instead.  Just from listening to Ethel's version, I could hear a harshness and a brashness that would have made me hate Mama Rose; Ms. Russell's version left me with quite the opposite.  Natalie Wood and Karl Malden delivered heartfelt performances as well.   "},{"Title":"Plow These Roses Under","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This material is odd. The story of an atrocious stage mother told for laughs half the time, and for annoyance the other half. It's very stagebound. And there's A LOT of flab in the story. It has the usual problem of presenting an annoying character; How do you do it without actually annoying viewers? Mama Rose is pushy, and annoying, and dumb. Oooh a footlights storyline; Will it feature that hoariest of hoary gimmicks; someone stumbling across an empty stage and pouring their heart out to an empty theater? ugh, count on it. Though the lyrics are early Sondheim, he doesn't have a chance with this indefatigable-human-spirit corn. Finishing this movie was a burden, as the appeal of watching a dragon lady, interrupted by very lousy child vaudeville numbers, could not be detected by this viewer. They found about fifteen minutes in the whole thing to spend on Natalie Wood (you know, the title character!?) Though Rosalind Russell is dubbed, it's not a bad vocal match. For the worst dub job ever, pop 'Band of Angels' into your DVD player, and watch Sidney Poitier improbably transform from his gentle nasal-pitched self to basso-profundo Paul Robeson for his spiritual. "},{"Title":"Ya gotta love Mommie Dearest....","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The mother of all stage mothers, Rose Hovick has been documented so much on stage and film, in addition to the original novel, that the woman who wanted so much to be the star would probably be thrilled to know that after death, she's not only a star, but a legend! When your life is originated by Ethel Merman, played on screen by Rosalind Russell AND Bette Midler (with rumors of a remake still rampant with someone named Streisand...), and such legends as Angela Lansbury, Tyne Daly, Linda Lavin, Bernadette Peters and Patti LuPone taking on the role on Broadway (with three of them winning Tony's), as well as stock productions with Dolores Gray, Betty Hutton, Karen Morrow, Joanne Worley, Kaye Ballard, Leslie Uggams, among others, you've made it. The 1962 movie with Rosalind Russell isn't perfect, but it is certainly worthy of the acclaim its gotten, even if detractors are rampant and determined to smear it on behalf of the individual lady who they prefer as the mother of both June Havoc and Gypsy Rose Lee.O.K., so Merman screamed so loud upon hearing Roz got the role that glass might have broken somewhere, and like others who lost their stage role to another actress on film, she may never have seen the movie. Still, as disappointing to purists (such as myself) who would have liked to have seen Merman do the part, Russell makes it her own, at least for the 2 1/2 hours that the movie runs, and she got the Golden Globe for the role, like Merman had gotten for the movie version of Call Me Madam almost a decade before.Sing Out Louse! With those words, Rose Hovick makes her entrance, and this is the key that unlocks the door to the personality of this brassy woman who dominated her daughter's lives in her efforts to get them on stage and into the Orpheum Circuit. Russell never lets up on the brass, and you totally forget that you're watching the glamorous Auntie Mame as she eats the role up alive. Her Rose obviously loves her children, but she loves success and the spotlight probably just as much if not more. She isn't the belter of Merman's style, and it is very probable that most of her singing was dubbed. Listening to cast albums with Lisa Kirk (particularly Mack and Mabel) makes it even likelier that it was she who did the work, and in keeping with Roz's speaking voice, it is difficult to tell the difference.Replacing Jack Klugman from the original cast is the very similar Karl Malden, and his Herbie is a totally likable man whom you know both Louise and June would have loved to have seen as a stepfather. The softness of Russell's Rose comes out in her singing of Small World, and their playful relationship is also evident in You'll Never Get Away From Me. Seeing outtakes of the second act opener, Together Wherever We Go makes it obvious as to why it was cut, although the idea of seeing it re-shot with altered lyrics makes for a better idea.As for Natalie Wood, coming off her triumph in West Side Story (also dubbed) made her the obvious star to take on Louise/Gypsy, and she goes from shy other sister to super-star stripper with building confidence. At times, Natalie (as she often did) would bray her lines, including her key line, I thought you did it for me, mama!, a factor in her receiving more Razzy awards than any other actress of her era. She is very good here, however, and when she takes on Let Me Entertain You! after going through the first half of the film pretending to be a cow, gives evidence of the confidence instilled into her by director Mervyn LeRoy who knew a little something about how to transfer stage shows into movies.But Malden and Wood are totally forgotten when Roz breaks into Rose's Turn, perhaps the greatest eleven o'clock number in musical history, and one where a breakdown is not always successfully perceived as happening. Roz briefly collapses inside, but this woman is too driven to allow her anguish to take over, and this is the shining star in her performance. I can't say who the greatest Mama Rose is, but in judging this movie, Roz does great justice to the part, and other than someone like Judy Garland, it is difficult to guess who could have eaten this role up as much as Roz did. Years later, when Bette Midler did the role for T.V., she brought her own light into the part, and gave new dimensions that other actresses might not have seen. The two Broadway Rose's whom I have seen (Bernadette and Patti) gave entirely different connotations of the role which shows how fascinating this part is for study and why so many actresses who reach a certain age are anxious to dip (Just Dip!) into it.The Jule Styne and Stephen Sondheim songs are energetically performed, including the magnetic You've Got to Have a Gimmick where Louise is shown by three very different strippers how to cajole her audience into taking her into their hearts, even if the men are not quite looking at her heart. Each actress who plays Rose or Louise has their own gimmick, and that is what makes this show fascinating. "},{"Title":"disappointing, un-cinematic, not so well performed, and silly insufficiently clever way of handling blue material!","Date":"20 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm reassured that there are a lot of meh reviews of this film. I hadn't seen it since I was a kid, when it was shocking given my sheltered upbringing. What a drag it turns out to be. I suppose Natalie Wood does OK, and Baby June is as she eighty be. But Karl Malden and Rosalind Russel do not shine in it.What really annoyed me now that I'm an adult is that ... it appears to have been necessary to show Gypsy Rose Lee's rise to queendom depicted as though all she did to get there was this ridiculous tease showing nothing. I suppose on stage it had to be that way (back then) but gimme a break, why not just pull in for a head and shoulder shot while actually casts away her front piece! It's ridiculous as is, rather an insult to the intelligence, eh what? I think the only bit I really and truly loved was in Ya Gotta Have a Gimmick the 'finesse' dancer inserts bumps into a quasi-balletic routine, which was laugh out loud funny. Also I liked, as I remembered from childhood, how Gypsy's act evolves into her sultry rap version, despite the dire limitations of the rest of the sequence.The rest of the movie you can have... "},{"Title":"Not the best ever version, but on film it is the best","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This Gypsy is not wonderful, some of the staging is clunky and some of the singing is off key(and I am including Russell here). However it is very good and better than the reputation it's gotten over the years. The musical is a masterpiece with a masterful score especially and memorable characters. This film does mostly look great, with beautiful photography, costumes and sets and the score and songs are delightful. The story did resonate emotionally with me as did the script and characters even Mama Rose. The acting is fine, Rosalind Russell is superb as a less dark(character that is) but believable Mama Rose(Merman and Lansbury are my favourites though) and Natalie Wood and Karl Malden provide great support. Paul Wallace's dance number is also show-stopping. Overall, very good but not the outstanding masterpiece as it could've been. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Dated, but entertaining","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I suppose most musicals are dated. But in a sense, this one seems more so, even though it was released in 1962. But somehow, film musicals like Bells Are Ringing (1960) seemed more modern. Ah well, that's not to say this film isn't worth a watch, because it is.First off, it's a great cast. Although some disagree -- perhaps because of a less than stellar singing voice -- Rosiland Russell's performance as the stage mother is exceptional. Here, her voice was combined in some numbers with a professional singer (and done rather well, BTW), so I think she shines...and at least in terms of a film, so much better than I think Ethel Merman would have (although I enjoyed EM in There's No Business Like Show Business). And Karl Malder -- what a gifted and underrated actor. He's perfect here...although how anyone could love the mother here is anybody's guess...but (relative) truth is stranger than fiction. And, although I'm not a fan, Natalie Wood turns in a stellar performance here, as well.Then, there's the music. Small World, Some People, All I Need Is the Girl, Everything's Coming Up Roses, Let Me Entertain You are the show-stoppers by Stephen Sondheim (lyrics) and Jule Styne (music).And, of course, it's a relatively true story. I'm old enough to remember Gypsy Rose Lee...on television, not in burlesque, and it's difficult for me to imagine she was that hot at one time (take either meaning you wish). But, she did make history.Definitely worth watching, but again, and not because of the era of the story, this film seems very dated...but enjoyable. Rose's Turn ... Rose "},{"Title":"Roz Russell Fine","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" First of all let me join the throngs who feel Ethel Merman should have played Mama Rose to repeat Her legendary performance, and even the star of this movie Roz Russell was quoted as saying Why couldn't they let Merman do it? but after J L Warner decided Merman was not box office Roz Russell went after this part and was the first billed star. Roz got it because she could open the picture overseas as a worldwide Movie Star and because of her great success in WB's 'Auntie Mame', Warner Bros felt the magic would repeat. Just as Audrey Hepburn was unfairly maligned for doing 'My Fair Lady' instead of Julie Andrews, many critics went on a tear about Ms. Russell doing the film instead of evaluating the film on its merits. Roz Russell brings a leathery and determined force to Mama Rose and Roz knew and loved the camera and vice versa; Merman did not. Natalie Wood, the resident Queen of the Warner Bros lot, enchanting and beautiful is Gypsy Rose Lee. Ms. Wood was nothing like the real Gypsy but got the role anyway because of her stature at WB. Mervyn LeRoy who had decades of experience at Warners directs professionally. Karl Malden contributes a fine performance. The movie was filmed at Warner Bros studio in Burbank and for that I want to say while the sets look like a movie back lot-they were-it is one of the things I enjoyed of this movie. Both Ms. Russell and Ms. Wood would go on separately to a great starring decade in the 60's in other films. As did Mervyn Le Roy. A good film, not a great film, but a good film. "},{"Title":"Let Them Entertain You","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" During the roaring 1920s, domineering Rosalind Russell (as Rose Hovick) pushes her two young daughters successfully onto the vaudeville stage. But, when star Ann Jillian (as Dainty June) hits puberty and runs off with a chorus boy, Ms. Russell is left with relatively untalented Natalie Wood (as Louise). Undaunted, Russell alters the act for Ms. Wood, who makes it a burlesque show. When she becomes a strip-tease star (as Gypsy Rose Lee), an ungrateful Wood leaves her Mama in the wings. Russell receives moral support from agent and lover Karl Malden (as Herbie Sommers), who wants to be her fourth husband...Everything's Coming Up Roses... The main problem, here, is that the terrific score, by Jule Styne and Stephen Sondheim, is given a relatively lesser treatment, when compared to Ethel Merman's Broadway version (available on CD). Russell was dubbed well by singer Lisa Kirk - but, instead of rendering her own version of the classics, she was apparently hired to sound similar to Russell. The benefit is that you don't get raspy Russell suddenly singing like soprano Marni Nixon. While perhaps not ideally cast, Russell and Wood possess enough star power to make an already great show pass muster. Thankfully, Paul Wallace (as Tulsa) retains his stage presence.Sing Out, Louise! ******* Gypsy (11/1/62) Mervyn LeRoy ~ Rosalind Russell, Natalie Wood, Karl Malden, Paul Wallace "},{"Title":"Not an ideal GYPSY, but the best yet on film","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's good to see how well the Rosalind Russell film of GYPSY stands up. Over the years it has pleased thousands of those not fortunate enough to have seen the original on stage, and it certainly works better AS a film than the Bette Midler TV version (not her fault, the director's) where you can practically hear the gears grinding between book and musical scenes.Almost all will freely admit that the Russell film isn't perfect - while a basically faithful translation to film, the studio structural revisions were not helpful and the Russell narration was a crucial mistake in that it softens the character of Mama by changing the perspective of the whole piece and effectively prevents us from adequately seeing her as the monster she *has* to become at the end of Act I, when her star deserts her, for the redemption at the final curtain to be fully effective. ...but it's still basically effective no matter whose voice is heard.While we all now know that Lisa Kirk - in a key lower than her comfort level - dubbed Russell in most of the songs, it was smoothly enough done that in 1962, even star Russell was apparently fooled. She went to her grave insisting it was entirely her own voice in the film (she, a Tony winning Broadway musical actress, HAD recorded the entire thing) and the studio never undeceived her as to the voice used on the final release.On the film itself, however, it comes down to a personal preference; most films or stage plays do - look at the honest differences knowledgeable people have over SOUTH PACIFIC, which nearly all acknowledge is a great basic script (as the Pulitzers attested) - some love the 1958 film as is (color filters notwithstanding), some are horrified at the much too young for war-time reality, show-girl Nellie and her under-powered Emile, also too young to have done all the things the script says he had. There's some truth in both views.For me the chief weakness of the film of GYPSY isn't Russell's or even the revised script's, but the casting of her Herbie. It wasn't until I saw the first peerless Tyne Daly revival that I realized the essential element of Rose is that she has to be an earth mother who, whether for her own vicarious fulfillment or not, MUST raise her young while still being an intensely sexual being. When Tyne dropped her shoulder strap backstage, *sexually* flirting with Herbie, it told us more about her character than any six pages of Laurent's classic script.It was rather like the way the great 1979 OKLAHOMA! stage revival came alive by casting of the sexiest man on stage as *JUD* so we could could once again realize why Laurie was *conflicted* (without which there is no story worth telling), the standards of male attraction having changed radically in the years since WWII and the casting of Rod Steiger in the 1955 film.Russell *could be* sexy - look at the wonderful kinescope of her WONDERFUL TOWN, both in the scenes with Bob and the Brazilian cadets - but who could *ever* see any heat between her and Karl Malden!? In real life, Malden may have been Erol Flynn cubed, but on screen, the closest he *ever* came to being a sexual being was as Mitch in STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE where he was essentially a sexless (and very frustrated) mama's boy. If Ginger Rodgers gave Fred Astaire sex while he gave her class, Malden effectively drained it from Rose and the film.The film still works, but good as it is, it is a pale reflection of what a *great* GYPSY can to be, and a considerable missed opportunity because so much of it still *is* solid. Well worth enjoying for what it is. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as some think, in fact pretty good!","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's been nearly 50 years since I first saw this film, and at the time I thought it was good. Over the years since, many criticisms have been hurled at this film version, and it has suffered a bad reputation. Yes, it would have been great to have a film record of Merman performing one of her most famous roles, but Merman was not as good on film as on the stage. In subsequent years, I have seen the Bette Midler TV version (Midler was much more miscast than Roz Russell! And Midler seemed to really struggle vocally in the part). I have also seen Tyne Daly on stage (great acting, vocally a stretch for her), and most recently, Patti LuPone's Tony winning, mesmerizing performance on stage. LuPone had both the acting and singing ability required and then some - it would be interesting to see how she would fare in a film version. So, when TCM recently showed this, I thought it was time to revisit the film and see what my view was after nearly 50 years. My verdict is that Rosalind Russell is not that bad really, she really acts the part, and as for Lisa Kirk dubbing some of her songs, I think it is a good fit and not at all distracting. All of the supporting roles are excellently played, too, especially my favorite Paul Wallace as Tulsa. In short, I think Russell deserves a lot more credit than she is often given for her performance! "}{"Title":"Curtain up!  Light the lights!","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Rosalind Russell stars as Rose Hovik, the ferocious stage mother of two daughters in the age of vaudeville. Her youngest daughter, June, was a talented singer and dancer from an early age while the older girl, Louise, was rather clumsy. Rose dragged the kids around the country for performances in the rapidly dwindling vaudeville theatres with the help of friend and manager Herbie (Karl Malden). When June grew frustrated with the act and left, Louise became the star and, quite by accident, the queen of burlesque.Rosalind Russell is a force to be reckoned with as the brash, indomitable Rose. She sings many memorable songs and runs the gamut from slapstick humor to heartbreaking tragedy. Karl Malden is wonderfully sympathetic as Herbie, the man who loved Rose. Natalie Wood is lovely as the adult Louise who, as Gypsy Rose Lee, enjoyed a career as a famous stripper and acted in some movies.The sets are often stagy but there are terrific performances and spirited, singable songs. It's raucous and glamorous; highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The Rosalind Russel show","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As far Natalie Wood is concerned ,after such a peak as West Side Story ,anything would seem a letdown.Where you are at the top,the only way is down.Wood anyway does not try to steal the show from Rosalind Russel who is the real star of the filmshe is convincing as an over possessive mother ,a real life character (the first pictures of the contemporary whatever happened to Baby Jane ,it's the same old song).I do not think,however,that Europa can appreciate such a work as they did for musicals such as Wesr Side Story or singing in the rain .Gypsy has not their universal appeal. "},{"Title":"Splashy Screen Adaptation of a Broadway Classic","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The 1962 screen version of GYPSY was a lavishly mounted version of the musical that made a stage legend out of Ethel Merman playing Mama Rose, the stage mother to end all stage mothers, whose lust for fame is vicariously sought after through her daughters, June and Louise, who both find different routes of escape from their mother's iron fist. Rosalind Russell is energetic in the role of Mama Rose but what I always remember about this movie is the wonderful performance by Natalie Wood as Louise/Gypsy. Wood was apparently very nervous about doing this film after having her singing dubbed in WEST SIDE STORY and doing her own singing here, but that didn't bother me at all. She makes Louise warm and vulnerable and her transformation into Gypsy Rose Lee is totally believable. I love when Louise sings Little Lamb and I also love when she gets dressed for her first big striptease as Gypsy and she sees herself in the mirror and says, I'm pretty Mama, I'm a pretty girl. I also love a little later when she tells Rose off, telling her that she must let go of her. I'm Gypsy Rose Lee...and I love her! Karl Malden is solid as Herbie, Rose's long suffering love who can no longer dance to Rose's tune. The musical numbers are well-staged, especially Gypsy's rise to fame stripper sequence. I've seen better Roses on stage and film (Angela Lansbury, Bette Midler), but Wood is and always will be my favorite Louise and this film is worth seeing for her performance alone. "},{"Title":"A REALLY CLASSIC MOVIE OF NATALIE WOOD'S","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really think that Natalie Wood really held her own in this movie playing Gypsy Rose Lee. Her acting and the way she had to parade around the strip theatre was magnificent. I've watched this movie many times and I cannot see another actress in it. I can also not see this movie ever being remade. This movie is Natalie Wood's and should stay that way. "},{"Title":"I like Roz!","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although I didn't see the Ethel Merman version (wasn't born at the time!), I do have the soundtrack and prefer Roz' version.  Ethel Merman warbles and maybe onstage that's just fine and dandy.  But in a movie or on a record?  I'm sorry.  I can't take it.  Maybe it would have been fair play for the producers to allow her to take the role to film but from what I've read, she could be difficult.  Having produced plays that cost nowhere near what a major motion picture would cost, I have been driven almost to the point of homicide by difficult actors and actresses.  And although you'd rather have the best actor for the part, sometimes it's better to settle for second best and leave the headache where you found it.  Rosalind Russell had a reputation for being easy to work with and very professional.  I'd take that any day! "},{"Title":"A brilliant musical, a mediocre film!","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Gypsy is one of the greatest musicals of all time. In fact, I, personally, think the book for Gypsy is the finest of all time. Take away the score to most musicals and a tedious and usually hardly serviceable book is left behind. However, even if you took out all the songs from Gypsy, you'd still be left with a terrific play with great characters, humor, terror, suspense, and heartache. It's everything one would ever want in a musical.How they managed to screw up such wonderful material is beyond me! The orchestrations are lush, the sets and costumes look great, most of the actors are solid and game, but the screenplay and direction are pedestrian at best. Once the screenplay finally decides to get faithful to the source material half way in, the pace tightens up immensely. The direction, however, remains equally as dull from frame one to the last frame of the movie. There's simply no imagination put into the staging of the musical numbers at all. In fact, most of the time, I was hoping they'd just skip past most of the musical numbers and get to the book scenes.This is also, in no small part, due to the fact that no one in the cast can really handle the vocal demands of the score. Natalie Wood sounds just fine in her numbers, even charming, but poor Rosalind Russell had to be almost completely dubbed for her numbers. Strangely, Russell got rave reviews for her performance in the Broadway musical Wonderful Town. Karl Malden has so little to sing that it doesn't really make a big difference.The only numbers that pop a little bit are You Gotta Get A Gimmick and Louise's transformation into sexpot stripper Gypsy Rose Lee in Let Me Entertain You. The rest fall flat. Thankfully, even if they can't handle all the vocals with the best of 'em, they certainly act the hell out of their roles. Russell, while far from perfect, at least doesn't embarrass herself like Bette Midler did in the 1993 TV movie version. Her monologue right before Rose's Turn is subtle and well delivered, even if the number that comes directly after it is horrendously executed. Malden is warm and charming as Herbie, Rose's poor bumbling love interest and Wood shines as timid and naive Louise. The final dressing room scene between her and Russell is quite good. This version is really only marginally better than the TV movie version and that's really only for the acting. "},{"Title":"Sturdy, respectable musical classic adaptation that doesn't quite sing out.","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The dowager queen of all stage mothers gets the opportunity to let loose and grab the spotlight all to herself in 1962's Gypsy, produced and directed by Mervyn LeRoy.  Based on the memoirs of stripper/actress/raconteur Gypsy Rose Lee (nee Louise Hovick), the musical fable chronicles her early, trying days on the vaudeville circuit through her triumph as a burlesque headliner.Career-steered all the way by an indomitable, often destructive force (her mother, of course), the movie (as did the stage show) graciously centers itself around Mama Rose instead of the future star.  As well it should! Rosalind Russell is a prime example of a perfect actress given the perfect role.  Rose Hovick fits Ms. Russell like a prop glove.  Like she did in Auntie Mame, Roz barnstorms her way into the part and barnstorms right off, walking away with the film like the star she is.  It's hard for me to imagine another actress who could give Mama Rose the grit, the spunk, and the voracious appetite for fame this character implores.  Ethel Merman, of course, became the toast of Broadway (again) in the NY production and it seemed a cinch she would get to recreate Rose here.  But Merman never adapted well to the screen.  A strong and preponderating presence on stage, she came off surprisingly benign on film (i.e., There's No Business Like Show Business, Call Me Madam), and so she was not given the honor.  Ironically, Russell's only drawback is her singing voice.  It's adequate, mind you, but her low alto drains the songs of some of its power and intensity.  This is one case where a Merman-like boom is sorely needed.   Other than that, Russell hits the Richter scale at 10 with a captivating, high-octane performance.Because Mama Rose is the whole show, the rest of the cast defers to her star turn.  Every stage production I have ever seen has Gypsy Rose Louise portrayed as a demure, accommodating child player at the mercy of a titanic ego, who, by story's end, turns into a lovely, winsome striptease ingenue.  The script, of course, kowtows to that image, so there is not much an actress can really do with a part so watered-down, it has little chance to shine.  The title role does not allow us even a glimpse of what would be the REAL Gypsy Rose Lee &#150; an irreverent, free-wheeling, self-promoting extrovert and audience pleaser who became THE toss-and-tickle star of the century.  A little of Mama Rose definitely rubbed off on the adult Gypsy, but you'd never know it here.  So, a very professional Natalie Wood does exactly what is expected of her sans any real snap, crackle or pop.  She's demure, accommodating, lovely and winsome, finally packing a little power at the end when she forces herself to stand up to Rose's unbearable interference.In capable supports  Karl Malden, as Rose's exasperated, level-headed boyfriend; dancer Paul Wallace as Tulsa; Faith Dane, Roxanne Arlen and Betty Bruce as a flashy triad of strippers; and, particularly, little Suzanne Cupito and Ann Jilliann as Baby June and Dainty June, respectively, who are adorable and appealing little pros.  (Trivia note Suzanne Cupito grew up to be the stunning Morgan Brittany.)  The rest of the cast provide lively atmosphere.The film does have some problems.  Other than Russell, there is little else to ignite it.  The show is trapped by its stagy origins, when it might have worked to break out of those gaudy, miserable confines with some authentic 30s cinematography a la Paper Moon or Bonnie and Clyde that might have given it some outside life.  The Jule Styne/Stephen Sondheim musical score too, for me, has always been somewhat of a mixed bag.  Along with the numerous gems (Let Me Entertain You, Some People, Everything's Coming Up Roses, If Mama Was Married, You Gotta Have a Gimmick and the show-stopping Rose's Turn, you still have to contend with Little Lamb, Cow Song and Mr. Goldstone that border on irritating.Still, Gypsy is a definitive Rosalind Russell vehicle and that alone is worth the price of a ticket. "},{"Title":"top-notch / first-rate / outstanding","Date":"22 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" What a great piece of film making. Some critics have called Gypsy the greatest musical ever produced, and I think I see why they say so. I've never seen a staged performance so I can't compare, but I don't see how this movie version could be any better than it is. Everything is at the highest level - casting, script, acting, direction, cinematography. The story is gripping, as one watches how a driven, obsessed, controlling woman warps the lives of those around her. Evidently Ethel Merman was furious that Russell was chosen for the part Merman created on Broadway, but Russell's performance is powerful. Karl Malden is just great as poor Herbie. Natalie Wood is flawless as Jean. The moment near the end when she looks at herself in the mirror before going onstage for her stripping debut, and suddenly recognizes her own femininity (I'm a pretty girl, mama) is heartbreaking. The script never lets up on the dramatic tension, and the cinematography - in beautiful, extinct Technicolor - is a feast for the eyes. Evidently Russell couldn't sing and had to be dubbed. I've heard that Merman kept the outtakes of Russell's singing as a vicious memento (I'd kill to hear them). At any rate this is one of the all time greats, not to be missed. "},{"Title":"If You Like the Stage Version...","Date":"10 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...then I guess you'll like the movie. Or maybe not.I found this film to be overlong, stagy, clunky, and not particularly interesting. That the plot can be summarized on Wikipedia in one paragraph says something.Russell is an unlikeable diva who dominates the film. Meanwhile the title character is relegated to a minor role until near the end. Wood is kept intentionally homely throughout until she can emerge as Gypsy. Most of the songs are forgettable, particularly as Russell was dubbed and Wood should have been as in West Side Story. She's not a particularly good dancer and her stripping is a joke. (Men going wild about a bare shoulder?) "},{"Title":"Stage mother from hell","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Based on Broadway musical, Rose Hovick (Rosalind Russell) is a stage mom from hell. Her daughter Louise (Natalie Wood) is a shy dutiful wallflower. Her younger daughter June is the bubbly blonde star of the show. Herbie Sommers (Karl Malden) becomes their manager who is ever hopeful to marry Rose. When June finally runs off to get marry at 13, Rose refuses to settle down and sets Louise up as the new star. They end up broke and stranded at a burlesque show. At first Rose refuses to let her daughter to lower herself to burlesque. However when she's faced with settling down with Herbie, she jumps at the chance to push her daughter on the road to becoming big burlesque star Gypsy Rose.I find most of the songs are very Broadway. Rosalind Russell's singing is dubbed, and the result is unsatisfying. Of course, the big song is 'Everything's Coming Up Roses'.Rose is a tough character to take. I guess that's the point. The start with the daughters as little girls is sometimes fun. However the middle is a little extended. This is probably where the long running time of 143 minutes could have been trimmed. When they get to the burlesque, the movie gets dramatic and good. However the ending is a little bit abrupt and too happy. The story seems to be begging for a more powerful outburst from Louise to finally break off with her mother. "}{"Title":"Great Musical but not the All-Time Best and Too Long!","Date":"23 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Like Funny Girl (and even Xanadu!) sometimes the musical score outshines the movie! Natalie Wood barely has the cleavage to pull-off the finale and I suspect the costume could stand up by itself. Rosalind Russell has the comic timing but thank God she was dubbed. (Tone-deaf) Karl Malden plays the long-suffering manager but some of the book is just too long and draggy. (A song standard Together Wherever We Go is cut from the film due to lackluster staging. Somehow, The direction by Mervin LeRoy and the Stephen Sondheim score manage to rise above it all and save the film. Let Me Entertain You becomes an annoying broken-record of-a-song until the finale. Louise (Natale) and Tulsa, one of the Newsboys do a knock-out song and dance number All I Need is the Girl which is a showstopper. This movie reminds me a lot of The Seven Foys, so fictionalized that it's like watching The Sound of Music. Entertaining, but certainly not true-to-life, as the real Rose was much worse than depicted. Good performance by Natale and an otherwise engaging cast. Everything's Coming Up Roses is still an iconic song, regardless of who sings it! "},{"Title":"Mama Rose's ambition to make her kids succeed ultimately leads to her collapse","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Gypsy' starts off simple enough. A mother barrels down the stage to yell 'sing out, Louise!' as her two 'daughters' fervently act, sing and dance. This is the beginning of a long and harrowing psychological journey through the minds of people who all have a dream. Louise, the blossoming wallflower - always in her sister's shadow wants to be part of a dance team with Tulsa, who wants to create it. Little Dainty June wants to finally be a Broadway star. The beleaguered Herbie wants to simply settle down and have a home of his home with a wife and children. The heart of the show however, is Rose Hovick. Her drives and ambitions are what moves the plot along, causing the drives and ambitions of her 'proxy-star' troupe to grow more rapidly - specifically..to get away from her. No matter who plays Rose, the character is up for great interpretation. The first time you watch Gypsy, you may think that she's just some lovable, wacky mother who's a bit goofy and just likes to travel and help her kids become stars...even when you find out or already knew the reason she did it. Repeated viewings give a deep psychological glimpse into the inner-workings of how a person who lives through others acts. Rose is very quick, but not quick enough. Whether or not she did it all for herself is up for interpretation, but Rose continues to endear the hearts and minds of musical afficianados because she speaks for a generation. A generation of the lonely, the depressed, the left in the background. That's why Gypsy endures. "},{"Title":"Bad Choices for Great Material","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Merman deserved to be put on screen and was denied her place in cinematic history. Roz is fine, to a point, but her singing voice and general flash over any subtle moves, both emotionally and musically, keeps her character at a very polished distance. Natalie is the real sore point. She's terribly miscast. The real Gypsy Rose Lee had a body and way about her that, even though she's a young girl through most of this story, made it almost her destiny to be onstage. She had a grittiness that Natalie could never pull off because she's from such a different background. It's like the stripper says about the mother after she leaves the dressing room -- she could have been a good stripper in her day. Well, no, not for Roz and certainly not for Natalie. This production is really overbearing. It has the heavy hand of a lot of money being poured into the visuals and as such you never feel the dust or greasepaint. There's also a stagey feel to the set pieces and this detracts from it being more of a cinematic journey. Still, there's that glorious score. Even though most of the songs are sung terribly, the brilliance of the music still shines. It's another one of those what could have been. Not only with better casting then, but, if they had waited about ten years, they could have used Angela Lansbury as Mama Rose in one of the most brilliant performances ever put on stage. You never hear much about it, but her performance rivaled, and perhaps even outshone Merman's. Bad timing all around. "},{"Title":"Why Was Together Cut?","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I saw the film version of Gypsy, the song, Together, Wherever We Go was cut. Was it ever restored? This was one of the best songs. Evidently, the number was filmed so why the cut? There were other less famous songs that could have been cut. Was there a timing problem? Was the number restored in any DVD version? Is there a deluxe edition? I know that Bette Midler did it in the TV version. Other movies based on famous musical plays also have a bad habit of cutting songs. From King & I they cut I Have Dreamed. From Sound of Music, they cut the lovely, How Can Love Survive? What other famous numbers have been cut when made into a film? "},{"Title":"Gypsy","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" From the memoirs of stripper Gypsy Rose Lee, the Broadway musical became a film with Natalie Wood as Gypsy and Rosalind Russell as her domineering, show-business driven mother. I wanted more about stripping and less about a mother/daughter relationship. Rose was hard to take. Hey! I was 17. What do you expect? The film had a great soundtrack. I introduced Let Me Entertain You to the music director of my high school through my girl friend who played in the band. The band used it as their theme song during halftimes at football games. My LP was returned scratched up and with no thank you. Thank God The Beatles were coming! "},{"Title":"Let it entertain you, because everything is coming up roses.","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Even if you know almost nothing about Gypsy Rose Lee, you're sure to like Gypsy. It sort of has two stories going on at once there's control-freak mother Rose Hovick (Rosalind Russell) trying to trying to meddle with everything, and there's daughter Louise (Natalie Wood) looking for a way to fame. It turns out that the road to fame leads her to the burlesque business. While the status as a musical might call the movie into question, it has a certain charm much like West Side Story. Two songs really bring the movie to its core Let Me Entertain You and Everything's Coming Up Roses. And Natalie Wood is hot, as always. This is what musicals should be.It's hard to believe that this was directed by the same man who did Little Caesar. "},{"Title":"Overdone but good","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Highly fictionalized account of the rise of famous 1940-1950s stripper Gypsy Rose Lee. It concentrates on her domineering mother Rose (Rosalind Russell) and how she pushed both of her daughters into show business. One daughter (played at various stages by both Ann Jillian and Morgan Brittany!) runs off so Rose concentrates on Louise (Natalie Wood) who becomes a world famous stripper.It's loud, overblown, too long and really takes liberties with Gypsy's real life but I was entertained. I didn't believe it for one second but the songs were great (especially Everything's Comin Up Roses), the production numbers are certainly colorful and all the dancing is good (I was surprised to see Wood doing a good job at one point). The singing is mostly good--except for Russell. Russell herself said she couldn't sing so they mixed her voice with the voice of another singer. It certainly SOUNDS like Russell but it's off tune a few times. By all rights Ethel Merman should have been cast but she wasn't considered a box office draw in 1962. Everybody else sings great though. There's also a show-stopping dance number by young Paul Wallace (he plays Tulsa) halfway through. I do wonder why he never hit it big.The acting is pretty good. Russell is just fantastic. She takes the role and runs with it. It's a crime that she wasn't even nominated for an Academy Award for this. Karl Malden is also excellent as a man who loves Rose. Surprisingly Wood is bad--very quiet and subdued. Her character is supposed to be shy and quiet for most of the picture but she doesn't come to life even at the end when she's a famous stripper. Supposedly the real Gypsy Rose Lee showed Wood how to move on stage but it looks like Wood is hating every moment of it. But, this is Russell's show all the way and she bulldozes her way through it. It's worth seeing just for her. I give it an 8.Look for Jack Benny in a short uncredited appearance. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have hardly seen any musicals and the only reason i watched this one was because i kept seeing previews for it on turner classic movies. The movie stars Rosalind Russell as the mother of two daughters who want to be in Broadway. Russell meets Karl Malden and he agrees to help them out. Russell doesn't have any money and the only one with talent is her youngest daughter. Natalie Wood plays her oldest daughter and when the younger sister leaves, Russell expects Wood to take over. Karl Malden wants to marry Russell but she won't, not until they make it to the top. One thing i didn't like about it was that Russell sang too many songs and Natalie Wood hardly sang any songs. At first Natalie Wood looks like a tomboy but at the end when she basically becomes a stripper, she looks really great.  "},{"Title":"Great musical -- good movie","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This and Cabaret are my two favorite Broadway musicals of all time. But, whereas the movie Cabaret creatively took the play to a new level, this is content to be a filmed stage play -- and without Ethel Merman.  Rosalind Russell is a terrific actress who tries hard but she is forced to resort to shtick when playing Jewish mothers (see the awful -- A Majority of One) and Mama Rose is most certainly the ultimate Jewish stage mother.  Russell tries hard and certainly does not ruin the film, but her casting along with unimaginative direction turns an extraordinary show into just a good movie. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Film","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Excellent adaptation of the Broadway hit.  While it would have been great to have had Ethel Merman recreate her Broadway role, Rosalind Russell is first rate, as Mama Rose.  Natalie Wood and the entire cast are perfectly suited to their roles; and, Roxanne Arlen, Betty Bruce and Faith Dane are standouts as the three experienced strippers. Superior, in every way, to the television remake. Recommended. "}{"Title":"Entertaining, But Still A Misfire","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Having seen Gypsy performed on stage by the likes of Betty Buckley, as well as the 1993 TV-Movie that is faithful to the Broadway version, I'm afraid the faults of the 1962 movie version are more evident to me than its virtues.  Rosalind Russell just isn't the right choice for the part when Merman owned it on Broadway.  And shame on whoever it was that had Together cut from the final print!I have to correct one error though that appears in this listing. Natalie Wood (who once she becomes Gypsy the stripper is *very* convincing and sexy) did her own singing in this film and was not dubbed by Marni Nixon like she was in West Side Story.  "},{"Title":"Should have been called Gypsy's Mum","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Right then Natalie Wood, in her beautiful and buxom prime, taking her clothes off. Can't go wrong really, can it? Well, yes it can, actually. For a start the film isn't so much about Natalie's character, the famed stripper Gypsy Rose Lee, as her pushy, grating mother whose misguided determination to make it big in vaudeville inadvertently resulted in her daughter's unforeseen success. Her daughter doesn't even become a stripper until the final couple of reels and her rise to prominence is as swift (on film) and perfunctorily handled as it is meteoric. And I'm not sure whether I like Rosalind Russell's character Rose Hovick in this film. I mean, I do know that I don't like her, I'm just not sure whether the makers intended me and the rest of the audience to dislike her so much. Single-minded, driven, overbearing and dishonest, she has no real redeeming features and yet the film wants us to take pity on her in the final number. For me, the film would have been so much better (well, a little better, anyway) had it concluded with the confrontation scene in Gypsy Rose's dressing room instead of tacking on an unconvincing happy ending.Apparently, this was based on a smash Broadway show, but the majority of the numbers are tuneless mediocrities. If you can't whistle to it, it ain't a tune, my old man used to say, and most of these you can't even remember long enough to whistle. Thankfully, bulbous-nosed Karl Malden isn't called upon to sing, and he probably comes off on top as the moral anchor of the story, a vaudeville man who sees the writing on the wall and who, unlike Rose, isn't so stage-struck that he allows ambition to overshadow all other aspects of his life. Wood, appearing here on the back of the massive success of West Side Story, tries hard but never really convinces. As far as I'm aware this was her last musical film, and it isn't difficult to see why. "},{"Title":"The material is perfect-why didn't Hollywood trust it, then?","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The redeeming qualities of this movie are its score (which Russell does no justice to AT ALL), Karl Malden who gives a fully developed performance as Herbie, and Natalie Wood-the definitive Louise. Natalie Wood's The Strip is a HUGE highlight as you watch Louise transform from a somewhat awkward girl into a beautiful, sophisticated woman who has turned what is considered a cheap way to make a living into an art. The show Gypsy is a masterpiece. It has the perfect libretto and a masterful score. This movie doesn't take advantage of that. It adds far too many scenes, softens the monstrous character of Rose (some blame of this goes to the completely miscast Russell), and so many moments that are supposed to be dynamic are very lackluster. Examples of this are both Everything's Coming up Roses, the Act 1 closer that is supposed tohave the force of an army, but here has the force of a synchronized swimming team, and Rose's Turn the ultimate 11 0'clock number breakdown of the main character that only really limps along.Only when the movie uses the exact material of the show, completely in tact, does it shine. Two scene highlights are Louise's birthday in a motel and the elderly strippers giving Louise helpful career advice (Luckily Gotta Get a Gimmick, one of the most brilliant songs in Gypsy and in musical theatre in general, isn't ruined. It is the only other musical number highlight in the movie.) For any movie buff, and musical buff, I recommend they see this movie to see what a bad adaptation is. They should read the original stage script, listen to the score as sung by either Ethel Merman, Angela Lansbury or Bernadette Peters (Tyne Daly, though a brilliant Rose, was the least vocally experienced of the bunch) and know what a perfect piece the original stage version of Gypsy is. And how stupid it was of Hollywood to not trust it enough. "},{"Title":"Natalie Wood's best musical!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Rosalind Russell is most-mentioned when Gypsy, the life story of famed Burlesque star Gypsy Rose Lee, but Natalie Wood is really the show-stealer as the titular character. Her nuanced performance as a Vaudevillian, thrust into stripping after its death, puts Russell's shrieking Mama Rose to shame. Not that she isn't good, but hey, how do you compete on screen with Ms. Wood? While the story is solid, mainly tracing Gypsy's time as a child being carted around the country by mom and Karl Malden's candy salesman in an attempt to Make It Big, the music is weak overall, with but two numbers (Let Me Entertain You and Everything's Coming Up Roses) being even remotely memorable. "},{"Title":"Miscast version of the Broadway success; slick pomp and circumstance","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Popular Broadway material suffocates under heavy Hollywood handling, without a loose or natural moment anywhere. Screen-version of the Stephen Sondheim-Jules Styne musical concerns famous stripper Gypsy Rose Lee, who found a rocky road to stardom while battling her tumultuous Mama (Ethel Merman on the stage, Rosalind Russell on the screen). No matter how you look at it, this is Mama Rose's story; daughter Louise is just a spoke in the wheel of Mama's ambitions for fame, fortune and the footlights. It's an actress's dream to play this part, yet Roz Russell never quite gets out of her one abrasive note; she's colorful and certainly fills the bill, but one begins to tire of her perpetually astonished face and the coarseness of her voice. Natalie Wood plays Louise/Gypsy Rose, and, while the miscasting isn't obtrusive (as it was in West Side Story), Wood doesn't seem to have the proper dramatic resources from which to draw upon; playing it sweet and straight, she makes Gypsy an unambitious square--an accidental success. Karl Malden trumps them both as the man in Mama's life who gets steamrolled by her dreams and drive. The picture looks great, but it doesn't have much of a pay-off; characters arrive and disappear, and the many songs which pad the running-time fail to add something substantial to the story. ** from **** "},{"Title":"I Have Seen Better","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Natalie and Rossiland were the miscasts here - both very good actresses. Both roles were portrayed better in the 1993 version.  Wood can not fake it to sing.  And Russell should have been dubbed... but it can't be done with this type of role.  She had FEELING.  Not the STYLE and GRACE of Bette Midler.  "},{"Title":"A glittering disappointment","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the old days of screen musicals, the material was tailored to the talent, and Hollywood had lots of it -- Astair and Rogers, Keeler, Powell, etc. etc. The plots were interchangeable and unimportant.  What mattered were the songs, the dancing, the personalities.  Perhaps the ascendancy of the American Stage Musical as a genre in the 40's foreshadowed the end of the Hollywood Musical, as integrity of plot and score began to take precedence.Screen adaptations of stage musicals always seem to compromise on the most vital aspects of the work.  It's rare to find a screen star with the vocal power of an Ethel Merman or a Patti LuPone, and for some reason the stage talent rarely makes it to the screen.  Perhaps the studios prefer a star with a name that they know will sell tickets.  The result is rarely satisfactory.  The happiest compromises invariably come about when the star's singing is dubbed.  Marni Nixon sang for Natalie Wood in West Side Story and for Audrey Hepburn in My Fair Lady.  It would be difficult to dub the vocals for a part like Mama Rose, however, because of her strong character.Rosalind Russell is one of the cinema's all-time greats, and would have been delightful in a non-musical version of this story.  During the scenes, she sparkles as always, and we are constantly torn between despising her tyrranical control of her daughters' lives and her bewitching charm and vivacity.  But she simply isn't a singer, and the actress who plays Rose MUST have a strong voice.  It's a musical, for pete's sake!There's plenty to enjoy in this film, whose visual appeal is substantial, but the 1993 version is far superior in almost every respect.  Let's face it, Midler was BORN to play Rose. "},{"Title":"Good.  Not great.","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just saw the stage version with Bernadette Peters because I'd never seen any screen version - unexcellable;  a worthy heiress of Ethel Merman.  I wish I could say the same for Rosalind Russell.As I said, I liked the Broadway musical but this production doesn't translate it well to the screen.  Merman played (and Peters plays) Rose Hovick at comically over-the-top full-volume, which is the only way to make such an aggravating character likeable.  Russell, however, strangely underplays her on the big screen.  Perhaps it's her limited singing talent but I blame director Mervyn LeRoy.  A director is responsible for what goes on the screen, and so much of what's on the screen doesn't work here.Natalie Wood shines best as Louise, the plain-Jane untalented daughter before her metamorphosis into Gypsy Rose Lee -- where, like Russell, she doesn't shine as much as one would think.  Karl Malden is a trouper as Herbie Sommers, the schmo who sticks by Rose longer than anyone who'd call himself a man would.  The Sommers role is supposed to be a weakling but I just don't buy Malden in the role.  On the other hand, it must have been good rehearsal for playing General Omar Bradley, who was portayed as yet another second banana to yet another raging prima donna in 'Patton (1970)'.The sets also don't really work.  They look exactly what they are - Hollywood stage sets, which here give neither impression of Broadway nor full-fledged Hollywood musical.  Contrast this with the sets of 'Guys and Dolls (1955)' where the sets looked like Broadway sets and thus really made the picture.LeRoy is sensible enough to have the actors do their own singing but neither actor is a singer, a fact which overshadows a musical full of otherwise showstopping tunes.  However, too many elements just don't come together - the casting, the sets, the art direction.  In short, I blame the director.  And the producers. "},{"Title":"THE great American musical...","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  is an ok film. Rosalind Russell is wonderful as Mama Rose in every detail except in the singing. It's obvious that she did some of the songs herself, but Lisa Kirk (a Broadway star in her own right) did most of it. This hurts the finished product. One can't help be sorry that Ethel Merman didn't get to film her greatest stage success. What a shame. Merman would have been electrifying, especially in the final number, Rose's Turn. Listening to the CD of the Broadway original cast gives a hint of what Merman would have done with this GREAT musical number. Possibly the single greatest number in American musical history, Rose's Turn combines everything in the mother's life that has not come true her own moment of being a STAR. Russell is ok, but it's obvious that most of the number is sung by someone else. Merman, on the CD, growls and shrieks her lament of not having a chance. The lyrics scream of sorrow and remorse. Russell goes thru the motions; Merman lives the pain. Natalie Wood and Karl Malden are good; Betty Bruce (Miss Electra) and Faith Dane (Miss Mazzeppa) are hilarious as tawdry strippers. Worth a look, but hard to forget this SINGLE greatest casting ERROR in Hollywood history.  "},{"Title":"Gypped","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A few of the things said in praise of Gypsy are true.  Rosalind Russell gives a good performance (as a hateful character whose charm is so elusive that only a handful of people can detect it; I am not one of them), Natalie Wood's transformation from a child (at first she looks no more than twelve) to a drop-dead gorgeous woman IS astounding, and a couple of song sequences have something going for them; If Mamma Were Married is, I think, an unqualified success.  But the film as a whole is the kind of stodge that gives old-time Technicolor musicals a bad name.So much is okay, acceptable, competent.  That's the trouble.  There's no story, not much to say about the characters, no real conclusion, no basic idea which drives the whole lumbering vehicle; what it desperately needed was something outstanding, a contribution from one of its artists that was much MORE than okay, acceptable, or competent.  In an ill-conceived project like this, good enough isn't good enough.  But Sondheim's lyrics have none of the fire or wit of anything he wrote for West Side Story (to take his earliest triumph), Styne's music is rote, Mervyn LeRoy was only ever as good as his material, the art direction is good but not great, etc., etc.I understand that this is the story of an UNsuccessful vaudeville troupe, but I was still puzzled were the stage acts MEANT to be this bad?  Can you imagine sane adults paying money to see a curly-blonde moppet sing Let Me Entertain You alongside two people in a cow suit?  I don't understand how this act could possibly become even a minor success in the first place; nor, if this was the kind of thing vaudeville had to offer, could I feel in the least sorry about vaudeville's demise.  When mother and daughter found themselves performing in a burlesque house alongside professional strippers it looked to me as though they were moving up in the world - that is, until I saw the strip acts for myself.  Burlesque strippers offered their audience more than THIS, believe me.  Gypsy Rose Lee's act, as we see it, is nothing to write home about, however gorgeous Natalie Wood may be. "}{"Title":"Gypsy","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sondheim hates this bastardizing of the late 50's musical and so do I. Russell is no Ethel Merman and Wood cannot even fake singing convincingly. Malden is a passable Herbie, but the film altogether is a complete and utter blah. "}]