[{"Title":"Kurosawa Plays Himself.","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"36 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With a near clean lineup of masterpieces under his belt, nobody could fault Kurosawa for wanting to make a simple piece of entertainment. This simple aspiration did not stop him from making another hugely influential success.Sanjuro is a loose sequel to the classic Yojimbo. The character is back, as is, confusingly, Tatsuya Nakadai as a completely different character. The landscape and tone are entirely new, lighter, jollier. It is almost a spoof of its predecessor,as Mifune's nonchalant and perpetually unwashed antihero helps a group of goody- two-shoes samurai save their framed master. This is also the first on-screen collaboration between Toshiro Mifune and the young Yuzo Kayama, before they costared to such memorable effect on Redbeard.Nobody spoofs Kurosawa better than the man himself this is without a doubt his funniest film, yet he never treats it as a second-class product. No slouch, the director peppers this light romp with unforgettable visual flourishes, enraptured homages to the American Westerns that so inspired him, and an end-note of surprising violence, the likes of which Tarantino could only dream of.At a fast-paced 96 minutes, this is probably a great entry point into the cinema of Akira Kurosawa, and a film that would be much more highly regarded had it not come from such an established filmmaker. "},{"Title":"Excellent - Superb - A Masterpiece","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"38 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Akira Kurosawa is probably the best Director in the entire History of film-making. He has not been that prolific given the amount of time he has spent making films, but many of these have subsequently been remade - Seven Samurai became the magnificent seven. Yoijimbo (the prequel to this one) became A fistful of dollars - and more recently last man standing. The hidden Fortress became Star Wars. Sanjuro marked the return of Toshiro Mifune as the Sardonic Ronin from Yoijimbo. Yet again, the photography is excellent - the period costumes and buildings beautiful to look at even in black and white.  From one of the first scenes, in the grounds outside the Shrine, Mifune shows a 500% improvement in the art of Kenjutso - he must have been practicing night and day! But it is the character of Sanjuro itself that makes the film so absorbing. He is on the surface, a dirty, disrespectful abrasive man - but his deeds portray him as a hero - someone who once was a shining example of a Samurai and despite being put through the ringer still holds to a deeply rooted code of honor. When this shows however, he is most anxious to cover it up again..... The film involves a power struggle within a small city in Japan between the old faction and the new power-hungry one. It deals with false perceptions and truth. Two of the tenets that are at the heart of Kurosawa's films. This is a Gem - rent it - if you can, Buy it!  "},{"Title":"One of Kurosawa's most polished movies","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Tsubaki Sanjuro is, unfortunately, not so widely seen abroad (= outside Japan) as Yojinbo, probably because it was not copied as a western. In Japan, however, Tsubaki Sanjuro is not less popular than Yojinbo. Not a few Japanese actually prefer the former to the latter, and it's easy to see why It is stylistically more polished and smarter than Yojimbo and Mifune is 'cooler' as well - he shows a brilliant leadership and every Mifune fan would be really delighted to see how his young, naive disciples run after him like chicks following the mother duck.And while Yojinbo's female main character, Orin, is an evil and crafty woman, Lady Mutsuta in Tsubaki Sanjuro is 'irritatingly light-hearted'. But she has a deep insight into Sanjuro's personality and understands him far better than his male disciples. An excellent character, and, in fact, she is the only person in Tsubaki Sanjuro AND Yojinbo to whom Sanjuro/Mifune speaks in a polite form (in Japanese).Tsubaki Sanjuro is, so to speak, a 'concentrate' of Kurosawa's cinematography and one sees in it every aspect of his greatness in a very compact form. Therefore no one could remake this movie. "},{"Title":"it's by Kurosawa--what else do you want?","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"25 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sanjuro is another in a long line of purely classic films by Akira Kurosawa. This movie was made on a whim on the heels of the wildly successful Yojimbo, but Kurosawa doesn't simply whip out a movie to satisfy the audience; he creates another film masterpiece.  This is a farcical comedy shot with the same brilliance as Ran--take a minute and notice how perfectly the image on the screen portrays what Kurosawa wants us to see.  Nothing about this film is a mistake, something that he would want to do over. Watch this film!  "},{"Title":"The master in a lighter mode","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sanjuro is not one of Kurosawa's great films, but it shows him relaxed and having fun, deconstructing the jidai-geki (samurai film) genre with tongue firmly in cheek.The film lacks the meticulous visual style of Yojimbo, but it is very well photographed, with some extremely fluid cinematography and those effortlessly artful group compositions that only Kurosawa seems to be able to do.  The plot is a little exposition-heavy, but it's always swift-moving and never comes close to taking itself seriously.Watching Toshiro slice apart all those enemies in the various battle scenes with nary a bloodstain in sight, I did find myself wishing the folks at Toho had sprung for a few squibs.  But all is set right in the brilliant final swordfight, which is worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Among the Most Entertaining of Kurosawa's or Mifune's Movies","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Akira Kurosawa and Toshiro Mifune combined their abilities in numerous fine movies, and while Sanjuro, for its part, is lighter than most of the others, it is certainly one of the most entertaining of the movies that either of the two has made. Mifune gets a role that allows him to get many good moments, and it's also a role that he must have enjoyed playing.The story is quite interesting, with many good turns and a way of keeping you guessing as to what will happen next. Mifune plays a samurai who takes it upon himself to try to save a rather hapless but nevertheless worthy clan from government conspiracy and from its own foolishness. It's a role that gives him both plenty of good lines and plenty of good action sequences. Kurosawa, of course, knows just how to get the most out of all of the material, and the story also provides some interesting psychological insights on the characters.The settings are very good, and they are often used in creative ways in telling the story. Except for Mifune's character, most of the other characters are fairly one-dimensional, but they are believable, and they also allow plenty of room for Mifune to get the most out of each of his scenes. The result is a very enjoyable and well-crafted movie. "},{"Title":"Physchology of leadership, the senselessness of war","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"29 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Leadership. Sanjuro is able to lead men because he appears confident, and is confident. His presence subjugates men, as a man's presence subjugates boys. We see here how a group comes to have a leader. First one man stands out against him, the competitor for leadership, but Sanjuro's intuition and actions put him ahead.  There is a beautiful marked difference between Sanjuro and the men. He is the lazy quiet tiger, seemingly passive yet containing an immense power - a tightly drawn bow. The men are barking puppies, energy spilling over, but to no good end.Kurosawa presents a couple challenges to the viewer. THere is a terrible absurdity in the killing of all these men, for it becomes quiet clear with the symbol of the prisoner, that the average soldier is a frightened herd animal, not good or evil, but cowardly. Sanjuro recognizes this but has no choice, for he wants to live, and so must kill. Thus he must even kill the young men who he helps, when they foolishly come after him. The prisoner is won over by the old lady - so we see an almost christian ethic. In the tensions of the film one feels that the people, riled up by lies to fight for the enemy, quickly become targets of the just young men's swords - luckily it does not come to this, but one recognizes the horrible possibility and inevitability of such a struggle. Thus we are faced with a critic of war - men, scared like cattle battle under the flag of corrupt leaders, and those that may love them must kill them, if they are not to die by sword, or become slaves to tyrants.stupid friends are worse than enemies For you know who your enemies are, and that they wish to destroy you.In Sanjuro we also see the soldier, so long in battle that he is unable to live a normal life. He can not wear the house kimoto, he is to bound up in fighting - he is samuri, warrior, and he cannot escape this, much as Achilles cannot return home to Pthia. And we sense Sanjuro must whilt in the easy domestic life, for his is the road of struggle. The pleasant scent of the straw in the barn, the pretty camillias are still able to touch him, but he cannot enjoy them; he is a soldier, and therefore his sensitivities must yeild to the demands of war.We see only one man worthy standing with Sanjuro, and that is the uncle, the chamberlain, the horseface. These to stand out as burning stars against a massive black sky - the rest is horrifying; the chaos of tyranical men and the fear crazed soldiers, their supplicants. "},{"Title":"A wonderful-see","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...but the movie is great fun even when you know what's going to happen.I'd like to call it the B-side of Yojimbo, mainly because it revisits the same character that that movie is based on, Sanjuro, but in other respects as well, being it much less renown than that movie, not that it is any less good, making it sort of the movie that a real Kurosawa fan would know about. But these two pieces are mirrors of themselves. They are strategy movies in that they are artistic 'games' that keep the viewer guessing, also showing aspects of life in the form of a staged situation, and since Kurosawa and his writing collaborators were such great masterminds at this, one is immediately caught up as if he were playing himself, or at least trying to keep up with the players' moves. The movie piles up images, intrigue, mystery and suspense and resolves it all in a very cohesive, almost perfectionist way. I mean, it is hard to find mistakes here, though we know that most of it is uncanny. I think, in this sense, Kurosawa had the talent of structuring his plot negatively, precisely by way of mistake. Every single positive plot line is rebutted by the man who has the bigger picture in mind, which is the samurai Sanjuro, who has the capacity of seeing negatively, of experiencing mistake before it occurs. This renders wonderful plot construction throughout, and source of limitless inspiration, in my opinion. Sadly, this wasn't anything that someone like George Lucas, or many other people Kurosawa influenced over the years, used in their movies. If they had, the Star Wars legacy would be a complete experience, and not just a pile of special effects with a couple of decent dramatic story lines (I give Lucas that much). Sanjuro builds wonderfully and its cohesiveness is only surpassed by its cinematic artistry.The first scenes are both beautifully staged, intelligently written, and remarkably revelatory, as we witness not only a few minutes of in-depth character construction, but also the plot structure unfolding and the general philosophy of the film taking heed. It then goes to show, through a combination of Kurosawa's staging and Mifune's acting, the omnipresence of the samurai, much in the way Luke Skywalker failed to show his when he was finally a Jedi in Episode vi of the Star Wars saga. For example, in that movie, the Jedi pushes 'bad guys' away through an omnipresent power which no one sees or feels. That in itself negates the possibility of us believing the power is actually his -the Force he called it (giving it a name, and such a redundant use of it, already weakens the whole concept)&#150; apart from the fact that most of the revelations of this 'Force' are creatively deficient. Here, the samurai confronts over 200 men in a most astonishing opening fight that lasts very little time. One of the great lines is his samurai contender's 'ceasefire', who says 'Leave him. It'll take us too long to get rid of him'. The scene is a great battle scene, because of the character content it portrays, one which summarizes in just a few seconds how necessary and ingenious a fight can be within the framework of a story, far from being just merely a formulaic tool for suspense (Check out how he turns the back to the camera... cinematically more effective than attracting a sword through thin air). Finally, in this opening sequence, Kurosawa presents the exemplary subject of his film a batch of rebellious dimwits, unexperienced and weak (again, in very little time this is explained to the utmost detail), who must overcome an inevitable destiny of imperial corruption. Their only strength of course is the goodness of their cause. We are about to witness the intent of the impossible how a rebellion of just a handful of men shall try to overcome an entire 'empire'. This also reminds us of Star Wars, but sadly, again, Star Wars never makes us understand how powerful the empire is, what type of corruption it holds (what is the dark side anyways... why is it dark, just because they wear black, just because the are holding Leia prisoner? must be because the emperor is so ugly), and what qualities, strength, weaknesses, do the rebels hold? Oponents are devoid of contrast within themselves, thus that whole storyline is more or less a waste. In Sanjuro, it is central, because one is forced to acknowledge the ludicrous scenario (so present in humanity), and a very exemplary one in itself the strength of corruption versus the weakness of decency. One severely outnumbers the other. And one is much more mischievous and astute, while goodness, as we see here, is few and far between, seems vulnerable, innocent and in many cases just plain dumb. The addition of the samurai personifies both sides and creates gorgeous shading throughout. Finally, the triumphal finale is wonderfully executed. And the final cinematic metaphors of that plight are unforgettable. There are many things that can be analyzed here. But the reception of the thematic elements is what varies and inevitably, as in all or most film except for those we call classics, it is this that will divide opinions and make some people accept one film and not another; like one film or dislike it. So, yes, there is a possibility you'll find it uninteresting as a whole. However, what really makes this movie worthwhile for anyone (I say that as objectively as I can), even if you don't like B&W or older films &#150; is the final scene one of the most spectacular segments I've witnessed in my life. So, maybe just for that, it is worth sitting through it. "},{"Title":"Sanjuro is the sequel to Yojimbo but better.","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sanjuro is the sequel to Yojimbo. The anti-hero is once again played by Mifune. He is a roaming masterless samurai after the Japanese emperor officially disbanded the samurai. Sanjuro's only mission in life is to survive and live by the unspoken samurai code of honor. In both films, it is only by accident that he combat the oppressive.   The opening scene in Sanjuro was a long shot of a temple. It was followed by a jump cut, close-up of the same temple. This is a jarring effect that is a pattern of Kurosawa. He used this very same technique in the opening sequence of  Rashomon.  Kurosawa's superbly sharpen directorial skills are evident in this film. He uses a narrative economy technique that lets the audience dive right into the story without using a long draw-out exposition. The plot and characters are explained within the first five minutes of this film.The story begins during a samurai meeting in a house. Sanjuro interrupts this meeting. He's been listening to their conversation. The cocky Sanjuro relaxes their guard because he analyzes their situation. He predicts, and is subsequently correct, that they will be ambushed. The group prepares for their certain death. Quickly, Sanjuro devises a plan and boldly states, trust me to his cohorts. This excellent delivery from Mifune lets the audience know that this sequel is going to be just as fun (if not better) as Yojimbo.  A hilarious character for this film is the captured guard that was spared because of the rescued woman. His role was tiny but very memorable. He was the comic relief for a few of the tense moments. Towards the end of the film, the flower signal scene is super funny. Sanjuro tricks the three goof balls into putting the flowers in the creek. The neighboring samurai rejoice with excitement. Meanwhile, the captured guard shortly joins the celebration but gets a look from the samurai and returns to the closet. This is reminiscent of the three stooges. I really love this scene.Reoccurring Kurosawa patterns include the use of multiple film planes. An example of this is the scene in the barn. Sanjuro is lying on the wheel barrel. The camera POV is on the floor shooting upwards. The wheel barrel is the first plane, Sanjuro is the middle plane, and the other samurai with their backs against the wall are the third plane. This abstract framing adds to the film's production value. It also breaks up the predictable  framing of the characters. Likewise, framing is consistent in this film as in all Kurosawa  film's because all of the players are perfectly in view, no actor is excluded from the camera view. Mifune's character finally arches in this sequel because he is told killing is a bad habit by the rescued older lady. He is quick to change internally to her wishes. Although Sanjuro is told once again, please don't use too much violence, Sanjuro's hand is forced. He is forced to kill the numerous bad guys that are guarding the three hostage samurai because of their mistrust. He is hard on himself but harder on the three samurai that he slaps. In addition, this scene is reminiscent of Yojimbo. Sanjuro is entrusted with the lives of the enemy but instead slaughter his real enemy. Another example of his arched character in this film occurs in the final scene. Sanjuro does not want to fight the banished samurai. Once again, Sanjuro is force into violence. His last words were, I am just like him, he was like a sword that should have a sheath. This is a clear sign that Sanjuro does not enjoy the lifestyle of the samurai. Whereas before it seemed like he didn't mind the senseless killing.  In all, Sanjuro succeeds as another excellent story by Kurosawa. It is most definitely Hollywood influenced film.   "},{"Title":"Enjoy the comedy, but don't forget the duel","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers warningAn overwhelming proportion of the comments on Sanjuro in IMDB has been given to its comedy elements. This makes perfect sense because no other Kurosawa/Mifune corroboration has taken this all-out crack at comedy. It does not mean that sense of humour is lacking among Kurosawa's strength. Indeed, no master is truly great without a sense of humour. For example, both Hitchcock and Kurosawa like to inject a dose of their sense of humour, respectively, at the frightening and poignant junctures in their films. In Sanjuro, the amusing characteristics of the character portrayed by Mifune were not new. They were all there in Yojimbo before, but fully unleashed in Sanjuro, and some on the brink of being overused, such as the flexing of the neck and shoulder muscles, which looks like a shrug. 	Indeed Kurosawa did not lose a single opportunity of making Sanjuro so much fun to watch. The nine young samurai, courageous but impulsive and inexperienced, provide excellent material and the mood here is set from the very beginning, in the scene when they are trapped in their meeting place. After Mifune (I'm using the artist's name instead of the character's for simplicity) had driven away the enemies and calls them from the hiding place below, their heads pop up in threes, twos and singly, giving it almost an animation flavour. The rescued mother and daughter is of course a pair of darlings, particularly the mother, whose interaction with Mifune is a classic yin and yang confrontation, but depicted in a most amusing way. And then we have the captured samurai who keeps popping out from the closet in which he is confined, offering his unsolicited opinion, then suddenly remembering his station in the scheme of things, crawls back inside, demurely closing the sliding door behind him. These are but a few examples that give the film a festive mood.The DVD I watched has only Chinese subtitle. Although I can't really claim to judge the quality of the translation as I don't know Japanese, gut feel tells me that they are good compared to the garbage you often see on screens in Hong Kong these days. Still, I can't help but think that for Sanjuro, some of the fun may have been lost in the translation. Fortunately, body language and facial expression does a lot to make up for it.There is much more in Sanjuro than just first class comedy. Kurosawa is a great master of capturing motion on the screen (as Ozu is the great master in capturing stillness on the screen). The most outstanding scene in Sanjuro demonstrating this occurs quite early in the story. After Mifune voluntarily joins the nine, they formulate the first plan he would take three men with him to try to rescue the lord's wife and daughter while the rest would scout around for information. This is followed immediately by a series of rapidly cut shots each with a young samurai running swiftly in the street, at various directions. The whole series takes a few seconds but the momentum generated is immense.While the tone throughout the film is light, we should not lose sight of the undercurrent continually building up between the Kurosawa and Nakadai, culminating in one of the best duel scenes in the entire film industry, if not the best. When the lord's rescued wife first meets Mifune, she comments that he is too `bright', like an unsheathed sword. At the end, Mifune says that both he and Nakadai are unsheathed swords. From the very beginning, these two recognise each other as truly worth opponents and this is reaffirmed during their encounters throughout the film. In the end, Mifune is forced into the duel reluctantly. Even Nakadai himself does not seem to particularly want it. However, within his own universe of logic, because he has been made a fool by Mifune, the only way out for him is a duel. What we have then is a duel very similar to the fast-draw type of duels in westerns, but at close range. And that is what makes a world of difference. The two men stand facing each other, within striking distance, in absolute stillness, for what seems to be an eternity (I was tempted to re-watch the DVD to measure and report the actual time but such a piece of information would take something away the beauty of the film). The absolute intensity is followed by simply brutality as the swords are unsheathed in a flash (but not so fast as to impair our visual enjoyment of the beauty of the geometry of the draws) and the abrupt eruption of blood from Nakadai's chest signifying a punctured heart (the Chinese translation of the title is `Heart piercing sword'). While good direction in a western may match the intensity, I would personally prefer the visual beauty of the silent, deadly draw of the sword to the loud cracking of the gun.  "}{"Title":"Better than most in the genre, even if not a 'masterpiece' for Kurosawa","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sanuro, the sequel (or prequel, more likely a sequel though) to Akira Kurosawa's 1961 classic Yojimbo, brings us Toshiro Mifune to one of his most memorable characters, as he helps out (begrudgingly but, for the audience, funny way of help) with a group of would-be samurai trying to fight a corrupt man trying to gain power. With this film, Kurosawa delivers if not more than the same amount of violence (with one of his finest scenes of which towards the very end), and Mifune along with co-stars are believable and make for an entertaining ride. For those who are not familiar with Kurosawa and look to start, this and Yojimbo are the best starting points. But to say that it is not one of Kurosawa's very best is not entirely a dis-service to him. One flaw for me was that the story was not very clear on the first viewing, or at least as clear as what I'm used to from him (then again, the samurai genre is one I've only started to dig into). But a second viewing brought it clearer, and was even more suspenseful and amusing. That it is not as satirical (or perhaps it is) than what I had heard is not a minus however. The best that can be said that it is highly watchable, and could grow on those looking for a samurai film with more based on character than on immediate, flowing blood-shed and carnage. The least that can be said is that it does not compromise artistry and thoughtfulness for mediocrity. Grade A "},{"Title":"The Illusory Surface Obscuring Truth","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe essence of this classic, sadly always in the shadow of Yojimbo, is where Sanjuro explains to the incredulous, callow samurais how the person they admire is the villain and the one they suspect is a good man. The movie, like the much lesser The Cowboys, is a study of socialization into what it is to be a true samurai. Sanjuro even is forced to kill men because the fools still are as headstrong and deluded as when we first find them. The classic opens with a meeting between the painfully naive youngsters about to commit unintentional suicide by trusting the wrong man with information damaging to the clan. Sanjuro comes out of his sleep and finds them hilariously fatuous. Mifune is so brilliant here, his fearlessness comes without wild gesticulations as we would have to endure in a typical American action movie with sound and fury signifying nothing compensating for no script and no acting. Sanjuro is not only a reluctant mentor to these tragic idiots but he openly expresses his disgust and contempt for them all through their training. As the movie progresses and Sanjuro rescues the chamberlain and family from Kikui's men, the young men are concomitantly trained in Bushido and learning the complexities of human nature. The surface is not where to seek the truth; a lesson in the head as well as the sword.Little touches of levity as when Mifune is confronted with the effusive older woman watch how incredibly uncomfortable he is around women. The warrior's shyness and contempt for the feminine is so well done here. The Sword Of Doom's Nakadai serves as the number one killer for Kikui who befriends Sanjuro, though he, rightly, never seems to completely trust him. Sanjuro works his way into the clan but, thanks to the silly youngsters, is forced to kill many men. The movie was severely criticized, when it was released, for the gory final duel. Muroto does not forgive his humiliation and at the end demands a duel to the death in front of the terrified youngsters. Sanjuro does his best to talk him out of it but no way. For those who watch the silly bloodless violence in American action movies, I say, watch this scene; it is not quite so pretty and cool, is it? Sanjuro feels the same, when the young samurais congratulate him, he almost attacks and kills them. Mifune calls them fools which they are all throughout the movie. I have always preferred this to the much slower Yojimbo; that is also a classic but this moves much faster. Mifune's Sanjuro is such a realistic depiction of a samurai without all the block-headed Western idealization like we had to endure in The Last Samurai. Mifune is considerably more interested in just living and finding his way; the youngsters and their endless problems irritate him constantly. The rescue of the Chamberlain is done using Sanjuro's head more than his sword. I will not spoil it for you but it is such a contrast from our action films. Tied up, he instills terror in Kikui's leaders until they end up bringing about their own destruction in comedic fashion. Kurosawa's grasp of human nature, the mendacity of human communication is so evocative of Kubrick. As we saw in Ran, the ones who appear the most benign and kind are the deadliest of your enemies. We share Sanjuro's contempt for these bumpkins and walk away with him bearing the same disgust for them. The focus of this is their worship of war and hyper-manliness makes Sanjuro laugh at them right to their faces. Mifune gives a performance similar to his role in The Seven Samurai. His skill with the sword is much greater but he is as much a comic philosopher as he is a swordsman. For those of you young people wishing to wade into Kurosawa, this is an excellent first movie to watch. You will get used to his visual style which is one of a kind. It is so fast moving and well written I cannot recommend it to you more. Many of his other works are philosophically deeper like RAN. It is such an excellent film. Yes, the surface of human conversation, as Freud held, is almost all mendacity. The wise person, like Sanjuro, listens to the voice tone and body language. A Masterpiece.Even When The Mouth Lies It Tells The Truth. Nietzsche "},{"Title":"Along with YOJIMBO, Kurosawa's greatest films","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" While most Western audiences are reasonably familiar with THE SEVEN SAMURAI and ROSHOMON, this is, in my opinion, the best work of director Akira Kurosawa. But, saying that this film itself is best isn't easy because this is actually a followup to the highly successful film, YOJIMBO that Kurosawa completed the year before. Together, they are just terrific and feature Toshiro Mifune as the amazingly skilled and clever wandering swordsman who is out to right wrongs and make the world a better place (much like the character Zatoichi in the long series of samurai films that debuted the same year SANJURO was released).In this case, there is a corrupt local official and a very naive group of young and energetic but STUPID young men are about to expose his corruption to his boss--expecting the boss to act and restore justice. But, as Mifune is very clever and these guys are dumb but nice, he advises them NOT to go to the boss, as he, too, is probably part of the problem! They cannot accept that the boss is corrupt, but through Mifune's brilliant maneuvers, they realize the truth and assist him to restore peace and justice.This movie is amazing because although there are some wonderful action scenes, the level of comedy is also pretty high and I loved the tongue-in-cheek aspects of the film. Plus, the ending is one of the strangest yet coolest in film history. You just have to see it to believe it! "},{"Title":"Kurosawa as a Masterless Genius","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.By 1962, Kurosawa had already reinvented film, and this was slowly changing the world's imagination. But Japan's film industry was every bit as blockheaded as Hollywood, and he found himself indentured to a system that forced him into ever more popular tripe. Kurosawa did not write this. It was instead put together by others out of crowd-pleasing formula.It blazes no new ground in visual narrative. It is not intelligent. The visual strokes do not relate to the story at all, something Kurosawa invented. What we are left is with is a stupid story filmed by a master. In fact, freed from worrying about things that matter more, he is able to spend time with the framing. And his highly refined compositions show it, including many that use his characteristic multiple planes. Even Mifune is reduced to the type of self-parody we would celebrate in the later Tarantino.This is therefore a sad film, especially since we know what the next decade would bring for Kurosawa.What's interesting is the minor mutiny that Kurosawa and Mifune conspire to create under the surface. They started their partnership making intelligent films behind the backs of the studio bosses (and much of the public). But by this time were reluctant guns for hire, walking through various situations that may or may not captivate them.See this story for what it is Kurosawa as ronin, not giving a noh about the local boss but willing to fight for him as he wanders through his territory. Willing to be the footstool, so long as he can send chrysanthemums down the stream.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"The righteous sequel to Yojimbo","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sanjuro is the righteous sequel to Yojimbo, but unfortunately, not as popular- probably because it was never copied to become a western. Mifune is as smart as he was in Yojimbo. In-fact, he has improved! He has developed leadership skills and is more polished. Has has respect for women! Although there are many noticeable differences as well. Yojimbo retains its indebtedness to the sword with heavy doses of ruthless action. There is certainly action in Sanjuro, but it rarely gets truly ruthless- another symbol of maturity in Sanjuro's character. If Kurosawa wanted, he could have included action and made the film more commercial. Instead, he did what was the right thing to do. He had his protagonist claim in the end- I am just like him (the dead antagonist), he was like a sword that should have a sheath Yojimbo and Sanjuro are both essentially comedies, but they evoke different senses of humor. The black comedy of Yojimbo is nowhere in evidence here. Sanjuro is more or less slapstick humor. Unlike most Kurosawa films, this film is mostly indoor. Nature comes into play only in the final scene of the film, which the audience knows, is justified once they watch the film! "},{"Title":"If you liked Seven Samurai very much, you'll also like Sanjuro!","Date":"1 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you liked Seven Samurai very much, you'll also like Sanjuro!I watched 6 of the 21 Akira Kurasawa films shown for FREE in the last 2 weeks of September 2010 in 2 theaters. I rated Seven Samurai=10, Sanjuro=10, Rashomon=8, Yojimbo=8, Ikiru=8 and Throne of Blood=8.Sanjuro is the sequel of Yojimbo. It is rare that a sequel is better, and for me, Sanjuro is better than Yojimbo! If I had known Sanjuro is very good, I should have watched it twice instead of just on the last screening.If there will be another screening in the future, I would love to watch Sanjuro & Seven Samurai again and invite my friends who haven't seen those (and even those who have). Its that good even though its black & white and you have to read the English words at the screen's bottom center.Bonus on Seven Samurai It took me a long time deciding to trim my choices to only 5 Top Feel Good Movies among over 100 movies I have seen, because there are many movies that made me feel good. Seven Samurai is one of those Five. I watched Seven Samurai twice. The first time I watched it, I told the man beside me that its my first time to watch it. I asked him if he had seen it. He said, Yes, ten times! I asked, where? He replied, in Japan! "},{"Title":"Funny Adventure","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In Japan circa Eighteenth Century, nine young men decide to present an accusation of corruption in their clan to the local superintendent. However, the group is betrayed, but the ronin Sanjûrô Tsubaki (Toshirô Mifune) saves them from the superintendent's men. The uncle of the leader of the rebel clansmen, the Chamberlain Mutsuta (Yûnosuke Itô), is kidnapped, and his wife and daughter are detained and made prisoner of the superintendent, and he tries to force Mutsuta to write a fake confession letter declaring being corrupt. Sanjûrô helps the group to rescue the Chamberlain and his family.Sanjûrô is a funny adventure of master Akira Kurosawa. The story has great action scenes and jokes, excellent cinematography and performances, I like it but it is not among my favorite movies of Kurosawa. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Sanjuro "},{"Title":"Tsubaki Sanjûrô","Date":"6 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a funny little film from Kurosawa. It's designated as a sequel to the excellent Yojimbo, yet if there was ever a film that did not or even should not receive a sequel, it would be Yojimbo. Even though Mifune had the final victory, it was a bitter-sweet farewell to the age of the samurai...the gun replacing the blade. Here his character is once again whole, which goes against everything that Yojimbo's ending had stood for. It would not quite work as a prequel either...we sense that by the film's end the sword may never leave its scabbard again. It works best if you distance yourself from that storyline entirely and merely see this as another wandering samurai's tale. He is still the aged, weathered relic, but not of the past. He has the same trademark twitch in his shoulder and the arm resting in the sling that whips out with deadly force at a moment's notice. The action, like much of Kurosawa's samurai films, is theatrical and overly-dramatic, so much so in Sanjuro that it almost seems like he is parodying his own style. The score pipes up appropriately to highlight these little comic flourishes; the dozen young samurai emerging from the floorboards like frightened mice, them later cheering and celebrating before quieting down appropriately, the cornered officials scurrying around and collapsing into a surrender (very reminiscent of the police chief from Yojimbo), or the humorous way in which Sanjuro tricks them into frantically hacking off white camellias and scattering them into the stream. Actually it doesn't so much as build to a dramatic climax as it cuts straight into it. It is a heart-stopping final duel. One swift blows sees the villainous Hanbei felled, without any of the dancing theatrics of the previous kills. His chest erupts with a fountain of blood like a geyser, and the pose is held for an eternity. Almost as if Sanjuro was willing for the moment to last that long, for that rush and thrill of killing a man to fill him up all over again...but the film has taught him otherwise. The fun and games are over. At the beginning he would kill dozens for just a small meal. In the end he almost would rather starve. "},{"Title":"Lighter Sequel to Yojimbo","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A crafty samurai helps a young man and his fellow clansmen save his uncle, who has been framed and imprisoned by a corrupt superintendent.Toshiro Mifune's sword fighting in the film was used in an extensive illustrated example of samurai virtuosity with his sword in This is Kendo, a kendo manual published in English. As it should be! This is seen as a more light-hearted sequel to Yojimbo, and indeed it is one of the few films I am aware of where samurai dance around in joyful glee. The violence is relatively low-key, with one crucial moment of gore, and the tone at times is even a bit humorous. Although not as praised as Yojimbo, perhaps it should be. "},{"Title":"A Swashbuckling Toshiro Mifune Makes Sanjuro Absolutely Enthralling!","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In Akira Kurosawa's highly underrated sequel to the much revered Yojimbo, Toshiro Mifune reprises his role as the titular master-less samurai, this time having the arduous task of cleaning up the mess created by the younger generation of a ruling clan, whose misplaced trust leaves them vulnerable to the clan's true enemy. Set in 19th century Japan, a gruff, disheveled, footloose samurai turns up in a deserted shrine where a cabal of nine young progressives is plotting to overthrow a corrupt regime. Boldly and brashly he appears among them while they have been fumbling for a plan and haughtily takes over the ticklish task of directing them. Consistently decrying the fledgling samurai as idiots, expert strategist Sanjuro seemingly can't help himself from getting involved with the fallout of their political meddling, as the hapless bunch is desperately in need of saving. Starting with his chivalrous rescue of the chamberlain's wife and daughter from the corrupt warlord, Sanjuro leads the army of warriors on a wild goose chase so the nine inept samurais can free the chamberlain. All the action soon leads us to a dark, rug-yanking conclusion, as our eponymous samurai waves goodbye to those he helped and walks off into the sunset heroic and alone. The fact that Sanjuro is played by none other than the grunting, swashbuckling Toshiro Mifune makes the movie thoroughly enjoyable from beginning to end. The movie largely gyrates around the marvelously eccentric mannerisms of Mifune's performance, who swaggers through the entire film with a bemused expression - grimacing, scratching, yawning, and stretching in an ironic counterpoint to his character's phenomenal skill as a swordsman. The film's humor arises from Sanjuro's weary irritation and the contrast between his slovenly behavior and the phony ceremonial propriety of others. But while Mifune's satiric portrayal is a delight, Akira Kurosawa sets it in a more recognizably Japanese milieu, with a complicated plot involving political and historical intrigue. Kurosawa applies the full force of his cinematic genius, with brilliant widescreen composition that tells the story in visual terms as clear as the verbal ones. He guides the narrative mostly for laughs, but when the action kicks in the sword fighting is brutal and memorable.Sanjuro may not be Akira Kurosawa's most celebrated work, but you will find his witty paw prints all over the snappy dialogue, unique characters and intriguing plot &#x96; an effort that I personally rank higher than Yojimbo! "}{"Title":"A superior return of an archetype","Date":"3 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sanujuro ( meaning 30) is the name of a ronin ( wandering, masterless samurai) during the modernization period of japan (mid to late 1800's).A sudden political change has occurred with the rise of the middle class and a more modern government not hinged upon an actual , all powerful godly emperor and aristocracy. But during this time much turmoil and corruption ran rampant through the country as outside influences with vested interests propelled the land into  do or die mode; change or BE changed. Thus the political climate is one of unseemly individuals whom stop at nothing to cement themselves into positions of power and all in the way be damned to JIGOKU ( hell). But in the heat and lust for power a kindly, old fashioned politician is abducted by more devious sorts commonly associated with their station ( not too different form nowadays). So the nephew and loyal young vassals strive to formulate a plan of attack and brave all danger and cast discretion to the wind to save the honorable old man, even at the expense of their lives, for such is Bushido (the way of the samurai). However before embarking upon their errand , a surprise from a familiar face ( with the same name , look, style,,etc) named Sanjuro overhears them and shows them a more strategic way to fulfill their mission.Personally I believe this to be an indirect sequel, but still a sequel to the previous years smash genre hit, Yojimbo. Aside from the painfully obvious facts that the character with the same first name, style, look, vernacular and way of conjuring a family name from what ever he spies around him suggests this to be a sequel , there's also the constant lodging within temples that could point toward the penniless ronins true return to film, as well as the clever usage of the number 30 ( sanjuro) that shares his name throughout both films. Kurosawa did nothing without thought, and this film was very much more thoughtful than the first ( yojimbo).To put it simply the first film was almost all comedy and farce, whereas the second film this review is primarily concerned with is much more a tale of the times it takes place in; a political intrigue period piece, filled with action, better set design, props, extras galore, moxy if you will. The directors penchant for tongue and cheek is no more than the veritable spice of life as I call it, that all humans whom have lived experience in this life. But even with a tad comedic realism, this film has much more character, captivates and requires more attention and intellect to follow and is just an all around superior film. I highly recommend this to anyone seeking older films that do not reek of unnecessary melodic overtones or dance routines. The best black and white films didn't need such things. Now go enjoy a fine film! "},{"Title":"A superior return of an archetype","Date":"3 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sanujuro ( meaning 30) is the name of a ronin ( wandering, masterless samurai) during the modernization period of japan (mid to late 1800's).A sudden political change has occurred with the rise of the middle class and a more modern government not hinged upon an actual , all powerful godly emperor and aristocracy. But during this time much turmoil and corruption ran rampant through the country as outside influences with vested interests propelled the land into  do or die mode; change or BE changed. Thus the political climate is one of unseemly individuals whom stop at nothing to cement themselves into positions of power and all in the way be damned to JIGOKU ( hell). But in the heat and lust for power a kindly, old fashioned politician is abducted by more devious sorts commonly associated with their station ( not too different form nowadays). So the nephew and loyal young vassals strive to formulate a plan of attack and brave all danger and cast discretion to the wind to save the honorable old man, even at the expense of their lives, for such is Bushido (the way of the samurai). However before embarking upon their errand , a surprise from a familiar face ( with the same name , look, style,,etc) named Sanjuro overhears them and shows them a more strategic way to fulfill their mission.Personally I believe this to be an indirect sequel, but still a sequel to the previous years smash genre hit, Yojimbo. Aside from the painfully obvious facts that the character with the same first name, style, look, vernacular and way of conjuring a family name from what ever he spies around him suggests this to be a sequel , there's also the constant lodging within temples that could point toward the penniless ronins true return to film, as well as the clever usage of the number 30 ( sanjuro) that shares his name throughout both films. Kurosawa did nothing without thought, and this film was very much more thoughtful than the first ( yojimbo).To put it simply the first film was almost all comedy and farce, whereas the second film this review is primarily concerned with is much more a tale of the times it takes place in; a political intrigue period piece, filled with action, better set design, props, extras galore, moxy if you will. The directors penchant for tongue and cheek is no more than the veritable spice of life as I call it, that all humans whom have lived experience in this life. But even with a tad comedic realism, this film has much more character, captivates and requires more attention and intellect to follow and is just an all around superior film. I highly recommend this to anyone seeking older films that do not reek of unnecessary melodic overtones or dance routines. The best black and white films didn't need such things. Now go enjoy a fine film! "},{"Title":"A superior return of an archetype","Date":"3 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sanujuro ( meaning 30) is the name of a ronin ( wandering, masterless samurai) during the modernization period of japan (mid to late 1800's).A sudden political change has occurred with the rise of the middle class and a more modern government not hinged upon an actual , all powerful godly emperor and aristocracy. But during this time much turmoil and corruption ran rampant through the country as outside influences with vested interests propelled the land into  do or die mode; change or BE changed. Thus the political climate is one of unseemly individuals whom stop at nothing to cement themselves into positions of power and all in the way be damned to JIGOKU ( hell). But in the heat and lust for power a kindly, old fashioned politician is abducted by more devious sorts commonly associated with their station ( not too different form nowadays). So the nephew and loyal young vassals strive to formulate a plan of attack and brave all danger and cast discretion to the wind to save the honorable old man, even at the expense of their lives, for such is Bushido (the way of the samurai). However before embarking upon their errand , a surprise from a familiar face ( with the same name , look, style,,etc) named Sanjuro overhears them and shows them a more strategic way to fulfill their mission.Personally I believe this to be an indirect sequel, but still a sequel to the previous years smash genre hit, Yojimbo. Aside from the painfully obvious facts that the character with the same first name, style, look, vernacular and way of conjuring a family name from what ever he spies around him suggests this to be a sequel , there's also the constant lodging within temples that could point toward the penniless ronins true return to film, as well as the clever usage of the number 30 ( sanjuro) that shares his name throughout both films. Kurosawa did nothing without thought, and this film was very much more thoughtful than the first ( yojimbo).To put it simply the first film was almost all comedy and farce, whereas the second film this review is primarily concerned with is much more a tale of the times it takes place in; a political intrigue period piece, filled with action, better set design, props, extras galore, moxy if you will. The directors penchant for tongue and cheek is no more than the veritable spice of life as I call it, that all humans whom have lived experience in this life. But even with a tad comedic realism, this film has much more character, captivates and requires more attention and intellect to follow and is just an all around superior film. I highly recommend this to anyone seeking older films that do not reek of unnecessary melodic overtones or dance routines. The best black and white films didn't need such things. Now go enjoy a fine film! "},{"Title":"Sanjuro Returns!","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Originally its own thing, but due to the success of Kurosawa's Yojimbo (1961) the script was reworked to feature the return of Kuwabatake Sanjuro (Toshiro Mifune). With that in mind, Sanjuro is a pleasant follow up to his adventures and contains enough substance to also stand as its own thing.Nine young Samurai believe that their lord has fallen under corruption, after one of his superintendents claim to have caught him tearing up a petition against organised crime. Out of the dark corner of the room appears a resting Ronin (Toshiro Mifune), who overheard the story and suggests something otherwise. Though insulted, it appears the wandering Ronin was correct as he decides to aid them in finding their missing lord, while they still have doubts about their new companion who gives them his name Tsubaki Sanjūrō (Camellia thirty-year-old man).Given its origins, it holds up surprisingly well. Toshiro Mifune is up against Tatsuya Nakadi (Again), and Nakadai disappears into his stern henchmen effortlessly whilst Mifune returns with all the quirks of this gruff character. The absence of harsh weather from other Kurosawa pictures in noticeable, yet hiding around the compound and the many streams of water present is all captured beautifully.Final Verdict The style had already been done (The main title music is the exact same theme of Yojimbo with different instruments), but Sanjuro easily entertains throughout its 1 hour 30 minutes. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Kurosawa, my favourite thus far","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Having just watched SANJURO for the first time, I can report that it's my favourite Akira Kurosawa-directed movie yet, and that comes from somebody who's watched SEVEN SAMURAI, RASHOMON, and THRONE OF BLOOD. The reason I loved SANJURO so much is that it's pure entertainment funny, fast-paced, with an intricate little storyline and some fantastic performances.Inevitably at this stage in his career, Toshiro Mifune headlines the cast, playing what I consider to be his greatest character he's a rude, stubborn and unruly samurai, scruffy in appearance but exceptionally smart and worldly-wise. He feels like Sherlock Holmes in places, deducing the plot while the rest of the cast (and viewers) struggle to catch up, and watching his cat-and-mouse games with the villains makes for excellent entertainment.Needless to say that the production values for this movie are exemplary, as are the performances. Kurosawa favourite Takashi Shimura has a minor role as a villain, but it's Tatsuya Nakadai who really shines as Mifune's chief adversary, Muroto. It also helps that SANJURO is very funny, with the natural humour flowing more freely than in THE HIDDEN FORTRESS for example. In SANJURO, Kurosawa invented the classic Japanese blood spray later adopted by dozens of Samurai movie-makers; the action, when it happens, is brief, but it's superbly shot and adds to a generally brilliant movie all round. "},{"Title":"The only sequel Kurosawa ever made","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I guess I wasn't in the right mood while watching this, so I should probably rewacth it someday. It just made me really tired. Despite some creative ideas, like the main character inventing his name by connecting it with any nearby flower, this film was pretty lackluster compared to Yojimbo. There were many forgettable scenes. One interesting thing about this movie is that Sanjuro seems more peaceful/wiser and less violent than in Yojimbo, and the camera follows this by being way calmer than in Yojimbo. Despite this, the final duel is as bloody as it can get.Interestingly enough, Kurosawa wanted to color-code the camellia flowers in a B&W film, but didn't have the technology. However, he still did the exact effect in his next film, High and Low. Sanjuro was planned to be a film called The Peaceful Days with a completely different main character, but the studio demanded a sequel. It shows its connection to Yojimbo by having the same music and ending with the same line.6,5/10 "},{"Title":"A great sequel to Yojimbo","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This sequel to 'Yojimbo' sees the ronin samurai helping a group of men. One of them took their concerns about local corruption to his uncle, the chamberlain, but was rebuffed; he then went to the superintendent to tell him he believed his uncle was part of the problem. The Superintendent agrees and tells those concerned to get together for a meeting. It is as the group are being told this that the mysterious samurai walks in on them and explains why their conclusions are wrong and that it is the superintendent who is corrupt and that by coming together they have made it easy for him to kill them all. As the superintendent's men approach to attack he manages to save them. He now has to help them rescue the chamberlain in order to prove who is really guilty. It won't be easy though as those he is trying to help don't fully trust him and many of their actions end up making matters worse for them all.It was good to see Toshirô Mifune return as the lone samurai; he is great in the roll as he brings an enjoyable mix of humour and roughness to the part. The story itself is fairly simple; the opening scenes set things up and after that there are no real twists&#x85; that doesn't matter though as the story is well told and enjoyable to watch; this is largely down to Akira Kurosawa's expert direction. Who the most part the fight scenes are fairly bloodless which makes the final scene somewhat shocking as here there is a huge burst of blood! There some amusing moments too; I liked how the samurai was either resting or asking for food much of the time while all around him were keen to get on and do something. Overall this film is well worth watching and if you are a fan of Kurosawa's other films it is must see. "},{"Title":"SilverRating","Date":"11 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sanjuro (椿三十郎)- Japan 1961This is number 9 on the list.Sanjuro. The Samurai. Sanjûrô Tsubaki. 三十郎椿. I don't know if those are the correct Japanese characters but, I don't speak Japanese. Having said that, this movie is so great. I love, absolutely 100% adore the director-actor partnership of Kurosawa and Mifune. So many places they have proved time and time again that they only make movie magic. This film is fantastic. There is nothing I could see that is wrong or incorrect. The movie is just, Woah. The cinematography is pure, PURE Kurosawa, no one could do this story, no one could capture the words of the actors or even the slightest 'scratch-of-the-neck' of Sanjuro like Kurosawa does. I would usually say I applaud but for this certain movie, I bow to you Akira Kurosawa. The story lacks nothing. I have always wondered why people say so much of Akira Kurosawa's influence can be seen in Spaghetti Westerns and other westerns. This movie showed me. Long and intricate shots of only the faces of those worrying, or the final standoff fight scene. slow paced action but fast paced wit made this movie awesome.Mifune won a place in my heart with this movie. Sanjuro has unbreakable wit and clever thoughts though he may not seem to be the pure 'samurai' that is implied. I am ending this review saying that usually people may think that the use of subtitles us harsh and they don't like it. Or that subtitles take away from the jokes that the characters make. But the subtitles of Kurosawa's movies add to the movie for me. Not knowing Japanese, having to read the subtitles as they pass makes me pay even closer attention to the film. While with a movie in English, I could be folding laundry and just listening to the story as it happens. With any Kurosawa film, I claim that would be impossible.SilverRating (and the highest yet) 8/10. "},{"Title":"Funny sequel to Yojimbo","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is the sequel to 'Yojimbo'. Toshirô Mifune returns as the wandering ronin Sanjûrô Tsubaki. He encounters nine naive samurai who wants to confront corruption. One of the samurai had confronted his uncle the lord with the accusations. The response was dissatisfying so he tells the superintendent. The superintendent tells the nephew to gather his men. The ronin immediately smells a trap, and the corrupt superintendent launches a raid on the group. Only the ronin's smarts saves the group. Now the uncle and his family are taken prisoner and the ronin endeavors to rescue them with the help of the nine naive samurai. Only the clueless nine are sometimes more problematic with their distrust of the often napping ronin.This is a funnier movie than Yojimbo. Sanjuro does battle more with his brains than with his sword. The best swords are kept in their sheaths. However there is that great scene of drawing of the swords at the end. The guy imprisoned in the closet has a good funny scene. It's a very good sequel to Yojimbo with a funnier tone. "},{"Title":"The Gate of Hell","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You want to draw your swords? Forget it. A stupid friend's sword is deadlier than an enemy's.I couldn't encourage you more to see this film with its sibling, Yojimbo (1961). Not only are both as much fun as film can offer, they transcend the idea of a sequel or companion piece, or what is nowadays known as a spin-off. Both of them seem to share the same universe, and are anchored in Mifune's Nameless character; both films cast same actors; both exhibit the similarly ironic stance towards what we see and what happens. Indeed, Sanjuro (1962) is like a remake of sorts, or rather Yojimbo Take 2, and this is in no way a slight. By no means! Both films are perfect as they are, and complement, annotate and challenge each other. They are the same film, yet still different. Not a second chance, because Yojimbo doesn't need that, but instead a kind of meta-level alternate narrative, worthy of Joyce and Borges. This is the quiet little brother, Yojimbo the impervious radical rascal.Perhaps this is the gate of hell where Unosuke promised to wait for Sanjuro in the end of the last film. "}{"Title":"Enhanced version of Yojimbo","Date":"18 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sanjuro, which is also in a way a sequel to Yojimbo, is quite different from his usual films because not only it packs exciting comedy but it has more intelligence than what you would expect from a classic B&W film. This is because Sanjuro is basically a cat-and-mouse mindgame.Unlike Yojimbo where only the main character controls the chessboard and the rest just followed like robots to the sequence of events, Sanjuro allows the main players (friend or foe) space to control the game and outwit each other. The funny moments were golden, especially the Lady, the confused guard who was locked and the scene with the flowers. Best of all, the greatest gem is the battle sequence between 2 master samurai right at the end. I actually came to like this more than Yojimbo because it seems to be an enhanced version in certain respects. "},{"Title":"Stylish And Exciting Samurai Adventure Classic With Great Cast And Story","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A wandering samurai by chance overhears a group of men discussing corruption within their clan. It seems the Chamberlain is a crook and they have warned the Superintendent. But when they are suddenly attacked by the Superintendent's men and the nameless ronin comes to their defence, it appears they have things the wrong way around and must now go into hiding, with only their mysterious benefactor to help them ...If you have heard of Kurosawa but avoided his movies because of their heavy reputation I urge you to see this terrific action adventure film, as it has all of his visual style but is easily one of his most laid-back and accessible films. Everything about it is great - the story is a wonderfully woven criss-cross of subterfuge and plots within plots, it's shot through with a wry sense of humour (the scenes with the captured guard are particularly funny), all the performances are terrific, the visuals are dynamic and it has an absolutely unmissable shock ending. What I like most of all about it though is the tone - it's a macho man's action picture with a super-tough-guy but it delights in subverting the conventions of the genre at every possible moment. Our hero is a scruffy opportunist, the fellowship of nine samurai are fairly dumb and cowardly (there's a great midway scene where they argue about whether they can trust Mifune), the Lady Mutsuta character (beautifully played by Irie) keeps admonishing the men with too-perceptive remarks, the bravado plan revolves around picking flowers, and our heroes win through more by luck than skill. Muroto, the chief villain (Nakadai), acts with more honour and principle than anyone, despite being on the wrong side, and so his violent death is all the more ignoble and a tremendous juxtaposition with the events which have come before it. Whilst Mifune's character is nameless, he is clearly repeating his role from Yojimbo - he even has the same theme music - and the movie is a sequel of sorts, scripted by Kurosawa and his regular writers Ryuzo Kikushima and Hideo Oguni, but with a lighter tone and a more conventional narrative than its influential predecessor. Mifune even went on to reprise the role a couple of times, once in one of the Zatoichi series and again in an obscure 1970 film entitled Machibuse. A solid, well-written, thinking man's action film, made by a master of the craft. "},{"Title":"My first ever Kurosawa film.","Date":"19 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" At around the start of 2011,I did a small list of the top 3 directors whose films I wanted to take a good look at during the year.And whilst I got round to seeing some of the fantastic work from two of the directors (Alfred Hitchcock and Dario Argento),the third member of the group,Akira Kurosawa sadly got left behind at the directors bar,due to me spending most of the year on a Giallo treasure hunt.As 2011 started to fade from view,I decided that my New Years Revalution would be to finally pick up Akiria from the wilderness,and at last begin to look at the directors work.To my complete surprise,one of the four DVDs that I kindly received as X-Mas gifts was the Kurosawa film Sanjuro,and with the movie being one of Akira's shortest films,I felt that this would probably be the best intro for me to take my first glimpse at Kurosawa's dreams...The plotShortly after drinking a little too much sake,a young group of samurai's begin to discuss a growing fear that they have all been having ,over the uncle of the gangs leader (Iori Izaka) possibly betraying them all and going over to a gang filled with an older generation of Samurai,which this young group has recently splintered from,due to each of them feeling that the older group of samurai's were starting to become deeply corrupt.Talking to the rest of them,leader Izaka announces that since having spoken to the by-partisan superintend Kikui ,he has reached the conclusion that since his uncle has shown no signs of disapproval against the other group,he strongly feels that his uncle has turned against them,and that he may be acting as a spy for the other gang. As all of the group prepare to meet the superintend for advice over what they should do about the betraying uncle,a world-wary samurai suddenly appears from out of the shadows.Disgusted by his cheap looking clothes and the aggressive manner that the mysterious samurai shows towards them.the group initially treat the stranger as untrustworthy,until he begins telling them that they should maybe not treat Kikui as someone who has the gang (and their uncles) best interest at heart&#x85;View on the filmThe first thing about this wonderful film,which I feel deserves a huge amount of praise is the performance of Toshiro Mifune as Sanjuro Tasubaki.Almost from the first moment that Mifune enters the film,director Akira Kurosawa makes him the main image that keeps the audience completely transfixed,as Toshiro brilliantly shows Sanjuro Tasubaki to be a rugged man who has lived through many battles,yet still has the sly fox-like wit and intelligence's that helps him to leave gangs of more respected samurai's completely dumbfounded.Whilst Mifune does take centre stage in the film,the performances from the rest of the cast are defiantly ones that should not be over looked,with the under rated Yuzo Kayama giving a very good performance as the young samurai's leader Lori Izaka,who mixes the character's pompous,pedestal- dreaming leadership side,with a terrific dry (unknowing) comedy side, that makes the films unexpected comedic moments a true joy to watch.With having been given the impression from articles that I have read in the past about Kurosawa films being very stern and serious, I was shocked to find that for the screenplay to this film (co-written,with Ryuzo Kikushima and Hideo Oguni) which is based on the novel Peaceful Days by Yamamoto Shugoro,Akira allows himself to show a very endearing fun side,by having the screenplay's message of not judging people on their age and appearance being delivered,not with a sledgehammer,but with a thoughtful,measured touch,that really makes the films story resonate with the viewer long after the end credits.Whilst the film's screenplay is not the most complex ever written,Kurosawa's brilliant,cleverly constructed directing makes the film an extremely entrancing watch.In the first half of the film,Akira uses the frame to show a separation that the young samurai group have with this outsider over his appearance,by using the widescreen format in the best way possible with a separation shown between Sanjuro and the group,with Sanjuro being kept at the front of the frame,and the young gang being kept in the foreground as one solid group.Along with showing the relationship between the different generations,Kurosawa also executes the films wonderful visual comedy moments with a unexpected comedy pro touch.Looking at one of the most eye-catching moments in the film,Kurosawa smartly uses the image of a centipede to show a comedy side of everyone sticking together and not having what a clue to do,whilst also using it for the films more serious side,by using the image to show the young samurai's gradually leaving their prejudices against Sanjuro behind,as he becomes the front of the centipede and the only thing which is keeping this bickering centipede together. "},{"Title":"Mediocre Sequel To Yojimbo","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Tosohiro Mifune again plays the role of the ronin from Kurasawa's previous movie Yojimbo, and both share the theme of a wandering lone warrior in a parody of Clint Eastwood man with no name Western movies. Yojimbo was exciting and amusing; Sanjuro, alas, is overlong, repetitive and inferior.The story is about a group of samurai meeting in a shrine, one of whom is the nephew of the region's Chamberlain, who had laughed off the nephew's exposure of corruption in the local government. The nephew had then told the local Superintendent, who expressed belief. The ronin, who happened to be sleeping nearby, had overheard the conversation and warns that the Superintendent is the true criminal...and is proved right when the Superintendent send some assassins to kill the nephew and his friends. The ronin manages to trick the assassins into leaving, and the nephew and his friends learn that the Chamberlain had been kidnapped and held hostage.Sounds exciting, right? But then the movie starts to repeat itself, with people continually looking over walls or opening and closing doors, with the ronin running back and forth and fighting and being upset at having to kill people, with the nephew and his friends being mistrustful of the ronin and causing further grief because of it, with troops marching back and forth. The tension is lost and the latter half of the movie slows to a crawl, spoiling the sharp beginning. "},{"Title":"The Human Condition in the Wild East","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The conception of the eternal weakness of the human nature characterized all the adventure films by Akira Kurosawa The Hidden Fortress (1958), Yojimbo (1961) and Sanjuro (1962). But they were also filled with humor and light irony. In these films, there was never good and evil; just two equally evil groups, and the noble samurais talked about nothing but money. From Sanjuro, Japanese people developed a new genre in Japan, called zankoku eiga which means cruel film. Unfortunately, not all understood the combination of entertainment and deep thematics like Kurosawa. Because, even though Sanjuro is, at its heart, an action film, it also draws a wider -- timeless -- picture of the human condition. Those of you, who have seen Yojimbo, remember its mighty samurai who was able to kill over twenty bandits by himself. In Sanjuro he's back and the story line bears a striking resemblance to Yojimbo two families are against each other, fighting bloody fights day after day and to this situation a hit man of some kind arrives and offers his services to the other family. Violence seemed to truly fascinate the humanist Kurosawa but against violence he places subtlety and consideration.All the common features of Kurosawa's style (which, in my opinion, is a combination of Mizoguchi's lyricism and John Ford's warm human depiction) are there in Sanjuro the beauty of construction, the perfect rhythm of sequences, lyric flashes of nature, primitivism and fierce simplicity of the characters. The simple but powerful protagonist, named Sanjuro (= Camille), is once again played by Toshiro Mifune. He is an existentialist individual who leads his life without illusions in a world where life and death depend on how well you swing your sword, and power on how well you scheme. Eventually, Sanjuro is able to see the black-and-white madness of his life The old lady was right. I am like a drawn sword. Sharp, naked without a sheath. But good swords are kept in their sheaths. So, because of his violent behavior, Sanjuro does have agony of conscience. This brings a little tragedy to his character, although, not enough to make the film any deeper. Besides, first of all, Sanjuro is an entertainment film and an exquisite one, if you ask me. At his heart, Kurosawa was a brilliant story teller but to this story he also adds dramatic intensity, sensitivity and visual wealth which are, of course, also common elements of great art.Kurosawa used to place his stories far away to history where his anti-feudalism couldn't be directly linked to the modern day -- so the studio managers wouldn't get upset. Like all of Kurosawa's samurai-films so does Sanjuro happen in the Wild East; in the violent history of Japan The Edo period (1603-1868) which ended to the removal of the samurai class (before 1868 it was a class of its own, even though samurais were servants). Kurosawa's presentation of this era is both, brutal and humorist, and his historical accuracy is concrete but, to my mind, he was much more interested in associating the Edo period with present day.Compared to its production year, the story of Sanjuro happens exactly 100 years earlier in the 1860's, the end of the Edo period, when Japan was being westernized. Surely, this connotation is allegorical because in the 1960's Japan was, in turn, under Americanization and cultural transition new value-relativism (what the new world should be like) and alienation from the Japanese tradition. After Sanjuro, Kurosawa abandoned this kind of adventure films set in this age until the 1980's when he returned to it with Kagemusha (1980) and Ran (1985).The simple story and closed milieu of Sanjuro are, paradoxically, widely associative. The narrative of this allegorical samurai-film is surprisingly touching and the film is overall extremely spellbinding and captivating. Kurosawa paints his picture of the human condition in the modern society with care and consciousness people are cruel, selfish and treacherous. He presented a world where a man is a wolf to his fellow man which gave the direct inspiration for Sergio Leone's dollar trilogy. However, all the monstrosities of man are hidden beneath the surface, under lightness, humor and irony. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable escapist flick that is unsurprisingly well-crafted by Kurosawa.","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The sequel to Yojimbo, Sanjuro continues the journey of a lost but experienced samurai who's in search for nothing more than a decent place and food to stay and dine in. He encounters corruption in a small sleepy town, and decides to get involved. Similar to Yojimbo in plot structure, but it lacks the intensity of the prequel. Akira Kurosawa's directional style is evident, but this is a light-hearted film compared to his serious works like Seven Samurai, and Rashomon.Toshiro Mifune is the other reason to watch Sanjuro (besides this being a Kurosawa work); he snarls to perfection here. The film has its humorous moments, often the result of sarcastic remarks made by Mifune's character. The artistic direction is excellent, although most of the cast are fairly one-dimensional, but that means Mifune's able to work his magic on the viewers full-time. The result is an enjoyable escapist flick that is unsurprisingly well-crafted by Kurosawa.SCORE 8/10 (www.filmnomenon.blogspot.com) All rights reserved! "},{"Title":"should be seen more than once","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The satiric element in Yojimbo was fairly narrowly focused on the Japanese swordfight film or 'chambara.' This actually allowed the film to take big swipes at Japanese society in general, because the chambara, as Japan's equivalent of the B-Western, had developed its broad appeal by playing to the common fears and fantasies of the general population.Sanjuro has a broader focus - the Japanese 'historical romance.' Consequently, although the focus is more diffuse, the plot and theme affect a strong linearity. At the beginning of Yojimbo, you don't know where you're going, and at the end you're wondering 'how'd I get here?' But at the start of Sanjuro, there's a real sense that we know where much of what follows is leading us, even though there are surprising twists in the road along the way, and by the time Mifune makes his final remarks on not becoming a killer, we've been expecting something like that for a while, which is why Kurosawa and Mifune can keep the remarks so brief and to the point.The two films share the same leading character, but they are in many ways different and need to be enjoyed differently. Yojimbo retains its indebtedness to the chambara with heavy doses of ruthless action. There is certainly action in Sanjuro, but it only gets truly ruthless once - and I don't count the final swordfight, which, with it's achingly stretched moment of waiting and its sudden denouement, is something else all together.Yojimbo and Sanjuro are both basically comedies, but they evoke different senses of humor. The black comedy of Yojimbo is nowhere in evidence here, and neither is Yojimbo's subtle irreverent trashing of Japanese tradition. Indeed, although Sanjuro is unimpressed with the code of the samurai, it remains profoundly respectful of equally strong Japanese traditions of justice and fair-mindedness. Consequently the humor is more that or a smile than of the 'laughter at death's door' we saw flashes of in Yojimbo.Kurosawa also goes for a different visual style than in Yojimbo. Yojimbo was occasionally raw, visually, and its set was basically a ghost-town where the ghosts hadn't yet figured out they were dead. The landscape of Sanjuro is filled with trees and even flowers; most of the interiors, while sparsely furnished, reflect a quiet dignity. This is definitely a world apart from that of Yojimbo.Because of these differences, it is wise not to compare the two films overmuch when judging them. Yojimbo you will like (or not) right away; Sanjuro can grow on one with repeated viewings. I highly recommend giving it that chance. "},{"Title":"The best swords are kept in their sheaths.","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After the much darker and bloodier film, Yojimbo, Akira Kurosawa went back to the same material yet approached it in an entirely different manner. The only real similarity between the two films is the marvelous character of Sanjuro, the veteran samurai who is both wise and sarcastic. Played with great style by Toshiro Mifune, Sanjuro aims to help a group of young samurai rescue their kidnapped uncle from corrupt leaders in the village. There are some rather funny moments along the way, such as the uncle's wife speaking about Sanjuro, as well as the centipede scene. Of course, none of this would be possible without Kurosawa perfectly balancing the action and story to be equal and work together. We also get some very nice camera work and excellent photography as well. If you are at all a fan of Kurosawa's other work, this is one not to miss. It is also great if you like samurai movies. Trust me, this one is different. "},{"Title":"9.... or is it 10?","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The more I see of Kurosawa's movies the more astounded I am - everything he made in this period is pure gold. Yojimbo is one of the coolest movies ever made - probably the template for the modern ironic hero movie. Here he develops and expands the character, confounding the audiences expectations by mixing in both comedy and a greater level of cynicism, and ending it in true tragedy - the hero recognising so much of himself in the supposed bad guy.So much of this movie seems to be Kurosawa's sly little joke at the Japanese film industry - its hard not to see Sanjuro as a stand in for the lone film maker, trying to maintain his integrity in a world of well meaning idiots and cynical philistines. Maybe thats reading too much into it, but then again, that is one of the great joys of Kurosawas movies of this period - there are so many multiple interpretations of this movies, all of them fascinating - yet you can also just enjoy them as pure cinematic pleasure. And Sanjuro is pure pleasure - by turns hilarious, touching and jaw droppingly exciting. The fight scene in the middle where he kills a group of guards, then admonishes his captives for forcing him to do it is superb. And the final scene is of course pure brilliance.As for the title of my comment - Sanjuro repeatedly corrects his young acolytes that they are not 'nine' but 'ten' as he is on their side. I keep giving Kurosawa movies 9 here, because 10 is perfection - so hard to achieve. But collectively, his movies of this period are a 10, its impossible to imagine anyone topping what he achieved between Roshomon and this movie.One criticism - I watched this on the BFI version. They have an 'introduction' which stupidly gives away (in detail) the ending of the movie - how moronic can you get??? I wouldn't mind, but the introduction manages to be uninformative and poorly presented - a movie of this quality deserves so much better than this. "},{"Title":"Mifune as Jester","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERSThere is a poetic story at play within the obvious structure of the story Kurosawa and his conspirators tell. I say conspirators because what WE have in the story of SANJURO is a story about POLITICS. The reluctant POLITICIAN(SANJURO) must lead the idiot masses (nine Samurai) out of not only immenent death but possibly into wisdom. There is a scene at the very end when the Greatful nine attempt, almost like little puppies, to follow the big dog, SANJURO and he sais to the effect 'go away or i'll kill you' This however was a very bad translation because what he actually sais is, and with more than a hint of self pity is, 'Go away or I am liable to kill you too' This comment changes the entire movie. For what we have is not only reluctance to lead but in his heart he has killed men for the greater good. And even in doing so he has still KILLED and is quite regretful. On the other hand of the story we have the other POLITICIANS who thurst for power and who kidnap the Chamberlain. The Superintendant, who is looked at as being good, is truly the evil one, but his evility is not as easily detected because of his more attractive looks than the chamberlain. Is this not relevant even in out own time here in this new world? Looks mean everything and if you have them you can achieve everything most of all real power. The only fault I found with this film was in the editing. Being a film maker myself, I thought the scene where TAKEBAYASHI realizes they were duped about the KOMYO temple having two stories really should have preceded the scene where MUROTO confronts SANJURO with an unsheathed sword. I felt at this point MUROTO'S actions did not warrant his suspicions which at this point we didn't know he had any. Which ideally would have been preceded by the one of the nine watching the stream waiting for the signal then the revelation then the confrontation then perhaps Takebayashi and the other men telling Muroto to hurry and go and collect the superintendant who insisted on going himself. Think about this too...A Saturday afternoon it's raining and you turn on the television and SANJURO is on. What do you do? Better yet it is just about to begin. What do you do? Me, I laugh, with a laugh reminiscent of SANJURO'S at the very begining, and kick back and confess yes there is a patron god of the cinema, like the god of war and the god of the sea and the goddess of love and...well his name is KUROSAWA and he once lived! and he lives on and on and on...  "}{"Title":"When the going gets tough ...","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Akira Kurosawa was one of the best film directors ever, comparable to Hitchcock in the simplicity of his subject matter, the effectiveness of his treatment of it, and the populist nature of most of his work. From the moment Sanjuro starts you're sucked into a strange world populated by bizarre characters that is also instantly recognisable and accessible if you let it. It was a knack that they both had being down to earth and mildly arty at the same time.A comical group of nine little-Samurai's plans are changed by an enigmatic meaty Samurai giant (Mifune) who to their collective bewilderment is proved right every time and tries to prevents a revolution against them and their horse-faced Chamberlain uncle by a set of baddies. On the way the man with no real name takes command unasked, helps the 9 dwarfs fight against overwhelming odds, is roughly phlegmatic toward the two rather too-gentlewomen, and displays a frighteningly fast sword arm for one so peaceable. This is an episodic film veering between grim and twee but so worth watching for Mifune's grizzled performance handled perfectly by the Master in a playful mood.It's the climax which is so memorable though (later paid homage to by Sergio Leone)&#x96; the intently watched standoff between good and black-hearted evil that seems to last 3 hours which culminates in such a lavish fizzing bloodletting and whimsical exit. This is a 96 minute movie that if for nothing else has to be seen for 2 seconds of the last minute! Kurosawa Lite, but still a great movie for those who can tell and those who can learn. "},{"Title":"Classic Samurai tale with light-hearted moments","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I hadn't seen this film in MANY years -- and was amazed at how memorable the storyline was. And the story is easy to follow, if you'll just pay attention to the opening 10 minutes.I can only wonder how this movie was embraced by Japanese theatergoers, in Kurosawa's use of humor and irony. If you loved Mifune's roughness in Yojimbo, you will appreciate Sanjuro.Great supporting cast. Includes many faces you'll recall, as well as the incomparable Tatsuya Nakadai and Yuzo Kayama. In fact, Nakadai won Best Actor honors that year in the Kinema Junpo Award.Music was off but you can't have everything! Here's an interesting tidbit -- nearly 25 years later, both screenwriters, Kurosawa and Ryuzo Kikushima co-wrote Runaway Train. "},{"Title":"Not one of Kurasawa's best but still a great film","Date":"20 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I do love Akira Kurasawa's movies, especially Seven Samurai, Ran, Ikiru, Rashomon, Yojimbo, The Hidden Fortress and Throne of Blood. Sanjuro(sequel to Yojimbo) is not quite on the same level, but it is a fine film regardless and perhaps alongside The Hidden Fortress Kurasawa's most accessible film. It is very well made, with beautiful and sometimes epic scenery and superb camera work. Kurasawa directs with his usual flair, not as delicate as Ikiru, haunting as Yojimbo or as ambitious as Ran, but still highly impressive. The score is lively, the story is engaging, crisply-paced and always fun and the script is witty and tongue-in-cheek yet with a subtle edge. The characters are somewhat one-dimensional and not quite as identifiable as the titular character in Ikiru but still likable nonetheless, and Toshiro Mifune's lead performance is a very subtly fun one indeed. Overall, a great film but not my favourite from Kurasawa. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Killing people is a bad habit","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With this picture Akira Kurosawa, one of the most respected and influential film directors the world has ever known, did what is now something of a dirty word in cineaste circles &#x96; a sequel, in this instance a follow-up to his hit Samurai action movie Yojinbo. Was this a case of unfinished business, or sticking with a popular trend? A bit of both, in all likelihood. Yojinbo had been number one at the box office in Japan, and there was pressure from the studio to resurrect its hero. Nevertheless Kurosawa, who was known to have despaired at the new trend of violent no-brainers that Yojinbo inevitably spawned, as well as the gangsterism that was rife in Japanese society at the time, also works in a typically eloquent anti-violence message.However perhaps the main thing that Sanjuro really has going for it is that, rather than just making it Yojinbo 2, Kurosawa decided to add a new gimmick &#x96; comedy. In line with the director's visual style, most of the humour originates from movement, visual arrangements, symmetry and so forth, for example the line of men trailing behind Toshiro Mifune as they spy on the chamberlain's house, a gag very much in the style of Ernst Lubitsch's silent comedies. None of this is really laugh-out-loud funny, with the exception of the quiet victory dance towards the end, but it keeps up a general light-hearted tone which is fun to watch. It seems that there are also a handful of jokes in amongst the dialogue too, although verbal humour is notoriously difficult to translate. At one point there is a rather awkward pun about someone born in the year of the cow trying to horn in, which for all I know might be hilarious in the original Japanese.Kurosawa's direction is precise and beautifully stylised as ever. He has a very distinctive use of the widescreen format, placing groups of eight or ten characters in more or less equal focus at any one time. He keeps order in these potentially chaotic shots by carefully controlling the movement. Actors tend to stay stock still when they are not speaking, but then become very animated when they say a line, allowing our eyes to easily dart from one part of the screen to the next, without the need for any jarring cuts. This is crucial in Sanjuro, which has many scenes of debate and discussion. His handling of action scenes is as balletic and graceful as it was in Yojinbo. However he does not appear to have worked as hard at making each example unique and distinctive as he did in the earlier picture, and the half-dozen sword fights in this one start to become a bit tedious.One of the biggest draws in Sanjuro's predecessor was the presence of its star Toshiro Mifune, who won several awards for his performance as the grudgingly moral ronin. He is just as good this time round, if anything giving the character a slightly more natural, lived-in look. He is constantly busy, bringing out the intelligence of the character in the way he trudges around as he speaks, rarely making eye-contact, as if planning another move while outlining the next one. He also shows some good comic timing, bringing out the ronin's curmudgeonly streak. As in Yojinbo, the other stand-out performance is Tatsuya Nakadai as Mifune's adversary. With his compelling presence and hypnotic stare, the young Nakadai makes a fantastic villain. Unfortunately his part is small here and his character is underdeveloped, another shortcoming of this picture.Sanjuro does not belong among Kurosawa's masterpieces, not by quite a long shot, but it is a gentle, easygoing piece, not too long and a fairly easy watch. By taking the comedy tack, it avoids all the usual sequel traps of being repetitive or trying to outdo its predecessor. Funnily enough Kurosawa's most high-profile fans in Hollywood &#x96; George Lucas, Francis Ford Coppola, Steven Spielberg &#x96; would all be pioneers of the successful sequel in the 70s and 80s. But that, of course, is another story and shall be told another time. "},{"Title":"although I generally prefer Kurosawa's films when they're dark and allegorical, they can be just as enjoyable when they are lighthearted and rhapsodic","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Although it is a diminution from its marvelous action-packed predecessor, Yojimbo, Akira Kurosawa's Sanjuro is nothing short of ecstatic entertainment. Once again we have Toshiro Mifune playing that anonymous, sword-wielding ronin without a name (the inspiration for Clint Eastwood's iconic character The Man with No Name) caught up in a struggle between two sides. However, this time he is jumping sides not between greedy town bosses, but a corrupt superintendent and a group of brave but reckless clansmen trying to rescue hostages from the enemy. And just like before, we have ecstatic excitement, lots of action scenes with surprisingly commendable saber duels, fantastic performances, witty dialogue, and a truly thunderous climax at the end.Sanjuro is just one step below Yojimbo perhaps because Kurosawa did not originally intend to make a sequel to the said film and it is a very difficult challenge to build the second piece of the saga puzzle and make it equal to the first, let alone better. But just because it is not on the level of a masterpiece like Yojimbo does not mean it's not a heck of a lot of fun, because it is.There is not one moment in Sanjuro that I did not enjoy. Toshiro Mifune's flawless acting coupled with Akira Kurosawa's one-of-a-kind direction takes a story that might otherwise seem kind of silly and makes it into an entirely plausible period piece as far as the human mind is concerned. And what's truly enjoyable is the fact that Kurosawa does not simply have one action scene after another. Again, he builds a solid narrative in which surprises and ideas are introduced for the audience. We like the ronin, but we identify most with the petrified, confused clansmen who aren't really sure which side Mifune is on. So when he pulls a tactic, we wonder with obfuscation along with them.In short, Sanjuro is yet another tremendous entertaining opus from the master Akira Kurosawa. While it's not standing on the same tier as Yojimbo or some of Kurosawa's other films, it is a really enjoyable thrill ride. And the final climax, where Toshiro Mifune once again goes eye to eye with Tatsuya Nakadai is really, well, explosive. "},{"Title":"Is It Really Fun?","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" To start with I love Toshiro Mifune. Once again he dominates the screen. He is the prototypical hero who is tired of his celebrity and would rather sleep and scratch than act. However, when called upon, he is as dangerous as anyone can imagine. He gets hooked up with a group of neophyte Samurai and tries to guide them to some success. They are swallowed up in a cause and can't help but continuously shoot themselves in the foot. Mifune's character is continuously saving their bacon and trying to guide them. There is also a mother and daughter who end up stealing some scenes and driving the principle Samurai crazy. He needs to be respectful to these women, but they really bother him. There are great action scenes and lots of violence. There is also an element of slapstick. The protagonist and antagonist square off at the end and this is one of the most interesting conclusions in all of film. The movie may not be one of the best, but there is still plenty for everyone. "},{"Title":"Better than Yojimbo!","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I went into this movie expecting it to be Yojimbo 2. In some ways it is quite a bit like Yojimbo, but as the movie progresses you can easily see that Kurosawa did not take this movie lightly. He took Yojimbo and built on it, and made a movie that is even more entertaining than the first. It's got more action, better cinematography, and the story (at least to me) is much more compelling. The character development isn't done as much as it is in Yojimbo, but that's a good thing--there is much more of a media res feel to it, with Mifune's character coming into the plot with no more knowledge than the viewer. The narrative unfolds beautifully (as is Kurosawa's style), bit by bit, but enough at a time to keep the viewer enthralled. In short, even though this is not one of Kurosawa's more well-known films, it should still be on the list of movies everyone should see. "},{"Title":"Samurai, comedy and Toshiro Mifune..... what more could you want?","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For a new comer to this stlye of samurai film it is interesting to see the similarity between this and westerns of the same time. The title character of Sanjuro, played by Mifune, carries himself like an outlaw John Wayne. He is the Ronin who manages to come across a village suffering under a corrupt command. He manages to assist the local noble samurai in their struggle to see the corruption come to an end. Swords, action, comedy, samurai, and Minfune at his best..... what more could you want? "},{"Title":"Accessible, brisk, action-packed and a lot of fun","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nine young men decide to stand up and challenge corruption within their clan but unfortunately their choice of who to inform is poor and they unknowingly find themselves betrayed. A passing samurai hears their confident story of righteousness and smells a rat straight away &#150; helping them just in time as the army of the corrupt closes in on them. He saves them and decides to join them to make ten men. However the Chamberlain who can help expose them is kidnapped and, while the rebel leader tries to force a fake confession of out him, Sanjûrô plans how to achieve his rescue with so few (and so hapless) resources available to him.So, in catching up on Akira Kurosawa I have gradually gone through many of his films and have hit a few I had never heard of. I would love to claim cinematic elitism but sadly Sanjûrô was one of those that I had never seen before or heard of &#150; and so t sat for a while until I was in the mood. Talking to someone about it recently, it struck me that I had been assumed this was a weaker film, hence me not having heard of it (I know &#150; the arrogance!) and I quickly watched it. Imagine my pleasure to find that Sanjûrô is in the mould of Yojimbo by being accessible, brisk, action-packed and a lot of fun. We get into the story quickly and to the heart of the matter when Sanjûrô takes control of the group with his cunning and his comic way. As such he is the heart of the film and much of the entertainment comes from watching him.As is so often the case, Mifune is perfect in this sort of role and wears his lazy manner well along side cunning and a certain amount of dislike for the reality (death) of his life as much as he seems to revel in the challenge of it. This is not to take away from the supporting cast because, although they have less material, their comic timing and touches are just as important. I loved the two naive ladies caught up in this violence but refusing to move mentally from their normal attitudes to life, while the nine men are funny and benefit from the nice touch of the captured guard in their midst. Kurosawa keeps it moving and does some exciting and sudden action sequences that will not impress those looking for wonderful choreography but they do work because they fit the pace and tone of the film.I was ignorant of Sanjûrô until recently and it was only chance that I rented it. It is a great Kurosawa film and demonstrates the accessibility and entertainment value that some of his more enjoyable films do so well. It is definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Where the way of the warrior is&#133; death or enlightenment?","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are some truly fascinating aspects about this film from Kurosawa.Except for the climactic final scene, for example, all the settings for this samurai drama take place in three settings in houses (all relatively close to each other), with one further scene on the road between two opposing forces.Hence, for the bulk of the film, it's as though being present at a stage production. That's a marked contrast to all other films of Kurosawa's I've seen (Zoku Sugata Sanshiro, Rashomon, Seven Samurai, Throne of blood, The Hidden Fortress, Yojimbo, Dersu Uzala, Kagemusha, Ran, Dreams, and Madadayo), all of which make greater use of open spaces and, in many cases, much larger casts and more intricate plots. In all other respects, though, Sanjuro is classic Kurosawa excellent photography, crisp editing, wonderfully choreographed sword fights, exquisite detail and a great story.So, while I was enjoying the cunning and cleverness of Sanjuro (Toshiro Mifune) as he manipulated a bunch of lesser mortals once again &#150; as in Yojimbo (1961) &#150; I was puzzling why Kurosawa had made such simple story into such a grand film. Because the story can be quickly summarized thus Sanjuro, a ronin, assists a group of young samurai to fight the corruption of local authorities and secure the release of the Chamberlain, held hostage by those corrupt officials. In doing so, Sanjuro once again kills many young samurai and even one for whom he has grudging respect, Muroto (Tatsuya Nakadai), the superintendent. When the dirty job is done, Sanjuro once again sets off, alone, as the wandering ronin.If that sounds familiar, consider the story and setting of Shane (1952), the definitive western about another type of expert in death, and just as powerful. Notably also, there are only three or four set pieces in Shane the Starret farm, Ryker's bar, the grocery store&#133;and the muddy road where Stonewall dies.In addition, the Sanjuro of this film is markedly different to the character shown in Yojimbo where the action is against thugs and criminals, many of whom Sanjuro dispatches with speed and even contempt &#150; and all for money. In this story, however, Sanjuro accepts only food, mostly, and publicly regrets &#150; even agonizes about &#150; the death of so many young samurai at his own hands. Significantly also, Sanjuro reveals that his name means, essentially, 'thirty something' - going on forty. And, finally, when the last scene fades as Sanjuro walks away and over the hill, the last scene from Shane is again an obvious comparison.Considering the fact that Kurosawa was influenced by John Ford and the American western genre, it's possible that Kurosawa was influenced by Stevens also.What consumed Kurosawa more, however, was something else, I think the nature and purpose of the samurai and, no doubt, the history that included the greatest samurai of all, Musashi Miyamoto &#150; the one who retired from active dueling at age thirty or so, having killed over sixty others in duels, and who then roamed the Japanese countryside as a ronin seeking enlightenment. In the last two years of his life, he composed and wrote the definitive guide to kendo, The Book of Five Rings.Hence, just as Musashi sought wisdom through introspection, so also I think Kurosawa wanted to show Sanjuro as finally pursuing a path to enlightenment and a similar release from the material world. Therefore, I don't think it's coincidence there are no further exploits of Sanjuro from Kurosawa. So&#133;perhaps my suggestion helps to account for the popularity of this film in Japan &#150; in contrast to the excesses of Yojimbo which gained more popularity in the west?Regardless, both films are Kurosawa classics, but I must say I prefer this one as being more in accord with the spirit of the samurai. And that makes the final showdown between Sanjuro and Muroto all the more significant and, in my opinion, the most suspenseful and visceral duel on film I've yet seen. See this movie for that alone, if nothing else.For those interested in more about Musashi, see the three-volume set Samurai I, II and III, which cover Mushasi's life and his major duels. "}{"Title":"Stupid friends are dangerous.","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" We are used to sequels here in the US. Hollywood pumps them out like water. I have even heard that the writer's strike will not prevent a sequel to Transformers, as the first one was made without a script. -) Sanjuro came out just one year after Yojimbo, and features Toshirô Mifune as Sanjûrô Tsubaki / The Samurai. He was Sanjuro Kuwabatake in Yojimbo. He likes to take the name of vegetation near him - in this case the Camilla.This is a very light film, but certainly not something just thrown together to take advantage of the popularity of Yojimbo. There is no blood spilled, even though many die, until the dramatic illustration of his dark side at the end.Watch it and you will know why Akira Kurosawa is one of the greatest directors. But, make sure you get a widescreen version to enjoy it at it's fullest. Of course, Criterion is always the best choice. "},{"Title":"Imperturbable","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was the perfect reaction from Kurosawa to the studio's demands for a hit follow-up to Yojimbo -- the reaction of an artist and auteur.The modus operandi here is irony -- lots of it. Kurosawa deliberately places all of this at the storytelling level. You see, Sanjuro was a writing project he had not intended for his own use. So, being forced to use it in order to deliver a product, he takes away all of the rich visual composition of Yojimbo, and in its place he films an elaborate joke - a joke on everyone who thought the plot and characters were the points to fixate on in his movies. They are depicted within as the nine stooges, endlessly tagging along with the jaded, grumpy Ronin. They take all of his insults as praise. The cultured Chamberlain's wife sees the auteur/Ronin for what he is, and only then can he be made amenable to menial tasks.Kurosawa made it clear that he wasn't going to waste any of his considerable talent on this stuff for Toho - so the value for you as the viewer arrives when you recognize the joke, and that you're in on it with him...much the way Kubrick treated Paths of Glory. "},{"Title":"Ronnin Samurai and Japanese Feudalism, principles of culture","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Toshiro Mifune as Sanjuro is personally my first exposure to Japanese film from Slippery Rock University library. I was very lucky to see this film because Kurosawa and actor Mifune made so many great black and white films, which this was one of them.Life even during chaos of feudal japan did not seemingly change much for a true samurai. Since early ages the samurai were disciplined both internally and externally. This is most likely reflected as wisdom in so many colorful and inventive ways with the samurai's tool of trade the sword (katana). However, Sanjuro brings a significantly similar color concerning his character's relaxed nature in everyday life contrasting his excessively lethal abilities. Weather Sanjuro actually may have planned to be at the Shinto Shrine in the beginning of the film becomes more of a questionable thought has he displays his use of deception, sword skill, and political science wisdom. Usually at the same time which is very lethal and remarkably a scene reminder. The cunningness of his character really makes you the objective observer think twice about opposing what his character stands for. The tactics in themselves seem immoral, or un-ethical, but when laid upon his foundation of subjective thought as a loyal samurai per his training as a lawfull Emperial warrior a feeling righteousness in obtaining the objective bestows him and his comrades. (Which in this case seemingly are overly educated and ethically challenged sons of politician's with no field experience as samurai) "},{"Title":"An easy Kurosawa samurai movie","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is not Kurosawa's best samurai movie, but it is a good place to start.  I had the disadvantage of actually seeing this one before and rented it again by accident.  As is typical with so many of Kurosawa's films, it was easy to see again.The theme in this movie is explored again many times in Kurosawa's samurai movies.  There is the comfortable and respectable knights who find themselves aided and outclassed by the wise or passionate drifting outsider.  In this story the outsider finds a clan troubled by corruption among the powerful older authorities and the young samurai must confront the problem with little or no experience.The close observer of Kurosawa's samurai movies should look to see where Western views and influence tend to marginalize direction and performance.  Sometimes the irritation is palpable.  Kurosawa and company are always at their best when they are most respectful of things Japanese. "},{"Title":"A riot!","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For some reason, this flick, the sequel to Yojimbo, isn't often listed among the Great Works of Kurosawa, but it definitely deserves to be. It's got everything Yojimbo has (action, cunning plans, etc.) plus one thing Yojimbo doesn't have comedy! A rare case of the sequel surpassing the original. "},{"Title":"Sanjuro","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sanjuro (1962) *** (out of 4) Akira Kurosawa's sequel to Yojimbo has the title character (Toshiro Mifune) trying to take care of nine men who find themselves in a battle with an army. Several of the review books called this a black comedy and perhaps it was but I still thought the first film had a lot more laughs. This thing here is pretty good on the action and Mifune is terrific again but it's still a major step down from Yojimbo and the other Kurosawa films I've seen.Even with this being a step down for Kurosawa, that just tells you how many great films he's made. "},{"Title":"A free man fighting against the world.","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Truly a great movie!To live is to suffer to survive is to find meaning, end of suffering /DMXSanjuro is a samurai without path or purpose but with great strength. He lives in the moment following the way of the sword. He comes to a village in need and with his knowledge and wisdom he becomes a natural leader fore the resistance.Sanjuro is a man whose been fighting all his life, fighting the world. To anyone he might look free, but he is going nowhere. Man's only true battle lies within and only there can he claim victory. /Magnus Jeppsson  "},{"Title":"Just plain fun","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Mifune is really great as Sanjuro, that's all I can say.  Crudely funny while also able to tear a place apart when things start flying.  Anyways, this movie's great if you enjoy the genre at all.... good humour, good action, nice little quirks, the whole deal.  The final battle will make you laugh out loud(mostly due to shock). "},{"Title":"To answer the question See Yojimbo","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sanjuro is good, but not even close to Yojimbo's league. Sanjuro probably isn't even one of his top 6 movies. Mifune and Nakadai are fine, but the women are irritating (in a way and to a degree that perhaps Japanese women have perfected, speaking as someone who knows Japanese women). There just really isn't that much to this. I believe those who say he was forced to make this movie and made it as a bit of a joke. It is that far below his standard of excellence. I've seen Yojimbo 3x. This once. I'd watch Yojimbo again before this. My question is; can some film school dropout explain the supposed point of the fountain of blood in the final scene? "},{"Title":"Yojimbo 2","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As far as sequels go this is not as good as the predecessor Yojimbo. For a fact I only wanted to see this because I watched Yojimbo and wanted to see this. I managed to find it and then sit down and watch it.The basic plot is that 9 young samurai are rebelling against a superintendent who kidnapped the lead Samurai's uncle. Who should help them but the nameless samurai that is more skilled than all of them who comes to their aid.As far as movies go this is worth the watch, it's not as good but it's Good in it's own right. "}{"Title":"Good mix between Action and comedy!!!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sequel to Yojimbo.Not as good as the first  but still a great mix between action and comedy. As always Mifune plays amazing.Rating 4/5  "},{"Title":"Too confusing for me","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I did not enjoy this movie.  I know that it is by Kurasawa, a master.  I know that it stars Mifume.  It seemed like ninety-minutes of running back and forth without much of a point.  There is a certain tongue-in-cheek element to it, but other than spawning an occasional grin, the movie did not reach out and grab me.  It is no Kagemusha, Ran, or Ikiru.  "}]