[{"Title":"A thousand thrills...and Hayley Mills!","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Wonderful Jules Verne fantasy via Walt Disney has jolly, ne'er-do-well Frenchman Maurice Chevalier helping two children convince a ship's captain that the kids' father, a captain lost at sea, is shipwrecked on an island near South America. The journey begins, and soon the whole gang faces every form of a raging Mother Nature trying to reach the castaway. Hayley Mills is near the peak of her ladylike charms here, never lovelier than when singing Castaway under the stars by guitar or cooking breakfast with Chevalier in a treetop. Maurice himself is a wily coot, and Wilfred Hyde-White is brusquely amusing. Well-produced yarn with fine effects does tail off in the second-half, but there are many requisite Disney-adventure pleasures to be had. Enjoy it! *** from **** "},{"Title":"Captain Grant and his kids.","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Captain Grant disappeared in the south seas. A bottle with some message suggests he is not dead, as most people in authority choose to believe, but alive and imprisoned. His three children determine to rescue him. THE CHILDREN OF CAPTAIN GRANT was written in 1866-1868 (the year it was published). It followed Verne's first novel successes (FIVE WEEKS IN A BALLOON, A JOURNEY TO THE CENTER OF THE EARTH, FROM THE EARTH TO THE MOON, and - his first North Pole novel - THE ADVENTURES OF CAPTAIN HATTARAS). Of these first six titles, five have been made into films. CAPTAIN HATTARAS can't be made into a film, because Verne was wrong about the state of the North Pole (he put a live volcano there that we know is not there). Pity because it is a good story, deserving a film treatment, with a chilling conclusion. It has been suggested that the genesis of CAPTAIN GRANT is the determination of Lady Jane Franklin in sacrificing her fortune to find out the fate of her husband Sir John Franklin and his Northwest Passage Expedition of 1845-48. Possibly, however, it is something more current than the Franklin Mystery (already solved in 1859, and somewhat old-hat in 1868). The question of whether Thomas Castro was the actual Sir Roger Ticheborne, wealthy, missing baronet, was a growing issue in England in 1868 (it would not be legally settled - against Castro/Arthur Orton - in 1874). That may have been tied to what Verne had in mind. Also the long lost fate of the French explorer La Perouse in the South Seas (in 1788 - his fate is mentioned in TWENTY THOUSAND LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA). In any event, THE CHILDREN OF CAPTAIN GRANT was the first three volumes of seven (or eight - depending on one's counting of sections of TWENTY THOUSAND LEAGUES) volumes that were interlinked. Verne loved cross-connecting stories (in ROBUR THE CONQUEROR he suggests the appearance of an orbiting mystery at the start of the novel is actually an artificial satellite created by Professor Schultz in THE BEGUM'S FORTUNE). He never got this involved again (subsequently, however, he plays a private joke in AROUND THE WORLD IN 80 DAYS, when Princess Aouda is rescued from being burned alive at her husband's funeral the husband is the usurper of the title of Prince Dakar who is Captain Nemo). CAPTAIN GRANT traces the world wide search for the Captain by his three determined children and their French tutor, which go through South America and the South Seas. The villain is one Ayrton, a sailor who imprisoned Grant for his own purposes on a small island near New Zealand. At the end of the novel, Aryton is punished for his treachery to Grant (and Grant's children) by Lord Glenelg, who promises to leave him there for only 10 years alone, roughly the time Grant was marooned. Then comes the story of Nemo and the Nautilus in TWENTY THOUSAND LEAGUES (published in 1870). Then comes THE MYSTERIOUS ISLAND (1873). A party of five men, led by Captain Cyrus Harding, from Libby Prison in Richmond escape in a balloon in a hurricane as the American Civil War is ending. They land on an uncharted island in the Pacific (called Lincoln Island), which they build up into a livable environment. They keep finding machinery and books to help them. Also they find a trail that leads them to the rescue of Aryton, nearly insane from loneliness, off a nearby island. Eventually they learn that the dying Nemo (on his submarine) is responsible for their safety and survival. Nemo dies, the island is destroyed in an eruption (the novel has been compared to a study of the growth and destruction of civilization), and Lord Glenelg's yacht comes to rescue the castaways and Aryton.It is a long, complex series of stories. Movies have been made of CAPTAIN GRANT, TWENTY THOUSAND LEAGUES, and THE MYSTERIOUS ISLANDS. However, no miniseries (nine parts possibly) has been suggested for the whole three novels. Possibly because the adventures are so fantastic they stretch our imagination too far.This Walt Disney production is satisfactory for CAPTAIN GRANT and good fun. Hailey Mills was given another of her early star turns in this film, and Maurice Chevalier was coasting on his starring turn in GIGI four years earlier (as well as his appearance as Panisse in FANNY). One can watch this film as an entertaining adventure flick, with Disney's typical good production values. It is actually quite easy to take. "},{"Title":"20,000 Leagues OVER the sea.","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Part of Jules Verne's trilogy that includes 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea with Captain Nemo as the antagonist, Mysterious Island with Captain Grant as the castaway protagonist going up against Nemo, and The Children of Captain Grant...aka 'In Search of the Castaways' with (as the titles suggests) the children of Captain Grant as the protagonists in search of their castaway father.  Even if Walt Disney had made Mysterious Island (in 1961 another studio made a pretty nifty though obviously 60's style sci-fi movie from it) there still wouldn't be much to tie this film to Walt Disney's classic starring Kirk Douglas and James Mason.  Without knowledge of the characters from Mysterious Island there is no clue that the Grant children live in the same world as the first film, let alone that of Captain Nemo.  With that said, the film does work as a wild and fun Disney adventure (Disney films are a genre all their own).  Starring familiar Disney faces such as Hayley Mills and Maurice Chevalier (hey it could have been Annette Funicello and Burl Ives) this is Walt Disney's film not Jules Verne's and a good time can be had by the whole family.  Some of the special effects are inferior to Disney's standard but Mills and company are very watchable as are the endless stream of natural disasters that befall them.  Recently remakes have been made of 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.  Too bad a mini-series involving the entire trilogy wasn't tackled.  Just a thought.  "},{"Title":"Full-blown and exciting  adventures based on Julio Verne novel","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A journey looking for captain Grant (Jack Gwillim) is realized by a teenage girl Hayley Mills (Pollyanna), her little boy brother along with two veterans (Wilfrid Hyde White and singer Maurice Chevalier) and a young man (Michael Anderson Jr.) . During the long travel they find natural disasters as earthquake in the Andes , fire and flood in the ocean and volcano in New Zealand and they attempt to overcome . Besides they encounter different tribes as Araucans (an Indian chief played by Antonio Cifariello ), Patagons (Argentina) and Maoris (New Zealand).The picture contains adventures , humor , emotion , songs , stirring action and sensational outdoors . The film displays some scenes have you on the edge of your seat as the amusing images when the protagonists sledge over floe . Excellent , powerful cast with sympathetic Hayley Mills and Maurice Chevalier and with the cynic George Sanders . Colorful cinematography reflecting marvellous landscapes by Paul Beeson . Lively and evocative music by Willyam Alwyn . Abounds matte painting and special effects by the Disney specialist Peter Ellenshaw . It's a winning Disney effort made by its usual director Robert Stevenson (Herbie , gnome mobile , Mary Poppins) . It's a must for the Disney fans but is beautifully released , being recommendable for all family and especially for little boys public . Rating  Good and entertaining. "},{"Title":"A good old British adventure","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I recently watched this movie for the first time and found very enjoyable and it is a good old adventure movie.  The only thing I didn't like about it were the songs, which seemed pointless and did not fit in with the storyline.An excellent cast, which includes Hayley Mills (Tiger Bay), Wilfred Hyde White (North West Frontier), George Sanders (Village of the Damned) and Wilfred Brambell (Steptoe and Son).  All play excellent parts and they seem to be enjoying themselves.  The special effects are excellent too.While searching for Hayley Mills's dad, the expedition encounters dangers such as an earthquake, volcano, tidal wave and flood, cannibals, a leopard and a rather unfriendly giant eagle.  They do find him at the end, alive and well.I found this movie excellent but the songs do let it down slightly.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"This film demonstrates the meaning of 'action-packed'","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  We loved this film as kids, now we're older it retains its appeal but in a different way.  It really is the funniest film ever.The search party- encounter a earthquake and survive by riding on two mini icebergs through ice palaces which appear to be inside a mountain- have one member of the party (Robert, the sweet little brother) carried off by a giant condor to feed her young- get flooded and live in a huge ombu tree for weeks (alongside some kind of big cat which is also trapped there)- go through a thunderstorm that causes above-mentioned tree to catch on fire, giving them the option of being burnt to death or eaten by crocodiles, which are now of course swarming around the tree - or get rescued- get locked up in a tiny hut with a madman who's been there for apparently about fifty years, after being chucked off their own ship by villainous scoundrels and being washed up on an island inhabited by Maoris- and finally, survive a volcano (but the Maoris don't)There is also a love interest in the form of John, the smarmy captain's son who fancies Mary (Hayley Mills) and some funny songs, like the one Chevalier and Mills sing when living in ombu tree.  Brilliant!!! "},{"Title":"A 10,000 mile mistake","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" First of all let me say that any film with Maurice Chevalier will automatically get a look from me. Even though Hayley Mills was Walt Disney's number one star at the time, Chevalier's international status as a performer guaranteed him top billing. The younger cast members had a lot to do in keeping up with him.Robert Gwillim who is a sea captain and father to Hayley Mills and Keith Hamshere has been lost at sea for many years now and who knows where in this wide world with 5/6 of it covered by ocean. But a swallowed bottle with a note that was found in the belly of a shark by scientist Maurice Chevalier sends the three of them in search of Gwillim's employer Wilfrid Hyde-White to finance an expedition to search. Said note leads them first to South America and then to Australia because Maurice misreads the clues. He did that a lot in this film, an occupational hazard with eccentric scientists. This was the Magic Kingdom's second dealing with a Jules Verne story, the first being the classic 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea. Sad to say while In Search Of The Castaways has some interesting moments and in spots looks more like an Indiana Jones film, it does not make it above the juvenile level. Watching it today, I expected to see Harrison Ford ride in with bullwhip cracking to save the whole kit and kaboodle of them from villain George Sanders.Maurice's first mistake took them 10,000 miles out of their way. It's not often one gets a second chance there. "},{"Title":"Family Film","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  How wonderful to see a movie the entire family can watch.  Fine acting and plenty of music and laughter along with suspense, drama and human kindness. Not to be scared if a child will curse or anything to upset the audience. Maurice Chaviar and entire cast is superb. What a wonderful movie to just sit and relax and know you will be entertained.  I never get bored watching this movie.  When I was stationed in the US Army at Russelsheim, Germany,I got to see this movie in the German language.  Again, it is a pleasure to have another entertaining motion picture to view over and over with family and friends.  Thank You Walt Disney and his staff. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie with a good solid cast that was Interesting","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A young boy and girl look for their father with the aid of a disbelieving old English captain and his young son, brought together by a Frenchman who found a note in a bottle. Seeing this movie as a youngster, I found them all delightful (altho I haven't seen alot of his work, I must agree about Chevalier being tedious listening to him explain things. Only Hyde-White's attention and irritation at Maurice diluted any that disdain this viewer may have felt).  But the earthquake, the snowslide, the giant condor, the flood, the burning tree, and expecially the suddenly unexpected leopard all made for a good, entertaining film to hold my attention. The slip? Oh, we went the wrong way. Have to backtrack. Definite loss of attention as to what is going on. Pity that George Sander's speech merged with Hyde-White and Chevalier dialects couldn't have helped. Perhaps had he played the father of Mills and her brother instead of the uninteresting actor who did play the part (another downer in the film), things would have been better.  Mills and her two male counterparts were delightful to see when I was young so I still enjoy them now.  Old Bill Gaye was a definite pick-me-up the film needed. A shame the regular cast couldn't have held on to the film to the end.  In watching this movie now, I can't help but check out the characterization of the natives performing their 'ceremony' while the prisoners are escaping. Especially check out the expressions of the 'chieftain'. Hilarious.  "},{"Title":"Thank heaven for little girls - well,thank heaven  for one little girl,..........................","Date":"2 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Young Miss Hayley Mills single - handedly rescues In search of the castaways from the state of stuporific banality where M. Chevalier,Mr Hyde White and Master Anderson had abandoned it.It is poorly directed,sloppily edited,studio - bound and mediocre in every department.Miss Mills,trouper that she is,grasps this pretty dreadful film and by sheer force of personality gives it what small merit it has. A plot as full of non - sequiturs as any Monty Python movie does not bear even the most cursory examination.The songs,surely merely a device to divert attention from the fact that M.Chevalier has little to do except curl his lips and roll his rs and look roguish every now and again. Mr Hyde White does his customary grumpy old posh geezer schtick and nods his head a lot. The FX are crude even by the standards of the day and I should think once the movie made 50 bucks at the box office it went into profit. I saw Miss Mills in Wild at heart on TV the other night and she is still in the alchemy business.Some people,eh? "}{"Title":"Confused and convoluted - something of the dismal recaptured with more than an ounce of the spectacular!","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Based upon Jule's Vernes 'Captain Grant's Children', In Search of Those Castaways (1962) is an incoherent yarn about Mary Grant (Haley Mills), the determined daughter of a missing sea captain (Jack Gwillim) who sets about traveling to exotic ports and hidden mysterious locales in search of dear IL' daddy. On this trip she takes family friend and confident, Jacque Paganell (the marvelous Maurice Chevalier) and meets up with the unscrupulous and hardened, Thomas Ayerton (George Sanders). The cast also includes Wilfred Hyde-White as the stuffy Lord Glenaravan and Michael Anderson Jr. as his son John. But Robert Stevenson's direction on this occasion seems to fall apart on a series of vignettes that have no coherent or driving narrative. Verne's works usually present this sort of problem for screenwriters, in that Verne himself often wrote episodic stories that later became loosely strung together as fantasy novels of their day; visionary &#150; then; stagnant and wholly unappealing by 1960s standards; completely out of touch by today's expectations. Peter Ellenshaw's matte paintings extend the world of fantasy that Mary and company traverse to good effect. There's some great trick photography taking place during the flood sequence. There's also Chevalier warbling a very family friendly little ditty, 'Enjoy it.' In the end, it seems hard to take up Chevalier on that musical request. The end of the story is a forgone conclusion by reel two. We know Mary's going to find her father; it's a Disney film. There seems to be some discrepancy as to the proper aspect ratio for this film; 1331 or 1751. The theatrical prints appear to have been printed in the latter format since title credit sequences on this DVD occasionally run off the top and bottom of the screen. However, an usual practice occurred in the late 1960s and early 70s in American cinema, whereby certain films were shot in full frame for the sake of economy and then artificially cropped to 1751 for theatrical presentation. Having explained this; the print for In Search of Those Castaways might very well have been one such film, with title sequences specifically formatted for the 1751 theatrical engagement. Hence, when Disney remastered the DVD they forgot to format the titles for 1331 to avoid confusion. At the very least, these credits have not been framed properly. At worst, Disney has given us another full frame only version of a widescreen movie. Yet, for the rest of the presentation, everything looks pretty much as it should. There is no apparent cropping to speak of and scenes appear quite natural in 1331. As for the rest of the image quality colors are quite solid, pure and rich. Blacks are deep. Whites are generally clean. Film grain is present during the matte shots but absent elsewhere for a picture that will surely not disappoint. The audio is engaging, if dated. "},{"Title":"More of a  Curiosity and Anomaly Than a Good Film or a Classic. But Hey, Hayley Mills is Always Classic Disney.","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" i never know what to say about 'Castaways'. the song 'Castaway' has always been one of my favourite Disney songs and i grew up listening to a recording of Hayley Mills singing the song from when i was very young. i think i was only about six or seven when i first saw this movie in reissue.having grown up with this movie since i was a kid hasn't helped me to understand it or come to terms with it however. as i matured (supposedly), this film actually only seemed weirder and more confounding. i guess when i was a child i kind of took it for granted and was also used to Disney films being a little eccentric in terms of fantasy and humour. it wasn't until i was older that i started to question this film's logic. it is definitely a action packed' adventure, but i'm never quite sure where it's coming from or what the heck they were thinking.i think this movie gets unintentionally oddball and goofy because it is so obviously and blatantly commercial. it doesn't have the artistic integrity of '20,000 Leagues' and isn't even the good entertainment 'Island at the Top of the World' is. rather than being anywhere close to realism or logical action, this movie opts for a Donald Duck cartoonish approach that the filmmakers don't seem to be aware that they are applying to it. more than serious adventure, this film feels more like a wacky Disney comedy. it has more in common with 'The Shaggy Dog' than '20,000 Leagues'.for viewers not accustomed to the Disney comedy formula, action sequences like the earthquake scene where the mountain ledge breaks off and the adventurers toboggin down a icy slope while Maurice Chevalier yodels out a song, seems more like a surreal break in logic then a implement of comedy.as for Maurice Chevalier's constant singing, it only furthers the detachment from reality. Hayley Mill's 'Castaway' song is one of Disney's best musical moments and doesn't detract, we should always expect a song or two from Disney, but the songs Chevalier sings have got to be some of Disney's worst and most obnoxious tunes. not to mention that Maurice Chevalier's performance is so bad it's actually good in a we're-not-laughing-with-you-but-at-you way. i think his performance is even worse here than in the notorious 'Monkeys Go Home' movie. when Hayley mills is worried about the Patagonians fleeing from a flood of burning lava, Chevalier just throws his head back and chuckles, oo-la la! their plight is funny zo enjooooy it!. rather than amusing the statement just seems sadistic. it should happen to him. when Chevalier's character realizes he accidentally lead them to the wrong side of the world and laments, i am zoooooo stupid!, the viewer is inclined to agree. i've always felt that as a entertainer, Chevalier was specially challenged. i never was fond of 'GiGi'.does the movie offer up anything memorable or good? well, yes. as silly as it is, the film is pure Disney formula. it also has a knack for clever FX on a lower budget than '20,000 Leagues'. the film's FX range from obviously poor to excellent as in the Ombu tree and the trippy giant Condor scene. as for memorable, the film is so kooky that it's hard to forget (or forgive whichever the case).the film also has Hayley Mills as a asset. she pretty much rectifies whatever Chevalier kills off. Hayley Mills was a charming performer with a cosy sort of charisma. she can be all sweetness and cute adorability, but she does it with a natural grace and is never pretentious or forced.the film also benefits from good set design and a good understanding of history as well as good, sure handed direction from Disney stock director Robert Stevenson. Stevenson even manages to embellish the mostly pedestrian approach with some good cinematography as in a shot of the Indian's horses upsetting against a darkened sky before a flash flood.despite the numerous FX photography and matte shots, this hardly qualifies as classic, good cinema, but it is good Disney. i mean who else made movies like this except for Disney.i don't know what could have been done to make this a better movie. strangely enough i like it the way it is. it has a goofy charm to it and it is easily identifiable as a children's film. '20,000 Leagues' can often seem too adult.however, even a small child might be inclined to question how this group of inept, knuckle-headed adventurers even manage to get anywhere. even Wilfred Hyde-White's ship's captain seems to know little about geography. the film might have benefited from a better and more logical screenplay. but actually i'm so glad they did it this way instead. the film is awkward but never dull. i'm also sort of fascinated by it's miscalculations, they succeed in the way that they make this one of Disney's, and Hollywood's, most unconsciously surreal and goof-ball concoctions. "},{"Title":"Not even Mother Nature can stop these Disney adventurers.","Date":"24 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" In Search of the Castaways is a live action Disney feature film that stars Hayley Mills, Maurice Chevalier, Wilfrid Hyde-White, George Sanders, Keith Hamshere & Michael Anderson Jr. It's directed by Robert Stevenson and adapted for the screen by Lowell S. Hawley from Jules Verne's novel Captain Grant's Children. Plot sees Mills and Hamshere as the Grant siblings who along with Professor Paganel (Chevalier), Lord Glenarvan (White) & his son John (Anderson Jr), set off on a Worldwide search for their shipwrecked father.Standard Disney live action formula that is as fun as it is simple. The adventure sees the intrepid group have to deal with a number of Mother Earth's creatures and natural disasters. The roll call contains a condor, jaguar, crocodiles, avalanche, earthquake, lightning, volcano and a giant waterspout! While peril of the human kind comes courtesy of a hungry tribe of Maori's and a band of braggarts led by debonair dastardly George Sanders. Hyde-White is just terrific, as too is Wilfrin Bramble who shows up late in proceedings as a loony old prisoner of the Maori's.It's daft with a natural tongue in cheek vibe to it, but to expect anything less at the outset would be pure folly. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Still great fun","Date":"25 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I remember being very excited about going to see In Search Of The Castaways when it first came out, mainly because I was completely besotted. And she didn't disappoint me! Neither did the film, a fun romp about two kids, in the company of assorted adults, searching for their missing father. The large part of the search took place in South America and featured, as set pieces, a slide through ice caverns and taking refuge from a flood in a giant tree.Throughout all this, Maurice Chevalier oozed avuncular gallic charm and occasionally warbled a cheery Disney ditty, occasionally accompanied by Miss Mills (whose singing, notwithstanding her hit record Let's get Together, was not her strongest point).The South American search turned out to be largely unsuccessful, mainly because dad wasn't in South America, he was in New Zealand. So the final sequence involved escaping from a Maori tribe, led by singer and totem pole carver Inia Te Wiata.The special effects aren't quite so special these days - like so many films of the time, miniatures were often the only way of achieving certain results, and miniatures are no longer convincing after more than a decade of digital simulation. Even so, the film is still full of charm and excitement, and is well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Adventure","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" In Search of The Castaway's is probably my favorite adventure film. It contains a lot of very unique items and fun. Some of the movie is not very realistic, ex. a huge wave of water suddenly floods a desert, making it into a big lake. Some things in it don't even exist in real life, ex. a giant flying bird, so big that it can carry a person. But elements like these really do add to it and help make it more exciting. Many of the special effects in the movie are in my opinion, very impressive for their time, even though they sometimes seem a little inaccurate. Another thing I like about the movie is that it gives a great sense of teamwork and fearlessness, people going out of their way and doing whatever it takes to try to save others. And though there are some disagreements and rudeness between the main characters, but unlike some adventure films like Swiss Family Robinson, there really aren't any major conflicts between them, which makes it a lot more pleasant. "},{"Title":"In search of the castaways","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I'll give Disney's In Search Of The Castaways a seven out of ten because of the possibilities, not for what it is! If you were to take all the noted bloopers from the original Star Wars series, you'd run out of fingers, instantly! Compared to other Disney live action films and some real turkeys, this film fared much better. Not everyone is into Maurice Chevalier and I am not one of them. But he did manage to play the bumbling fool of a professor very well. Sometimes you have to overlook the Disney staple of sticking to sugary family fare. We cant all have homeboys on top of a mountain, spraying graffiti. Quite frankly, the movie really suffers from simply becoming outdated. I wish the movie moguls would think to look at this movie one day-for a remake. If anything, I like the sudden idea of being caught and trapped on a slope, riding on a loosened mountain chunk down a ravine. The next in line biggest adventure, would be the tied to a rope, upside down, swinging wildly in the air! COOL. I give it a seven, for the possibilities. Robert. "},{"Title":"good family entertainment but no classic by any means","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" as far as family entertainment goes,you can't go wrong with this Disney offering.i wouldn't use the word classic to describe it though.it has some fun moments.it's fairly fast paced.but it does tend to get a bit silly at times and it's very predictable and repetitive and there is a bit too much singing involved for my taste.it's very dated,with effects that are definitely from the stone age.the acting is no great shakes either.in fact,it ranges from adequate too downright atrocious.still,it does pass the time,and there's nothing offensive so it's safe for all ages.if you can get around the silliness and the bad acting,you just might be able to kill 98 minutes.for me,In Search of the Castaways is a 5/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful Disney Adventure Winds Up Too Silly to Watch","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" After so many attempts by others to recapture the magic of 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea, Disney's own belated return to the Jules Verne genre must have been greeted with tremendous anticipation. When it did finally come however, with 1961's In Search of the Castaways, audiences can only have responded with a bewilderment bordering on stupefaction. Castaways has a scenario so bizarre and features a set of adventures so patently absurd, that it makes Journey to the Center of the Earth seem like cinema verité. The fact that the makers appear to have been perfectly aware of these illogicalities and may have been indulging in some kind of a rarified joke only makes things worse in my opinion. You tell me The children of a marooned sea captain receive from him a message in a bottle&#151;a bottle found in the stomach of a shark. Unlikely, you say? So do about five characters in the film itself--repeatedly. Later, the party decides to rest overnight in The Land of Many Earthquakes. The hut they sleep in seems, nonetheless, to have been standing for hundreds of years so they feel confident it will make it through one more night--and they tell us so. An enormous tremor strikes within moments and shakes the entire building down before our eyes. During this quake, the stone ledge the party has been standing on breaks loose and becomes a bobsled hurtling down the mountainside. Do the explorers cling to it for their lives in mortal terror? No, they laugh and yodel and enjoy the ride as if nothing at all were at stake--which the audience has now begun to realize is in fact the case. Soon, they come to the broad, treeless landscape of the Argentine pampas; here, the earth is parched and cracked, the sky cloudless. In spite of this, Indians warn them to beware of floods. The Europeans take pains to point out the extreme unlikelihood of such an eventuality--and are, of course, shortly interrupted by an 8-foot wall of water that reaches from horizon to horizon. As Disney expert Leonard Maltin remarks, There seems no earthly purpose for throwing in a giant condor or a massive flood, and the slightly off-center feeling is only amplified when Maurice Chevalier starts to sing about their troubles! On and on it goes until about the midway point of the film, at which time the searchers learn that their whole expedition has been a wild goose chase to begin with and that they've been looking on the WRONG CONTINENT. And the audience throws up its hands. If we could write In Search of the Castaways off as a low-budget quickie like Valley of the Dragons, padded out with stock footage, the whole thing would be easier to figure. But no&#151;-extreme care was taken with Castaways. It has lush Technicolor photography, stunning miniatures, and a non-stop parade of the most gorgeous matte paintings you ever saw (Peter Ellenshaw). The special effects are, in fact, some of the best in any Verne film and were accomplished by the very same people who did similarly magnificent work for 20,000 Leagues. Yet the situations these effects are called upon to depict are so far-out that they would have been more appropriate in something like This Island Earth or First Spaceship on Venus. The aforementioned sleigh ride for instance, really does play out like an attraction at Disneyland, and would probably be interpreted by today's critics as a crass send-off for the inevitable theme park tie-in. (Actually, it seems to have been the other way around, with a Disneyland ride providing inspiration for the movie; the park's Matterhorn Bobsleds attraction opened four years earlier and was based on a different film, 1958's Third Man on the Mountain). Most curious of all, however, is the way this script actually rubs your nose in each of its many improbabilities and underlines every deus ex machina. In retrospect the filmmakers do seem to have tried to warn us in advance; the title work introduces the movie as Jules Verne's Fantasy Adventure. This might have been our cue that it was all intended as some kind of a spoof of the genre, or live action cartoon, and ought to be taken as such. Still, the joke sails right over my head. Make no mistake In Search of the Castaways has plenty going for it. But the screenplay (based on Verne's 1865 book Les Enfants du Capitaine Grant) ought to have been sent back down Dopey Drive to the Story Department for some heavy revision. (Incidentally, the George Sanders villain in this movie, Thomas Ayerton, reappears in Verne's L'Île mystérieuse&#151;which happens to be a sequel to both this book and 20,000 Leagues). Director Robert Stevenson, at any rate, did get another crack at Verne-flavored adventure for Disney&#151;-1974's Island at the Top of the World&#151;-and he fared much better there. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"17 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" In Search of the Castaways Having children on a rescue mission is smart because when they find the corpse their piercing shrieks will alert everyone.Unfortunately, the rescue effort in this adventure also includes a useless senior.Convinced that their shipwrecked father, Captain Grant (Jack Gwillim), is alive somewhere between South America and New Zealand, Robert (Keith Hamshere) and his sister Mary (Hayley Mills) recruit a Scottish lord (Wilfrid Hyde-White) to lead their expedition.Along for the ride are an elderly professor (Maurice Chevalier) and the Lord's son (Michael Anderson, Jr.).Together, the quintet faces an array of adversaries, from giant condors to Mother Nature's wrath, to a nefarious gunrunner (George Sanders).While the harrowing adventure is elongated by a red herring wrong turn, when Captain Grant's whereabouts is finally revealed this Disney adaptation of a Jules Verne tale really gets rolling.Mind you, once they find their father alive, there goes the insurance money. Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"The poorest excuse of Captain Grant's Children ever made","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" To destroy an epic adventure as Jules Verne's The Children of Captain Grant in such a way - is a crime that cannot be pardoned. The twist of the history in the beginning, the drop-outs of large parts of the history, and the cheap stage settings is not even worthy for a studio like Walt Disney.Now of course some would excuse this to the lack of special effects compared to today, but that is really no real excuse. In Norway, the book wasn't even translated and published in complete edition to 2013, but this is shameful. To destroy a major literary work like this is ... well I really don't have words for it.I am shocked. "}{"Title":"Theowinthrop's comments re Capt. Hattaras","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Theowinthrop should check the Disney Catalogue very thoroughly for the Captain Hattaras tale. We have that very movie available on DVD here in Australia. Or at least something with a similar storyline written by the same author. I'm not sure whether it is live action or cartoon though. Quite apart from the above though In Search Of The Castaways was in my opinion a very enjoyable movie. Hayley Mills as always is precocious in a serious way. Maybe it's me but I do not think that she was ever a good singer as I consider her voice too thin for singing. I also do not think that she really matured until after her Disney contract expired - compare her later movies to the earlier ones. From the land down under. "},{"Title":"Dreadfully, dismally dull Disney drivel","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a long way from being a Disney classic. An overused story, goofball acting, not so special effects, and Maurice Chevalier made this romp through pre-teen hell a total castoff. Pure hogwash it is when we see a group merrily singing away all sorts of calamities as they go happily seeking dear old Father. I wonder if anyone else is as sick and tired of Chevalier's standard one trick pony as I am. Can this no talent frog come up with nothing new after 50 years in the business? Well...no, obviously. This film should be dropped in a bottle, tightly corked, and cast away into the most remote corner of the 7 seas. "}]