[{"Title":"Absolute Magic!","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"44 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Clever dialogue, gothic scenery, and three old masters of horror make this film a delight to watch...over and over again.  It is not very often one gets a chance to see three horror legends...Boris Karloff, Vincent Price, and Peter Lorre(plus a young Jack Nicholson)...in any movie, especially one with competent and stylized direction by a Roger Corman and a witty script by some guy named Richard Matheson( a legend in the horror and sci-fi genres and the one author that influenced Stephen King more than any other).  The talent alone insures success and each of these respective masters delivers in this film.  The story has virtually nothing to do with the Poe poem...but who cares with a cast like this.  Peter Lorre steals every scene he is in and chews the scenery left and right.  Hazel Court has a small role as the beautiful Lenore, and she turns in a good performance as well.  But in the end it is the King of Horror and the Crown Prince of Horror...Karloff and Price...that make this movie a magical experience, particularly in their duel of magic at the climax of the film.  Get some popcorn, a nice big drink, and turn the lights out and have fun with The Raven. "},{"Title":"If you are expecting Poe.........","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sorry, if you are expecting a movie based on Poe's poem.  Other than Vincent Price elucidating one line from thepoem and his wife being named Lenore, any other  connections are coincidental.  Yet, I'm sure you will find this movie entertaining and funny. An all star cast of Vincent Price,( the  kind but powerfulhero), Peter Lorre, (a sniveling, shifty, weasel), and Karloffat his diabolical best as the evil magician. It is sort of  aD&D version of the Good, Bad & the Ugly. Great specialeffects for its time. A young ,soon to be Superstar JackNicholson playing Peter Lorre's noble son  does not reallyadd to the story, but  it's fun to see him in his fledging days. "},{"Title":"Party Time","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Corman-Matheson The Raven, a charming cultural artifact from the early sixties, played extremely well at kiddie matinees when first released, holds up less well for grownups when watching it on television. This is a movie that needs an audience, preferably young and not too sophisticated. Without the laughter of children it falls a little flat, but is still fun to look at, if only for the remarkable sets of Daniel Haller, the colorful costumes, the mugging actors.This is not an adaptation of the Edgar Allan Poe poem (which would be impossible) but rather a spoof of the various movies adapted from Poe's stories that were so popular at the time it came out, featuring many of the same cast members! As such, the movie needs to be seen in this context or else it will make no sense.Vincent Price, a good magician, helps Peter Lorre turn from raven back to human form, then journeys to the castle of bad magician Boris Karloff, who was responsible for changing Lorre into a bird, to engage in a battle of sorcerer's tricks. Jack Nicholson is on hand as Lorre's son, and the two have some funny scenes together. There's not much story here, but the look and feel of the film are what make it work, to the extent that it does, as it's really a showcase for the actors and set designers more than anything else. It's a lighthearted film from the start, with nary a frightening moment. Everyone's dressed up as if at a Halloween party, and the festive tone is sustained throughout. "},{"Title":"Pure Magic","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is true magic. You will be shaking but not through horror.  The Raven was made to amuse and it does.The magician's duel may lack 'modern effects' but for their day they were pretty impressive.  And the warmth and humour shines out in all the characters.And yes, Peter Lorre dressed up as a Raven IS hilarious.  "},{"Title":"A deliciously absurd comedy from the one and only Roger Corman!","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is loosely based around the famous Edgar Allen Poe poem of the same name. However, I don't think this is what the great literary genius had in mind when he originally wrote it; as Corman has turned the great Gothic poem into an absurd adventure styled comedy! Well, Edgar Allen Poe may be turning in his grave; but the rest of us get to have fun as we see horror gods Vincent Price, Boris Karloff and Peter Lorre, not to mention Jack Nicholson ham it up in style as the weird and wonderful cast of this absurd story of wizards and hocus pocus. Vincent Price is Dr. Erasmus Craven, and the film starts out with a reading of the famous Poe poem by the one and only Mr Price, and we're in familiar Corman-Poe territory. However, things take a turn in a totally different direction when, nearly napping, suddenly there comes a tapping, as someone gently rapping, rapping at Craven's chamber door. 'Tis a raven...or rather, Dr Bedlo (Peter Lorre), a fellow magician that has been turned into a raven by the rather nasty Dr Scarabus (Boris Karloff). After turning Bedlo back into a man, Craven is convinced by Bedlo, after hearing Scarabus has his beloved Lenore, to accompany him to his castle. And that is where the fun starts.Peter Lorre and Vincent Price make a delicious comedy pairing; their two unique personalities blend together brilliantly and it's great to see these two legends on screen together. As mentioned, these two are joined by fellow legend; Boris Karloff. Karloff is a vastly underrated actor that has played lots of important characters and turned his hand to many different aspects of horror; comedy being one that he does well at also. Like the rest of the cast, he delivers his one-liners with the utmost skill and has many fine comedy moments. Not all of the jokes in the film work, but some parts of the film are laugh-out loud funny. Seeing Jack Nicholson in a film like this is rather bizarre when you consider what he has gone on to achieve, but his presence serves in giving it even more cult appeal. Although if you'd heard someone say that he would go on to achieve these things after only seeing him here, you'd probably think whoever told you was having a laugh...Whether or not Corman should have turned 'The Raven' into a comedy is debatable. On one hand, I love the film, but I'm not sure if a serious version better would have been better. Still, the debate is irrelevant because he did and this is the result. The film is loyal to the poem in some ways (including the lovely wrap up), but basically; this is completely different. But pay the similarities and differences no mind, as 'enjoy!' is my advice. "},{"Title":"Raving About Roger Corman's The Raven","Date":"12 November 2008","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Raving About Roger Corman's The Raven (1963) Every October my daughter and I pick up a few spooky movies to get into the Halloween groove. This year, I had the pleasure of introducing her to one of my all time favorite horror comedy classics, Director Roger Corman's The Raven. The screenplay is adapted (VERY loosely) from the famous Edgar Allan Poe poem. This is one of Corman's many American International Picture adaptations of Edgar Allan Poe's works, and one of his best.As the king of b horror movies, Corman knew had to make the most out of a tight budget. His stylish films consistently used good source material, well written screenplays, lavish set designs, locations, props, costumes and great horror stars. The Raven boasts no less a cast than Vincent Price, Boris Karloff, Peter Lorre, Jack Nicholson, and 60's scream queen Helen Court &#150; a mind boggling cast given that this is a low budget film.Pairing horror legends Price, Lorre, and Karloff was indeed a momentous occasion and the stars make the most of it. Any semblance to Poe's Gothic poem pretty much ends after Vincent Price reads the first few lines (brilliantly recited despite its brevity) at the intro of the movie. Afterwards, screenplay writer Richard Matheson takes the sombre mood of the original poem and turns it on its ear with his original comic screenplay.At the outset of the film, we learn that Price's character (Dr.Craven &#150; a wizard) has lost his wife Lenore (Helen Court) and has long mourned her loss. He's interrupted in the midst of his grief by a tapping at his door. Price opens the door to find himself confronted by a raven (Peter Lorre). The raven, it turns out, can talk and is actually a rascally wizard named Dr Bedlo who has been enchanted by the evil wizard Dr Scarabus (Boris Karloff). He entreats the amazed doctor to help him become a man again.Richard Matheson's screenplay provides the actors with some wonderful comedy dialog with which to work. Price and Lorre had been previous teamed in Tales of Terror, and their styles blend beautifully together &#150; they are a scream! They set about concocting a potion in set designer Daniel's Haller's creepily atmospheric dungeon. After much fumbling, Price finally manages to restore Lorre's human head, but his body remains that of a giant human sized raven. Seeing Lorre strut his stuff in the Big Bird raven costume is almost worth the DVD price by itself! Once restored, Lorre swears revenge on Dr Scarabus. He asks for Price's help. But the doctor refuses until Lorre's character spots a portrait of Price's long lost wife and remarks that he's seen the woman at Scarabus' castle. The two set off for the castle along with Price's daughter (Olive Sturgess) and Bedlo's son (played by a young delightfully hammy Jack Nicholson).When Lorre and Price reach the castle, the fireworks begin &#150; figuratively and literally. It's clear these three horror icons are having the time of their lives, hilariously spoofing their monster screen personas. Dated special effects (though fine for their day) detract little from the final magical showdown between Karloff and Price.I never get sick of seeing this movie and happily give it a rave review! Grab the popcorn and enjoy.Rob Rheubottom Winnipeg, MB Canada "},{"Title":"'Olde Worlde' horror mixes laughs and chills","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE RAVEN Aspect ratio 2.351 (Panavision)Sound format MonoDuring the 15th century, an evil sorcerer (Boris Karloff) lures his arch rival (Vincent Price) to a lonely castle where they fight a magical duel to the death.Handsomely mounted on some of the most lavish sets ever created for AIP's Poe series, THE RAVEN toplines Price, Karloff and Peter Lorre for the first time in their careers, alongside a very young Jack Nicholson (making the most of a juvenile supporting role). Richard Matheson's clever script turns the faux seriousness of earlier Poe pictures on its head, countering Price's overwrought histrionics with a series of rude rejoinders from Lorre, who relishes his role as a cowardly magician whose divided loyalties place everyone around him in danger. Price and Karloff are worthy adversaries, and their climactic duel is one of the most celebrated set-pieces in horror movie history, despite some fairly obvious trick-work. Floyd Crosby's expansive cinematography and Daniel Haller's 'olde worlde' art direction conspire to render a suitably Gothic atmosphere, though the movie derives most of its strength from the quality of its dialogue and performances. Directed by Roger Corman. "},{"Title":"A delight","Date":"1 August 1998","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Several masters of horror and mystery gather here to have fun with Poe and the horror genre in general. The duel of the magicians is a hoot, and Peter Lorre in a bird suit is delightful. One of the best horror spoofs ever made. "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS! GREAT! WONDERFUL!","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Roger Corman's The Raven is the best of the Poe films and the most entertaining. It owes even less to Poe than some of the other adaptations, but I can't recall laughing so much in a horror film. That  it  was intended as a followup to the wildly successful Tales of Terror only added to the good vibes. The historic teaming of three horror stars Vincent Price, Boris Karloff and Peter Lorre makes this irresistible.Price plays one of his rare good guy roles as Craven, a good warlock living in his castle in England (where else?). Lorre is Bedlo, a coward who was turned into a raven by the evil sorcerer Scarabus (Karloff). Craven changes him back and Bedlo tells the good warlock/magician that his thought to be dead wife is shacking up with Scarabus. This sets up the final 20 minutes of the film, a hilarious showdown between Craven and Scarabus involving lasers and cheesy red arrows that only make the viewer laugh even more than he/she was doing before.The great castle designed by Daniel Haller was reused famously in The Terror shot two days after this wrapped by Corman. Unless you're a film buff, you probably won't notice, but it adds a comic touch to an already hilarious film. The best comic moments belong to Lorre and Jack Nicholson (as Lorre's son). These two are nuts! Floyd Crosby's photography (in Panavision and Pathecolor) is solid as usual (although the castle isn't; he,he) and Richard Matheson's script (with bits added by Price, Karloff, Lorre and Nicholson) is one of the best comedy scripts ever written. Why wasn't The Raven on the AFI Top 100 Comedies List? It's as good as anything in the Top 10 (better than the second ranked Tootsie, that's for sure). The probable answer they don't know great comedy even if it bit them in the butt.**** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Delightful Duel of Magicians","Date":"14 September 2014","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The magician Dr. Erasmus Craven (Vincent Price), who does not belong to the brotherhood of magicians, grieves the loss of his beloved wife Lenore (Hazel Court) and lives in a castle with his daughter Estelle (Olive Sturgess). One day, a raven knocks on his window and Dr. Craven learns that the bird is actually the magician Dr. Adolphus Bedlo (Peter Lorre) that was turned into a raven after challenging the powerful magician Dr. Scarabus (Boris Karloff) that was an enemy of his father. Dr. Craven makes a potion to turn Dr. Bedlo back to the human form and Dr. Bedlo tells that he has seen Lenore in the castle of Dr. Scarabus. Dr. Craven decides to go in his coach with Dr. Bedlo to visit Dr. Scarabus but Estella and Dr. Bedlo's son Rexford (Jack Nicholson) decide to go with them. They find an amicable Dr. Scarabus that invite them to stay for the night. Was Dr. Craven's father wrong about Dr. Scarabus?The Raven is a delightful movie about ambition, treachery and magic, with a wonderful duel of magicians and lots of humor. The raven is hilarious and it is impressive his training with participation in many scenes. The special effects are simple but impressive for a 1963 movie. The cast is excellent with Vincent Price, Peter Lorre and Boris Karloff and it is curious to see Jack Nicholson in the beginning of his career. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Corvo (the Raven) "}{"Title":"A good laugh","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I first saw this movies I was shocked by the humor. I was in the mood for a horror flick, and with actors such as Peter Lorre, Vincent Price, and the incomparable Boris Karlof I was sure that I had hit horror gold. However, after the first minute of the movie I quickly realized that this was not a horror film at all, but a wonderful satire of the horror genre.What makes this movie work so well is that nobody takes themselves too seriously. In fact, you can tell from the outset that everyone in the cast is in on the joke. I would caution those who are expecting a great performance from Jack Nickleson to be prepared to be disappointed. However, it is plainly evident that he is an excellent actor just waiting to happen.Is this movie perfect, hardly, but it is definitely worth seeing. If for no other reason than to see the climatic head to head dual of magic between Price and Karlof.  "},{"Title":"Fun horror /comedy  with an exceptional quartet   Price , Karloff , Lorre and Nicholson","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Amusing , delightful film produced by American Iternational , James H. Nicholson-Samuel Z. Arkoff , with a monumental team of terror all-star-cast as Price , Lorre and Karloff . This supreme adventure in terror and humor deals with a magician (Peter Lorre) who has been turned into a raven and turns to a former nobleman sorcerer (Vincent Price) for help in this film loosely based on the Edgar Allen Poe poem , though takes only the title . Lorre asks Price to change his raven form into human and he helps him by a mixture of jellied spiders , bat's blood and dead man's hair . Then the two sorcerers , Price hypnotized by the memory of his dead second wife (Hazel Court) and his unfortunate associated go to a storm-surrounded castle inhabited by a rival wizard (Boris Karloff excels as an old sorcerer ) , the wickedest one of all . It gets funnier when our two friends along with their sons (Jack Nicholson as secondary in an enjoyable acting though you'd never guess he'd end up a superstar from his interpretation here , he had previously played ¨Little shop of horrors¨ in another comic performance ) pitting their magic wills against the nasty wizard . And the end takes place a funny duel between Price and Karloff including primitive but effective FX .This is more of a satire than a true terror movie , it is immaculately staged , stylishly realized , very literate , confidently made and plenty of eye-popping scenes . Terror has strangely been more skillfully spoofed than in this agreeable horror/comedy Corman directed . The picture packs usual Corman's striking scenarios including mists rise the ground , lugubrious castle , shrieks come from gloomy coffins , waves pound open the shore and vague shapes move behind the dismal mansions gone to the bad . Despite the original and incredible X certificate , most children will like this enormously fun film . Colorful cinematography by the series usual , Floyd Crosby . Frightening and atmospheric musical score by Les Baxter .The motion picture is well directed by Roger Corman and based on Richard Matheson's screenplay . It belongs the successful adaptation Edgar Allen Poe series . After his poverty-budget horror stories deemed many of them minor cult , Corman made the cycle of ¨Tales of Terror¨ which gave huge profits from minimal budgets . This Corman terror period during the 60s with classical horror adaptations also includes writer as H.P. Lovecraft with ¨The haunted palace¨ and result to be the following  ¨Tales of terror¨ , ¨The premature burial¨ , ¨Pit and pendulum¨ , ¨House of Usher¨ and on the sets and leftover from ¨The raven¨ was directed ¨The Terror¨ also with Boris Karloff and Jack Nicholson . All of them with a great sense of characterization and period , eerily staged , specially in the scenes where heroes and heroines are lured by spirits , spectres or black cats . In these movies repeat the same technicians , assistants as Monte Hellman , musician composers as Ronald Stein and Les Baxter , Daniel Haller as production designer , cameraman as Floyd Crosby , among others . They were realized as vehicles for Vincent Price with the exception of ¨The premature burial¨ with Ray Milland and Hazel Court which was less successful . The last two pictures in the series , ¨The masque of death red¨ and ¨The tomb of Ligeia¨ were filmed in England to combat rising costs . Corman shot some exciting movies after these , but nothing remotely as interesting . "},{"Title":"Had me saying nevermore.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I began watching this Roger Corman film not realizing it was a spoof and not a straight horror film. But even after making the proper attitude adjustment I found it mighty dismal going. This is a lackluster affair that didn't get more than a dry chuckle or two out of me, even in the duel-of-the-magicians scene with its cheapo special effects.The three old pros who star here--Boris Karloff, Vincent Price and Peter Lorre--all do competent enough jobs but there's not much they can do with this material and it doesn't look like anyone's heart was particularly in it. Jack Nicholson is also in the film but he doesn't add anything special, as he would soon be doing in other films. Of the supporting cast I liked Hazel Court the best. She plays a pretty sexy Lenore. She and Olive Sturgess as Price's daughter were all that really caught my attention in this movie. "},{"Title":"An Interesting Cast Makes This A Curiosity","Date":"2 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1935, Boris Karloff starred in a movie called The Raven - a movie that had little to nothing to do with Edgar Allen Poe's poem. Fast forward 28 years. In 1963, Boris Karloff starred in a movie called The Raven - a movie that had little to nothing to do with Edgar Allen Poe's poem. Let's talk about the '63 version.Your first thought about a movie called The Raven (and that stars Vincent Price and Peter Lorre, along with Karloff) is that you're going to find a horror movie, or at least a decent mystery or suspense thriller. Those expectations are dashed quickly. This is, after all, directed by Roger Corman. There's nothing frightening or mysterious about this. Instead the movie goes for laughs, as two rival sorcerors/wizards/magicians (Price and Karloff) go head to head with each other, with Lorre stuck in the middle - sometimes a raven, sometimes a man, sometimes a bit of both. Yes, it's a rather silly movie, which unfortunately creates expectations by being named after Poe's poem. From time to time it works in that it brings forth a few chuckles - but it doesn't accomplish much else.To give them credit, the cast seemed to take this seriously enough and played their parts well, although I understand from what I've read that the three leads did recognize the sheer silliness of it all and had their share of fun while making it. But a few chuckles and a decent cast aside, this just isn't a particularly good movie. In the end, what's most interesting about it is probably an appearance by a very young Jack Nicholson as the Lorre character's son. In terms of quality, his performance wasn't notable, and to be honest I didn't even recognize him until I saw his name in the closing credits. That, along with the team of Price, Lorre and Karloff) makes this movie a curiosity, but it doesn't make it good. (3/10) "},{"Title":"About as bad as it gets","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I guess it should have been a tip-off when I saw Roger Corman's name attached to this film. But even then I figured what the hell, I sat through The Wasp Woman, painful as it was, and The Raven has some great actors in it so it has to be better than that. But no, not at all, not better than Wasp Woman in the tiniest bit! At least Wasp Woman has one of the best movie posters of all time to recommend it.Anyway, I don't have the energy or imagination to even write a more descriptively bad review right now since I've been struck dumb by this mind-numbingly boring and painful to watch movie. Not scary, not funny, not interesting, not anything other than a colossal waste of time.Oh, and Jack Nicholson was rather wooden I thought. "},{"Title":"The Munsters without the laughs","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was hoping for a dark, spooky tale in the manner of The Pit and the Pendulum, another Edgar Allan Poe adaptation which also starred Vincent Price. But boy, was I wrong. This 1963 flick is played for laughs, but the laughs aren't that good. Price amiably hams it up as a benevolent paternal magician but you know what you're dealing with the moment a raven flies through his window and starts talking to him with a wise-ass delivery. This is Sabrina the Teenage Witch territory, The Munsters but less fun and without the groovy theme tune.A great supporting cast such as Boris Karloff, Peter Lorre and a young Jack Nicolson do little to enliven this and even at 80 minutes it outstays its welcome. This is more like a forgotten Disney flick, hoping to prompt an indulgent chuckle, and it unfolds very predictably. Rubbish special effects too, even for the time. "},{"Title":"The Raven","Date":"30 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A few films with this title now, which is the better you may ask, well it certainly isn't the one with John Cusack. An intriguing Corman take on the classic Poe poem, a horror comedy with his typical B-movie visuals and cheesy dialog. Of course this being a horror his style works and adds huge amounts of ghoulish charm to the proceedings.The fifth film Corman adapted from Poe's classic works and probably one of the best (and more well known). The cast is of course the main factor here, Vincent Price who stars in all but one of Corman's adaptations. Peter Lorre who stars in one other Corman/Poe adaptation, Boris Karloff and of course Jack Nicholson.The plot is based around the Poe poem but of course is very very loose. Obviously most of it has been made up to fill out an entire film and frankly its pretty hokey and childish. Basically Price's character (a good sorcerer) is mourning the loss of his 'Lenore', a talking raven comes into his life which turns out to be Lorre who was turned into the raven by an evil sorcerer (Karloff). Lorre explains that he has seen Lenore at Karloff's castle so off they go to find her. Turns out Lenore faked her death and ran off to the evil 'Dr. Scarabus' (Karloff) to lure 'Dr. Erasmus Craven' (Price) to the castle so they can take his powers.The plot is thinner than a supermodels waistline and merely serves to offer up some Price vs Karloff sorcery towards the end. Nothing really happens throughout the entire film other than a lot of silly dialog and some rather poor attempts at comedy, its very dated. Nicholson plays the part of a young lad and son of Lorre's character, who also falls for Dr. Erasmus Craven's daughter (she accompanies them all on their adventure to Karloff's castle). No real reason for him to be in this really, he does nothing other than serve up wooden deliveries.The visuals in the film are nice with that musky old haunted castle type atmosphere, plenty of old leather bound armchairs and dusty bookcases. Price fits the scene like a glove of course, Karloff seems a bit out of place being slightly too serious but he looks good, while Lorre's character is a real misery and quite unlikable, but its all about his voice isn't it. Some nice matte painting work on the outside castle shots, totally fake looking of course but I love that kinda stuff, nice cheesy storm too.Overall its rather lame really, yes I know its a cult classic with an ultra classic legendary cast but the film is pretty dull and uneventful. The highlight is easily the sorcery battle between Price and Karloff in the finale. A great fun and quite long continuous sequence with some nice ideas and nice effects too. The ending is very soft but what do you expect? this is soft core 1960's horror here, back in the day I'm sure it was deemed quite thrilling.I'm sure the hardcore fanboys of these silver screen stars will love this, I enjoyed it but must admit I was bored. The finale is cool but the rest is merely filler, still worth your time though purely for the cast.'Quoth the raven, Nevermore.'6/10 "},{"Title":"Not Much Poetry Here","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Vincent Price plays former sorcerer Dr. Craven, who is visited by a raven who can speak, and turns out to be a Dr. Bedlo(Peter Lorre) who was transformed by arch rival Dr. Scarabus(Boris Karloff) for a transgression. Bedlo begs Craven to restore him, and further tells Craven that his thought-dead wife Lenore(Hazel Court) is really alive, and living with Scarabus! This alarms Craven greatly, so he and Bedlo go to confront Scarabus, and a comedic battle of magic ensues. Jack Nicholson and Olive Burgess costar.Great cast can't overcome this misguided adaptation of the brilliant Edgar Allan Poe poem, that relies too much on comedy that isn't that funny, and a climax that renders the whole film moot when you think about it! Read the poem instead, a real masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Pretty good for what it was.","Date":"22 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just saw this for the first time. I am in general agreement w/ the rest of the comments here-it's funny, it's great to see this cast(Jaack?!), it's finale def. would be worth re-doing (Paging Peter Jackson or Sam Raimi!) w/ today's CGI. Ah that cast, that cast.And that low budget, that low budget. Some of the Bewitched type stuff wasn't so good, but c'mon, you gotta love it-Karloff w/ the Cannon, Karloff w/ the spear, Karloff w/ the snake, Vincent dropping eggs on his head, etc. A hoot.The cast is in on the fun(though Lorre's performance wasn't much, to be honest-yes I'm a fan but he was near the end here) and it shows. I don't think Nicholson was all that great, somewhat stiff and rolling his eyes a lot, but hey-a guy's gotta build that resume SOMEHOWS.Hazel Court -very very nice, by the way. Died just a month ago, sad. I do remember seeing her in many of these.*** outta ****, it's a good time.Oh Price wins. "},{"Title":"A little TOO silly but still fun","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A magician (Peter Lorre) is turned into a raven by an evil magician (Boris Karloff). He goes to get help from a kind magician (Vincent Price). Price and Lorre go off to battle Karloff.Not much of a plot--but with Lorre, Price and Karloff do you need one? Not a great movie by any means--it got more than a little silly at times,the score was dreadful and the special effects are terrible (even by 1963 standards) but I enjoyed this. Some of the lines are fun and the sets look great but it's the acting that puts this over. Price overacts (as always) but in a fun way; Lorre deadpans most of his dialogue and it works; Karloff looks great--relaxed and just having a great time in his role. Also a very young Jack Nicholson is in this--he's terrible and he later admitted that he hated this film. Also Hazel Court (looking stunning) is great in a small role. The script is good but, purportedly, Lorre ad-libbed most of his lines (I did see Price fighting not to laugh a few times). The climatic duel is a definite highlight. Worth catching.See a letter-boxed print. I saw it on a full frame print on TV with washed-out color. Half the time I couldn't tell what was going on because of the absence of the wide screen. "}{"Title":"Could Hardly Ever Be Less.","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's hard to believe this was written by Richard Matheson, who passed on just a few days ago, R.I.P. He wrote some fine short stories and a couple of neat scripts for The Twilight Zone. But here, I suppose, trapped in the strictures of time and budget, the story is meandering and ultimately unimportant, taking second place to a variety of inexpensive special effects and whimsical conversation that aims at wit but never quite makes it. You want comedy? Here are Vincent Price and goggle-eyed Peter Lorre as two Medieval sorcerers trying on funny hats.There are a few amusing lines. Peter Lorre is changed back and forth from a raven to a human and in the latter configuration is given to complaining about how itchy the pin feathers are and how he's always being attacked by hawks. They're not VERY funny but at least someone was trying.I don't think the film deserves much more attention. Boris Karloff is the third sorcerer and I understand they had fun making this silly movie. Clowning around, Lorre opened one of the caskets and said, Why, Jack WARNER! I'm glad they enjoyed themselves. I doubt many viewers will, except maybe children.Poe's poem, The Raven, is a genuine nightmare. I remember visiting the house in Philadelphia where he wrote it. A small piece of crumbling brick had fallen out of one of the walls and I pocketed it. I don't know why I'm mentioning that. It's probably a crime. But I've always admired Poe's work and often been moved by it, one way or another. And all we see or hear of the original raven is, I think, the first stanza (or part of it) of the poem, in a voice over by Price. For a fine reading, if anyone is interested, see if you can find Basil Rathbone's tape. But, as for this movie, why did they both to drag Poe in at all? "},{"Title":"A bit of fun","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Raven... Wait a minute this isn't The Raven! What is this!? It's a bit of fun. Masters of the horror genre, Price, Lorre, Karloff and um, Nicholson take Poe's poem and use/destroy it to make a light hearted parody of the Poe films that Corman and Price have made together. Self parody can work, Terminator 3, I thought was an excellent example, here it just about manages it, but only after I spent a long time thinking what is going on here? To be honest, the moment Vincent Price banged his head on his telescope I should have sussed it, but somewhere I was hoping for something to stay true-ish to the original poem. What I got was a camped-up, tongue in cheek, slapstick horror comedy. With some great moments, the scene when Craven opens his father's coffin, the scene where Craven jumps to wild conclusions about his dead wife so the plot can move forward and the scene where the two wizards battle it out was very entertaining. The film could have really gone for it in aping horror clichés, but it seems to have sat back and let the clichés speak for themselves, which is a brave move, and probably the reason why it wasn't working for me. (That, and the fact it was 130 in the morning and i was expecting a horror film, not a campy farce.) You'll enjoy it if you know what you're getting, so take it for what it is, and try not to worry that it's not true to The Raven, or that it's not a horror film. "},{"Title":"Great sets, outstanding props, superb old castles, but....","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...the film wasn't so hot. Not really bad, just ho-hum. I feel it would have been much better had it been played seriously. Seems this type of movie could always be better, though. The oddest thing about this picture was the burning of Dr. Scarabus's castle. As this stone structure burned, we see a series of fiery wooden frameworks. I guess these 1X4 laths were behind the 10 ton stone blocks holding them up, eh? Don't build those old domiciles like they used to. Did mother nature provide a lightning storm during the show? Guess. "},{"Title":"Karloff, Price and Lorre acting silly, what more could you ask for?","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This very silly horror comedy is more than a bit over the top, but then again how often did three masters of horror and suspense get to play it for laughs? The plot has Peter Lorre arriving at Vincent Price's home to tell him that his wife isn't dead, that she has in fact run off with another wizard, Karloff. Price with Lorre and his daughter in tow head off to see Karloff and it soon becomes a battle of magicians for the lives of everyone involved.Its clear that everyone on screen is having a good time and its hard not to share in the mirth. Made as part of the Poe series that AIP was churning out this film takes its name from the classic poem which Price recites at the opening as Lorre shows up in the form of a raven. Any notion of this being a scary film is quickly done away with when Lorre begins cracking wise. So much for another scare film like The House of Usher or The Masque of the Red Death. Its a welcome breath of fresh air from the Poe series and a great deal of fun.Wile not a truly great film it is one that is a full of a great deal of fun as the actors who scared you as a child instead make you laugh. I don't know what else to say other than just see this film if you want to have a good time. "},{"Title":"Lumpy adaptation of Poe","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A comedic horror opus, and a very strange one indeed, directed in an ungainly manner by Roger Corman. Based on Edgar Allan Poe's poem concerning two medieval magicians sparring with a warlock over past indifferences. Veteran stars Vincent Price, Boris Karloff and Peter Lorre look surprisingly relaxed and pleased throughout this talky, no-budget production, but the joy of seeing these great talents together quickly fades within the B-movie surroundings. Film only comes fully to life in the magical face-off finale. Hammy and silly, with young Jack Nicholson looking extremely self-conscious in support. Corman quickly followed this with The Terror in 1963, featuring Karloff, Nicholson, and the same sets used here. ** from **** "},{"Title":"My least favourite in Roger Corman's Edgar Allan Poe series.","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  'The Raven' is my least favourite Roger Corman directed Poe movie. It is completely unlike the others in the series, being a comedy. To me a not very funny one. Corman had previously made two classic low budget black comedies in 'A Bucket Of Blood' and 'The Little Shop Of Horrors', but 'The Raven' is nowhere near as amusing. Perhaps comedy isn't scriptwriter Richard Matheson's forte, but whatever the reason, this is a very disappointing entry in the series which are great favourites of mine. The cast however is outstanding. Horror legends Karloff and Price with two big star of different eras Lorre and Nicholson, and the beautiful Hazel Court who also appeared in the next and best of Corman's Poe movies 'The Masque Of The Red Death'. So no matter how slight and silly this movie is watching these actors together makes it almost worthwhile. The bigger fan you are of the actors involved the more you'll enjoy this one. Otherwise I wouldn't bother unless you've seen all the others and you HAVE to see them all. "},{"Title":"A baby boomer's dream horror movie.","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There was period of time in the late 50s to mid 60s where the horror/comedy movie became quite popular. These Karloff/Price/Lorre productions were excellent examples of this tongue-in-cheek genre and The Raven may been the best of them.As others have noted, the only commonality with Poe's work is that there is a raven in the movie (I guess it could be a crow, who can tell the difference). There are enough shock scenes to keep a 10 year old on the edge of his seat and enough cheesy comic relief to keep him from getting creeped out.By far the best part of the film comes with the lead actors who manage to blend the sinister with the silly in just the right balance to make the whole thing enjoyable.Very dated by today's standards, most kids wouldn't be impressed by the scares or the laughs. But for old folks who once spent a lot of Saturday afternoons at the local theater it's a wonderful visit to the past. "},{"Title":"Spotty But Enjoyable","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember having seen this movie as a kid and loving it. Didn't see it again until an adult, and in many ways it didn't live up to the memory. Certainly the effects are dated, but that's forgivable. The cast is stellar, but feels a little underused. The first act with Peter Lorre and Vincent Price is the weakest, with some uninspired dialogue. Once Karloff comes in halfway through the movie, and the three greats can play off of each other, it absolutely picks up. The plot is delightfully twisty. The script itself could have used a little more rewriting. As a horror-comedy, it is neither particularly scary nor particularly funny, but it is a pleasure to see the trio of horror greats go at it, and Karloff is the best of the three. But with that cast (including young Jack Nicholson) it could have been so much more. I remind myself we're looking at a low budget Roger Corman film, and I try to rein in expectations. And there are some good scenes scattered throughout, but the overall effect is merely mediocre. Take it for what it is, and enjoy it, but don't expect brilliance. "},{"Title":"Too much comedy too little horror","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Yes I'm shocked myself that I rate it so low because it is an entertaining movie. However when you get comedy when you were expecting horror the whole perspective and enjoyment changes. I should have known this was not going to be horror the moment that Vincent Price's character bumped his head against a telescope and than not much later followed by the funny talking raven. But I have the intention to watch every Poe based movie from Corman so I kept watching until the end. It was interesting to have next to Price some other horror icons such as Boris Karloff and Peter Lorre. And there is actually a young Jack Nicholson in there, actually quite handsome. Good to know he did not always had that ugly face thus unrecognizable here. So yes the story is simple and rather dumb and it does have some nice colorful magic effects but despite the medieval setting it lacks atmosphere. Price, Karloff and Nicholson in a comedy role I can take that but not from Peter Lorre. He is one who becomes irritating and annoying when playing a buffoon. This guy must be given a horror role! "},{"Title":"Three Legends Show Us Their Humorous Side In A Funny Film Classic!","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Raven (1935) and The Raven (1963) are two completely different movies - one has nothing to do with the other. The Raven (1963) is not a remake of the 1935 film. The ONLY similarities between the two films are Boris Karloff stars in both films, both are inspired by Poe's poem The Raven and both are good classic horror films - that's it! The stories of the two movies are quite different from each other.I forgot just how cute this film is until I watched it again! Quite a funny horror-fantasy film. Where else can we see Price dropping eggs on Karloff's head lol. Three legendary stars Lorre, Price and Karloff and an up and coming Jack Nicholson that show us their humorous side.Yes this is worth watching - if you like a good comedy-horror and fantasy film classic! 8.5/10 "}{"Title":"Peter Lorre goes from chasing after a blackbird to becoming one....","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What is that tapping? Who is rap-rap-rapping at my chamber door? These words might indeed come out of the mouth of the peaceful sorcerer (Vincent Price) whose recital of the Edgar Allan Poe poem opens this American International horror comedy with a rather child-like nature to its storytelling structure. The rap-rap-rapping is a talking raven who demands a potion consisting of ingredients like dried bat's blood and dead man's hair, but Price doesn't utilize those old-fashioned ingredients for his magic. He depends mainly on his own magic wand like finger, but fortunately for Lorre (who provides the voice of the wise-cracking blackbird), Price's deceased father's laboratory has dusty old bottles of all that stuff, including ingredients he doesn't need like endtrails of depressed horse.Yes, Roger Corman's tongue was in his cheek when he put together this variation of the famous poem, and he obviously had a lot of fun in having the screenplay written. Lorre, of course, has ulterior motives for contacting Price, and that includes introducing him to Price's father's old rival (Boris Karloff) who isn't the sweet old man he seems to be. Price has a deceased wife (Hazel Court) who isn't quite dead and a sweet daughter (Olive Sturgess) from a first marriage. In one of the most bizarre castings, Jack Nicholson plays Lorre's son (!), the handsome hero who sweeps Sturgess off her feet. Their challenge, though, is to make it out of Karloff's sinister castle alive, and that leads to a duel in magical feats between Price and Karloff.Don't let the supernatural tale fool you into thinking this is all devilish nonsense. It is nonsense, but only in the most humorous of ways, and the audience can enjoy the joke along with Corman and the other creative people involved in its making. The duel between Karloff and Price is done with great comical effect, making it almost as animated as the duel between Merlin and Mad Madam Mim in the Disney classic The Sword and the Stone. Then there is the ending which proves the intention of bringing in a young audience which seems to end with the villain's demise but has a nice twist. Lorre steals every moment he is on screen, having ad-libbed many of the raven's hideous wisecracks to which Price gets the final word in a hysterical finale. "},{"Title":"Rapping at my Chamber Door","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Greetings again from the darkness. It's been more than 50 years since this one was released, so it seems a good time to offer up some thoughts and observations. Let's start with the fact that you probably read Edgar Allen Poe's poem The Raven in high school. Director Roger Corman and writer Richard Matheson take Poe's work as a starting point in a most unique story of their own.If you aren't familiar with Roger Corman, he is one of the most prolific and entertaining B movie makers of all time. His writer here, Mr. Matheson, is best known for his work on numerous episodes of The Twilight Zone. Poe - Matheson - Corman would be enough, but we also get Vincent Price, Peter Lorre, Boris Karloff, Hazel Court and Jack Nicholson. Price is always a treat to watch (especially in horror films), Lorre appeared in 3 of the greatest movies of all-time (M, The Maltese Falcon, Casablanca), Karloff is the master of monster, Ms Court was one of the first stars of Hammer Films, and of course, Nicholson (fresh-faced here) went on to become one of the most successful actors in movie history.Price, Karloff, Lorre and Nicholson offer up four of the most unique voices ever heard in movies, and they each partake in the fun provided by Corman here. Yes, I said fun. This is almost slapstick comedy, and at a minimum, it's a parody of the much darker series of Poe films. If you consider it as an influence of the 1960's Batman TV series, you wouldn't be wrong. Even the music (heavy on the tuba) has an air of comedy.Watching Peter Lorre as a matador is pretty funny, and some of the back-and-forth with he and Nicholson as father and son is clearly ad-libbed, but the classic comedic sequence occurs when Price and Karloff take their wizardry duel to the death and turn it into a special effects highlight reel.This may be the only time you hear the phrase precious viper used to describe a woman, and if that, combined with all of the above reasons, isn't enough to motivate you to seek this one out, then maybe you will never discover why so many adore the films of Roger Corman. Compared with films of today, this style is nevermore. "},{"Title":"Horror (atmospheric) Comedy (unfunny)","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Not Without Some Interest, this Overrated and Disappointing Horror-Comedy is Mostly Comedy and it's Not Very Funny. But it is Slightly Amusing. Vincent Price along with Boris Karloff and Peter Lorre, is the Only Actor that Manages to Click.Lorre is just Annoying and Whiny, Krarloff seems Bored and Tired, and Oh Yea, there He is a Young Jack Nicholson, Director Roger Corman's Discovery, and about the Only Thing He can do is Look Out of Place and Awkward.The Movie Looks Great, has Beautiful Color Work and the Sets are Magnificent. But as a Whole the Film Barely Works Considering all the Talent, Including a Screenplay by the Usually Excellent Richard Matheson, who here is just a Pedestrian looking for a Paycheck.Overall, it can be Recommended for Corman Completists, Star Watchers, and for the Fabulous Atmosphere, as a Bonus You can Ogle Hazel Court. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is a hoot. It is so funny when Vincent Price and Boris Karloff have their magic duel to the death, but when Price wins he leaves Karloff alive but exhausted of magic. By facial expressions alone during the duel you can see that Price is in control and even contemptuous of Karloff's magical attempts. Now Price's wife, Lenore, having left a substitute body in her tomb went over to Karloff two years ago. She is basically a whore for power. Peter Lorre is one of the three sorcerers but he is the least of the three. Actually pretty pathetic compared to the other two. Jack Nicholson appears in this film as Lorre's son. He evidently has no magical talent but does have chutzpah and helps out Price's daughter. In the end Lorre has been turned back into a raven, goes to Price to become human again. It doesn't happen as Price decides it is a fitting punishment for hem to remain a bird. The last line of the movie is the last line of Poe's poem, quoth the raven nevermore. "},{"Title":"Not completely a review","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This isn't really a review - this is pretty much an un-reviewable movie, as you either like this genre - tongue-in-cheek horror - or you don't. It's not one of my favorites but I can see how people would enjoy this movie. What I do want to say is, if you are a Jack Nicholson fan, this is really a must see movie.It's a hoot to see him in this part. He is almost unrecognizable and it's sometimes hard to see the interesting actor he became in any of his acting here. But you need to see it. It is very funny! He looks a little uncomfortable (Jack Nicholson in tights!) and not at all happy that his agent got him this part.And yet, you cannot take your eyes off of him when he's on screen. "},{"Title":"Jack Nicholson's Youthful Performance!","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This all-star cast featured Edgar Allen Poe fan and actor, Vincent Price, as Dr. Craven. He is a widower who longs for Lenore, his beloved wife. He lives in a castle with his daughter, Estelle. One night, he's visited by a raven who talks. The special effects here is dated obviously but the raven is Peter Lorre's character cursed by another magician. Price's character is the descendant of a magician father. There is a battle between Price and Bela Lugosi who plays the other magician who wants it all at his castle. Jack Nicholson has a role as Lorre's son in this film. While it's not a great film, it's entertaining even with the dull effects. The story progresses slowly and I wonder where it's going if at all. There is an explosive climax but worth while to watch anyway even for entertainment. "},{"Title":"Nevermore, I think not.","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When a raven enters the room of widow magician Erasmus Craven, he learns that it's no normal bird when it asks for some wine. Wanting to transform back to its human form, Craven is given the ingredients of a potion, which will do that. Dr Bedlo returns back to form to tell Craven that the head of the brotherhood of Magiacans, Dr Scarabus did it to him after having a duel of magic. After seeing a picture of Craven's deceit wife Lenore, he convinces him that he saw her at Scarabus' castle. So Craven, his daughter, Bedlo and his son head to Scarabus' castle to see if it's true.A fun, tongue-in-cheek Roger Corman fantasy / comedy feature loosely inspired by Edgar Allen Poe. The leading cast of Vincent Price (looking rather withdrawn, but in character I guess), Peter Lorre (the real scene-stealer) and Borris Karloff are a real treat to watch. Hazel Court is deliciously good too. Olive Sturgess provides a delightful turn. However look out for a young looking Jack Nicholson playing it straight. The humour is pure mockery and effects elaborately cheap, but wonderfully captivating even though I didn't find it hilarious. The physical nature of its goofiness does seem to wear thin, but the charm never whimpers and Richard Matheson's fresh (if bent) screenplay keeps it fairly quaint and lively. Roger Corman's stagy (and almost cartoonish) direction creates some flair in many amusing passages, but fixes up little suspense. It's light and airy pace works to its favour. Les Baxter's psychedelic music score playfully sets up the scenes and whimsical nature throughout. The cheap Gothic sets are minimal, as it sticks to few sets, but pleasingly holds well with period feel and colourful atmosphere. Floyd Crosby's free-flowing cinematography is elastically done.An enjoyably random duel of classy talent, zany trickery and dry dialogue spells. "},{"Title":"Poe à la Corman...","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Having read a few of Edgar Allan Poe's works and having fond memories of Boris Karloff's early work, Jack Nicholson's later work and Peter Lorre, I proceeded to acquire this little film. As many reviewers justly point out, one should not go in expecting pure Poe, because what you get is closer to pure Corman. The classic poem is merely a starting point for the script.A benign wizard (Price) mourning his wife, is visited by a talking raven. He quickly restores it to human form a fellow wizard (Lorre), defeated by the evil Dr Beldo (Karloff). They journey to his castle and a series of double and triple-crosses ensue (thanks to Lorre's devious character) before a wizard duel to the death breaks out. All this is played out for laughs and if you're in on the joke, you're in for a great time. Vincent Price overplays, tongue-in-cheek, while a perpetually musing glance makes you comfortable. Boris Karloff plays it straight, being all the funnier for it when he grumbles at his failures to overcome his enemies. Best of all is peter Lorre's deliciously craven wizard and the unlikely comic duo he forms with a very young Jack Nicholson. Even the duels are wonderfully silly (a wise choice given the poor special effects). Of course there is a side helping of gloom, most notably in the very dark exteriors and the Gothic interiors (there is some pretty admirable production design).All in all, this is a neat lighthearted film, more than original enough in its premise to be worth a look. "},{"Title":"Once upon a midnight dreary...","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Roger Corman's spoof of Roger Corman horror films remains one of the more amusing parodies of the horror genre (a hard thing to bring off well). Vincent Price, Peter Lorre and Boris Karloff bring magic to their roles as a trio of rival sorcerers in Plantagenet England. Also in the cast, Hazel Court pouts peachily, while a wooden young Jack Nicholson seems to be doing a bad impression of Stan Laurel.Unsentimental and quite vicious when it wants to be, it's as gorgeously coloured and styled as you'd expect. But Corman's other Poe-inspired chillers for American International were more tightly plotted. Here, Richard Matheson's storyline is formless, especially the first half. It's only when Corman startlingly cuts to Karloff's entrance on top of his slimy green castle's staircase that it takes some sort of shape.The final duel of magic is worth waiting for. Price and Karloff, face to face on ornamental thrones, transmute the elements against each other before culminating in a crossfire of emerald and sapphire-hued rays that emanate from their fingertips.Likable (with Lorre especially irresistible as the incorrigible Dr Bedlo), but that slack first half lets it down. "},{"Title":"Really Interesting...","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie only because of the interesting lineup of stars involved. Vincent Price has always been a favorite horror star of mine as well as Boris Karloff. But the what the heck was Jack Nicholson doing in there? I guess it was just his way of getting to superstardom, but if you look at this movie its truly an underground hit for him. I guess its an acquired taste when it comes to this movie, but I really enjoyed it for a good laugh. It's really not so bad as others think. Vincent Price has always been good in the Edger Allen Poe movies and this one is no different. Although I believe Pit and the Pendulum is his best, the Raven doesn't come within his top 5. Peter Lorre is always good for a laugh and adds plenty of comic relief in this movie. The beautiful Hazel and Olive add a woman's touch. The movie is a bit too long for my taste.  "}{"Title":"Price and Lorre do Parody of Past Very Well","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a wonderful comedy, done strictly as a parody of past R.C. productions.  I don't know what is wrong with the critics who don't seem to get this movie.  I think they take themselves too seriously, but thank goodness Vincent Price and his fellow compadres do NOT!!  I loved this movie the first time I saw it, and I was thrilled to see it released to DVD so I can share it with my friends, family and children.Vincent Price, God love him, can ham up performances like no one else.  This movie was made to showcase just how capable he is at reflecting on his own campiness.  The only other actor in modern-day cinema who does this effectively is Geoffrey Rush (Pirates of the Caribbean, House on Haunted Hill).If you have an opportunity to catch this on television, do NOT miss it. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but should've been better.","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With such a magnificent cast, and the Edgar Allan Poe source material, I hoped for better, having already seen and loved The Masque of the Red Death. The Raven is an undeniably hammy, camped-up comedy that simply doesn't produce enough laughs. The cast do make the most of it though, with Vincent Price so at home with the material it's uncanny. Lorre and Karloff are steady, but the less senior performers Jack Nicholson and Olive Sturgess are rather bland, Nicholson offering no early hints of his talent to come. The highlight has to be the beautiful Hazel Court, as the alluring, rather delicious Lenore. She's accorded good dialogue as well as a fetching costume. The link to Poe's poem The Raven is merely jokey it seems, allowing Lorre to do some deadpan schtick as the magician-turned-raven. It's fairly average in writing and visuals, unlike the superior colourful literary feast that is The Masque of The Red Death. Still worth watching though, as it's a steady entertainment. Rating- *** (out of *****)  "},{"Title":"A Poe classic starring the legendary Triumvirate of Terror","Date":"15 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love the talents of Vincent Price, I even have many of his films (mostly recorded from TV). But this film The Raven is my favorite out of them. The film is loosely based on the poem, The Raven by Edgar Allan Poe and it's also my favorite poem too. It stars not just Vincent, but Peter Lorre, and Boris Karloff. And also a young Jack Nicholson (Tim Burton's Batman) plays Peter Lorre's son in the film. The movie was part of series of Poe adaptions produced by Roger Corman through American International Pictures. The Raven was also the first film in which the legendary Triumvirate of Terror -- actors Vincent Price, Peter Lorre, and Boris Karloff -- all appear on screen together.The film's about Dr. Erasmus Craven, a sorcerer who has been mourning the death of his wife Lenore for over two years, much to the chagrin of his daughter Estelle...I love Estelle. One December evening, a cowardly fool of a magician named Bedlo comes to Craven for help- the evil Scarabus has turned him into a raven and he needs someone to change him back. Afterwards, Bedlo explains he had been transformed by the evil Dr. Scarabus in an unfair duel, and both set out to pay a visit to him Bedlo wants to exact revenge, and Craven wants to look for his wife's soul, who has been reportedly seen at Scarabus' castle.I like part when Erasmus got knocked out by the door, with a smile on his face like in cartoons..only without the swirling stars. And also when Craven attempt to make a potion for Bedlo who has been turned into a raven. However Craven's potion skills, are a little rusty. Overall one of the best movies ever made. Comedy, thriller, suspense and the best actors ever. "},{"Title":"Funny and charming.","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is a lot of fun. Apart from its good natured, funny comedy, it has some interesting references to historical people. The most obvious being Vincent Price's character's name Erasmus, as well, Dr Scarabus is dressed like a Renaissance Pope, and the hat and cloak (of which the film makes quite a point, makes the wonderful Peter Lorre look like Martin Luther. Was Roger Corman making a point about the reformation and its (arguable of course)effect of clearing away corrupt 'magic', (which which medieval Catholicism has been identified). This movie is one of my favourites (I always play it in German, it's so much funnier). The possible/probable references to the Reformation aren't necessary to the enjoyment of this gorgeous film, but I do wonder... "},{"Title":"A different look at fantasy and magic.","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Roger Corman writes and produces this farce loosely based on Poe's poem 'The Raven'. This movie seems to satirize the wonderful horror flicks that highlighted our childhoods. A trio of our horror favorites tries desperately to make this clanker click. Tongue-in-cheek humor takes on a different meaning for each individual viewer. The highlight of the movie comes late in the running when Dr. Craven(Vincent Price) and his rival, Dr. Scarabus(Boris Karloff),duel to see who is the master of magical manipulation.Peter Lorre as Dr. Bedlo is all but wasted before turning into a raven. Also in the cast are the eye opening Hazel Court, Connie Wallace and an awkward Jack Nicholson. I would not doubt that Price, Karloff and Lorre took the money and ran. By all means this is no career enhancer, but fun to watch during a late night party. "},{"Title":"Bland","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was sort of humorous, sort of not.  Sort of interesting, but then sort of not.  It seems like this movie was made solely as an excuse for people to clown around.  Jack Nicholson looks like a total dweeb in that costume.  (Hazel Court and Olive Sturgess are hot!)  This movie is worth watching for fans of Vincent Price; nobody can combine comedy and horror like him.  But this movie just isn't funny enough or horror enough to be among his best.  Don't confuse this movie with the 1935 film of the same name, also starring Karloff.  In fact, watch that one instead of this one. "},{"Title":"Memento of strange sentiment","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't know what the Scream generation of horror fans makes of this odd cultural artifact, basically a children's film designed to delight a generation nursed on the Shock Theater package that monster movie hosts used to show in the fifties and early sixties, which explains the presence of such alarmingly decrepit gentlemen as the cuddly, loveable protagonists of this gothic kiddie show. Even considered outside this freakish cultural context, it is a deliciously exotic and genuinely witty little fairy tale, a sort of cinematic equivalent of the Disney park Haunted Mansion, which can be shown to all but the youngest horror fans without fear of nightmares.  "},{"Title":"Inspired merriment.","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Magician Erasmus Craven (Vincent Price), enough of a talent that he can make magic with mere hand gestures, is visited one night by Adolphus Bedlo (Peter Lorre), who's been transformed into the title animal by Craven's rival, the nefarious Dr. Scarabus (Boris Karloff). After Bedlo has been turned back to human form, they travel to the castle of Scarabus, as Bedlo has told Craven that he has seen a woman there who resembles Craven's late wife Lenore (Hazel Court). Accompanying them on this adventure are Bedlo's bumbling son Rexford (Jack Nicholson) and Craven's lovely daughter Estelle (Olive Sturgess).As envisioned by author / screenwriter Richard Matheson, and realized by producer / director Roger Corman, this entry in Corman's series of Edgar Allan Poe related films is a delight. It's a spirited blend of horror and comedy, taking a playful jab at the entire Gothic horror genre. The pacing is rather deliberate, but the script & performances generate some hearty laughs. Clearly the actors are having a good time. Price and Lorre didn't make much sense of the script, and opted to play the material as broadly as possible. They also did a fair amount of improvising, which contrasted with the more meticulous approach that Karloff took. All of the ladies (including Connie Wallace as a maid) are ravishing, and Nicholson is fun to watch. The animation effects add to the goofy charm of the film. The major highlight, naturally, is the climactic sorcerer's duel between Price and Karloff. Price was very afraid of the boa that had to be draped around his neck at one point.The music by Les Baxter perfectly matches the mood of each scene, and Corman's collaborators, production designer / art director Daniel Haller and cinematographer Floyd Crosby, bring their A game as usual. Almost all of the credits are saved for the final few minutes.Followed by the subsequent (and far more serious) Corman/Price combo, The Haunted Palace.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"During the dueling I observed Dr. Scarabus making furtive gestures with his fingers.","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Perhaps the most popular of the Corman Poe movies. Certainly the funniest. If you're new to the world of Roger Corman's Edgar Allan Poe movies, let me tell you upfront that this is only related to Poe in the loosest sense. They stick a raven and a woman named Lenore in there but beyond that it's a completely new story dreamed up by Richard Matheson. Meek magician Vincent Price is approached for help by a colleague (Peter Lorre) who has been turned into a raven by evil magician Boris Karloff. Once restored to human form, Lorre informs Price that his wife, believed to be dead, is actually alive and living with Karloff. He rushes to Karloff's castle, which is just what the evil magician had hoped for.The cast is excellent and the script tongue-in-cheek. Peter Lorre is especially fun. Jack Nicholson plays Lorre's son. Lovely Hazel Court plays Price's wife Lenore and is clearly enjoying herself. There's a certain degree of cheapness about the production (it was Corman, after all) but it kind of adds to the film's charm. I enjoyed this one a lot. It's one of Corman's best. Fans of his or the stars involved will surely love it. "},{"Title":"Classic Price, Lorre and Karloff movie","Date":"1 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For a long time I have loved The Raven, always have found funny and spooky with great lead performances and atmosphere. And I still think that. The special effects are a little dated, but are not bad enough to upset the film too much. Besides the Gothic settings are lavish and add to the atmosphere wonderfully. The throw-away one-liners and the dialogue in general is very clever, witty and arch, while the story while not bearing resemblance much to the Poe poem is thrilling in the duel between Price and Karloff and with a great atmosphere. The cast are brilliant. It was nice to see a young Jack Nicholson, and Hazel Court is a lovely presence. But the three leads are the main selling points. Boris Karloff's eerie command wonderfully sends up his classic screen image. Vincent Price is as ever brilliant, with his delivery wonderfully arch and his voice suave and distinctive. Stealing the film is Peter Lorre, his tipsy comic incompetence is a joy to watch and the comedy judged beautifully.Overall, a comedy-horror classic. 9/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"15 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This loose adaptation of the poem The Raven is one of the more entertaining entries in Roger Corman's film adaptations of Edgar Allen Poe's works. This may well be because its tongue is firmly in its cheek from start to finish.Vincent Price is at his hammy best as the film moves towards its climactic wizards' duel between him and Boris Karloff (playing it straight, in wonderful contrast). Peter Lorre ad the young Jack Nicholson lend splendid support.The special effects, great in their day, look a little bit threadbare now, but the film is still colourful, entertaining fun. "},{"Title":"Quoth This Critic, Forevermore","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Any time you get to see a film with Boris Karloff, Peter Lorre, and Vincent Price in it, don't ever pass it up. You may nevermore get a chance to see this.Suggested by the classic poem by Edgar Allan Poe, The Raven is set in Medieval Times and in the tongue in cheek spirit of the film, that could mean the theme park. Magician Vincent Price lives in his castle with his daughter and memories of his second wife Lenore who departed a few years back. As the poem says a rapping came at his chamber door and The Raven enters and it talks like Peter Lorre. When Price restores it to human form it is Peter Lorre. Lorre wants Price to go challenge the chief magician of the society who is Boris Karloff. And as an inducement he tells him that the late Lenore is not so late and that she's alive and living in sin with Karloff.Who could resist that, but also their children seem to be bonding and that would be Lorre's son Jack Nicholson and Karloff's daughter Olive Sturgess. The four of them go calling on Karloff and indeed find Hazel Court as Lenore very much alive. She's a magician groupie and Karloff's got the biggest wand.This film is positively infectious, three great players indulging in a contest as to see who can chow down fastest on a living room set. That final magic duel lasting fifteen minutes with no dialog between Price and Karloff is alone worth seeing this for. And remember those two have some of the greatest speaking voices ever in film.Roger Corman produced and directed a real classic here, don't miss this one when it's broadcast. "},{"Title":"A different kind of great","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Many of you guys might have heard of the famous Edgar Allan Poe poem The Raven which is a masterpiece of epic proportions and in my view is one of the all time greatest pieces you can read. Anyhow in the 60's the B-movie King Roger Corman started adapting Poe's poems and short stories starring some of the greatest actors available in that time. As mentioned before, The Raven is one of them. But the question is, if it can live up to our expectations...The plot of the movie is pretty hard to explain and it is probably what makes it so unique. The connection with the poem seems to be a bit far fetched when you watch the story develop but it does have a dark and disturbing atmosphere that reminds me of reading Poe. Anyhow, Vincent Price ( as always amazing ) plays a magician called Dr. Craven, whose father was in a feud with the evil Dr. Scarabus ( Boris Karloff ) . His wife just passed away and he lives with his daughter and his servants. One evening a talking raven, who is really Peter Lorre enters his study room and asks him for help. He was turned into a raven by Dr. Scarabus and he claims to have seen Cravens wife at the castle, where Scarabus resides. So Craven decides to help him and bring Scarabus down for good...Talking about this movie is not an easy thing to begin and the weirdness that makes Corman's movies that special does not make it better. The actors are what makes this movie great, without them it would probably not be half as good. The duel between Price and Karloff is epic, haunting and with a strange sense of humor. They make a great job giving this movie a dark and fascinating note. in addition, Peter Lorre just tops it off by being a stupid Drunk with a great amount of over the top acting. On the other hand, Nicholson and Olive Sturgess ( Cravens Daughter Estelle ) do a rather dull job and their romance is just a nice but unnecessary side plot. Atmospherically speaking Corman does a great job as always. The sets are great and the lighting just adds the right amount of dark and mysterious atmosphere. The problem with this movie is the music. Sometimes it gets so loud and dominant that it is just annoying. I find it great having a good musical score in a movie that just blows you away. But this does not work with a couple of keyboard and synthesizer sounds. Altogether, I do like it! It is different than you would expect and the storyline definitely does not develop the way that you would think, but that is what makes it great. The actors and the atmosphere is what make this movie what it is, a good old classic with minor flaws that you will not mind overlooking. The ending is going to send chills down your spine... Said the Raven nevermore! "},{"Title":"1960s Horror Classic","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Raven, released in January, 1963, was produced and directed for AIP by Roger Corman and runs 86 minutes. Vincent Price was Dr. Erasmus Craven. Peter Lorre as Dr. Bedlo, Boris Karloff as Dr. Scarabus, Hazel Court as Lenore, and Jack Nicholson as young Rexford Bedlo were the remainder of the main cast. Richard Matheson did the screenplay.The Raven is another of Corman's Edgar Allan Poe cycle of films. Like most of them, great liberties were taken with the original Poe tale. In this one, the raven, with the voice of Lorre, appears at the home of magician Dr. Erasmus Craven, who is pining away time lamenting the loss of his deceased wife, Lenore. It seems that the cantankerous Bedlo has been transferred into a bird after losing a battle of magic with the famous Dr. Scarabus. After a much-too-long opening sequence in which this is explained and Craven restores Bedlo to human form, Bedlo informs his host that Lenore is indeed alive and staying with Scarabus in his castle. This is too much for the grieving Dr. Craven, so he and his daughter Estelle, played by Olive Sturgess, and Bedlo with his son Rexford, who has conveniently shown up at Craven's front door, venture forth to the castle of the feared Dr. Scarabus. Fortunately, The Raven becomes much more interesting at this point.Horror and comedy, in my humble opinion, do not often mix, but they co-exist in The Raven about as well as I've seen. The Raven, shot immediately before The Terror utilizing the same sets, is probably a better film but not as interesting to fans of pure horror as the latter.Portions of the coach ride to Scarabus' castle can be viewed in one of the segments in Gallery Of Horrors, (1969), and the distance shot of the castle on the hill is all too familiar to Corman fans.However, I digress. When the motley group arrive at Scarabus castle, they find that Lenore is indeed alive, that she left her somewhat dull husband for the interesting life that the aging Scarabus could provide, and that she and Bedlo were used by him as bait to lure Craven to his lair, where he wishes to learn more about Craven's superior magic skill. One thing leads to another, and the film climaxes with a magician's duel between Craven and Scarabus. The duel, eight minutes long on screen, is legendary in the annals of horror film-making. (See The Raven for this alone if for no other reason). I won't spoil the ending for you so I will only say that everyone gets what's coming to them in the end! But, there are plenty of other reasons to view The Raven. Karloff, (at his best here!) Amusing and ominous at the same time), Price, Lorre and Nicholson together in one film, for one. Film historians seem to appreciate this unique gathering of extraordinary talent more than they do Karloff and Nicholson together in The Terror, and perhaps this is to be expected. (Horror film fans owe AIP a huge debt, for it, more than any other studio, kept the careers of such players alive during this period. See Karloff, Price, Lorre and Basil Rathbone in 1963's Comedy of Terrors, a film similar to The Raven and which also includes a small but memorable role for comic Joe E. Brown). Hazel Court is beautiful and delightful as the scheming Lenore, a woman any man could easily yearn for and be seduced by. Indeed, The Raven enjoyed fine performances from all the players.Old villain Peter Lorre. Late in his career he was pleasing in humorous parts. Lorre was not a well man during this period, but his performances live on. He was the equal of Robin Williams when it came to ad-libbing and driving co-stars crazy! It is interesting to note that young Nicholson, while not the actor he would become, holds his own very well against the veteran co-stars he played against, particularly Lorre, who portrayed his acerbic, browbeating father.1962's Tales of Terror, a three-story trilogy, included The Black Cat, (by, you guessed, AIP), a humorous look at the Poe tale starring Vincent Price and Peter Lorre. Horror humor doesn't get any better than it is in the works I have mentioned in this article. I give The Raven, very atmospheric with those marvelous sets, three well deserved stars, perhaps 3 1/2 stars to be generous. The magician's duel by itself would rate four stars. That classic scene would play well in a modern day film with state of the art special effects!Go ahead and rent Comedy of Terrors and Tales of Terror while you're at the video store and make a very pleasant weekend out of it. I promise you won't be disappointed.If you'll invite me over, I'll bring the popcorn. "},{"Title":"The Raven","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dr. Bedlo(Peter Lorre), a rather lackluster magician convinces a reclusive warlock, Erasmus(Vincent Price in one of his most relaxed horror roles portraying a man without one iota of evil in his being)to return him from the form of a raven back into a man, claiming that the most powerful(presumably)sorcerer in the country, Scarabus(Boris Karloff)slighted him with trickery in a duel. Bedlo informs Erasmus that his beloved, dead(presumably)wife Lenore had been seen roaming the estate of Scarabus which certainly convicts the magician to meet the Grand Master Wizard at his castle. Erasmus' daughter Estelle(Olive Sturgess)wishes to go with them, but he resists this notion until Scarabus inflicts their manservant with a spell with orders to kill. Surviving this ordeal, Erasmus sees no other alternative but to allow his daughter to accompany them, with Bedlo's son Rexford(Jack Nicholson)driving the horses to Scarabus' castle. Even Rexford is overcome by a mind trick that has their horse ride to the castle rather bumpy to say the least. Once there, Scarabus seems to offer mere hospitality, but his true person will soon come to the surface as he harbours a desire to gain Erasmus' abilities at hand magic. Erasmus will understand his dead father's warning(in an early scene, Erasmus cuts a few locks of hair from the corpse of his father, and from within the crypt casket, the dead man rises to tell his son to Beware.)and have to partake in a sorcerer's duel to the death with Scarabus. Erasmus also finds that his darling Lenore has betrayed him for Scarabus' wealth and power. She's quite a seductive little viper who gleefully flaunts Erasmus' unfortunate situation, but is quite unaware just how powerful he really is with his hand magic.The thrill for me, which should be no surprise considering the type of aging stars this film boasts, was seeing the central cast playing it up in such a horror farce. The duel between Price and Karloff is obviously a blast to sit through, even if the special effects are rather dated and less effective..although the gags that accompany the effects are splendid. I do think this is one of those rare cases where, in the Price/Corman/Poe cycle, that the film's low-budget shows. But, seeing the three great horror stars in the same scenes sending up the sorcerer plot was such a joy for this fan. Karloff still has the sinister qualities conveying through the evil, conniving Scarabus and his dastardly plans, but it was nice to see Price playing on the opposing side, as a gentle soul with no qualms with the treacherous magician, as the focused warlock who isn't so easy to duel with as Lorre. Lorre has the most splendid role as an untrustworthy would-be sorcerer who often will turn on someone for a dime. It was Lorre's Bedlo's greed for magical power that ultimately sets up the danger for Erasmus and his daughter anyway. Good humor through some delightful dialogue written by the always reliable Richard Matheson. "},{"Title":"Vincent Price, Boris Karloff, Peter Lorre AND Jack Nicholson - Need I Say More?","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Vincent Price is my favorite actor of all-time, I'm especially a great fan of Roger Corman's Poe cycle and, as far as I am considered, movies like Pit And The Pendulum(1961), The Haunted Palace (1963) and The Masque Of The Red Death(1964) , are some of the greatest films ever contributed to the Horror genre. Although The Raven of 1963 is my least favorite entry to this excellent series of (loosely) Poe-based films, since it is not quite the eerie Gothic Horror the other films are, but more of a comedy, it is still a fascinating, funny and highly atmospheric film and there is no doubt that this is a must-see for every fan of the Horror genre. This movie unites three of the greatest Horror-icons in motion picture history, Vincent Price, Boris Karloff and Peter Lorre in one film, being one of the two movies to feature these three great men together, the other being Jaques Tourneur's The Comedy Of Terrors of 1964. A movie featuring Price, Karloff and Lorre is a must-see just for its cast, especially if it furthermore features young Jack Nicholson and Hazel Court.The son of a powerful sorcerer, who is in the meanwhile deceased, Dr. Erasmus Craven (Vincent Price) was once as versed in sorcery as his late father. He has, however, in the meantime abandoned his former profession in order to live a peaceful life in his castle with his daughter (Olive Sturgess). He has to overturn his decision not to practice magic, however, when a fellow magician named Bedlo (Peter Lorre) comes to his castle. Bedlo, who has been turned into a Raven by the warlock Dr. Scarabus (Boris Karloff), needs Craven's help. He furthermore tells Craven, that his supposedly dead wife Leonore Craven has been seen at Scarabus' castle&#133;Unlike the other films of the Poe/Corman/Price cycle, The Raven, which is only loosely based on Edgar Allan Poe's work, does not mainly focus on suspense, but it is more of a satirical look on the series itself, and it certainly is very funny. The performances are, of course, excellent, (how could they not be) Vincent Price, Boris Karloff and Peter Lorre are outstanding as always and 25-year-old Jack Nicholson, who plays Peter Lorre's character's kind-hearted son, shows us his first short portrayal of temporary insanity. Hazel Court also fits greatly in her role, as well as Olive Sturgess. Although The Raven does not quite reach the brilliance of the other entries to Corman's Poe cycle with Price, it is a highly amusing Gothic Horror Satire, with an extraordinarily great cast. Every fan of classic Horror should see this, for us fans of Vincent Price, Boris Karloff and Peter Lorre this is a must-see. Great spooky fun, and WHAT A CAST! 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Ultimate in the Poe Translations","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dr. Erasmus Craven (Vincent Price) finds a raven, who is actually a man (Peter Lorre). After turning the raven back into his natural state, the two men (along with Craven's daughter and a young hero played by Jack Nicholson) go to the castle of Dr. Scarabus (Boris Karloff), who is living with Craven's thought-to-be-dead wife, Lenore (Hazel Court).In the 1960s, director Roger Corman teamed up with writer Richard Matheson to create eight adaptations of Edgar Allan Poe's short stories. The Raven might be the best in the series, despite having almost nothing to do with the original story.Opens with Price reciting the well-known poem, with some strange artistic background swirling about. It sets the tone nicely, as there are fewer things that blend better than price's voice and the works of Edgar Allan Poe.What ensues is a tale of magic, treachery and double-crossing with questionable alliances. And one of the best magic battles in film history, fighting for the chair of the Magician Brotherhood. This fight is very much like a fight from a Star Wars film with the optical illusions and lasers and whatnot. If George Lucas was in any way inspired by this, I would not be surprised.What makes this film is the humor (the actors often ad-lib their lines and it is a very fun time, obviously). The magician Craven claiming he cannot carry certain spell components because he is vegetarian? Priceless! And the bizarre music (xylophone? what is that?) only heightens the weirdness.But also, look at this cast Vincent Price and Boris Karloff, two of the giants of horror. Peter Lorre, another horror veteran, known for his bugged eyes and unique voice. And Jack Nicholson, young but already quickly becoming a horror staple (with such early films as The Terror and Little Shop of Horrors). Nicholson might have gone on to bigger things, but his roots are with Corman, Price and Karloff.Howard Maxford says the film doesn't quite live up to its reputation, but I disagree strongly. And this film is considerably better than The Terror, which utilized the same actors (Nicholson, Karloff) and even some of the sets. If you think horror from days past is awful, rent this film and see if your mind can be changed. Newer is not always better. "},{"Title":"Who's that skinny jerk actor?","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Raven was part of a Saturday afternoon twin bill at the local Bijou. Both films scared the crap out of me and both are worth a look today. The only thing I really remember was that with Karloff, Lorre, and Price, you had to wonder who that third rate low budget jerk actor was playing the part of the son? The actress was fine, but that twit didn't have anything going for him!I never expected to see Jack Nicholson be anything but one of those forgotten bit players who went nowhere! How tastes change! How fate can bring about success!Spoiler If you see the DVD you will notice some continuity problems with Peter Lorre's hat while they are in the prison. "},{"Title":"Corman Comedy","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are many joys in this movie, not least seeing three great actors, Price, Lorre, and Karloff, playing comedy as comedy should be played -- with finesse and wit.But the most interesting thing for me is that this seems to be the best looking of Corman's Poe films before he went to England to shoot Masque of the Red Death and The Tomb of Ligeia. The superficial explanation is one that Corman himself offers in his autobiography, where he says that every set from a previous scene was augmented by the budget for the following film in other words, it was a simple matter of home improvement. But there is more than that. Corman seems to have rediscovered his joie de vivre in film-making. The irreverence of this film re- awakened his rebel maverick instincts. He is ending himself up. "},{"Title":"Wizardry and Comedy","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Title The Raven (1963) Director Roger Corman Cast Vincent Price, Peter Lorre, Boris Karloff, Jack Nicholson Review Vincent Price did many films based on Edgar Allan Poes poems and short stories, this is one that is very very very loosely based on Poes The Raven. How loosely you say? Well, lets just say that the only things that are based on Poes poem is the raven, the name Lenore and...the actual poem which is read at the beginning of the movie. Thats it. What follows even though it has almost nothing to do with Poes poem is fun and comedy...old school style. Very old school.One spooky old night as Craven the magician is at home practicing some of his magical spells, a Raven comes to his window and starts tapping wanting to get in. When it does, Craven soon realizes that this isn't an ordinary Raven, because this one actually talks! Soon Craven finds out that the Raven was actually an old magician friend of his named Bedlo that was turned into a Raven in a magicians duel with another powerful magician known as Dr. Scarabus. Craven transforms Bedlo back into his human form, then, together decide to confront Dr. Scarabus in a duel of magicians...to the death! First off, this movie is first and foremost a horror comedy. So don't expect a serious film or a serious adaptation of Poes poem. Expect instead a spoof of this type of film.The best thing that this movie has going for it are two things. First it has a superb cast. The combination of Vincent Prices over the top performance as the reluctant sorcerer who doesn't want to abuse his powers, to Peter Lorres funny portrayal of a magician wannabe to Boris Karloffs evil Dr. Scarabus...they all make for a very excellent triple threat of horror.The other thing this movie has going for it is the excellent screenplay by Richard Matheson who basically decided it would boring to make a movie out only the poem. So he constructed this whole fake world around Poes poem. The dialog is witty, snappy, funny and intelligent. Its a delight to hear the intricate words and dialog that Matheson chose to tell his tale. Its something very elegant to hear.Also a plus are the sets which as Corman says on an interview were really just an amalgamation of every other set used up to that point in American International pictures. They are slightly more complex and elaborate then other Corman produced pics.But of course the grand finale is what everyone is waiting for! The duel of magicians between Craven and Dr. Scarabus! Karloff vs. Price in a duel of hokey yet funny effects that will leave you begging for more! Love the heck out of this part of the movie.This is definitely a film from another era, an era in which films could be funny and they didn't have to be loud and in your face. They just relied on funny dialog and situations that didn't have to be gross or in bad taste. An era when actors had an importance over special effects and spoooky dark castles were a must. Rent The Raven for some goofy fun and spookiness. Oh and to see one of Jack Nicholsons first performances, back when he was a struggling actor.Rating 4 out of 5 "}{"Title":"good but not great","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I accually enjoyed this lovely little comedy. I don't know but it might have something to do with that it stars Vincent Price, one of my long time favorite actors. Because I am not generally to fond of comedies.This is one of those who don't produce a lot of laughs but play gently with the viewer. If you have seen a few other similar movies (in the horror genre) it certainly helps. I would even considder this a parody of such movies from time to time. And what of the actors? Well, As Vincent Price being a long time favorite I was hardest on him. I feel that he plays over just a bit from time to time, but on the other hand, this is that kind of a movie.Peter Lorre must do the best performance here. He does his drunk and revengeous character very well, but on the other hand, I've seen him do just about that part before...Boris Karloff is good also! Good but not great, he did far better movies than this one in his earlier days.As someone else said about Jack Nicholson. He doesn't hint what a great actor he'll become in later years. Still it's funny to see an early film by someone like him.7/10Movie-Man "},{"Title":"Fascinating to watch three classic actors ham it up as a future star appears.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Great special effects? No.  Great plot? Not really (though it hangs together better than some -- not surprising with E.A. Poe and Richard Matheison as authors).  Scary? Not unless you think about these folks getting paid to be so corny.  But it is a hoot nonetheless to see a classic Roger Corman cheese fest that doesn't take itself too seriously and you get to see micro-flashes of Jack Nicholson's raw talent.  Peter Lorre, far from the effete evil of The Maltese Falcon is actually turned into a bird here. Vincent Price and Boris Karloff, two greats of the old school scary movies are light and silly here (and you can tell they know it).  It is my guilty pleasure that I never miss when I spot it on TV.  "},{"Title":"This is a true cult classic. A must for Price, Lorre and Karloff fans.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This cult classic from director Roger Corman is a mixture of chills, thrills, special effects and veritable comedy. Although it is based on the famous Poe poem, it boasts a very known cast of the horror genre greats - Boris Karloff, Vincent Price and Peter Lorre. The story line deals with a magician known as Erasmus Craven (Price) who is mourning his late wife, Lenore (Hazel Court). Without warning he is interrupted by a raven who is in fact an amateur sorcerer, Dr. Bedlo (Lorre). He has been changed into a raven by the evil Grandmaster of Sorcerers, Dr. Scarabus (Karloff) whom Bedlo claims is keeping Leonore in his castle. Craven, his daughter,  Bedlo and his son, played here by a very young Jack Nicholson, set off for Scarabus' castle. Once there they discover that Scarabus has a plan to devoid Craven of his magical powers. They engage in a supernatural magical duel to the death... This movie is darkly humorous and contains much action. It is by no means a horror film in the Halloween type but is highly likable due to the comedic elements. The viewer should also enjoy other movies of this type such as The Comedy of Terrors again with Vincent Price, Peter Lorre and Boris Karloff. "},{"Title":"A very funny movie.","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is great.  Everyone gives a great performance.  Boris Karloff, Peter Lorre, and Vincent Price give wonderful tongue-in-cheek performances as Dr. Scarabus, Dr. Bedlo, and Dr. Craven.  This movie is really interesting.  It doesn't owe Poe any apologies. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Glorious, hilarious fantasy!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A relatively old fantasy movie, with special effects to match, it is still one of my all time favorites. Good, humorous, even intelligent fantasy is hard to find, but this movie fits the bill. The great wizardly duel was especially amusing to a hardened AD&D player ;) You do need a sense of humor to enjoy this movie, and some knowledge of Poe, preferably. If nothing else, one can enjoy an early Jack Nicholson appearance... Nuff said. "},{"Title":"A reason why Roger Corman is one of my favorite directors.","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ranks with Little Shop of Horrors and A Bucket of Blood as one of Corman's best It's not really scary, but it doesn't really try to be; it's more like the Austin Powers of the horror genre. Richard Matheson's script doesn't have much to do with Edgar Allan Poe's poem, besides the title and the poem read in the prologue, but it's still a treat. It deals with a good magician (Vincent Price) who meets a fellow magician (Peter Lorre) who was turned into a raven. The whole thing is a delicious piece of filmmaking from the master of the macabre. Watch it if you get a chance.And, yes, I admit, I do like Lorre in a bird suit.  "},{"Title":"Quoth the Raven Shut Your Beak!","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After Vincent Price (as Craven) reads some of Edgar Allen Poe's The Raven, the foul blackbird flies in through his window. Soon, the burping bird is turned back into human Peter Lorre (as Bedlo). Turns out, the feathered man was ravenized by a third magician, Boris Karloff (as Scarabus). It's time for revenge and retribution! The magic isn't up to an episode of TV's Bewitched, Mister Ed puts the talking bird to shame, and the soundtrack is strictly Gilligan's Island. But, this ludicrous film earns its three stars due to the presence of the three stars Vincent Price, Peter Lorre, and Boris Karloff. Throw in a laughable young Jack Nicholson (as Rexford Bedlo), and Roger Corman's The Raven is, oddly enough, an ugh-intentionally funny comedy. "},{"Title":"Fun Corman Classic","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was lucky enough to have seen this film in a theatre as a wee babe, and it has always remained a favorite.  It's too bad they don't make horror pictures like this nowadays, kid's would love this.The cast is unequaled, the script is very funny, and the production design and cinematography are overtly beautiful with spectacular color that you just don't get very often these days.  Corman certain could make his films look great.Composer Les Baxter should be commended for creating such a great score that is both funny and scary, a tough thing to pull off, and Baxter does it with style.  Who can forget the magicians' duel, with it humor and beautiful effects, especially those gorgeous rays of light eminating from the wizards' fingers.  A classic sequence of comic horror. "},{"Title":"Vincent Price Master of Horror and Comedy","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film was a hoot! Vincent Price wasn't just a horror genius, But a comic master, This was a very light hearted change from some of the horror classics that he did in the past. Boris Karloff shows the same master characteristics and Peter Lorre just made me laugh, he has some of the best lines. A very young Jack Nicholson was a wonderful surprise. I think this is one of the best Comedy / Horror films of it's kind.  "},{"Title":"very fantasy !","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** ok, i woud't acully call this film a remake of the 1935 film with the legendary bela lugosi and boris karloff, but it goes good with the 1963 the terror which stars the same cast, boris karloff, vincent price, the young jack nicklson, peter lorrie. the terror and the raven are somehow brothers because they were both made on the same set and were both made in 1963 and had the same casts and was one of the great works of the great roger corman.the story it all starts when vincent price is living in a castle and a raven hits on the window and price lets the bird inside  and got surprised because the raven could talk and he wanted to be turned back into a human. so price tries to help him by going into his dead grandfather's lab to make the recipe. price ran out of dead man's hair and he had to go to the crypt to stell some hair off of his long dead grandfather's corpse and when price started cutting a peice of corpse's hair off the corpse grabs him by the throwt and says bewware and they got back in the castle and drank and lorrie said that he saw his dead wife's ghost at carven's castle and price showed lorrie her rotting corpse and he said he wanted to go to craven's castle to get back his magic and pay him back.a very great film, you should check it out with the terror(1963). "}{"Title":"Very absurd and yet, very hilarious!","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie by Roger Corman was very well made and aimed to please. The Raven is based on a poem by Edgar Allan Poe. And his literary work has been used as well. You do have a very fine cast that includes Vincent Price, Peter Lorre, Boris Karloff, and a young Jack Nicholson. Price plays Craven, a wizard who grieves his wife, Lenore(Hazel Court) who happens to be at his nemesis Dr. Scarabus (Karloff). His assistant Bedlo(Lorre) has been transformed into a raven. After they meet with Scarabus, Craven gets to see his beloved Lenore in the castle. The real fun part of the movie was the duel between Craven and Scarabus. Let the silliness begin! Every attack each one made, was downright silly. Blocking and counterattack one another couldn't be any absurd once you see it. Overtime Scarabus thinks he's killed Craven, he ends up guessing wrong. The spear attack resulted in a body full of corn, and the chandelier scene, that's for the birds! Horror movies can be scary to say the least, but they can be funny as well. This move is a gem, and Edgar Allan Poe should be credited for the masterpiece. Nevermore! 5 stars "},{"Title":"Price is fantastic","Date":"25 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I got The Raven in a Vincent Price 5 movie pack and i really got a chance to actually sit down and watch this cult classic. All I have to say is that this is a fantastic piece of cinema. Vincent Price was truly a terrific actor. In addition to Price, Boris Karloff, Peter Lorre and Jack Nicolsen really made the movie worth watching. Seeing Nicolsen in an early film role, really wowed me. Who would've thought that Nicolsen got his start working with 3 of the best (horror) icons in cinema history? Karloff's eerie presence just had me at the edge of my seat. That line will forever be echoed in my head, when i think of Karloff. Afraid my dear? There's nothing to be afraid of. Anyway, the story was cool in a way it was a total different spin on Poe's famous masterpiece. The costumes were cool, the sets were eerie and mesmerizing and the acting was pretty good. Replay value for this movie is high on my list. Overall I give this an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Friggin' Talking Bird?  Peter Freakin' Lorre?","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When the raven turns into Peter Lorre--Do I really have to check the contains spoilers box here?--I literally laughed out loud at the sheer childish goofiness of it. Poe would be doing the spin six feet under if he had seen what Roger Corman had done to his work. I know I guffawed so loudly that my wife came into the bedroom to see if I was choking on my afternoon movie snack.Oh, Lord, where do I start with Corman's The Raven? I don't. I just tell you that there's a well-crafted bit of Gothic fluffery in this movie, with a good dose of (talk about anachronisms) comedy, and that wonderful pleasure of listening to the crisp diction of Vincent Price and Boris Karloff. I could listen to these guys--preferably back out of the grave--read the 2,700 page Obamacare bill.It's the delivery, not the content! Same way with Corman's movie, and The Raven is a helluva lot less threatening than HCR! "},{"Title":"Excellent horror spoof the right way","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Raven is one of Vincent Price's more obscure movies.**SPOILERS**While mourning the loss of his wife, Dr. Craven, (Vincent Price) a sorcerer, is confronted by a raven who claims to wish to go back to his rightful form. Entering his father's forbidden laboratory, Dr. Craven is able to transform the raven back into the form of Dr. Bedlo, (Peter Lorre) another sorcerer. While his face and body return to normal, his arms are still raven wings. Venturing into his father's grave to complete the spell, his father returns to warn Dr. Craven about something. Determining that another sorcerer, Dr. Scarabus (Boris Karloff) is behind a series of occurrences around his house, Craven and Bedlo venture to his castle with Craven's daughter, Estelle, (Olive Sturgess) and Bedlo's son, Rexford (Jack Nicholson). Once arriving, they learn that Dr. Scarabus is not the cause and invites the four of them to a feast in the castle. During conversation, it appears that Dr. Bedlo still harbors deep resentments toward Dr. Scarabus and challenges him to a duel of magic. While trying to spout off his magic, Dr. Bedlo disappears. Staying overnight, his son develops a suspicion that Dr. Scarabus was behind the whole disappearance. He realizes he was wrong about the disappearance, but right about the foul play. Dr. Scarabus wanted them to come to the castle to harvest Dr. Craven's magic. The two finally have a showdown for the ultimate sorcerer.The Good News This is one of Corman's few films were he is able to use mood and atmosphere very well. This is nowhere more apparent than in the beginning of the movie. While recapturing the opening lines of the poem perfectly, Craven walks around his room searching vainly for the source of a mysterious noise. He hears knocking on the door and goes out check. No one is there. He then hears some more tapping noises at his window. He opens the door and finds nothing. A raven flies down and startles him. It was a scene that was one of my favorites, as well as the final confrontation between Karloff and Price. The magic used to combat the other was very inventive and was realistic at how two sorcerers would fight each other. Even the special effects used in the fight were a nice surprise. Considering the time that the movie was made, it looks good the way that they filmed it's special effects. All this aside, the best part of the movie is the highly unexpected comedy. Lorre has a lot of those lines that aren't exactly funny, yet they are lines. The best one has to be Lorre telling Price that he wants to challenge Karloff to a duel of magic, but only if he was sober, which he rarely was. The way Lorre said that was the key to it's humor. It was also pretty funny how he kept referring to his son as a brain-dead idiot. We even got some great physical humor, people bumping into walls, slamming into each other, or other forms of slapstick. I was glad, as Corman isn't exactly a master comedy director.The Bad News The opening of the movie is Vincent Price reciting the Edgar Allen Poe poem of the same name. Even though it fit with the movie, I thought that it was merely an uninteresting way to start the movie. Price has a fine voice, but all it did in the scene was to provoke dreary-ness for one of the few times even in a Price movie. Corman could've thought of any number of ways to make the scene better. Some people might even be upset because the only references to the Poe story are the raven and Lenore.The Final Verdict This is one of the more obscure Vincent Price films that brings in the right amount of humor and comedy. This is a worthy film to try to find and the combination of three really great horror stars together in one film is a staggering achievement. Price, Karloff, and horror-comedy fans will find the film a great rental at worst.Today's Rating; PG-13 Mild Violence "},{"Title":"The First! Or so I thought...","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A friend and I were arguing over the title of the first Jack Nicholson movie. She said Little Shop of Horrors and I said The Raven. I was right by six years; but off on the first movie, by 5 years. I still remember this movie fondly. It had all of the greats from the horror genre and my favorite star. Peter Lorre as his father was just unbelievable. The paper mache' rocks in the cave were obvious. In this movie he looked like Peter Pan in that awful costume. His acting was as cheesy as the movie, but I still love it. Jack Nicholson is to me uncatagorizable as far as the types of movies he's been in. He's quirky, extremely outrageous, and too cute for words!Jack, if you ever read these posts I want you to know that I love that you have always remained uncatagorizable. I will find The Crybaby Killer and watch it with glee, knowing that I'll be watching the birth of a star. Can't wait for your next movie! Also, please do another Roger Corman type movie... a return to your roots type thing. "},{"Title":"Quoth Vincent Price Nevermore!","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My rating of 10/10 applies to the fact that it's so neat to see Boris Karloff and Vincent Price in a movie together, and in one with Peter Lorre and Jack Nicholson at that! Price and Lorre play magicians Erasmus Craven and Adolphus Bedlo, who battle against the nefarious Dr. Scarabus (Boris Karloff). The climax has Craven and Scarabus one-upping each other.It's hard to believe that Jack Nicholson - as Bedlo's son - was once young, but it looks like he was. And he was under-acting in relation to his usual roles. It must have been fun for him to get to co-star with Vincent Price.Vincent Price...probably the only horror star in history who made a guest appearance on The Brady Bunch. "},{"Title":"Good Show!","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror-Comedy can work, but pulling it off successfully takes skill. I'd seen the Karloff-Lugosi film of the same title, and rented this, thinking it was a remake. What a pleasant surprise! Vincent Price plays a good wizard, Craven, but one who's far from perfect. This is evidenced by the way he keeps bumping into his telescope when he's trying to look out the window. The introduction of the Peter Lorre character, Bledso, clinches that this is a comedy.The whole film builds, comic incident by comic incident, to a very funny duel between Craven and the sinister Scarbarus, the Karloff role. The whole film is very lighthearted, and one I took pains to find in DVD format (part of a collection). "},{"Title":"Take a pinch of Poe, add generous amounts of Karloff, Price and Lorre, a dash of Nicholson and put them in a Corman blender, with a Richard Matheson script, mix on high and out comes a delight!","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'll admit right at the outset that Roger Corman's movies are an Acquired Taste.  But with a story (even suggested) by Poe, (OK, so it's not the poem, but read the poem and then write a script based on it and try to make a feature-length film based on the poem as written!  Good luck-I think you'll need some) Boris Karloff, Vincent Price, Peter Lorre and a young Jack Nicholson in the cast and a script by Richard Matheson, the film is delightful!  Peter Lorre's part (and performance) is particularly enjoyable.  Top it off with one of the most unusual duels ever exposed to celluloid and a great final scene and you have a Corman Masterpiece! Highly recommended!  "},{"Title":"Really silly and not what you probably expect","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Technically speaking, this is a pretty lousy film. The lousy castle matte paintings of the castle were embarrassingly bad. The special effects for the magical duel were ultra-cheesy. And, at times, the script was just plain dopey. Yet, despite these many, many shortcomings, I am sure that many will probably enjoy this film--provided they like schlocky horror-comedies. However, most who see this DVD title will probably assume it's NOT a comedy--and they might be very disappointed.The film is about three magicians played by Vincent Price, Peter Lorre and Boris Karloff. Vincent is the hero of the film and Boris is the villain. As for Lorre, he's pretty much out for himself. Despite the title and many references to this Poe tale, the story really has nothing to do with it. It's all about an attempt by evil to defeat good magician Price. There are lots of silly plot twists and lines, but the whole thing has the look of an in-joke--one that the film makers thought was absolutely hilarious but only some audience members will enjoy. I can almost guarantee that you'll either love it or dislike it. I could tolerate it but felt that the comedy just too often fell flat. "},{"Title":"Would you look at that CAST !!!","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tiny Little Spoilers!! Alright...maybe I'm loaded with all sorts of prejudices about these classic tales and perhaps my love towards the legendary horror icons is a bit extreme but...did you take a good look at the cast of this film?? The Raven unites no less than THREE of the most gifted and immortal horror actors. A title that stars Vincent Price, Peter Lorre and Boris Karloff shouldn't need any recommendations or opinions!! You just have to see it and treasure the sequences they have together. These three gentlemen have contributed more to the genre of horror than any other and the fact that they appear in the same title already makes The Raven a must see for everyone who's fascinated by classic cinema. When I've come to my senses more, I have to admit that this film is a long way from being flawless, though. It's part of a series of Edgar Allan Poe stories that were turned into movies by low-budget maestro Roger Corman. Unlike most of his Poe adaptations, The Raven is more of a light-hearted comedy that mixes absurd and hilarious situations with old-fashioned scares. If you'd really set your mind to seeing a frightening and bone chilling tale, you might feel cheated and very disappointed. The raven portrays a battle between magicians. On one side we have Price. An embittered romanticist called Craven who's still mourning over the lost of his beloved wife Lenore, two years earlier. He's called for help by Dr. Bedlo ( a very wacky Peter Lorre ). Bedlo has been turned into a raven by the evil and powerful doctor Scarabus (Boris Frankenstein's monster Karloff). When Craven learns that Scarabus possesses the soul of his deceased Lenore, he agrees in fighting him to the death. For the fans, this film is one entire highlight and just a series of highly entertaining sequences and events. But I reckon that, if you're not into the classical E.A. Poe tales too much, it's just an average comedy/ Gothic horror film with a few funny parts ( like the final battle between Price and Karloff in the end!!). Nonetheless, a motion picture that comes with my highest possible recommendation, if it were only for the ... BRILLIANT CAST !!! "}{"Title":"Classic Entry in the Corman/Price/Poe","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Raven, The (1963)*** (out of 4) An all-star cast makes this AIP/Poe production one of the most original and entertaining entries in the series. A weak magician (Peter Lorre) gets turned into a raven by another magician (Boris Karloff). The raven then asks yet another magician (Vincent Price) for help and soon the two go to Karloff's magician to try and stop him and to see if the woman (Hazel Court) living there is Price's old wife who was suppose to have been dead for years. This incredible cast also features a young Jack Nicholson in the role of Lorre's son so that pretty much tells you all you need to know if you're looking for an excuse to watch this film. The various Corman/Price/Poe films were all very well handled but they were started to bleed together so I think this film really stands out as a completely original piece of work that perfectly blends some sci-fi with horror but the best segments are all the comedy. Watching the cast do this great slapstick comedy really makes one wish that they had been given more roles like this throughout his career. It seems someone like Lorre, around since 1931, never really had this side of him highlighted until his AIP years. Price is once again downright brilliant as the magician who tries to stay calm and collective throughout the entire ordeal. Just watch the early scenes with Price acting beside the raven and you'll see that there was nothing that could keep him from delivering the goods. Karloff also turns in one of his better latter day roles and blends perfectly well with both Price and Lorre. Lorre and Nicholson are also excellent together and their entire story of the father being embarrassed by the son makes for some great laughs. Fans of these actors will certainly eat this film up as it offers enough charm for two movies and in the end it's an incredibly entertaining little gem that often gets overlooked due to some of the more horror oriented films in the series. "}]