[{"Title":"You're An Unprincipled Man, Hud.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"77 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hud Bannon is a hell-raising cowboy with a pink cadillac who lives on a lonely farm with his old father and his teenage nephew.  There is a glaring mismatch between Hud's playboy inclinations and the dour, empty life of the farm.  A traumatic event brings these family tensions to a head.The broad flat expanses of the Texas cow country are captured evocatively in Panavision.  This is a world of open cattle range, small sleepy towns, screen doors, stetsons and tooled-leather boots.  The land is arid and unforgiving, and the life here is hard.  Farmers pass their evenings sitting on plain wooden porches, listening to the whipoorwills, and the youngsters rent the same old pulp novels at the general store.  Elmer Bernstein's elegantly simple score underlines the starkness of this existence.  Country music bleeds from juke boxes and transistor radios, as bland and omnipresent as the dust, creeping into every crevice of the film.Hud is a fine-looking man with undeniable charm, but he is also a cruel, selfish stud.  He is now 34 years old, and his years of drinking, fighting and womanising are beginning to take on the aspect of a wasted life.  The opening moments of the film show young Lonnie (Brandon de Wilde) scouring the town streets in the early morning light, searching for his Uncle Hud.  We get to know Hud by the trail of destruction he has left in his wake.  A bar owner, sweeping up broken glass, tells Lonnie I had Hud in here is what I had.  A woman's high-heel shoe, abandoned on the garden path, tells Lonnie exactly where his uncle spent the night.Running around with married women is Hud's style.  It is an affront to this close-knit conservative community, and an emotional and biological dead-end.I always say, the law was meant to be interpreted in a lenient manner pronounces Hud, who bends every rule to suit his own inclination.  He avoids the anger of a cuckolded husband by shifting the blame to the innocent Lonnie, and when a serious problem arises with the family herd, Hud wants to sell the cattle quickly, aiming to preserve his own wealth and pass the problem on to others.  His father Homer (Mervyn Douglas) is a man of unimpeachable honesty, and we see a glance pass between him and Hud which tells us everything.  Father and son know each other's true worth.It surprises Hud that Homer should seek his opinion on the cattle problem.  For a long time now, the old man has been running the farm without Hud taking any responsibility.  He didn't ask me about anything in fifteen years.  Gradually, we begin to learn about a family tragedy which has irrevocably alienated the two men.The pig-chasing game at the rodeo is an ironic comment on skirt-chasing, and of course Hud wins the prize.  He has the confident swagger and the jaunty-hipped stance of a man who knows he is pleasing to women.  His sexual banter with Alma runs through the film.  Alma admires Hud sexually, but his interest in her is limited to mere conquest.  In pursuing her he flouts the rules of taste and decency (she is an employee, almost family, and he is brutal towards her).  This is prefigured when he arrogantly parks his cadillac on her flower bed.Alma keeps house for the Bannons.  She enjoys the masculine atmosphere and takes the coarse innuendo with good-natured amusement.  Patricia Neame plays Alma with a loose-limbed, barefoot sexiness which ultimately brings her trouble.  She has flirtatious fun with Lonnie and confesses to being aroused sexually by Hud's torso.  When Homer tells Lonnie that women like to be around dangerous men, Alma leans into shot.  However, Alma the divorcee has no illusions about Hud - I done my time with one cold-blooded bastard, she says.  I'm not looking for another.The film is packed with wonderful images.  As Lonnie crosses the dusty street, his upper body is obscured by the rodeo banner, suggesting that his individuality is being compromised by the hard round of rural life, the unending interplay of sun and dirt.  The slanting tree with its ominous burden of buzzards frames the pick-up truck, presaging trouble. Homer and the vet, discussing cattle in the foreground, bracket the distant Hud.  He is diminished and marginalised by these serious cattlemen.  Gates close on the farm, with quarantine signs attached, showing more eloquently than any words how Homer's world is narrowing and darkening.  A bulldozer traverses the screen from left to right, effecting a 'wipe', leaving the three Bannons alone against the dirt, in an emblem of the devastation the government has visited upon them.  As they gaze into the pit, the bulldozer squats above them in triumph.  Hud is 'enclosed' by the angle of his cadillac's door, just as his life is hemmed in by his shallow hedonism.  At the depot Alma's body is framed by Hud's hat and chest, hinting at his oppressive sexuality.  The two of them are caught fleetingly in the rectangle of the bus door, Alma symbolically shown as 'the one that got away'.The slick, sardonic script is first class, and the film is bursting with symbolic resonances.  Homer carries a picture of his long-dead boy in his wallet, but none of Hud, his living son.  The cattle are trapped in a timber chute, symbolising the claustrophobic existence of the humans.  The sexual violence is played out in panting silence - these people have nothing to say to each other.  Homer's longhorns were once the source of everything good - food, clothing, tools.  Now they are harbingers of pestilence.  At the heart of the farm is the water butt, and Lonnie and Hud bond here after their night of carousal.  Later, when Lonnie rejects Hud, the butt stands between them.Lonnie knows he will ultimately have to choose between right and wrong. In the windswept silence of the farm, emblem of the family's demise, he makes his choice.     "},{"Title":"The film that crashed Newman into the top echelon..","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"55 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The title character, a cattleman in contemporary Texas, is the quintessence of Newman's amoral, opportunistic loners he's arrogant, seething with ambition, incapable of much warmth or affection&#133; He quarrels, drinks heavily, takes women with crude assurance (The only question I ever ask any woman is 'What time is your husband coming home?' ), and doesn't give a damn about anyone except himself&#133; Newman brings his familiar characteristics to perfection the cynical, cold in manner; the nasty, contemptuous voice; the sly, insinuating smile&#133; He's a model of casual defiance and detachment, as he drinks a pint of bourbon or stands insolently, hands on hips, hat down low over his forehead, or roars through the dusty town in his convertible Cadillac, making business deals or picking up loose women...Hud resembles Ben Quick, which isn't surprising, since director Martin Ritt and writers Irving Ravetch and Harriet Frank Jr. also did The Long, Hot Summer. Like Quick, he is considerably sexy and charming, which attracts women and drinking buddies&#133; He's the best example of Newman's idea of the glamorous, captivating, virile, but essentially rotten men we mistakenly admire; according to Newman, the film is meant to expose his underlying corruption&#133; The drama revolves around the discovery of Hud's amorality by Lon (Brandon de Wilde), his seventeen-year-o1d nephew&#133; Lon admires his uncle, but is ultimately torn between Hud's hedonism and the high moral principles of Hud's father, aging Homer Bannon (Melvyn Douglas).When Homer's cattle become diseased, Hud wants to sell them quickly, but Homer refuses to spread an epidemic, and has them destroyed&#133; Hud really becomes despicable as he tries to have his father certified incompetent, so that he can take over the ranch&#133; Like Chance Wayne (Sweet Bird of Youth), he's afraid of ending up in poverty You don't look out for yourself, the only helping hand you'll ever get is when they lower the box.Whereas Quick turned out to be a good guy after all, and Fast Eddie and Chance matured through pain and punishment, Hud is untouched and unregenerate to the very end&#133; Refusing to accept his guilt, he says he's only as corrupt as everyone else; before he goes into the house, he angrily yells, The world's so full of crap a man's going to get into it sooner or later, whether he's careful or not.  Many people considered Hud a hero&#133; But this is natural, since the film is actually filled with compromises&#133; For instance, Homer, the representative of goodness, is self-righteous, inflexible, full of solemn, pious platitudes, and generally unappealing, while Hud is vital, life-affirming and humorous&#133; Furthermore, Homer's contempt for Hud, which he justifies by Hud's having never given a damn, seems unfair&#133; Apparently he soured on Hud when the latter was in his teens, and thus the boy was denied love when he most needed it&#133; This again brings up the father-son alienation theme, and it makes us sympathetic toward Hud&#133;Even in his relations with others, Hud is not entirely despicable&#133; He displays some tenderness toward Lon, especially in the scene in which they get drunk together&#133; There's a touching moment as Hud says, somewhat sadly, Get all the good you can out of seventeen, because it sure wears out in one hell of a hurry. In his cynical conversations with Alma, he has Quick's insolent sexual confidence, but Alma is experienced, earthy and just as cynical, and she even seems to encourage his sly innuendos, making it a match of equals rather than a one-sided sexual pursuit&#133;Finally, how does an actor play a man whose overpowering charm attracts people, without attracting the audience as well? Of course this is a problem inherent in all of Newman's sexy villains, but at least with Quick and Eddie the charming traits prepare us for their reformations, while with Hud they work against the concept of his worthlessness&#133; At this stage in his career, Newman was so appealing that it was hard to consider him as completely rotten&#133;Hud was nominated for seven Oscars&#133; Awards went to Neal, Douglas and cinematographer James Wong Howe&#133; Newman, up for his third Oscar, said, I'd like to see Sidney Poitier get it. I'd be proud to win it for a role I really had to reach for. He got his wish Poitier (Lilies of the Field) won&#133; In any case, Hud found Newman near the top of his form, and it was a culmination of the seed of corruption theme&#133; To be sure, subsequent characters would be corrupt, and would coldly reject the world, but never as a result of such intense ambition&#133; "},{"Title":"Potent study of nihilistic youth and hero worship, Paul Newman's definitive rebel role.","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"56 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not only a stark morality tale brimming with grit and substance, Hud is a vigorous character study replete with intelligent, Oscar-winning performances.The vast, desolate Lone Star landscape has often inspired potent Hollywood screen-writing (witness Giant, and The Last Picture Show).  1963's Hud is no exception.  The story focuses around a bored, aimless, arrogant ne'er-do-well whose utter contempt for humanity threatens to denigrate and destroy all those exposed to it.  Thrust in a dusty, dried-up, decaying Texas cattle town (awesomely photographed in black-and-white by Oscar-winning cinematographer James Wong Howe), the story bears down assertively on its straightforward themes of nihilistic youth and misguided hero worship.Paul Newman was awarded an Oscar - but not for Hud.   He took home the award much later for his performance in 1987's The Color of Money but for me it was a restitutive pat on the back for his probing, higher-calibre work here in Hud, among others.  Newman gives an assured, excitingly reckless performance, the creme of the crop of earlier, jaunty perfs.  All swagger and bluff, reeking with cocky sexuality, Hud Bannon is the personification of cool, callous cynicism at its most reprehensible...and alluring.  The world is this cowboy stud's oyster.  He takes what he wants, whenever he wants it - whether its coveting his father's land or coveting another man's wife, whether its peddling sick cattle on others or peddling his ethics on a susceptive boy - it's all at the core of a dangerously irresponsible life's dogma.  A loser's warped vision of winning.  It was a risky star performance for Newman as Hud has no redeeming qualities whatsoever, but the actor plays out his acting cards brilliantly and winds up with a royal flush.Newman is bolstered by a choice cast.  Dusky-voiced Patricia Neal, whose looks had begun to harden by this time, is fascinating as the forlorn, slovenly housekeeper Alma who has her careworn hands full just keeping the lustful, roving Hud in line.  Hud (and the audience) is perked by her stifled but not yet snuffed out sensuality, as she wisely avoids the obvious come-ons tossed her way.  Making relative peace with her lonely, desultory existence, Alma has overcome a difficult past and find a sense of being as the makeshift homemaker to an aging rancher/widower (Melvyn Douglas) while tending to his impressionable grandson (Brandon de Wilde), instilling in the boy some good old-fashioned sense and motherly attention when necessary. Neal is top-notch especially in her final scenes and quite deserved her Oscar.Oscar-winning Douglas is superb as Hud's upstanding, uncompromising father, a cattle man in the twilight of his years.  Chocked full of conventional wisdom and righteous indignation, the prideful old-timer may or may not have contributed to his son's acute moral letdown, having given up on him as a bad seed long ago.  Their confrontational scenes are pocked with harsh accusations and bitter conflict - never to be resolved.  De Wilde, in a coming-of-age extension of his memorable Shane role, again portrays the embodiment of idolizing youth as the teenage Lon.  Drawn to the brawling, good-looking outer package of his older Uncle Hud, deWilde is touching as his character gradually wises up to the realization that this superficial package is damaged goods, while those nearest and dearest to him fall by the waste side.A near-classic to be sure.  The performances alone make this a not-to-be-missed item. "},{"Title":"Great American prose poem","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"52 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One Hell of a movie, and very nearly perfect. Paul Newman, Melvyn Douglas, and Brandon De Wilde star as three generations of a ranching family. Douglas is the patriarch, stern and strong, but clearly moving ever closer to the end of his life. Paul Newman, who plays the title character, is his youngest and only surviving son. There is an obvious but unspoken conflict between the two of them. In the middle is Brandon De Wilde, actually the film's main character (although all the choice acting moments belong to Douglas and Newman, and the yet to be mentioned Patricia Neal). His father, Newman's brother, died when he was very young. Growing up in Douglas' shadow, he worships the man and tries to emulate his moral code. However, his wilder side sees the untamed Newman as a sort of folk hero, and the rare times when he gets to hang out with his uncle seem to him to be the best of his life. Patricia Neal plays their maid (brilliantly, I should immediately state), after whom both uncle and nephew lust. A different conflict arises from this. As Hud, Paul Newman has many chances to be a second James Dean, exploding with emotion. Those scenes are excellent, of course, but where Hud succeeds most is at the edges of the screen. It is an enormously subtle film. The filmmakers should especially be commended for their amazing use of musical score. There is a really beautiful score, but it is never used, not once, to steer the audience's emotions. A good 90% of the film has no music in the background. Hud is an American masterpiece. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Hard to take but worth it","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"37 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's difficult to grasp that Melvyn Douglas spent most of his career sailing through light, romantic roles and emerged in old age as one of the greatest actors in cinema history. Knowing the talent he possessed, how did he keep from killing the heads of the studios? Paul Newman, Melvyn Douglas, Patricia Neal, and Brandon de Wilde star in Hud, an unsparing 1963 morality story about a Texas rancher, Homer Bannon, his bastard son, Hud, his housekeeper, and his grandson. The bastard, of course, is Paul Newman, who doesn't have a decent bone in his body. People on this board have said it's his greatest performance. He's given so many great ones, it's hard to say for me. An astounding actor, and he gets a run for his money from Douglas, who plays the moral center of the story.The two characters couldn't be more opposite, as one sees in their treatment of a potential run of hoof and mouth disease that could wipe out Homer's entire herd. Hud wants to ship the whole herd out and possibly infect other people's cattle - he couldn't care less. Homer won't hear of it.If you love animals, this is a difficult film to watch, but it's worth it. Melvyn Douglas is absolutely gut-wrenching as Homer, a proud man who loves the land and his cattle and who has no use for his son, who smashed his car and killed Homer's other son. de Wilde is Hud's nephew who admires him and wants to emulate him but as time goes by, realizes that Hud is made of ice. de Wilde doesn't give an emotional performance - he's almost more of an observer. It works well here amidst the very contained Douglas and the free and easy Newman. You can see he's a good kid trying to grow up and decide what kind of man to be.Patricia Neal is the housekeeper; she and Douglas both deservingly won Oscars. Her delivery is wry and knowing; she can't help being attracted to the virile Hud but she knows he's trouble and never gives in to her desires willingly.As much as I love Newman and think he's one of the greatest actors ever to hit the movies, for me, Douglas' searing performance is the one that will stay with me. It's easy to see why in 1963 this was such a dramatic breakthrough for Newman, but 43 years and many roles later, we're more familiar with what he can do. We know he can play a cold bastard now. His greatest performances for me will always be those in the The Verdict and The Hustler, both of which called for many more nuances of character. Hud represents '60s disillusionment - which as the decade went on was only going to get worse; this is one of the reasons it is an iconic role. For me, Newman had more surprises in store.Brilliant performances, excellent direction, stark photography, Hud is a great American film, not easily forgotten once seen. "},{"Title":"Best cold blooded bastard ever","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"38 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hud is a masterpiece!It takes the age old morality play and presents it in a fresh and believable light.The lead character has no socially redeeming qualities,in direct conflict with the high moral Stoddard's of his father.Paul Newman is flawless,and once said,playing Hud came too easy.The cinematography is pristine and the sets bring you west.The solo guitar that plays in the background is subtle yet keeps you rapt with attention.The ending is logical and thought provoking.It is not one that has been tested on focus groups as Hollywood insists on today.There are no last minute plot twists to make for a happy ending.Sadly the days of movies of this quality coming from big studios are over.Cherish this one. "},{"Title":"Forget Paul Newman and focus on Melvyn Douglas","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"36 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As a native of West Texas, I think this film is one of the finest in American cinema. You don't watch a movie - you experience a real time and place. I happen to love a bunch of Paul Newman's films (The 3 H's - Hud, Hombre and Harper; Cool Hand Luke; The Sting; The Hustler; The Color of Money...), but I'm not what you'd call a rabid fan. I think he is compelling, but has a fairly limited range. He is perfect in this role, but it isn't much different from The Hustler or Cool Hand Luke. However, watching Melvyn Douglas is like watching somebody that Marty Ritt pulled off of some ranch and filmed in his daily life. His performance is absolutely dead- on. The gravelly drawl, the old boy shuffle, his expression - the way his eyes take in the landscape or gaze intently into a bowl of ice cream while Hud talks - all incredibly REAL! I KNOW those old guys!Melvyn Douglas is a truly under-appreciated American acting genius whose career spanned over 5 decades. His range is tremendous. This is the same honey-tongued actor who is the perfect comic foil to Garbo's Ninotchka in the '30's (In fact, he is one of her only REPEAT leading men!) And his bluster-filled performance in I Never Sang for My Father (with another modern great, Gene Hackman) is also out of this world! Other commentators have addressed Hud's multi-faceted story and the incredible B&W cinematography. All wonderful - but the next time you watch this true American classic, focus on Douglas' Oscar-winning performance. You will be amazed! (And remind yourself of some of the early roles in romantic comedies - Ninotchka, That Uncertain Feeling, This Thing Called Love or Mr. Blandings Builds His Dream House - this same actor performed so well.) "},{"Title":"A brilliantly evocative character study set against an arid Texas backdrop.","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"36 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Newman gave easily his greatest performance as Hud Bannen, the hard-fighting, hard-drinking, womanising ne'er-do-well, who casts a malign shadow over the lives of his family and their housekeeper on a Texas ranch. It is a strong all-round cast however, and Melvyn Douglas and Patricia Neal both won Academy Awards for their performances. The sparse and grainy cinematography by James Wong Howe (another Oscar winner) brilliantly captures the harsh, arid Texas landscape. Adapted from Larry McMurtry's novel Horseman Pass By, this is one of the finest examples of American Cinema in the 1960's, not least in its depiction of father-son conflict, and the way one in which one man can profoundly influence, for the worse, the lives of those around him. Newman worked as a ranch-hand in Texas to prepare for the role, which helped him obtain his authentic Texan credentials, most notably his accent, and his cocky strut and manner. A timeless classic, which can be viewed again and again. "},{"Title":"a  fine American movie","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"34 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hud is the finest American movie ever made. One hundred years from now people will want to know who we were, how we lived and what kind of problems we faced. Hud is a great movie not only because it is a great story with great actors, great direction and a great score but also because it helps future generations understand us. It is a great human interest story, a classic story of right and wrong. The movie gains power because it is shot in black and white with a spare score; and it is not afraid to experiment as when Hud Bannon (Paul Newman) refers to Lon (Brandon de Wilde) as Fantan. The scenes of everyday Texas in the 1950s are pure Americana. This movie is as refreshing today as when I first saw it as a boy in the 1960s; and the performances have not aged. "},{"Title":"Powerful Modern Western Morality Play","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" HUD is one of the best movies I have ever seen! Based on Larry McMurtry's early novel HORSEMAN, PASS BY, it works wonderfully as a modern morality play showing the seductiveness of hedonism (as represented by the attractive and persuasive Hud (Paul Newman) vs. the human decency and duty represented by Homer Bannion (Melvyn Douglas) as they battle for the soul of the grandson, Lon (Brandon De Wilde). There is an important lesson about the destruction of society by the cheapening of our standards of admiration. I absolutely love Patricia Neal in this film! Her earthy housekeeper, Alma, steals every scene she's in! I am so happy that she won the Academy Award for this role. I can't think of anyone, male or female, who gave a better performance that year. I love her line resisting Hud's advances, No, thanks! I've done my time with one cold-blooded bastard. I'm not looking for another. "}{"Title":"My Favorite Paul Newman film","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is my favorite Paul Newman film. Paul gives his best performance as a low-life, hard-drinking, don't-give-a-damn s.o.b. He is absolutely beautiful in this movie with a presence that makes you not want to turn your head from the screen. Melvin Douglas gives an outstanding and Oscar winning performance as Old Homer Bannon. Patricia Neal won a Best Actress Oscar for her fine performance even though her character was really a supporting role, but let's not get technical. And ill-fated Brandon De Wilde is also truly amazing and beautiful as Lon who adores his Uncle Hud only to hate him later.4 Stars "},{"Title":"Vintage McMurtry.","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Long before he helped write the screenplay for the gay cowboy movie, Larry McMurtry wrote this exceptional story that Martin Ritt turned into a powerful film. Hud is the story of a womanizing cowboy with seemingly zero morality (Newman) and his struggles with is old-fashioned father (Douglas), and also his effect on a younger nephew (De Wilde). He also spends a great deal of the film pursuing the family housekeeper (Neal) to no avail. The film is like a lot of Larry McMurtry stories. It's lonely, depressing, and brutally honest about its characters.At the film's core is the conflict between young and old. The changing values of American society at the time are a perfect backdrop, though no counter culture references are present yet. 1963 was of course the year we lost John F. Kennedy, and it may be no coincidence that values throughout the world also began to waver about then. Hud represents the lusty side of humanity. Never concerned about doing what's right, he only looks to scheme and charm his way to where he wants to go. Torn between Hud and his father is the much younger nephew who is faced with a choice of which set of values to follow.A main source of conflict stems from the discovery of Foot and Mouth Disease in the Bannon's cattle. In a particularly disturbing scene, the entire herd is corralled into a recently dug pit, and every one of them shot dead. Hud had tried to convince his father to sell them off before the diagnosis was confirmed, but naturally that did not go over too well. Once the cattle are dead, Hud then wants his father to set up some oil rigs on the now barren land. His father wants no part of what could be a very destructive undertaking on his property. Hud then plans to have his father somehow declared unfit to run the farm so he can run it the way he pleases. This question is abruptly cleared up when a roadside accident takes his father's life. Hud now has the farm to himself, but will his nephew choose to run it with him??? The acting, scenery, and photography are brilliant. The bleak, but beautifully expansive west Texas landscape seems to have a life of its own, even in b/w. The four major characters are played perfectly. Neal is sassy, sexy, and has an amazing dignity about her. Douglas is stoic and self-righteous as the aging patriarch. Brandon De Wild showed some definite promise, especially in the film's final ten minutes where we see his character have to grow up very quickly.This is Newman's show, however. One day when he has finally left this earth, most people will probably remember him as Cool Hand Luke. Understandable, but Hud was every bit a powerful a character for my money. Newman has been so amazing for so long, it almost seems like he's taken for granted. Even his salad dressings and spaghetti sauces are exceptional!!! Hud certainly scores a 10 of 10!!! The Hound. "},{"Title":"Man running head into wall","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In another review of Hud, someone says that he or she saw all the story needed from the first fifteen minutes, but that is the great art of this film. No one changes; there is no moment when Hud is struck down like Saul, on his way to town, and shown the error of his ways. He and Homer continue to butt their heads against the proverbial wall. Homer doesn't magically revive as he lays by the side of the road, and there is no phony deathbed reconciliation. One shudders to think of the mess that would be made out of this story today. Inspirational music would pour from the speakers; Hud would promise to do well by his father and on returning home from the funeral, he would find Patricia Neal had returned, while deWilde and he agreed to work the ranch together. Sometimes I wonder if director Ritt chose black and white so he would not be tempted to close the story on a more upbeat note.It is a debatable question whether Hud, or McMurtry's other masterpiece, Last Picture Show, could be made today. Studios don't like 'downers;' they don't fill the multiplexes and bring in the 50M gross weekends.The casting is inspired; Newman and deWilde do look like the offspring of Douglas. Maybe it's the cowboy hats that do it, but there is a flintiness to their eyes that binds them. Neal is simply beautiful in a way that many will never understand. Watch the performances, and note how each person makes room for the others. There is only four of them, so it is not an ensemble, but Newman is especially good at avoiding the scenery chewing that so many posters here confuse with good acting.This rates a true 10. "},{"Title":"The Monster Of Indifference","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadHud is not some demonic figure or existential Dean like rebel. His evil is summed up by Homer,That's just it Hud, you don't give a damn about anyone. He doesn't, after the cows get foot and mouth disease Hud suggests dumping them on their unsuspecting neighbors. This comes with the requisite everyone is evil, therefore I can be evil, what difference does it make? Non Sequitur. The movie centers upon an existential tug of war between Hud and Homer over the possession of Lonnie's soul. Hud is constantly having affairs with the married women of the little town, when the film opens, Lonnie is rousting Hud from another married woman's bed. When the man drives up, Hud frames Lonnie for it. The story of the cows having to be destroyed is a simile for Homer and his way of life passing away. Hud wants the land all dug up for oil money but Homer has a connection with his land and livestock. Deeply moral and loving towards Lonnie but cold as ice towards Hud. As the movie progresses, we discover the reasons for the tension between Hud and Homer. The movie is a voyage of discovery for Lonnie. He admires his uncle's skill with women, his drinking and tough guy image.Gradually, the disillusionment sets in as Lon discovers Hud's utter immorality. Going beyond his indifference to married women, Hud begins moving against Homer to have him put in a home; he then plans on seizing the land and pursuing the oil wells. On a drunken binge, Hud attempts to rape Alma, their housekeeper and cook. She has had enough and decides, with the destruction of all the stock, it is time to leave. There is a great scene where Homer saves the last two longhorn steers; he allows nobody to kill them. He does it himself. The movie, while a masterpiece, is a painful watch. We watch Homer slowly wither and die with his cattle; his deeply moral nobility is dying with him. The scene near the end when Lon cradles the dying Homer with Hud looking on unsympathetically. It's my time, I got to go, Hud is waiting on me and Hud ain't a patient man. The movie is from admiration of Hud by Lon, at the beginning, to driving away abandoning his inheritance, if it comes with Hud, at the very end. This is not a rebel; this is evil. The man cares for absolutely nothing but his own gratification. Melvyn Douglas deserved his Oscar as Homer.The movie's power is in showing you everyday evil without vampires, zombies or monsters. The core of human iniquity INDIFFERENCE. Like the cities built around the concentration camps, Hud just does not give a crap about anyone or anything. Yet, like Melville's Moby Dick, there is some adumbration of malevolence underneath the surface. Watch the scene in the bar where Hud deliberately provokes a fight using a woman as the reason. The indifference is salient but he is cruel. He enjoys hurting Homer and mocking his losing of his senses. The attack on Alma; I admired Newman for taking the role. You will never see him the same again. Yet, Homer's quiet deep nobility is the moral center of the movie. The scene of him singing before the movie, being kind to men who are destroying his life; there is great nobility in his performance. This is why Hud looks like such a scum bucket next to this moral man. A Real Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"No One Gets Out Of Life Alive","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Those are the nihilistic words of Hud Bannon, the swaggering antihero in the Martin Ritt directed film Hud, set amid the vast, expansive high plains of West Texas. It's a somber affair.Hud lives with his elderly father Homer (a wonderfully understated performance by Melvyn Douglas) and nephew Lonnie. Their small, struggling ranch serves not only as a livelihood, but also the source of Homer's ethical values. Another main character is Alma, the attractive housekeeper and cook. For all four of them it's a hard life, but a worthwhile life, at least as Homer sees it. Hud sees it differently. But then Hud is a product of modern times, with differing values from those of Homer and his generation. When a crisis occurs that puts their ranch in jeopardy, these differing values clash, resulting in tension between Hud and his father.Hud's ongoing rebellion, rooted in heredity and environment, takes the form of booze, brawls, women, and anger. Hud is a heel, but a sympathetic heel. We understand his frustrations. Larry McMurtry's story presents a naturalistic interpretation of human character. Hud is constrained by forces over which he has no control. For him, like for many of us, freedom of choice is mostly an illusion. The morality of absolutes, as expressed by his father, does not work in Hud's favor.But there's a fifth character in this morality tale ... the land. The bleak, desolate plains with its buzzards, ubiquitous dust, and lonesome vistas can depress the most optimistic spirit. In this film, the monochrome canvas accentuated by James Wong Howe's use of single source lighting makes the natural environment seem appropriately oppressive. And the film's sounds amplify the gritty realism of this unforgiving land.I have a couple of minor criticisms. The screenplay puts too much emphasis on Alma, given that she is the housekeeper. Second, there's not enough music or humor. Others will disagree, but I would have preferred a more prominent role for the mournful sounds of Hank Williams type music, a la The Last Picture Show.Interestingly, Hud's comment on life is the same in meaning as the words spoken years later by a real-life nihilistic antihero, who said No one here gets out alive. While we think we know what happened to the real-life antihero, we don't know what became of Hud. Perhaps someday someone will make a credible sequel. Then they can add more music. Imagine the mood evoked by the sight of Hud riding off into the Texas sunset, to the sounds of Riders On The Storm. "},{"Title":"A lesson in making a movie.","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A story about four people living on a modest Texas ranch, their interactions, troubles and joys, and the ways they resolve their conflicts. The owner of the ranch is the elderly Homer Bannon (Melvyn Douglas). His surviving son is Hud (Paul Newman). Hud's nephew, Lon (Brandon De Wilde) is the naive seventeen-year-old, and Alma (Patricia Neal) is their hired cook and housekeeper. The setting is the dry, windswept cattle country of West Texas, not far from a small town in which everyone seems to know everyone else.The film has been criticized as too mechanistic, too full of stereotypes, and it's easy to see why. The principals are easy to categorize. An adjective or two will seem to suffice. The honorable, old Melvyn Douglas. The mean, unprincipled Paul Newman. The inexperienced Brandon De Wilde. The down-to-earth and sensitive Pat Neal.But this approach, I think, overlooks the subtlety of the characters. The psychologist Gordon Allport proposed that people were made up of many traits (extraverted/introverted, for instance). Allport was able to dig up 3,000 trait-like names from an ordinary dictionary. He noted that some were more important than others. The important ones were central traits that showed up consistently in a person's behavior. The less important he called secondary traits. They were tied to particular situations or moods and were real but transient. You might, for instance, be reserved with everyone else (a central trait) but warm and affectionate with your dog and canary (a secondary trait).Hud is able to make the same distinction. Sure, the old guy is and overstuffed with old-time pride and honor. That's him in a nut shell. But he's also pretty huffy with people whose morals he's not entirely comfortable with, and there's evidence that he's been antagonistic towards Hud since Hud's childhood. He even admits it. (His honesty is a central trait, remember?) The same is true of the other three main characters. Hud is a mean SOB but even Hud gets lonesome sometimes. The kid is more like the old man, thoughtful and fundamentally decent, but he has a kinda hankerin' for the wild side too, which he sometimes indulges. The same is true for Alma, a hard-working, good woman, with urges she keeps in check.What does this mean on screen? It means the characters, as written, are fully fleshed. They don't seem like characters in a movie but rather as people we know, with genuine complexities of character. Kids may not understand why this film is as good as it is -- and it's very good -- but adults should be able to get it.The performances are excellent, with De Wilde's the weakest. Paul Newman may be handsome but he has a clipped, nasal, argumentative Texan tone of voice that's an immediate turn off. He should never run for elective office. And he does a marvelous drunk, lurching around in a muscular way -- just enough.I'll mention only one example of a thoroughly realized scene. Pat Neal has a brief conversation with De Wilde while she's waiting for the bus to leave town. De Wilde We're sure going to miss you, Alma. Neal Oh, you'll get along. (pause) Don't you be lazy now, you hear? And her face twists for a second and her voice cracks before she and De Wilde fling themselves into a wordless, helpless hug. I'm not sure there have been that many more understated but wrenching scenes on film. The script (by Irving Ravetch and Harriet Frank, Jr.) also gives De Wilde a certain believability that his performance does not. Sitting in a bar with Newman, a little drunk, flirting with some gal down the bar (I'd sure like to take her the long way home),De Wilde gets to his feet, practically puffing out his chest with an beer-fueled, almost-achieved adult masculinity, and says, I think I'll go shoot some more nickels into that juke. Nothing more is made of this endearing, pathetic bravado.I have to mention the photography of James Wong Howe too. Such crisp black and white images. It's harder to see on the small screen, but Howe manages to capture the precise outlines of distant thunder clouds while keeping the middle ground in focus. And we can almost feel the atmosphere of the ranch's yard when Newman and De Wilde are dunking their heads in the trough to sober up after a night on the town while a handful of stunningly white moths whirl and flutter around their torsos under a naked light bulb.This is one of several excellent movies Newman made during the 1960s, and it was a shocker in its time -- the mass slaughter of the cattle, Newman's bitter dialog, This world is so full of crap, you're bound to step into it sooner or later. Oh, it's nothing now, but it was a big surprise in 1963.A fine film all around and it shouldn't be missed. "},{"Title":"Old and new Texas, and America, with a searing Newman at the center","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hud (1963)A serious drama with an existential ride and poignant ending. It is partly about the end of the Old West, if you can call it that (I think the old west still exists in many places), and about the intrusion of easy oil money into cattle ranging culture. It's also about family dynamics, with tragedies not described and sadness dripping everywhere.The man in the middle is Paul Newman, playing Hud, and we aren't sure if he's a bitter selfish violent young man because of these past events or if he just ended up that way and helped, in his own way, cause those events. As we get to know Hud in his aimlessness (and Paul Newman is his hunky best here, so that's just fine for most people), we see this dusty dried up Texas outland and the emptiness, it seems, of life there, people always flipping on the radio or t.v. and hanging out drinking or doing chores.Unless you handle the cattle. This is what people have done for a living there, and Hud's father is an archetype of a good, honorable, wise, and stern man. We aren't sure if his severity was really part of Hud's malaise, but it's dangled there. But in the present situation, the old man, now ailing even as he works a hard day, is a model of decency, a contrast to the egotistical and rather lazy son of his who is pretty much interested in girls and drinking. A ranching crisis (foot and mouth disease) becomes a center piece in this larger plot, and it squeezes further the tensions.A separate element is an important one, interweaving with Hud's womanizing, and that is a housekeeper living in a cabin on the property, played by Patricia Neal. She's quite amazing as a likable, tough, and lonely woman who long ago escaped an abusive husband (and she won the Best Actress Oscar for it). She fills in as the missing friend to Hud, an absent mother to Hud's nephew who is now coming of age. And yet she isn't the wife of the old man in any way beyond doing the dishes, and so her presence acts more as a reminder of what all three of the males don't have in their lives. She carries the emotional load of the movie at times, and by the end shows one simple solution to the problems around her.Martin Ritt has directed a number of probing, gritty, real life movies (The Sound and the Fury starring Newman's wife Joanne Woodward and The Front at opposite ends of his career). This one, along with The Spy Who Came in from the Cold, are probably his best two, also very serious. But they are also beautiful movies. In all of them there are characters with real depth and pathos. We know who we can feel for, even as the world crumbles around nearly everyone in nearly all four of these. Hud is filmed in such clean, bright greys and whites it really feels much more like dry old Texas than it would have in color, just as his Cold War masterpiece is charcoal and black much of the time. Cinematographer James Wong Howe, born in China and moved here when five years old, and director of music Elmer Bernstein are both Hollywood's legends with three Academy Awards between them. It shows. The movie is if nothing else very well made.Larry McMurty wrote the original story for this movie, and also co-wrote the screenplay for Brokeback Mountain, which shares a lot of the loneliness of the characters. The character of the housekeeper was originally a black woman, and I'm assuming this would have pressed too hard on social issues just beginning to break down in the early 1960s, so it was simplified by keeping it an all white cast. But the movie did push against certain censorship boundaries, including the simple admission (without showing it directly) of Hud having and bragging about his affair with a married woman. "},{"Title":"Hud Has It All -- Great Writing, Great Acting, Great Music, and Great Cinematography","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie many times and each time it affects me somewhat differently, which is a characteristic of great art. Basically, there's trouble at the ranch, among the cattle and between the people who tend them. While it is true that Paul Newman, as Hud, plays a cocky, callous hedonist, it's simplistic to say that's all he's about or that there's no rhyme or reason to his attitude. In fact, throughout the movie, we see that he wants to be understood, to be perceived as more caring and concerned. He continually proves that he can cut the mustard and knows what he's doing, and he doesn't hesitate to lend a hand when it's needed. But those with whom he shares his life keep putting him in the convenient little box of cold bastard and he won't pretend to be what he isn't in order to change their opinion of him. His father, Melvyn Douglas, is his worst critic, a serious, principled Texan who has built up his ranch from nothing with little patience for his son's apparent lack of conscience or restraint. He can't understand how a man who doesn't give a damn came to be a son of mine and it troubles him constantly. Their housekeeper, Alma (Patricia Neal), takes good care of her charges and gets her share of appreciation from Hud, however, she usually rejects his crude, boozy advances. Brandon De Wilde, as Hud's caring nephew Lonnie, is far more her cup of tea. He's young and idealistic, naturally following in the footsteps of his kindly, reserved grandfather than after the ways of his wild and cynical uncle, whose carefree attitude he nonetheless admires. However, when he begins to have serious doubts about Hud's core values, the latter counsels him, You've got to watch out for yourself in this life or the only helping hand you'll get is when they lower the box. In contrast, there is a real connection, a sense of mutual protection, and a flirtation between Lonnie and Alma, like when she tickles him through the sheets after he wakes up in the raw. His concern for his grandfather is also quite evident. The interplay between these four people is what makes this starkly photographed black and white movie so good, backed up as it is by a simple but evocative guitar solo. Every one of these actors should have been nominated for an academy award, and all were, save for Brandon De Wilde. Tragically, he died at only 30 years old just a few short years after his excellent performance in HUD. Newman gave the best performance of his career and he certainly deserved the award for best actor, but he faced some stiff competition from Sidney Poitier, who won it for his performance in Lillies of the Field. Douglas and Neal did win Oscars for their supporting roles. When this movie was made (in the early sixties) excellent movies were being turned out regularly. One only has to view movies of the era like HUD to realize it was a renaissance for cinema in America. "},{"Title":"Morality Play","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched Hud for the first time tonight without any preface and right away saw it as a morality play. It's a simple explanation for the movie, but not quite accurate. There are complex characters within and what's right and wrong is supposed to seem clear cut, but isn't. The viewer is left to judge along with Lonnie Bannon (Brandon de Wilde) to decide.Right off the bat, we are introduced to Hud Bannon who is the top local drinker, fighter and womanizer. I didn't like his character right off, but Paul Newman plays Hud in a way that makes him appealing and interesting despite the major character flaws. Lonnie Bannon is taken aback by his Uncle Hud's brazen behavior getting him in hot water with the husband of the woman Hud is having an affair with. He's angry, but not hateful and Hud's smart and smooth talking ways quickly take the edge off.Soon after, we meet Homer Bannon and it's a different story with him. He definitely has a chip against Hud and as the movie unfolds, we find out what that is despite Hud being his son. Their relationship is basically broken, but we do not find the truth out until later.We find out Lonnie loves his Grand Dad Homer, but is placed in the middle between his traditional, principled Grand Dad and his Uncle Hud's free wheeling unprincipled ways. Lonnie admires his uncle, but eventually is forced to decide what is right and wrong as Homer told him.Homer makes his living running a small Texas ranch. He has to work hard, and is able to keep it running with the help of Hud, Lonnie, their cook and housekeeper Alma and some ranch hands. The ranch serves as the background for Homer's traditional and ethical values. He treats others as he would like to be treated. He possesses some admirable qualities, but it is not enough to keep him out of financial trouble when one of his cattle comes down with a fatal and contagious disease.Hud has other ideas and gives a cynical view of government and how they treat people when it comes to the law. Hud is quite self serving and just looking out for his own interests, but he makes a compelling case for not letting government bureaucrats tell them how to run his business and how his Dad and him could get out of the potential mess they could soon face. In regards to the law, Hud says, Well, I've always thought the law was meant to be interpreted in a lenient manner. Sometimes I lean one way and sometimes I lean the other.Throughout the movie, one can sympathize with Hud even though he may a callous, selfish individual. Paul Newman is great in pulling this off. He continually alienates the ones that are close to him, but they cannot be totally be put off by Hud. It's not like they do not see Hud's point of view and completely disagree with him even though it may not match the moral and principled views of his father.By the end of the movie, I would think the viewer has taken a thoroughly negative view of Hud and like Lonnie ends up going against and leaving him. Hud just shrugs it off and we are left with a pathetic and sad view of Hud. "},{"Title":"Nice looking movie","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although I could tell it was a quality production, it just didn't make much of a personal impression on me. I felt like the drama was all handled a bit too heavily, especially considering how crisp and objective the legendary James Wong Howe's photography for the film is. Paul Newman's performance is the best feature of the film other than its beauty, and certainly he's also a part of its beauty since his face matches the landscape of the film so well.Hud (Newman) is the rebellious son of an ornery cattle rancher (Melvyn Douglas). His behavior provides a poor role model for his nephew Lon (Brandon De Wilde) and endangers the only woman on the premises, the housekeeper Alma (Patricia Neal).The job of this movie, as far as I can see, is for De Wilde to be sort of this neutral energy and for the Douglas and Neal characters to exert enough of a centered and constructive energy that it overwhelms Hud's gravity even in the face of his clearly being the most fascinating character in the film. As far as that goes, the film is reasonably successful. I question the wisdom of adapting the McMurtry novel into modern times -- it makes the Douglas rancher character seem ludicrously old fashioned rather than endearingly so, and it invites unpleasant comparisons to the Rock Hudson character from the George Stevens adaption of Edna Ferber's Giant. Nice film, I'm glad I finally saw it... but I probably won't watch it again too soon, as it seems to me fairly obvious and wouldn't be hugely rewarding on repeat viewings. "}{"Title":"Hud the Headstrong.","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After playing a very brittle character in 1958's Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, Paul Newman entered the 60's suddenly finding himself being offered a lot of roles which allowed him to change tack and give a series of strong-willed portrayals. All it once it seemed that casting agents had begun to notice his smouldering good looks and wanted to capitalise on them by asking him to do the 'strong silent type' routine. This also meant of course that an increase in his male fan-base resulted, touching off a rivalry with Steve McQueen that saw both men marked as icons of cool for young adult movie lovers everywhere.Where Hud differs from the rest in this set of more determined roles is that the title character is unabashedly presented as a complete rotter. Secretly we might find his flouting of polite conventions thrilling, but you'd struggle to disagree that he treats the more amiable members of his extended family appallingly. Bravely for a film of its time, no change of ways seems likely to be brought about, either. Hud remains unapologetic in the face of his despairing companions. As a whole it's a tricky task to undertake for Newman, first making us intrigued by this man, and then managing to keep us invested in his fate even as his behaviour grows steadily worse. That most remain impressed and watching is a testament to his star quality, and the performances of the supporting players around him. You can feel his charisma and believe it when he becomes the instigator of a barroom brawl, for example, and even as the closing shot zooms out of focus on an unrepentant individual, you know you've just witnessed an indelible figure in film. "},{"Title":"Remarkable  and dramatic account about antagonism between an arrogant son and his sternly  moralising father","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Intelligent semi-Western, well directed and wonderfully performed by Newman as a man with the barbed wire soul . Hud Bannon(Paul Newman who dubbed this one pretty good) is a ruthless young man who tarnishes everything and everyone he touches . Hud represents the perfect embodiment of alienated youth . Instead of helping his dad , Hud drunkenly chases the family's housekeeper (Patricia Neal) and establishes relationship with his hero-worshipping nephew (Brandon De Wilde , Shane) , both of whom emotionally involved with him . As the father-son conflict is deeply observed by other members of the household , the maid and the nephew . Then , a government order to slaughter the ranch's entire herd as a precaution leads to tragedy and the ranch owner siding the law . Exciting and thought-provoking clear-eyed story of growing in Texas plenty of interesting drama , emotion and a strong antagonism between the free-drinking son and a sternly moralising patriarchal ranch owner , including elements of Greek tragedy . Various studio-characters furnish the basis for this Western-drama ; filmmaker Martin Ritt has got a big success in delineating their troublesome roles . Terrific Paul Newman in an enjoyable performance, though using the Stanislawski method , it results to be a superb piece of acting . Paul Newman played the part of Hud as a villain . He was later stunned that so many young moviegoers had a poster of Hud and viewed him as their hero. In preparation for his title role , Paul Newman worked on a Texas cattle ranch for several weeks acquiring genuine calluses and a cowboy's lope . Melvyn Douglas gives a superb acting as old rancher who has fallen on hard times and shows to mourn the old-free-ranging ways of the frontier days . Terrific interpretation by Patricia Neal as a mature woman to whom Hud pursues and she wants nothing to do with him . Interesting screenplay dealing with brooding themes such as the disintegration of a heritage , including engaging dialogs haunted by frames of decay and death ; being nicely written by Irving Ravetch and Harriet Frank Jr. from a novel by Larry McMurtry . Evocative cinematography by James Wong Howe , he's a classic cameraman who won two Oscars (for Hud, and Rose tattoo), working from silent cinema . Elmer Bernstein's score for Hud runs approximately six minutes, making it one of the shortest film scores ever. But what a six minutes it is - in fact, it's perfection and just right for the film . The music is sparse, yes, but it's potent every time it appears. There's also some source music in the film - car radios, jukeboxes, records.This understatement motion picture was well produced and directed by Martin Ritt, who worked with Paul Newman in two Westerns  Hombre and Outrage. Ritt was an expert on dramas such as Stanley and Iris , Nut , Norma Rae , The front, The Sound and the Fury , Black orchid , though also directed films of all kind of genres such as  The Spy Who Came in from the Cold , The Great White Hope , Mafia and Molly McGuire . This Hud film will appeal to drama enthusiasts and Paul Newman fans . Rating  Above average, well worth watching ; along with Outrage , being one of Ritt's best movie. "},{"Title":"A group of the finest screen performances.","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1956, Paul Newman was cast as the lead in the picture Somebody Up There Likes Me, as a replacement after the sudden death of James Dean. It's only fitting then that a little over half a decade later he would play the title character in Hud, a role that seems like it came straight from the Dean playbook. Newman's Hud Bannon is a force to be reckoned with; a constant boozer and womanizer who plays by his own rules and puts anyone who stands against him in his rearview.It's a brilliant character and a perfect career choice for Newman, coming fresh off a streak of playing likable lead roles. Hud is a despicable human being, a selfish man who drags down those around him with no consequence for what he's doing to them; the sickest part being that he doesn't even realize it, and sometimes even thinks he's helping them. Newman plays off his trademark charm that wins you over and finds something in those eyes that wants you to see Hud as a good guy, but he makes you regret that desire just as much as everyone else who comes into contact with him.Hud Bannon surrounds himself with women and friends who love to watch his wild ways, but he's one of the loneliest men I've ever seen and Newman captures that isolation with a deep reservoir of pain that rarely comes to the surface. It's a haunting, fascinating and absolutely memorable portrayal, matched by a trio of superb supporting performances. Melvyn Douglas won a well-deserved Oscar in his role as Homer, Hud's father and eternal counterpoint.Hud and Homer clash through practically the entire film, and there's something about Douglas' portrayal that is so effortlessly winning. He makes you see the man that you want to become, the man that you wish Hud would be, a man who can be proud of what he's done and who he is, even if things don't always go his way. There's a warmth to his portrayal that makes you want to be in his company and never disappoint him. Perhaps that's what drove Hud so far down, knowing that he could never be the man his father wanted him to be.Patricia Neal is also a scene-stealer as Alma Brown, the housekeeper for the Bannon's ranch, taking care of her three boys with a rogue charm on all her own. It's a performance loaded to the brim with moxy and Neal always pulls the room towards her in each scene, just as Brown herself does. The final standout performance comes from Brandon De Wilde as Lonnie, Hud's nephew and the driving force of the film.Hud, the film, is based on a novel by Larry McMurtry which focuses primarily on Lonnie and his coming-of-age story. The film takes an interesting approach to the structure, which I don't think entirely works, and focuses instead on the most fascinating character in the tale, but you can still feel that skeleton of Lonnie's story weaving through every scene. It's probably not a film that's going to stick with me in terms of it's themes and story, all of which we've seen plenty of times, but it's surely one that will keep in my mind thanks to the tremendous performances from the entire cast. "},{"Title":"Midnight cowboy, time to go to bed.","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You got my calluses, for what? - Hud Hud stars Paul Newman as Hud Bannon, a young rancher who feuds with Homer (Melvyn Douglas), his ageing father. As the film was directed by Martin Ritt &#x96; then at the peak of his power &#x96; it quickly gets political.And so Hud Bannon embodies a form of post-1960s apathy, individualism, excess and self-centeredness. His father, however, belongs to a different era, privileging community, responsibility, family values and simple morals. The two feud and Homer dies. Hud's nephew, Lonnie Bannon, must then choose between these two father figures, adopting a way of life akin to either Hud's or Homer's. Significantly, Lonnie is played by Brandon de Wilde, an actor who played a cowboy idolising kid in Shane, an early western. In many ways, Hud's climax is a response to Shane's.Westerns in the 1960s and 70s (The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, Cable Hogue, Once Upon A Time In The West, The Wild Bunch, The Shootist etc) began to adopt a fairly simple, melancholic tone, in which the arrival of machinery, steam engines and industrialisation heralded the obsolescence of the cowboy. These films pined for a reactionary form of both outlaw justice and frontier masculinity. But Hud, like a number of contemporary-set westerns of this era (Junior Bonner, JW Cooper, The Honkers, Midnight Cowboy etc), does something slightly different. It features cowboys who find themselves struggling to reconcile the moral code of the farmsteader and cowboy (if such a thing ever existed) with a valorization of mid-century capitalism. Hud, who looks out for nobody but himself, thus epitomises the new-man, the new cowboy, brushing past his elders and throwing away all values which stand in the way of him exercising what he perceives to be full autonomy and full individualism. You keep no check on your appetites at all, Homer tells his son. You just live for yourself, and that makes you not fit to live with! Indeed, in his pursuit of individualistic gain, Hud is shown manipulating the law, fawning over money, oil and conning buyers. He considers everyone else expendable. Through Hud, the myth of the open frontier - and it is a myth, Hud's father is not idealised at all - then dissolves into the literal landscape of New America. In his search to assert a new form of masculinity (he's greedy, misogynistic, indifferent, but perceives himself to be independent), Hud also becomes a forerunner to Midnight Cowboy's Joe Buck. But where Buck ceases being a cowboy caricature through his connection with others, Hud morphs into something else; a monster.In the 1960s, Hud was mistakenly embraced by youth. Newman's character was seen to be a rebel, an anti-hero, a boat-rocker in the vein of early Brando and James Dean. But this is not Ritt's point at all Newman's character is the perfect conformist. Indeed, the film's chief conflict involves Hud and his father arguing over infected cattle. The father rightfully wants to kill the cattle. He wants to stop the spread of infection (an ironic nod to the communist infections that would plague Ritt), the greater good more important to him than personal profit. Hud, of course, wants to do the opposite. He wants to sell the cattle.One must remember that Ritt was once a radical leftist who had loose affiliations with various communist or left-leaning movements, a fact which got him blacklisted during the Hollywood's Witchhunt Years. Ritt's films can themselves be divided into loose groups. One group tends to be preoccupied with watching as characters, who represent the modern ethos of capitalism, come into contact with their opposites (Hud, Hombre etc). Another group focuses on the lives of the marginalised, often African Americans who struggle with various socio-economic problems (Sounder, Conrack, The Great White Hope etc). Yet another chunk of Ritt's films tend to deal with groups or organisations being infiltrated and undermined by the literal or figurative foot-soldiers of either communism or capitalism (Norma Rae, The Spy Who Came In From The Cold, The Molly Maguires). Hud, of course, belongs to the first group. But like Ritt's The Spy Who Came In From The Cold, it also deals with the transforming of social configurations by betrayals within families. Human beings form groups, these groups adhere to various ideological convictions, and &#x96; as Ritt repeatedly shows through his filmography &#x96; these convictions are effortlessly changed, if not by outsiders, then by wolves lurking within.For most of its running time, Hud is an impeccable film. Director Martin Ritt's camera work is gorgeous, master cinematographer James Wong Howe's black-and-white visuals seduce the eyes, actor Paul Newman's character &#x96; a hot-headed rancher &#x96; is iconic, and the film's portrait of small town Texas oozes atmosphere. Unfortunately the film's Greek Tragedy pretensions (multiple characters are even named after Greek poets!) are weak, and Ritt's stance on Homer misses the point that, historically, men like Homer were exactly that which Hud embodies.8.9/10 - See Giant, King Rat, Broken Lance and Hombre. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"A Great American Tragedy","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If there is a picture in this world that proves film is as great an art form as the novel, it is Hud. Intricate, well layered, and ultimately heartbreaking, Hud is an American tragedy that easily merits comparison with Eugene O' Neil's New England dramas as it is a simple, yet profound contemplation of human nature. Though a tale of morality, Hud is at its core a eulogy to a bygone era of America's past, and devastating portrait of modern degeneration. The performances are nothing less than fantastic as the characters presented in Hud are all so well realized that their presences will haunt the viewer long after the screen fades to black. Paul Newman is at his best as the despicable title character, while Patricia Neal gives her most legendary performance as a rangy housekeeper. Equally brilliant are Melvyn Douglas whose character functions as the film's moral center, and the young Brandon de Wilde whose character serves as the innocent spectator to the story's tragedy.Though the deserved winner of several Academy Awards, Hud has become somewhat of a forgotten masterpiece. If you have never seen this beautiful movie, go out and rent it now! I guarantee it will move you to tears! "},{"Title":"An American Classic","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the best movies of the 1960s. Director Martin Ritt's film captures the dissatisfaction that much of America felt during the 1960s before the decade was even half over. Paul Newman has the title role, a heel's heel who drinks too much, shacks up with too many local housewives, and fights constantly with his aged father. His nephew, Brandon DeWilde idolizes him while Earth mother housekeeper Patricia Neal just barely tolerates him. Newman and Neal have real chemistry and their scenes together are quite charged, even a little bit naughty. HUD is a melancholy, downbeat movie about a new generation of young people who have forgotten where they came from. It's the best film Ritt ever made and the performances are devastating Newman, Neal and DeWilde are great and, as Newman's father, Melvyn Douglas is brilliant --- you'd never believe he was once Hollywood's go-to guy whenever a romantic rival for bigger stars like Cary Grant was needed! "},{"Title":"Hud -- The Character of Three Men","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Movie Hud, 1963, on DVD 2003 Cast Paul Newman, Melvyn Douglas, Patricia Neal, and Billy De Wilder Director Martin Ritt Based on a novel by Larry McMurtry Paramount Movie Release Running time 112 minutes Rating strong PG for suggestive language (originally not rated)This black and white Golden Globe winner of 1963, also won Academy supporting roles for Douglas and Oneal, as well as an Academy Award for cinematography. This film is worth a watch for lovers of westerns and dramas. The picture does lose some of its power on the small screen. With the age of innuendo, younger viewers will quickly become bored, except for the bar room fight and the pig wrestling contest. Few small Texas cattle ranches as this setting still exist, making the western a dated one. This is, however, a powerful movie for the right audience.Homer Barron is the patriarch of the family, which consists of his 34 year old son Hud, and his nephew and his 17 year-old grandson Lon. Alma, the earthy and compassionate housekeeper, takes care of the woman's work for the family, spending her nights in a one room shack behind the main house. The ranch has a few cow hands, and about 200 head of cattle.Three men could be no more different than these. The elder Barron has lost a wife and son to death, but lives and believes character and honesty are the measure of a man's worth. The good-timing Hud fulfills his chores on the ranch, but prefers hard drinking, affairs with married women, and driving his pink convertible Cadillac fast and hard. Lon, on the edge of manhood with all the expected appetites for food and women intact, admires both his grandfather and his uncle. He's a good boy, and spends his time trying to emulate and buddy up to Hud, while still pleasing his stodgy old grandfather. Lon has a foot in each man's character while developing his own.They story begins with Lon searching for Hud from carousing in town the night before. He locates Hud at a married woman's house, just as the husband arrives home. The two quickly depart, the hustler being wrongly revealed as they drive away, Hud adding details to benefit the young boy's reputation as a ladies' man, which he is not. Hud saves his own skin, and has fun with it.A cow has been found dead on the ranch, for no apparent reason. Homer wants to call the state vet, and pursue proper guidelines. Hud challenges his father, saying to keep the government out of their business, and to sell off the possibly sick cattle to the north while they still can. If this animal has died from hoof and mouth disease, all the cattle on the ranch will have to be destroyed, and the family will get only fifty cents per head, and have nothing for which to ranch. Homer declares Hud a man of no principles, and calls for the state vet's assistance. The family must wait for over a week for lab results to clear or condemn the cattle.The good old boys in town like Hud, and despite an attempted rape of Alma one late and drunk night, he usually gets what he wants. Hud cares for no one but himself. He contacts an attorney in the town to try to get possession of the ranch from his father, who he calls an old fool for buying sick Mexican cattle. Hud sees the old man as incompetent and a hypocrite.Eventually all the cattle, as well as two special Longhorn cattle, must be destroyed to prevent spread of the disease, which is the worst news a cattle man can get. By today's standards the driving of cattle into a crowded pit in the field to be shot seems heartless, but bland in black and white. Bullets shower for over a minute, trailing off to the last three moving cows. Homer kills the two Longhorns himself.The audience's attachment to the characters, and the interactions of the personalities makes this film. Men's dreams may be slaughtered like cattle. With the death of the dream, dies the man. We know Hud will never change.The dialogue is what makes this movie great. The sexual tension and very suggestive banter makes this a movie older adults will appreciate. "},{"Title":"Martin Ritt and Elmer Bernstein make the pink Cadillac appear pink in a black & white film","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When you talk about Hud the film, Paul Newman, Patricia Neal and Melvyn Douglas dominate the conversation. They are the obvious heroes--but the real heroes to me are director Ritt and music composer Bernstein. Why? Ritt makes the film come alive, not Newman. Ritt's final shot the hell with it nihilistic gesture of Newman is a fabulous way to end a film--silent yet decisive. Ritt's use of Bernstein, who is used to composing grand orchestral music pieces like The Magnificent Seven theme, is made to evoke emotions with a sensitive composition for a couple of guitars--that is totally in line with the story-line of a single family, although presented by three generations. Ritt is clever in bringing in the music at very few occasions--not overdoing it to underscore drama/melodrama. That's Ritt of The Outrage (Ritt's reworking of Kurosawa's 'Rashomon' and Edge of the City), constantly exploring human attitudes and values, a facet of Ritt's interest in Communism that cost him dear in the McCarthy witch-hunt against anyone with a trace of Leftist sentiments.Larry Macmurtry (scriptwriter/novelist) and Ritt are able to pit old, weatherbeaten values of two generations (grandfather and grandson) against the materialistic, unethical and hedonist values of another (son)--a black sheep that abuses and chastises his own father and yet loves and cares for him, when he is down. Ritt is always obsessed with human values (Norma Rae,Edge of the City), a factor most present day Hollywood directors tend to gloss over.It is easy for a viewer to spot the swagger and bravado of Paul Newman. But Ritt focuses not merely on his lead actors, but the animals that are about to be slaughtered, the importance of appreciating the sound of grass growing (even the attempt to grow flowers or the line it doesn't take long to kill things, not like it takes to grow), and the social comment on USA (a country run on epidemics,...price fixing, crooked TV shows, inflated expense accounts..).Now Ritt is never negative towards USA--he is merely urging the viewer to think and be critical and come to accept the best in the available socio-political canvas. One character in the film would like to kill the buzzards, the other restrains him by saying it keeps the country clean. Who are the buzzards? The amazing aspect of Ritt's films is that he is never didactic--he leaves the viewer to choose. The film presents three sets of values represented by three generations of one family. Yet the last word seems to be with the bad guy. The viewer is forced to think and choose his hero. The director steps back from forcing his viewpoint on the viewer. Other directors have followed Ritt's method William Fraker in Monte Walsh (1970) and Arthur Penn in Night moves (1975).I saw the film on a Saudi-Arab TV channel with the aspect ratio curtailed. I wish I could have seen the film in the original 2.351 ratio and enjoyed the contribution of cinematographer James Wong Howe. Even on the small screen the pink Cadillac in B&W came alive metaphorically--spotless at the start and a wreck at the end. The Cadillac played as important a role as Newman, the beautiful Neal, and the rest of the cast. That's Ritt. "},{"Title":"Hud","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What a great cast Newman, Paticia Neal and the great under-appreciated Melvyn Douglass. Academy award nominations for all three with awards going to Neal and Douglas. Great story of generational and moral differences between Newman and Douglas (Hud's father). Newman is the personification of the swaggering no account cowboy. He is a cool, reckless individual with no sense of morals. Unfortunately Lonnie is attracted to questioning his uncle and grandfather at the same time. Excellent cinematography by the master James Wong Howe gives a surreal quality to the movie. Mr. Howe captures the quality of the desolation of the West Teaxas landscape that captures a sense of alienation. Yes it is a depressing tale of degradation in the Southwest, but a reality tale of eloquence. Newman, I think took a chance on this film, because his charter has no redeeming qualities for the audience to connect to unlike his role in Cool Hand Luke which many point to as his best work as a actor. I think this was his greatest performance since The Hustler. "},{"Title":"the highlight of Paul Newman's career","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With Hud, Paul Newman played what may have been his best role ever. He plays Hud Bannon, a hard-drinking, very cool cowboy/rancher in rural Texas. But he is also very alienated from his family. This quality comes to a head when his father Homer (Melvyn Douglas), who has fallen on hard times, asks for help in regaining his livelihood. Hud refuses, preferring the cool-but-destructive life that he leads. Brandon DeWilde plays Hud's nephew Lonnie, who idolizes Hud but at the same time is repulsed by the man's attitude towards the family. Patricia Neal won a well-deserved Oscar for her role as gentle-but-firm maid Alma Brown, who provides a sort of counterbalance to Hud's cowboy lifestyle.Almost as magnificent as the actors is James Wong Howe's cinematography. Brilliantly capturing the barren landscape, he shows what seems to be a metaphor for Hud's alienation. All in all, Hud was certainly one of 1963's five best movies, if not the best. It showed without a doubt that Martin Ritt was one of the greatest directors in history. "}{"Title":"Good flick but what's the point?","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a film I considered renting for a long time and then I always put it down and picked up something else. I must say I have never been a huge fan of Paul Newman, especially in his younger days when he always seemed to hesitate between Marlon Barlon and James Dean as his role model. Still, Patricia Neal happens to be one of my favorite classic actresses and I was curious to see the performance that brought her her only Academy Award. So I finally crossed the pond. I don't regret it, but I cannot say that I am enthusiastic either. First, Patricia Neal's performance is fine as always, but hers is definitely a supporting part. I am some dismayed at how the Academy nominated her as Leading Actress while she is billed after Melvyn Douglas, who still got nominated and won as Supporting Actor. The Academy decidedly has mysterious ways alien to our meager reason skills... Paul Newman delivers a good Brando-like performance and is not as irritating as he was in some contemporary films, although he has played that character several times before. The best performances in my view come from the aforementioned Melvyn Douglas and Brandon DeWilde whom I can't figure out why he didn't get a nomination. As to the film itself... Well, I have mixed feelings. Martin Ritt's direction is top-notch, with a masterful use of long-shots enhanced by James Wong Howe's inventive photography. Still, I found myself at the end wondering what I had been watching for the last two hours. This is a good film, even a great film in its own way but it has no point. I couldn't figure out what Ritt was trying to say and why he chose that story to put it. No driving force, no major theme surfaces. "},{"Title":"Bleak Film with Three Great Performances","Date":"22 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hud (1963)**** (out of 4) One of the bleakest films ever made, HUD centers on the title character played by Paul Newman who is about as ruthless as one can be. He cares for very little in this world and everything he does love is usually something bad. His father (Melvyn Douglas) has hated him for some time now but after their cattle grows sick they begin to butt heads.HUD certainly isn't a very cheerful film and it's one of the darkest and in reality sadness movies ever made. While it's not always easy to watch there's no denying its impact plus the fact that it contains three of the greatest performances that you're ever going to see. HUD works on many levels but it's strength is certainly the performances as well as its honest character study of someone most people will find cool but when you get pass all the smoke you see a rather ugly human being.The screenplay itself is extremely laid back and in fact the film is pretty quiet. There's not too much screaming or long speeches but instead there's just a very realistic tone that comes across quite natural and real. I think most people will be able to look at these main four characters and either be one of them are know someone like them. There's the young cool guy who hurts everything that he comes into contact with. There's the older wise man who stands by his morals. There's a broken house maid who is probably hiding some sadness. Then there's the young nephew who looks up to Hud not knowing or understanding his type of character.Then, there are the terrific performances, which are among the best you'll ever see. Newman never had an issue playing cool but he always made it look so easy. He brings that quality to Hud but there's also that underlying dirty and dangerous part. There's just a certainly coldness that Newman brings to the character, which we never saw from him in his other roles. Douglas rightfully won the Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his deep and very sincere performance. Neal is a great big ball of sadness and her deep eyes just say so much without her having to speak a word. Even Brandon De Wilde is very impressive in his role and especially when you consider the major talent he was acting against.HUD also features a terrific and haunting music score and the Oscar-winning cinematography perfectly captures the dusty dirt roads. The film manages to keep getting better with time as its messages are perhaps more true today than when the film was originally released. "},{"Title":"fascinating characters and terrific performances","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In rural Texas, Hud Bannon (Paul Newman) is a self-centered amoral womanizer. He's always in conflict with his principled rancher father Homer (Melvyn Douglas). His nephew Lonnie looks up to him. The Bannon boys are attracted to housekeeper Alma (Patricia Neal) but she's been mistreated before. Homer insists on calling the government vet after a mysterious cattle death despite Hud's objections. Foot and mouth disease is suspected and the entire herd is in danger of liquidation. Hud wants to sell the herd no matter the consequences to other people.All four lead performances are amazing. Paul Newman and Melvyn Douglas are incredible. Patricia Neal is truly brilliant. It's one of the great female performances of all times. The fact that she's not the lead and still won the Oscar for lead actress says a lot. She gives a full body performance. Paul Newman is so likable that he turns the amoral character into a hero of some sort. The look is crisp black and white. It's a movie of compelling characters and terrific performances. "},{"Title":"A Callous Man.","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Newman stars as Hud Bannon, a selfish man who lives with his father Homer, (played by Melvyn Douglas)on his Texas cattle ranch. Homer is a stern but principled man who hates his son's character, but has been unable to change. Lonnie Bannon(played by Brandon De Wilde) looks up to Hud, who brings him along on his various dates and occasional bar fights. Homer, who is in ill health, is very concerned by how his ruthless son will carry on the ranch after he dies, especially when a contagious disease spreads among his livestock, threatening to wipe him out. Lonnie eventually becomes disenchanted with Hud, leading to a stark finale...Excellent character study of generational disconnect and the consequences of ones actions, even if Hud doesn't concern himself about it. Fine performances by all, and solid direction by Martin Ritt make this bleak but incisive character study a winner. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking cinematography","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of Martin Ritt's true masterpieces. A movie that describes an egotistic man named Hud Bannon that torments the lives of his loved ones while he acts like a suitable role model for his younger nephew. The acting has truly changed my perception of Paul Newman who plays the anti-hero with great prominence and innuendo. Above all Patricia Neal's performance glitters like gold, her Oscar was well deserved. No need to mention the outstanding performance of Melvyn Douglas and Brandon De Wilde. The cinematography is where I really want to focus since I have never seen a Simple drama film like this have such a wonderful feeling of smooth camera work. The depiction of the plot on camera is subtle and uniquely satisfying. The scene that grasps my admiration is the murdering of the cattle, the way it is filmed leaves the viewer to assume and imagine the horror of what is happening in that pit. Overall i give this films a well deserved 8/10. "},{"Title":"Stark Anti-Hero Drama Sets A High-Standard In All Departments","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From start to finish, this is a perfectly-gauged film, a character study where, unusually, the main character is not the one to change. Paul Newman's Hud is dazzlingly handsome, often charming, and thoroughly reprehensible he is mean and calculating, petty and self-absorbed, unable to connect in any meaningful way with those around him.We are fascinated with Hud because of his effect on others, and this film showcases three other actors who are challenged by Hud--Most notably, his father, played in a brilliant, incisive and Oscar-winning performance by Melvyn Douglas (can this really be the same debonair star who made Garbo laugh in Ninotchka?) The film opens as does The Last Picture Show, in a sad, run-down, emptied Western town, captured perfectly in black-and-white Widescreen by master cinematographer James Wong Howe. There are all kinds of reasons to watch this film, which has both moments of high hilarity and real horror, and it's perfect blending of studio system elements is seldom seen with such quiet power. "},{"Title":"You're an unprincipled man, Hud.","Date":"23 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hud is directed by Martin Ritt and adapted to screenplay by Irving Ravetch and Harriet Frank Jr., from the Larry McMurty novel Horsemen, Pass By. It stars Paul Newman, Melvyn Douglas, Patricia Neal and Brandon de Wilde. Music is by Elmer Bernstein and cinematography by James Wong Howe.Hud Bannon (Newman) doesn't care for much outside of himself, life is to be enjoyed by drinking, fighting, bedding women and basically anything as long as he avoids responsibility for it. This greatly upsets his father, Homer (Douglas), a very principled man who is tormented that a son of his could turn out so rotten. Troubling him still further is that his grandson, Lonnie (de Wilde) is getting closer to Hud and he's in danger of being corrupted to Hud's unprincipled ways&#x85;&#x85;I done my time with one cold blooded bastard, I'm not looking for another.It may filmed in Panavison, with sumptuous black and white photography by Howe (Academy Award for Best Cinematography), but this is a dry dust bowl set drama, thriving on dialogue and propelled by a mean spirited protagonist. Film is essentially a four character piece, with those four characters confined to small town Americana and a family ranch that is going under now that the livestock has contracted deadly foot and mouth disease. Bannon's senior and junior battle it out for the soul of young Lonnie, with Patricia Neal's smouldering older woman house keeper simultaneously playing mother, wife and potential girlfriend to all three Bannon men. It's a hot-pot combination given great edginess by Ravetch and Frank's screenplay. There's very little action, except some brief bar room brawling and speedy car driving, but there's terrific literary drama in the narrative. As Hud Bannon strips off each self-absorbed layer, so the film shifts up another gear.Old people get as hard as their arteries sometimes.But be warned, this is no happy picture. This is not a case where the supremely handsome face of Paul Newman will ultimately warm your heart, picture is dealing in grimness and there is trouble waiting for everyone involved. Even Bernstein's score is on the reflective side of the fence, tenderly blending with Howe's melancholic images captured in and around this small Texas town. The four principal actors turn in wonderful performances, with Neal winning an Academy Award for Best Actress (though it's a relatively small role!) and Douglas also winning for Best Supporting Actor. While nominations went to Newman for Best Actor, Ritt for Best Director and also the screenplay and art direction was up for awards too. As a production and execution of a moody story, Hud is up with the best of them. That is? If you don't mind sombre dialogue driven stories? 8/10 "},{"Title":"Lost And Gone Forever","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Other cowboy films get called westerns; Hud seems more like a post-western to me; its bleak visual poetry and terse dialogue almost bracing as much by what is left out as what it contains. Yet it manages to imprint its negative image on you with an impact like few films ever.In pioneer days, the American West was predicated on ideals and values A man's word was his bond, and a woman had a right not to be mistreated. Steal a man's horse back when, and you could get hung. But by Hud Bannon's time, this film seems to be saying, all that was left was rugged individualism.As played by Paul Newman, Hud embodies that virtue so well you want to go along with him as much as you can. His nephew Lonnie (Brandon De Wilde) certainly tries, risking the disapproval of his more tradition-minded grandfather, and Hud's father, Homer (Melvyn Douglas). The three men live together on Homer's ranch with their live-in maid Alma (Patricia Neal), tensions rising with the apparent onset of a foot-and-mouth-disease epidemic in Homer's cattle herd.For Hud, life is for the taking, or it isn't worth living. Get all the good you can out of 17, cause it sure wears out in one helluva hurry, he tells Lonnie. Don't let the smile fool you; it's not a happy life for Hud. Homer's disapproval cuts him deeply. A path littered with empty bottles and angry husbands gets pretty lonely after a while.Newman and director Martin Ritt work hard to create in Hud a character who is both likable and somewhat repellent, though never so much as to mind his company. He's too funny even at his worst. Honey, don't go shootin' all the dogs cuz one of them got fleas, he tells a divorce he makes a play for. Newman played better parts, but Hud is his most singular performance, his lean, angular body and hard gaze giving him a presence that is as eloquent as any line.He's matched by Douglas, in a worthy Oscar-winning performance. Homer is gruff, somewhat detached, and maybe not all there after so many years of living off the land. But we find in him a warmth lacking in Hud. Like Lonnie, we are meant to admire Homer's values even if we don't necessarily hold with them.Based on Larry McMurtry's debut novel Horseman, Pass By, Hud is no moral tale of the purposeful life. To the extent it presents any philosophy, it's not far removed from Hud's own of nihilistic self-reliance. This could be the story of Job as written by the Devil. It's no accident Hud gets all the best lines.But unlike an exercise in pure nihilism, Hud makes you care, enough to feel for the bond between Lonnie and Homer and even for the loss of such a bond between Homer and Hud. It also makes you care about the lifestyle and the land, in a way few films can where abstract principles are concerned. James Wong Howe's black-and-white cinematography captures the hot, flat landscape that is beautiful because of its very sparseness, while the Elmer Bernstein score seems to consist of idle strumming that nevertheless hits at exactly the right moments.It's hard to sum up Hud's appeal. It's bleak, yes, but it feels so lived-in you feel not like a viewer but a visitor. The vitality in the performances and the bite in their dialogue stay with you. And the message of lives that have outlived any sense of meaning and purpose is one that has sadly, grown more relevant as time continues to pass by. "},{"Title":" You've had 24 of my 34 years,  old man,  the cheapest labor you ever  had ","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When you read the novel  Horseman pass by  by Larry McMurtry you come to a startling conclusion. Paul Newman fits the unprincipled character  Hud  to a T. The story of Hud as directed by Martin Ritt, is that of an aging patriarch and honorable Rancher Homer Bannon (Melvyn Douglas) who despite his best efforts, has somehow raised his spirited son Hud to not only hate him and his family's estate, but places his animosity entirely on Homer. Though Hud Bannon works his father's ranch with his nephew, Lonnie (Brandon de Wilde) his every act is one of stark rebellion. Fast driving, hard drinking and a devil-may-care attitude with women, Hud makes no bones about wanting to push his old man over, to obtain his share of the ranch. Although, Lon admires his Uncle Hud, he soon realizes Hud is a self-destructive, selfish, ruthless hedonist. Patricia Neal plays Alma Brown, who grudgingly admires Hud, but knows he's just another bastard out for his own pleasures. With Whit Bissell as Mr. Burris, the state livestock inspector, the Black and White film is one movie which allows the cast and it's message to create a definite Classic. Excellent vehicle for Newman and one destined as a story of the times. **** "},{"Title":"..., little by little, the look of the country changes because of the men we admire.","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In a bit of a catch up following Paul Newman's death last year, I've been seeking out some of the earlier films that brought him to prominence. I'm surprised now that Hud has remained under my radar for so long. Not the type of portrayal one usually associates with Newman, Hud is a masterful film that explores one's man descent into nihilism and self destruction. Maybe descent isn't the right word, Hud Bannon already occupies a position of utter decadence when we first meet him. Drinking, womanizing, public brawls, and those are his finer points. Hud loses all semblance of integrity and respect when he forcibly confronts housekeeper Alma, and tries to convince his father to sell out before neighboring ranchers realize that the Bannon herd is infected with hoof and mouth disease.The film is fraught with both visual and verbal symbolism, a veritable treasure trove. When Hud asks for company to go into town to watch his performance in the greased pig contest, Alma (Patricia Neale) calmly retorts - I'll stay home. I don't like pigs. By this point in the story, one already has a pretty good idea she was talking about Hud.As I watched the film, I couldn't help thinking that there should have been a part in it for Ben Johnson, and then realized that the actor appeared in a similar dusty Texas landscape in 1971's The Last Picture Show. That film also explored failed relationships and alienation in a setting that offered little hope of escape, with an attendant atmosphere of mediocrity and boredom.You know, I got a kick out of a particular line in the movie spoken by Newman that unimaginably prophesied the charitable foundation he would found two decades later. When Homer Bannon (Melvyn Douglas) rails against the idea of letting oil companies drill wells on his property, Hud eerily states - My daddy thinks that oil is something you stick in your salad dressing. I wonder if that's when he first got the idea for Newman's Own.If Newman's performance as Hud here isn't brilliant enough, the viewer is further treated to Oscar caliber performances by Melvyn Douglas and Patricia Neale in their award winning support roles, with an additional strong turn by Brandon De Wilde as nephew Lon Bannon. I was surprised to see that this early Sixties film was done in black and white, but one quickly realizes that it's the best format to express the stark, scrub surroundings of the Bannon ranch, and a perfect complement to the themes of disaffected youth and father/son conflict. One needn't look much further for one of the best examples of pure cinema than Hud. "}{"Title":"Tremendous Film","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Remarkable film, with top-of-the-line performances by all involved, especially Paul Newman. There are certain roles that certain actors seem born to play, and Hud is Paul Newman's role.Hud is exceedingly charming, capable and charismatic, but there is emotional damage hidden within, and he is also cruel and unforgiving, and wants to shun and hurt anyone who gets too close. Anybody who gets too close to Hud does so on Hud's terms. His terms are to take whatever he wants. He has no inclination to understand what anyone may want or need from him. He pursues his own wants and needs, at whatever expense.Brandon De Wilde is Hud's young nephew, Lon. Lon admires Hud, and aspires to live the rugged life that Hud himself lives. It is through their relationship that Lon begins to see the cruelty and thoughtlessness behind Hud's charm. Most of the movie wedges young Lon between his brash, virile Uncle Hud, and his moral, upstanding Grandfather (Hud's father). Lon is also the son of Hud's dead brother; a death that still is a source of unspoken pain between Hud and his father.The other interesting character is that of Alma, played by Patricia Neal. She is the somewhat homely, but undeniably sexy housekeeper for the house full of men. She is a woman who has lived a somewhat hard life, and seen her share of hurt. She keeps Hud at arms length, although certainly aware of his virility and sex appeal. She, too, is treated to ugly examples of this attractive, emotionally damaged man.Emotionally stunning movie; many remarkable segments, including the riveting cattle slaughter scenes.Easily an Oscar-worthy performance by Newman. One of the more remarkable portrayals of his career. "},{"Title":"The acorn doesn't fall far from the oak","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hud is an American classic.  It's visual literature, with the rhythm of Catcher in the Rye, the colloquialisms of Huck Finn, and the raw sexual undercurrents of Streetcar Named Desire.  It's worth watching several times.Shot in black and white, the main characters contrast each other about as starkly as the crisp cinematography and the dry Texas landscape.  Hud Bannon (Paul Newman) and his father, Homer (Melvyn Douglas) are self-sufficient character studies all by themselves.  But put them together as bitter antagonists, with their undisguised disgust for each other, and the total becomes more than the sum of the parts.The first time we observe the dynamics of their relationship, we're willing to accept the father's assessment of Hud as `an unprincipled man.'  And he is, without doubt, a moral relativist, whose own self-interest is paramount. He has about as much use for the law as tomcat has with a marriage license. He sneers at his father's `high moral principles' because the world is so full of crap, he says, that `a man's gonna get into it whether careful or not.'  Separate the sinners from the saints, and `you're lucky to be left with Abraham Lincoln!'  To Hud, all people are opportunists;  they just won't admit it.  If a person doesn't look after himself, the only helping hand he'll get is when `they lower the box.'  `Nobody gets out of life alive,' is Hud's motto.Long after the initial reactions to Hud have washed away, however, it's not clear that Homer's behavior isn't as troubling as his son's.  The screenplay drops just enough hints to make one wonder.  And really great movies have a way of asserting themselves into consciousness well after the last clip. My brother used to tell my father, when confronted about his personal shortcomings, that the acorn doesn't fall far from the oak.  When Hud declares, toward the end, that Homer helped him about as much as he helped Homer, there are numerous signs that this may be true.  Watch it for yourself, and make up your own mind.  "},{"Title":"Values lost","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director Martin Ritt certainly liked Paul Newman for starring many of his films, and drama Hud was another one among six films they did together. Here we find a very tough young man, Hud Bannon (Paul Newman), who behave in a very egoist manner. In the family, in the society, everywhere he was rude, wrong and nasty. It seemed that he was simply unable to love others. One thing that it is not explained in the film is why such men exist. His education at home was OK since his father (Melvyn Douglas)was a man of principles, so why he became such a person, no explanation. In addition, he looked down the rest of the world, an example is when his father decided to kill his cattle to avoid the spread of foot and mouth disease in the cattle belonging to the neighborhood and Hud strongly opposed. The film finished in an open manner, Hud continued to be the same although his nephew was totally different. Perhaps it would have been good to include something (any action or fact) compelling Hud to change, but this did not happen. Acting in the film was excellent, not only from Newman but also from Melvyn Douglas, Patricia Neal and Brandon De Wilde. "},{"Title":"One of McMurtry's Trifecta","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Films based on the writing of Larry McMurtry have done a whole lot to define a certain Texas state-of-mind for us, especially Hud, The Last Picture Show, and Lonesome Dove. Hud is my favorite of these. Paul Newman is outstanding; Melvyn Douglas rock-solid; Patricia Neal perfect - somehow she's the making of the picture IMO.The screenwriters deserve a shout-out and I am happy to supply it here Irving Ravetch and Harriet Frank, a husband-and-wife team.Some of my favorite lines and images Far as I can get on a bus ticket delivered with a steely cool glance. Homer singing My Darling Clementine. The look Patricia Neal gives Lonnie when he swipes the berries. The cloudless skies. The way Neal says Chanel Number Fiiiive.I'm not sure I believe the story that young people in the 1960s, when the film came out, put up posters from the movie out of admiration for Hud. 1963-64-65 was a period of intense idealism among American youth; they wore buttons saying Give a Damn. (Melvyn Douglas to Hud You don't give a damn.) I suppose it's possible a few kids took the pro-Hud perspective, put up a poster or two in a dorm room, some reporter spotted a poster, and the story took off.I must say, I'm inclined to agree with Hud on the subject of oil. I realize Homer's a good man and Hud's a bad man and a drunk, but there's obviously a fortune in oil in those fields. Homer's prejudice against getting rich, in favor of a few stupid cows, is wacky and not adequately explained. "},{"Title":"A Masteripiece Movie","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hud is a true masterpiece , I doubt if it was really made in 1963 because it shows the life of a hot blooded , party lover young man of 21st century . I mean who don't want a life like Hud , working in day , helping father in farm and then in the night driving to Town , grab a drink , talk to girls or taking her on a ride and partying all night .I really wish , i had a life like Hud but i was born in an Army family and following rules , regulation , discipline since childhood i know outside the Military area where i live people party , roam like free birds and have all the fun .well lets come back to the movie , its really awesome to have an older brother or uncle to company you and take care of you if you stuck in a fight or brawl , drinking together really brings family feelingsHaving an Old man in house is a good thing as he tries his best to maintain discipline in family and showing the right path , This movie will never fail to entertain you , you can watch it over and over again and you will never bore because every time you see it , it makes you partying out and having a fun Brawl after getting drunk !!! "},{"Title":"Same Actors, Same Acting!","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After watching Melvyn, Paul, Brandon, Patricia and co. in a few films I could not for the life of me differentiate any new approach to character development. If this were a silent film I would be enthralled, the visuals are inspiring, poignant, and magnificent! However, the dialogue is non-stop slick, too cool for school, with good liking evil and evil spitting back.Film is unclear of thematic exposition. Having to trade off oil wells for dead cattle and two gorgeous longhorns? Hating a living child and revering a deceased one? Methods of entertainment in small Texas farming community? Hoof and Mouth disease is a conspiracy theory? Government officials are not to be trusted? Or, yet another vehicle to pronounce Newman sexiest man alive...again? Lest I sound ungrateful for this conundrum, it did educate somewhat of how to perceive films of this genre and the attempt to appreciate the unsung hero. Despite the prolonged ending, education was King for the moment and we all left the farm content.Recommend for Newman fans, de Wilde at 17 (gorgeous), Texas Longhorns and one fine seXy scene with Neal. "},{"Title":"Confined Considering the Location","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Minimalist Movie with Maximum Performances from All Four Major Players. It is a Widescreen Landscape of Wide Open Spaces Perfected by Legendary Lenser James Wong Howe. The Ranch Owned by Melvin Douglas, Papa Bannon, is One Disease Away from Disaster. The No-Account, Ungrateful Paul Newman, Hud Bannon, is the Tornado that the Story Swirls. Hud's, Nephew and Pappa's Grandchild Brandon De Wilde, Lonnie Bannon, is a Straight and Considerate Teenager who Looks Up to His Uncle Hud as Hero. The Hardworking, Easy Going Middle-Aged but Still Pretty Housekeeper to the Bannon Clan is Patricia Neal, Alma.That's the Quartet of Dusty Downwards that Populate this Gritty Story and it is Interesting but Not Altogether Fascinating to Watch these Folks as Fate Deals a Deathly Hand in this Poker Game of Life. The Film is on One Wavelength and Rarely Wavers. It is a Straightforward Telling of Real People Dealing with Real Life. One of the Movie's Strength, besides the Great Acting, is its Ability to Not Look Dated, in All Respects. The Ranch, the People, the Story, the Dialog, the Score, the Look, is Timeless and Makes the Film just as Powerful Today as 50 Years Ago.But ironically, Considering the Setting, there is Little Breadth or Scope and the Film is a Confinement of Principals in a Very Large Space. The Tone is Singular and the Story is Familiar. The Film is a Fine Hollywood Production with Superb Technical Accomplishments. It's got a Soap-Opera Feel and it Wears a Somewhat Trashy Novel Approach on its Sleeve. Powerful at Times and a Bit Flat at Others. The Greased Pigs and the Juke Joint seem Stuck In for No Apparent Reason Except to Give Lonnie a Chance to get Drunk with Hud. The Scene, and a Few Others, are so Unremarkable and Ho Hum They Seem Out of Place and don't Belong in a Movie that is So Good Otherwise. Not a Masterpiece but a Very Good Production with Outstanding Acting, a Good Look, and Overall Overrated. "},{"Title":"No dud","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rare to see Paul Newman play such an anti-hero and it's clear he relishes it. Counterpointed by strong performances from veteran Melvyn Douglas as his long- suffering father, Patricia Neal as their worldly housemaid and the young newcomer Brandon De Wilde as the impressionable youth whose loyalties are tried, tested and ultimately destroyed by Uncle Hud's selfishness and boorishness.These four actors and their characters' inter-relationships are pretty much the movie in a story that feels at times theatrical but in fact was adapted from a novel. I'd describe the plot as like Shane reflected through Tennessee Williams, so that the perhaps mis-directed hero-worship of a young man is this time thwarted by an idol with feet of clay.Throughout the film, Hud does nothing admirable or selfless and sort of tolerates the young acolyte trailing in his wake before a drunken attempted rape of Neal breaks the spell. I didn't however like Neal's acceptance of her ordeal, especially when she says she would have eventually let him have her in the future, betraying an unacceptable streak of chauvinism in the writing. Better to watch are the tensions and conflicts between grandfather-patriarch Douglas, errant, number two son Hud (we're made aware that Hud is responsible for the premature death of the elder son, De Wilde's father) and De Wilde himself, torn between his admiration of the former and misplaced envy of the latter's hedonism.Newman's on record as saying this is one of his favourite of his own movies and it's easy to see why. He's hardly every off the screen and he's excellent in his cast-against-type lead role. A contemporary Western shot in beautifully-lit black and white by James Wong Howe and sensitively directed by Martin Ritt, this was a gripping and involving family saga featuring a great star turn by one of the best actors of the 60's. "},{"Title":"A Character Not Quite As Sweet And Yummy As Newman's Honey Flax Flakes","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although Paul Newman portrayed any number of drunkards, layabouts, thieves, con men, bastards and seedy, shady, unreliable cads during the course of his justly celebrated, 50+-year career, perhaps no other character was such a complete and utter, irredeemable turd as the one he played in Hud. As a matter of fact, in an interview done years later, the film's director, Martin Ritt, revealed that most studios passed on the project, deeming the lead character and subject matter too unpleasant, and that even Newman's manager advised the actor not to participate. Newman was at this point emerging as a genuine superstar, by dint of recent portrayals in films such as Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, Exodus, The Hustler and Sweet Bird of Youth, but fortunately never let an unsavory character prevent him from taking on a meaty role. Based on Larry McMurtry's first novel, 1961's Horseman, Pass By, and filmed largely in and about the tiny Texas town of Claude (in the panhandle), Hud was released in May 1963 to great acclaim and remains a most powerful experience, now 50 years later.In the film, the viewer makes the acquaintance of 34-year-old Hud Bannon (Newman, natch), a hard-drinking, inveterate womanizer in modern-day Texas. Hud lives on his father Homer's cattle ranch, along with his 17-year-old nephew Lon, who idolizes him, and housekeeper Alma, spending his days working on the ranch and his nights carousing in town and chasing after married women. Homer, an old-fashioned man of unfailing rectitude, detests Hud's wanton ways and basic immorality, telling him at one point You're an unprincipled man, Hud. And the relationship between the two becomes strained even further when an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease forces Homer to consider the terrible prospect of exterminating his entire herd, while Hud urges him to just sell the lot to an unsuspecting buyer. And before long, a family tragedy that transpired years before is revealed, while Hud makes plans to wrest his father's empire away from him....Hud features any number of attributes that combine to make it a powerful achievement, but foremost are the thesping jobs turned in by its four leads. Patricia Neal, as Alma, won a Best Actress Oscar for her work here, despite the fact that her role is more of a supporting one; still, she is quite excellent, earthy and sexy and memorable. Also copping an Oscar for his work here was Melvyn Douglas, who is truly astonishing as the upright Homer. Douglas was 62 here, but looked much older, and in truth, the man looks nothing like the dapper gent who featured in such '30s comedies as Theodora Goes Wild and Ninotchka; he certainly did not age as well as Paul Newman (but then again, what human male in all of history ever did?!?!). As Lon, Brandon de Wilde, all grown up here since 1953's Shane, also gives a wonderful performance, sensitive and likable. A good-looking kid with a healthy interest in girls, Lon is understandably attracted to Hud's loose and easygoing ways, although his attitude toward his uncle gradually changes as the film proceeds. And as for Newman, need it even be mentioned how terrific he is as the dirtbag Hud? A complete louse, Hud at one point tries to blame his nephew for an affair that he, Hud, had been having with a married woman; makes repeated crude advances on Alma; attempts to rape Alma, in one shocking sequence; uses Lon's affection to help him sway the boy against his own grandfather; and, as already mentioned, urges Homer to sell diseased cattle and conspires against his own father. Newman deservedly earned an Oscar nomination here, ultimately losing to Sidney Poitier's work in Lilies of the Field. Charismatic and strangely appealing, this is a character who you will hate to admire, but one that you'll surely find hard to shake.Hud, other than those four towering performances, features some nicely sensitive direction from Ritt, who had previously worked with Newman on The Long Hot Summer and who would go on to direct him in The Outrage and Hombre. The film has been beautifully shot in B&W wide-screen Panavision by the great James Wong Howe, features a lovely theme song, by Elmer Bernstein, on acoustic guitar (how different this theme is from Bernstein's bold and brassy score for The Man With the Golden Arm, or his classic theme for The Magnificent Seven, or his slinky, jazzish theme for Walk on the Wild Side!), and uncharacteristically unglamorous costumes by the legendary Edith Head. And the picture boasts a script--written by Irving Ravetch and Harriet Frank, Jr.--containing so many wonderful lines that you'll feel compelled to write some of them down. I love it when Hud proclaims Nobody gets out of life alive, and when he says of Homer's pooh-poohing the suggestion that they drill for oil on their land, My Daddy thinks that oil is something you stick in your salad dressing. (And who knows more about salad dressing than Paul Newman, right?) The picture also spotlights the late cult actress Yvette Vickers in one of her later roles and flies in the face of the then-still-in-force Production Code with its use of the words bitch and bastard. A literate, adult film with any number of wonderful scenes, Hud really is a complete triumph for all concerned. How interesting it would have been to revisit Hud Bannon in a sequel, a la hustler Eddie Felson in The Color of Money, to see if he might have changed any; grown softer and more decent with the years. But if the film's superrealistic final moments are any indicator, I wouldn't count on it.... "},{"Title":"Don't take long t' kill, not like it does t' grow","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A sad film portraying unintentional emotional destruction through misunderstanding and lack of compassion.In the opening sequence Lonnie's radio, carried in his chest pocket, plays the sad lyrics defining the film___I'm just driftwood floating down the tide ___I don't care where this old river carries me ___I'll keep drifting just because my heart is broken inside ___And I'm tired of wishing for what cannot bePaul Newman gives a compelling performance as Hud Bannon, the tragically misunderstood son of Homer, an aging and principled cattleman who has never provided the parental love and nurturing his son so craved and needed. Hud has grown into a self centered womanizer hiding his inner pain with boozing and carousing, mistakenly believing Homer has never gotten over Huds role in his older brothers death in a car accident when Hud was a teenager. The reality, when revealed is much more painful for Hud and leads him to want to hurt back by planning to get control of the ranch! Newman brings to life a broken and tormented soul hiding behind a mask of self-centered indulgence speeding down life's highway in his pink Cadillac. Hud's concern for his father goes unnoticed while his father reaches out to grandson Lonnie. Hud has become cynical and is never able to obtain any fulfilling relationship with his father, Lonnie or their housekeeper Alma (another hurt and damaged soul afraid to love again). Hud's flings with married women illustrate his fear of being hurt in a real relationship and are more of a show...like the greased pig contest (where he gets some admiration without emotional risk). Homers hard heart is reflected in his hardening arteries and the hard baron Texas landscape. His crippling love of the ranch ultimately leads to the destruction of the family and is symbolically played out when Hud speeds up behind Lonnie in the pickup truck as they drive towards home and Homer is crawling on the dirt road. Lonnie (mistakenly) blames Hud for the old mans unwillingness to live, and blind to Hud's concern for Homer, becomes as hard as his grandfather. Lonnie's ultimate transformation is mirrored in a wide shot as he stands alone in the empty corals with the family's empty house in the background. Hud is hurt and left alone, donning a mask of indifference to repress his anguish, he closes the door and retreats inside the empty home. All are left damaged.I wondered why Hud would drive a pink Cadillac seemingly out of place, and wanted to see how it might provide a clue to Hud's character. Pink ...represents compassion, nurturing and relates to unconditional love and understanding, and the giving and receiving of nurturing. There are occasions when Hud shows compassion which can go unnoticed. Hud grew up without the nurturing love a child needs (and craves) from a parent. The Cadillac symbolizes Huds continued need for unattained desire and the inadequate substitution of an expensive impersonal luxury status symbol (object of desire). It might also reflect the loss of his mother who had provided the unconditional love missing from his father. Perhaps it reflects Homers love of the land (empty Texas dirt) to Hud's love of his car (empty inanimate object). wishing for what cannot be.Homer describes his love of his land and cattle. He states It don't take long t' kill&#x85;not like it takes to grow. The irony is that he did not take the time with his son Hud and killed their relationship and Hud's outlook when Hud was a boy As Homer was dying, Lonnie says &#x85;you never gave up on anything in your life! Homer turns towards Hud I expected him to say I gave up on Hud and I am sorry and provide reconciliation and a happy ending. But with his dying breath he drives the nail into Hud and turns Lonnie.Homer sees the world in black and white yet what we call black and white on film is in reality shades of gray, a more accurate representation of reality which Homer could not comprehend.Homer explains slowly the look of the land changes because of the men we admire. Imagine how biases and prejudices can be passed on. In the end Homer does pass on his flawed perception of Hud to Lonnie, killing any chance to redeem their relationship. The 1962 film likely reflects the periods growing movement to bring about positive changes with regards to race, gender and generational differences. The film opens with Lonnie looking to bring Hud home and ends sadly with Hud alone. The message I take away is that we need to look deeper into ourselves to find compassion and understanding to avoid passing on negative perceptions.Symbols?&#x85; Hanging lights often in the frame suggest a device to show a harsh light or perhaps unrealized enlightening. Alma bumps her head on the light before turning it off and leaving. The railroad sign shown in the opening scene as Lonnie rides into town reads 4 TRACKS which reminds me that the four main characters lives never connect (in the dry Texas land). REST ROOM INSIDE signs at bus stop suggest retreating inside oneself. Hud and Lonnie at the well is perhaps the films most heartwarming scene as they bond. Water is the life-giving force needed to exist in the dry Texas landscape. They drink from the well and embrace laughing and singing a camp song about the Titanic it was sad, so sad&#x85; The scene reinforces the value of relationships vital to our lives.Many see Homer's uncompromising principles as positive and noble, yet if as humans we are unable to live up to those expectations, are we to be thrown away as he did with Hud? Is our perception of perfection even correct? The shades of gray are where we exist and they are forever changing. Life is not always as clear as we (and Homer) might believe. "}{"Title":"a significant distortion of the novel","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Please note my rating is for the film -- NOT the film as an adaptation of the novel -- to which I'd give a 5.Reviewers and readers here are likely unaware that Hud is based on Larry McMurtry's first novel, Horseman, Pass By.None of the McMurtry novels I've read shows much interest in character development -- how people get better or worse with time. Except for Lon (who gradually comes to recognize that Hud is a bad role model *), no one in the film changes. So it's not surprising that some people dislike the film for this reason alone.Though the film sticks pretty close to the novel's storyline, it significantly alters the /nature/ of the characters, converting them from moderately complex human beings into black-and-white representations of good and bad, and spokesmen for the changes going on in Texas society and business.If you're interested in an in-depth discussion, please look at my Amazon review of Horseman, Pass By, under the summary Hey, pass them old potatoes before I kill you!. It discusses the differences between the book and film, and has a brief appreciation of MAD's classic send-up, Hood.* In the novel, he knows it from the start. Indeed, he's afraid of Hud. "},{"Title":"An impressively bleak neo-western that scorns sentimentality","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For a 1963 neo-western to cast such a critical eye at its subject matter is shocking, and parts of this bleak movie are shocking even by modern standards. Hud tells the story of a ranch boy (Brandon DeWilde) who idolizes his uncle Hud (Paul Newman). The movie demonstrates Hud's unsuitability as a role model through increasingly extreme examples of his callous behavior. Hud's personal decline is mirrored by the potential collapse of the family ranch due to a disease among the cattle. Hud is ready to flaunt the health authorities and sell the sick cattle to unwitting buyers, and his disagreement with his father over the issue culminates in a brutal and heart-wrenching sequence. The movie tolerates no cheap sentiment, and derides even the kindly-meant words of a funeral preacher as false comfort in a cruel world. Patricia Neal deservedly took home an Oscar for her role as Alma, a savvy housekeeper who is a foil to Hud and object of fascination to DeWilde's character. "},{"Title":"A Western? A Morality Play? A Modern American Family?","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hud Bannon (Paul Newman) is a ruthless young man who tarnishes everything and everyone he touches. Hud represents the perfect embodiment of alienated youth...Hud was a critical and commercial success, and with good reason. It was nominated for seven Academy Awards, including Best Director for Ritt. Patricia Neal won Best Actress, although she probably should have gotten Best Supporting Actress (her role is so small it seems like actresses that appeared more on-screen deserve the award), and Melvyn Douglas won the first of his two Best Supporting Actor statuettes.James Wong Howe won the Best Black and White Cinematography Oscar and deserves the most credit. Rarely have I seen a black and white film look so crisp and new. It is sad that practically all films today are color -- much remains that could be done with greys. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Anti-Hero Film In The 1960's","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hud is a western film whose title character is an embittered and selfish modern-day cowboy.It stars Paul Newman in the title role together with Melvyn Douglas, Patricia Neal together with Brandon De Wilde and Whit Bissell. The screenplay was written by Irving Ravetch and Harriet Frank, Jr., based on Larry McMurtry's 1961 novel Horseman, Pass By.It stars Paul Newman, Melvyn Douglas, Patricia Neal and Brandon De Wilde and features Whit Bissell.It was directed by Martin Ritt.Hud Bannon is a young Texas rancher who lives with his cattleman father Homer and his hero-worshiping nephew Lon. Hud is an amoral, cold- hearted creature; his father, who holds Hud responsible for the death of his other son, tries to imbue Lon with a sense of decency and responsibility to others, but Lon is devoted to Hud and isn't inclined to listen. When hoof and mouth disease shows up in one of the elder Bannon's cows, Hud is all for selling the herd before the government inspectors find out. But Homer orders the cattle destroyed, driving an even deeper wedge between himself and Hud. Finally, Hud steps over the line by attempting to rape Alma, the earthy but warm-hearted housekeeper.Paul Newman established himself as a superstar in this uncompromising antihero role.He was so repellantly brilliant as an unregenerate heel that his Oscar nomination for Hud was a foregone conclusion.This ultimately made me a fan of the legendary actor for he was able to portray a highly complex role that only a few actors could probably play honestly and realistically when the movie was shown in 1963.The screenplay was also on its top form as the story was far from formulaic and predictable and forbidden words such as bastard and SOB are heard for the first time in an American movie.The story was a heartbreaking one as it refuses to take the easy and happy route of life.Although Hud would be dated at present time,this movie establishes not only Newman as a legend but a blistering adult western which broke ground in its depiction of an unglamorous West that is characterized by it decidedly leading character's anti-heroic nature. "},{"Title":"A Bunch of Cows Shot in a Ditch!","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film has long been a staple in my movie-watching diet. There is not a single error I have found in any of my viewings. All I have found is the sheer perfection of a talented director, a relaxed producer who let his director have his way with the film, a triumverant of supporting acting firepower by Douglas, Neal, and de Wilde, and the best performance Paul Newman has ever given to film. One of my favorite aspects of the film is the innocence and power of the black and white picture. There have been other more modern films such as YOUNG FRANKENSTIEN by Mel Brooks, and Spielberg's SCHENDLER'S SHITLIST which turned to black and white for those same reasons. Similar to John Wayne's antihero in The Searchers, a favorite of the two afformentioned directors, Paul Newman's Hud Bannon fits the bill of the hero we love to hate. Never has an actor portrayed this type of character with the stunning greatness that Newman delivered. I encourage you to purchase this film, and share it with your friends and family. Classic films such as Hud are important to our society, and we cannot sit back and permit them to be lost and forgotten. "},{"Title":"An American Classic","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hud is probably one of the most unsung but timeless films ever made. It is really the story of Lonnie, a young man who has to make a choice in his life, the choice his own father made before he was killed by Hud's own recklessness. Hud, played brilliantly by Paul Newman, is a slick, handsome, but narcissistic cowboy who seeks the quick and easy, the fast buck and the lonely housewife rather than build something of his own that will last. Rather than work for something of his own, he seeks to undermine the ranch his father owns for himself. Rather than do the right thing where potentially diseased cattle are concerned, he'd go for the fast buck passing it off to the market. But Newman played it so well that he seemed like just the right anti-hero to so many who saw themselves twisting in the shadow of a generation that seemed amazing by comparison to their own. Lonnie doesn't know what Hud is until he sees it for himself. Without the experience or the maturity of life, Lonnie is lured by Hud's magnetism for a brief period, ignoring Hud's obvious flaws for a bit of carefree fun that he seems to embody. One of the most profound lines in cinema is said by Homer, Hud's father, to Lonnie. He says, Little by little, the look of a country changes by the people we admire. This means that we tolerate the evil in our lives because it's pretty, it appeals to our vanity, and our ambitions of what we want to be someday. But evil is corrosive, pervasive, and relentless, always wanting to drag more and more people into the muck that Hud himself describes. Lonnie decides to hold himself above the muck, and clean himself off if he so happens to fall. Hud is a play about the importance of Morality, and how it impacts our lives, and should be standard viewing each and every year for everyone. "},{"Title":"Paul Newman's Rebel Without a Cause.","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" These sort of movies are simply timeless. Even though they are being set in a certain time period the story is one of all times and one of all places. It makes Hud just as good, effective and relevant to watch, as almost 50 years ago.It's actually a quite simple story, that remains deliberately so, in order to make the movie feel authentic and realistic. You could say this movie is like a random slice of life but not without any of the added drama. The drama however becomes never melodramatic and also never feels forced or artificial.It above all things remains a real character movie, in which Paul Newman plays the lead role. He's a rebellious playboy, that messes around with married women among many other things and doesn't seem to think or care about the consequences of whatever he is doing but that is just the surface of his character of course. There is far more beneath all of his layers and it wouldn't be a good drama if there wasn't and you wouldn't really start to care about him as a character that way. Same basically goes for all of the characters, who all go through transitions throughout the movie. Besides a drama and character study the movie can also be seen as a coming of age movie. It's all put together really well in this neath and tidy package, called Hud.It's a movie that got deliberately shot in black & white, to enhance the movie its style and atmosphere. It's more a movie that reminds you of the '40's period than the '60's period really, while it's actually being an 1963 movie in fact. It's black & white cinematography by James Wong Howe also won this movie an Oscar.But all style, story and directing aside, the movie still mostly remains a successful one thanks to its actors. Paul Newman was so excellent in this movie and a real shame he didn't won an Oscar that year. Actors that did win an Oscar though for their roles in this movie were Patricia Neal and Melvyn Douglas. I can especially agree on Melvyn Douglas win, who had been a leading man ever since the 1930's but won his first ever Oscar, after being nominated for the first time as well, for his role in this movie. I wasn't too fond of former child actor Brandon De Wilde's performance though.One fine timeless movie, that you can also watch over and over again.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"In the case of Hud Bannon, it was not easy ...","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is something quite melancholic in Hud's air. The setting is a rural Texan town with the same dryness that inhabits the heart of its titular character, Paul Newman, in one of his most intriguing roles. I say 'role' because frankly, there was something bothering me in Newman's attitude in the beginning. He's still one of my favorite actors, but I had a strange feeling that he was 'acting', which is not good. Melvyn Douglas' raw steak portrayal of a veteran ranch owner and Patricia Neal's poignant authenticity as the poor servant Alma, almost overshadowed Newman in this film &#x85; I guess, it was just a matter of letting the character grow on you, but in the case of Hud Bannon, it was not easy &#x85; Yes, Hud was not an easy character, he played quite the same role over and over, until I finally got the idea that Newman wasn't to blame, Hud was. The guy 'plays', like he learned the rules of the game acting so tough until toughness literally tattoos your soul with an indelible mark, that attracts females and fascinates youngsters. One especially, his nephew Lon, played by a baby-faced Brandon De Wilde as if the late actor's short destiny was to portray the eternal youth in quest of models, of figures to admire. But Hud is no Shane, and at the end, the one who leaves without coming back is Lon, because he finally understood what kind of men Hud was. Hud is a coming of age story, because the movie deserved a protagonist to root for since in the case of Hud Bannon, it was not easy &#x85; But Lon is still a too passive character to drive the whole dynamism of the movie, and we can't perceive Hud's reality from his idealizing eyes, our maturity gets us distant from this gut-feeling. And the distance is guided by our truest and most sincere sympathy towards Grandpa Homer Bannon, as the man who lost his cattle, everything that meant in his life because of a tragic mistake that contaminated all his cattle. There's the coming-of-age and this is the coming-of-an-end aspect of the film, the most heart-breaking one, symbolized by the gut-wrenching massacre of the cattle. Yet, Homer's greatest mistake was finally bigger than the one that cost him the cattle, the tragedy is that this man, full of principles and integrity tried to give his two sons the same education. But in the case of Hud Bannon, it was not easy &#x85; Indeed, Hud belongs to another generation, maybe more cynical. Hud is a cynical bastard, almost literally, since it's hard to believe he's the son of Homer, but he sure is, and their common link is Lon, torn between two life visions  one that proved its limits, but strong, pure and honest, the other one, easier, simpler, cooler, is too unscrupulous and falsely manly for his taste. For Hud, this is the way the world goes 'eat people before they eat you' and if he risks losing money because of his father, he won't hesitate to step over him at the head of the family business, even if it means proving his own father's managerial incapacity. I always try to find redeeming qualities in antiheroes, but in the case of Hud Bannon, it was not easy &#x85; The only thing that could explain the beautiful tag-line's metaphor of the barbed-wired soul is the past's wound, that could have never been hailed, the death of Lon's father, Hud's brother, in a car accident that his drunkenness provoked. But Hud is no movie for such predictable clichs, Hud still drinks despite or because of this tragedy, and there's something deeper in his relationship with his father, than a simple death can't explain, and the answer, quite thought-provoking, seems to satisfy my idea of the character  he's just a cynical son-of-a-bitch. His past is just an excuse to justify a bad behavior when the guy has everything to be a regular fellow ... even poor Alma wasn't indifferent to his humor, his charm ... his torso, and she could have fallen in love for a macho guy like him, but in the case of Hud Bannon, it was not easy &#x85; And Alma is the other victim of Hud's dangerous behavior, but a necessary victim that confirmed the suspicions. He tries to rape her out of anger after evoking his dead mother, who happened to really love him &#x85; did he need a woman to calm his frustration? We'll never know, but his behavior doesn't plead in his favor, and it's not his reaction to his Homer's moving death that would do it. I guess, Paul Newman's was the perfect choice, as a cinematic alibi to give at least the benefit of the doubts to this handsome guy, but still, in the case of Hud Bannon, it was not easy &#x85; Indeed, not easy, but the movie despite its dark and melancholic feeling driven by the beautiful Black and White cinematography. The three generational structure is one of its strongest elements. Lon's fascination for Hud is almost equal to his respect for his grandfather, and their complicity is obvious, especially in the beautiful, heart-warming Clementine scene in the movie theater. Lon learned from his grandfather principles, a model to follow, and from Hud, the exact opposite. And while he goes to an uncertain future, we know it's still better to end up this way, than Hud's way, alone, rich but alone. Hud is not an antihero, he's just a character symbolizing a certain nihilistic idea of life that should scandalize us, but in the case of Hud Bannon, it was not easy &#x85; Because we'll remember you, Mr Newman, as Hud Bannon, the one that got away &#x85; even if nothing was easy ... "},{"Title":"Paul Newman Starts Trouble in Texas","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Newman's Hud may be his greatest character and most original performance, overall - it is the film, and role, that made him one of the superstar actors of the sixties. When sampling Mr. Newman's career, Hud must be included on everyone's watch list. Newman, who was often nominated for the industry's sought-after Academy Award, was one of those actors who seemed (until later in his career) slighted by not taking home a Best Actor award, despite several nominations. His portrayal of the unprincipled, amoral Texas cowboy Hud Bannon clearly deserved the Oscar honor.Helping matters is the fact that everything else about the film qualifies it as a classic. The photography (James Wong Howe), music (Elmer Bernstein), screenplay (Irving Ravetch & Harriet Frank Jr.), and direction (Martin Ritt) are superb. The three supporting performances - idealistic nephew Brandon de Wilde (as Lon Lonnie Bannon), earthy housekeeper Patricia Neal (as Alma Brown), and steadfast patriarch Melvyn Douglas (as Homer Bannon) - perfectly balance Newman's charismatic heel. Hud is an easy pick for the best American production of the year, and is an all-time masterpiece.********** Hud (5/28/63) Martin Ritt ~ Paul Newman, Brandon de Wilde, Patricia Neal, Melvyn Douglas "},{"Title":"Absorbing Character Study","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The hard-drinking, bitter son of an aging cattle rancher makes life miserable for everybody, including himself. Newman does well in the very difficult role of a character who is not likable, a self-centered, irresponsible jerk. De Wilde is also effective as Newman's sensitive nephew, looking up to Newman much as he did to Shane as a little boy in the earlier film. However, the acting honors go to Douglas as the crusty, old-school patriarch and Neal as the family caretaker. Both deservedly won Oscars for their roles. Ritt directed two of the four H films in which Newman starred in the 1960s, and this and Hombre are superior to the two not directed by Ritt. "}{"Title":"A trio of Oscar worthy performances, but Newman unfairly passed over.","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The gripping acting of Paul Newman, Melvin Douglas and Patricia Neal filmed with desolation beauty by James Wong Howe is nothing less than than one of the great films ever made. Why Hollywood chose to ignore Newman's superb portrayal of the iconic Hud, which surpasses even the legendary James Dean, is still a question that needs answering. Neal's sunset sensuality, smoky-voiced, and flawed, blended perfectly with sterling maternal caring for Lon ( Brandon de Wilde and his Grandpa, beautifully portrayed by Melvin Douglas. Black and white has rarely looked so good as in 'Hud' and the truth love, hate and desolation has rarely been portrayed so starkly and with such versimilitude. This is a must see. "},{"Title":"Why no nomination for best picture?!","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Why this film was not nominated for the best picture Academy Award is a shock to me.  This film was nominated in three acting categories, best actress for Patricia Neal, best supporting actor for Melvyn Douglas, for which they both won and Paul Newman rounded out the last nomination for best actor and lost to Sidney Poitier for 'Lilies of the Field'.  Combine that with nominations for best screenplay, best director for Martin Ritt and another win for James Wong Howe's fabulous b&w cinematography and Hud's snub for a best picture Oscar nomination remains one of the biggest injustices in the history of the Academy.  Especially when you consider the fact that the over inflated box office bomb 'Cleopatra' was a best picture nominee simply to boost its box office potential.  Hud is the story of a Texas farm family and their housekeeper and how lives are destroyed by the cold and callous acts of one family member.  Newman, one of the greatest actors of all time, ranks as one of the screen's most immoral characters in his portrayal of the title character.  One of the most intense dramas in Hollywood's history. "},{"Title":"The best drama with Paul Newman","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Newnan as Hud Bannon operates in one of the films more dramatic in regard to the loneliness that is being created around the human being, although apparently his character moves in an atmosphere of lawlessness the abyss that opens to the future in your life is enormous. The characters as his father Homer Bannon (Melvin Douglas), Alma Brown (Patricia Neal) and Lon Bannon (Brandon de Wilde) are as it in life, but does not end to accept it. They make some interpretations overtime and composed with the character central Hud an excellent film that keeps you wait before so much disagreement between these characters. The movie has a soundtrack precious Elmer Bernstein, and a photography in black and white very beautiful. It is a great movie "},{"Title":"Contrary View","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Make no mistake, this is an exceptionally fine movie. Putting aside the book from which it was derived (so very different that it would be inaccurate to say the the movie is based on the book), it is too easy to call Hud the bad guy. Actually, looking back from the distance of some twenty-five years of parenting, I think Hud is wounded and that his father is to blame. The undercurrent that I feel is more than a noble father disappointed by a son who is in the father's opinion deficient in character. Rather, the father is an egotist who loved himself more than his son and loved his own personal view more than what was in fact reality. Hud may have been unkind but unkindness is all he knew and that was his father's doing. In the end, my sympathies are with Hud and my hope is that the damage inflicted by his holier than thou father is not so complete that the future Hud faces is no better than his past. It is hard to turn away from a wreck and Hud is wrecked but is not the result of his nature but rather from a lack of nurturing. Some may find Homer as heroic as his name. I find his name ironic and his self-image as good to be as unreal as Hud's view of himself as bad. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Film-making! Great Performances!","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a slow black and white film that leaves an indelible imprint on the mind. Powerfully portrayed with brilliant imagery and scenes of integrity this film immediately grabs your attention and interest and holds you fast throughout. Paul Newman's portrayal as a selfish self-absorbed scoundrel is interesting, to say the least, because the audience can identify with him in a positive way. The poignant scene of annihilating the cattle in a burial pit is excruciating to watch but effective directing. A sense of pity (akin to love) grips you as you view Newman's character sliding down a slippery slope towards emptiness and eventual loneliness. His crass behaviour alienates all those around him. Tremendous cinematography throughout this film adds to the lonely and empty atmosphere. Patricia Neal is someting else as the maid and Brandon De Wilde is great (the little boy in Shane) as the young man who initially looks up to Paul Newman's character as someone to emulate. Melvyn Douglas is perfect in his role as the aging father who is seeing his world crumble all around him. This is an interesting and brilliant film. One to buy and own! "},{"Title":"..another Newman saga..","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hud again shows us that famous personality that Paul Newman (Hud) invented, or perhaps it was congenital and developed on its own. I'm not really certain I've ever seen him really act......this could be one of those famous incidences that evolved in early B&W movies, where certain actors/actresses played the same role (in every picture), because people liked them so much. Newman may have worked as a cowboy for a spell, but he didn't bring much experience away from that, only complimented what he was already very good at doing. For instance, the very handsome and young Garfield, who came from a very famous, stage-acting group, so beautiful, who died at 39), who DID play other roles, but Hollywood mostly always cast him in those B-picture, tough-guy roles. Ditto, Edward G. Robinson, whose face became a permanent scowl from looking tough. The list goes on....I give Hud a 10, not for Newman, but for the entire cast which told this story so openly, plainly and effectively. It doesn't take any second thought to thoroughly understand the plot - a very good one, thanks to Martin Ritt (director) and Larry McMurty (writer). I agree that the stark cinematography told just as much as the dialogs, and compliment every other actor/actresses cast here. With his eternal youth, Newman must have been much older than when other films using this same character were shot, unless they were simultaneously filmed. Did anyone else notice that Newman was as-flat-as-a-pancake in the bun dept, and did not display a muscular torso ? Unheard-of for that kind of role ! His handsomeness, and those clear-blue eyes, obviously made him a hit at the box-office - and, his unaffected speaking-voice - as Katherine Hepburn told Anthony Hopkins for The Lion in Winter, don't act, just say the lines.People may have gone to the theater to see Newman, but Hud was definitely Patricia Neal's (Alma Brown) movie. SHE got the Oscar, huh? I think many people realized she always fully developed every role she played, without over-acting and another clear speaking-voice. (TCM has done a fabulous, original interview in which one sees the REAL Neal, down-to-earth woman........with a little cussin' involved.) As late as '63, the ladies were still considered to be only game for wolves as victims for predators such as Hud. I forgot, at this viewing, she was the one that got away........I thought I remembered she had been raped and that incident was one of the burdens that speeded-up Homer's demise. Brava! for Neal......What happened to Brandon de Wilde (Lonnie)? I keep looking for him in other films, but I guess he was just too innocent-looking and good ole American boy (and too pretty) for different roles. His vulnerability in Hud (and other movies) certainly was a very important contrast to Newman's role. Melvyn Douglas (pop Homer (another Oscar-winner for this film) had done many brilliant roles pre-and-post Hud - he was outstanding in this plot.Another unexpected character for Hud was Newman's pink Caddy.......not too many real cowboys would have zoomed-around in something THAT loud, if they wanted to keep their macho image. (Not even Hollywood's bad-boys would seldom risk losing that.) It was as much a part of Hud's infamous personality for ride 'em all as was his swagger.Hud is the classic portrayal of a bad-seed son and a principled dad. (East of Eden). This was not a shoot-'em-up, but a real Western movie....with a believable tale. Give me that kind every time, with a good story......and not the good guy racing-up at the last minute to save the day. Although a little racy, Hud is a true family-picture; every dad and son should watch it together. That is, unless dad is a Hud........ "},{"Title":"Hud - An excellent lesser known movie","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a very good movie based upon a novel by Larry McMurtry. It tells the story of a modern Texas rancher, Hud Bannon (Paul Newman) who is amoral and his life with his family as they face tough times when their cattle herd is diagnosed with hoof and mouth disease. Hud sees the diseased cattles' demise as the chance to move his father (Best Supporting Actor Melvyn Douglas), Homer, out as head of the family ranch. He argues that buying diseased Mexican cattle is evidence that his father is no longer capable of running the ranch.Trying to oust his father from his job is not Hud's only wrong. He carouses with married women, he advises his father to sell their sick stock before the government has a chance to examine them and he ually assaults the family's maid Alma (Best Actress Patricia Neal) but is stopped by his admiring nephew Lon (Brandon de Wilde). Hud is utterly amoral and is an early anti-hero, such as Newman later made popular with his character Luke in Cool Hand Luke.The best scenes in this movie occur between Hud and his father Homer as the two engage in the combat that had persisted for many years. Hud thinks his father dislikes him because of his role in the death of his older brother. But Homer tells Hud he disliked him well before his son's death. He tells Hud that his problem is he does not care about other people and how he affects them. And, his father worries that Hud is a bad influence on his grandson Lon, who seems to admire Hud and his ne'er-do-well ways.This is a very well-acted movie, with 2 Academy Award winning performances and Newman a nominee for Best Actor. It tells the story of a bad man, Hud, and his pernicious influence on those around him. I liked this movie more than I though I would and grade this film as getting 8 points out of 10 "},{"Title":"Comment on mistake made by writer 228","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Writer 228, in commenting on the 1963 film Hud stated that Oneil won an Oscar as supporting actress for her role. I assume the writer is referencing Patricia Neal. If so, the writer is mistaken. She won the Best Actress Oscar. The truth is that Ms Neal fully expected to be considered for Best Supporting Actress, and was pleasantly surprised to be nominated in the more prestigious category. Additional information regarding Ms Neal in her role Martin Ritt was adamant that she play that part. Since the movie was going to be shot in Texas, Ms Neal was reluctant to travel from her comfortable home setting. Mr. Ritt accommodated her by bringing her to the Texas location and shooting multiple scenes with her and permitting her to return home. She would return to the film location at a later date and film multiple scenes again. "},{"Title":"A Towering Newman Performance Is One of This Modern Western Classic's Many Strengths","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director Martin Ritt collaborated with his regular writing team of Irving Ravetch and Harriet Frank, Jr., to come up with this low-key 1963 contemporary western classic, but the sun-baked Texas locations are almost subsidiary to the Shakespearean-level human drama played out here. Based on Larry McMurtry's first novel, Horseman, Pass By, the plot focuses on the dysfunctional Bannon family, whose cattle has been infected by foot-and-mouth disease. This devastating news puts the ranch in jeopardy as patriarch Homer may have to destroy his entire herd.Surviving son Hud wants to pass off the contaminated cattle to unsuspecting buyers to avoid economic ruin, but Homer is too honest to consider such an option. Meanwhile, teenaged grandson Lonnie idolizes his womanizing uncle Hud to the point of getting drunk with him and participating in a bar fight. Silently attracted to Hud herself, their world-weary housekeeper Alma finds she needs to keep emotionally distant just to avoid the family maelstrom about to occur.A quartet of fine actors exhibits their skills beautifully in the movie. In what has to be the most unsympathetic role he has played in his career, Paul Newman gives a brutally uncompromising performance as Hud. At this point of his career, he could have played it safe since he has the looks and charisma to make his character's popularity understandable. However, he gets to the essence of an amoral lout behind the bravado. Melvyn Douglas lends an epic gravity to Homer by lending dramatic economy to his penetrating performance. As Alma, Patricia Neal superbly etches a lonely woman on the verge with just a few scenes, and she makes every moment of her screen time count.A decade after making a vivid impression as little Joey Starrett in George Stevens' masterpiece, Shane, Brandon De Wilde intriguingly plays a post-adolescent variation on the same role, but this time, he plays it with even greater depth as his character begins to realize the type of man his uncle really is. Along with 1972's Sounder, this is likely the apex of Ritt's work as a director as he gets to the heart of McMurtry's story with a minimum of flourish, for example, his sharply effective handling of the movie's searing climactic scenes both in the open pit and in Alma's room. Elmer Bernstein's evocative music and James Wong Howe's striking black-and-white cinematography contribute immeasurably to the film's success. A winner albeit a downbeat one. Unfortunately the 2003 DVD has no extras. "},{"Title":"Every frame a painting","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is frequently easy to forget how important photography is in the quality one enjoys in movies. Very often it is enough that you are seeing some engaging story or witnessing things you couldn't possibly witness in the real world. But in this movie you simply cannot ignore the contributions that the cinematographer has made to this movie. Over and over again the scenes are graphic and alive. Perhaps it is the scenery that makes the photography work so well and maybe it is because the movie is in black and white. If you know enough about photography, you understand that filming in color is a lot harder work than black and white. Depth of field is harder to achieve at the necessarily fast film speeds. Whatever the reason, you could sit through this movie with the sound off.But don't do that, there is an excellent story here. It is a modern western set on a fading family cattle ranch. It is all the more modern because our central character is no hero, but a man who seems destined to haunt a dead family dream that he never really cared about. Paul Newman plays Hud who is the son of the old head of the ranch. The old man despises him and misses Hud's brother who died in an automobile accident. The dead brother has left a son who risks looking up to Hud as a father figure. Hud is a boozer and a womanizer who has no interest in the future of the ranch and meanwhile the ranch looms doomed when evidence of disease threatens the future of their entire herd.The whole thing moves kind of slow, but being so easy to watch, it is worth sitting through and deserves recognition as one of film's greatest movies. "}{"Title":"Hud","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hud is based on the novel Horseman Pass By from Larry McMurtry. The film is set in Texas in the 1950's and is about a young man named Hud who is called home along with his nephew Lonnie. Hud's father and Lonnie's grandfather named Homer is worried because of the death of one of his cattle. Also at the house is Homer's housekeeper named Alma. Lonnie looks up to Hud, but can tell that Homer is ashamed of him because he doesn't care about anyone or anything and he lives a very loose life. Through the film Hud has to deal with his ashamed father who is becoming ill and Lonnie soon discovers that maybe Hud isn't such a great role model after all. Winner of The Oscar for Best Actor In A Supporting Role (Melvyn Douglas, who plays Homer), Best Actress In A Leading Role (Patricia Neal, who plays Alma) and Best Black And White Cinematography at The Academy Awards; The BAFTA Film Award for Best Foreign Actress at The BAFTA Awards; The Golden Laurel Award for Top Drama, Top Female Dramatic Performance, Top Male Dramatic Performance (Paul Newman, who plays Hud) and Top Male Supporting Performance at The Laurel Awards; The NBR Award for Best Actress and Best Supporting Actor at The National Board Of Review; The NYFCC Award for Best Actress and Best Screenplay at The New York Film Critics Circle Awards; The OCIC Award for director Martin Ritt at The Venice Film Festival and The WGA Screen Award for Best Written American Drama at The Writers Guild Of America. Hud has good direction, a good adapted screenplay, good performances by the entire cast, good original music and good cinematography. The film starts off a little slow and has a slower pace to it, but I eventually started getting more and more interested in the plot and the characters that I soon started to really get into the film. I think this film is a good character study and it is well written and has a good story to it. The film's characters are interesting and well acted by the actors in the film as well. The film is also a good looking film with it's cinematography and has the look and feel of a 1950's movie which it is trying to capture. The film has an engrossing story and I became quite interested in the story and the characters and overall I found this to be a very well made and written movie. "},{"Title":"an incredible movie that got little recognition","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this movie took a very good book written by the renowned author Larry mcmurtry, and turned it into an academy award winning movie, that i thought was deserving of much more credit than it ever received. i personally think it is an unbelievable film in which the acting is phenomenal and the lines are all memorable. if Paul Newman would have won an academy for best actor in his role as hud bannon, the movie would have had a sweep at the 1963 academy's. i would suggest all fans of quality movies see this film, and pay close attention to the small details of this well made film. the film does a great job of keeping with the book and some of Paul Newman's famous lines will stay with you after you watch it. the acting is just unbelievable and i think every western movie fan, or just plain movie fan should see this epic film. "},{"Title":"Angst in the Heartland","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't know why anyone would want to live in Texas after the big-screen depictions of it as a place full of nothing but boredom and misery. Surely it can't be that bad. Well, Hud certainly makes it seem like it is. This bleak and depressing story shows Hud (Paul Newman), only surviving son of a farm owner (Melvyn Douglas) who has found him to be nothing but a disappointment, selfishly whiling away the hours in Nowheresville, Texas. Newman portrays Hud as almost ridiculously virile and full of annoying machismo. His character doesn't know how to interact with anyone on a genuine level, so he instead uses aggression (physical, verbal, and sexual) as his only means of communication. It's a great performance by Newman, but the character as written isn't fully fleshed out, and it's hard to ever feel anything but dislike for Hud. Also great in the film is Patricia Neal, who dubiously won the Best Actress Academy Award for her performance as the live-in housekeeper who finds Hud obnoxious and alluring at the same time. Her performance is obviously a supporting one and should in no way be considered a lead (though she really is the only female character in the movie), but she's great in it, and I only wish she was in the film more.Rounding out the cast of characters is Hud's nephew, son of his dead brother, played by Brandon de Wilde (of Shane fame), who's also very good. Every actor has a natural style of delivery that makes this film seem so much more contemporary than other '63 releases.Hud is an incredibly sombre film. Don't go into this expecting to be cheered. Characters continuously reach out for human contact and repeatedly find none. But it's a very solid film, if a bit heavy-handed at times, and the acting is by far its greatest asset.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Whudya got lined up there junior...sodi pop or something?","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Classic story of a Texas heel. Without question Paul Newman's best work ably supported by a dissaproving Melvin Douglas and evasive Patricia Neal, both showing more wear than we were accustomed too but very effective. I'd really like to go drinking with Hud. I thought he was pretty cool. 10/10 "},{"Title":"a Newman classic","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Paul Newman stars as a hard drivin, hard drinkin, hard headed young man who lives his life by going against the principles of his father played by Melvyn Douglas. Newman is outstanding in this academy award nominated performance. great directing by Ritt. 8 of 10 "},{"Title":"Is this man too man to be a real man?","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hud is real.  He is weak, he is defeated, he is brave, he is confused. Paul Newman does not play the super lovable hero here that he often plays.  Here (and this is why I love it) he is almost unlikable.  He is arrogant, upsetting, and often just wrong.  Just like most of us.  This is the best Newman film ever. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Paul Newman has made a career out of playing the outside loner. That isn't to say that all of his characters are the same because that would be unfair to one of the silver screen's finest. Each of his characters have their own sense of rebellion and their own downfalls. Hud is perhaps the best performance of his early career because Hud is a mean son of a gun, who is very hard to like. But somehow you find yourself falling for his charm and rooting for him. Filmed in black and white, this film is not unlike Peter Bogdanovich's masterpiece The Last Picture Show in that it deals with a small town in Texas, which is about to leap into the 1960s. And much like Picture Show that change isn't always for the best. Newman is a loner working on his father's ranch along with his nephew, Lon, and the housekeeper, Alma. The story is told mostly through Lon's eyes, and at the start the viewer is made to like Hud because he bucks the small town and lives life by his rule. But for some reason Hud and his father (Homer) just don't see eye to eye. As the story unfolds we learn the darker side to Hud's wildness and, like Lon, we begin to resent his shallowness and his wayward ways. It is a very remarkable transition for Newman and the rest of the cast because nothing has really changed, we have just grown more aware of the situation.This is an excellent cast from top to bottom, and a must see for any fan of Paul Newman.  "},{"Title":"Great story, great acting, great movie","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This one's really good.  Captivating story of rebel son played brilliantly by Paul Newman and his battered relationship with his reserved father, played with great understated integrity by Melvyn Douglas.  Was Hud's cynical outlook caused by his father's hatred of him or was his father's hatred of him caused by his cynical outlook?  Other great performances by Patricia Neal and Brandon DeWilde.  Great black and white cinematography adds to the emotional feel of the movie.  For those that haven't really seen a relatively young Paul Newman as an in-your-face hell-raiser should really see this movie.  "},{"Title":"A pretty good character study with some strong performances","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hud, based on Larry McMurtry's novel Horseman, Pass By, revolves around the title character, Hud Bannon (Paul Newman), an unprincipled, self-centered modern-day cowboy whose actions put him at odds with his elderly rancher father (Melvyn Douglas). Their relationship is strained even moreso when the cattle herd is suspected of having contracted foot-and-mouth disease and the ranch's future looks dim.Much of the film's strength comes from the performances. The film produced two Oscar-winners, Melvyn Douglas in the Supporting Actor category and Patricia Neal in the Supporting Actress category. I won't argue with their recognition though I wish that Neal had been featured more prominently in the film. Paul Newman was also nominated in the Lead Actor category but, while his performance is good, there are other performances of his that I prefer to this one. Unfortunately, there's a weak link in the chain; namely, Brandon de Wilde as Hud's nephew Lonnie.The film won an Oscar for best (black-and-white) cinematography but I guess I didn't catch whatever was special about it. There was also an Oscar nomination for Martin Ritt's direction, which I thought was competently handled but not especially noteworthy.Given the Oscar recognition for the cast and the involvement of Larry McMurtry I had hoped for a film on the order of The Last Picture Show. I was disappointed in that regard although I still think that the film is worthwhile, if a little overrated. "},{"Title":"The score was a stunning and memorable surprise.","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film was memorable and the performances perfect. Many people have discussed this and I agree.The music was a surprise bonus. I saw the score was Elmer Bernstein and know that he has just recently died.To call it a score is a misnomer. There are maybe 4 music cues in the entire film and they are all solo acoustic guitar in the Spanish style.It works brilliantly. The solo guitar matches the character Hud in its lonely, improvisational manner. It was quite a happy surprise to hear this master (E. Bernstein) with a very light but meaningful touch add just enough to a great and classic film.The score was the perfect compliment to this deceptively simple story.  "}{"Title":"muddled Oscar-winner","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Hud' seems to bear out Paul Newman's oft-quoted opinion that all his best films begin with a 'H'.  As with 'The Hustler' and 'Hombre', his character here is living on the fringes of a world which seems set on keeping him out.  It's a part that Newman could play better than any other - here, he's a surly stranger even to those closest to him (father Melvyn Douglas, who Hud despises for growing old and losing the will to fight; nephew Brandon de Wilde, who isn't man enough for the tough guy; and housekeeper Patricia Neal, who seems to crystallise his real feelings for women).The Oscars this film got went to Neal and Douglas, not to Newman.  His was a curious performance of a man who didn't belong and didn't want to, and his character makes little headway in any direction throughout the running time of the film.  There's no epiphany for Hud, but no hell either.  The ones who carry the scars are the others - Douglas plays the father who sees his life's work die with great sensitivity, and well deserved his supporting actor award.  Neal is more complex, living on the edge of boredom and condescension with the men she serves, while De Wilde comes into his own by the film's end, but doesn't necessarily ride off to anything better.A good film, and an atmospheric one, but here, as in life, there are no easy answers and no plot points handily wrapped up. "},{"Title":"Paul Newman as a Deja Vu","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ben, I mean, Brick, I mean, Hud... somehow I never saw this movie until 2007, although I am old enough to remember when it came out. I like Paul Newman but I find his characters, or maybe his portrayals, do not change very much. It's like watching the same character (especially the accent and speech patterns) I've seen before. But Melvyn Douglas, who was so debonair in all those '30's and '40's movies... wow! Ditto, Brandon De Wilde. As my husband said, why doesn't someone yell, Lonny, come back! Come back, Lonny! Patricia Neal also seems to display some emotional depth and complexity. Maybe the passage of 40 years makes this movie less original than many we've recently seen but probably at the time it was a provocative opening for discussion, as is evidenced by all the viewers' comments. "},{"Title":"Paul Newman in another role that fits him like a glove...","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The towering performance that PAUL NEWMAN gives as Hud is matched by all the other performances in this superior morality tale about a no-gooder, a lecherous heel with nothing but attitude and charm to spare when he isn't being a bad boy. Paul Newman settles down in this role the way he did as Cool Hand Luke, giving it his all.He's in good company. PATRICIA NEAL as the cynical housekeeper who has to fight off his lecherous moves when he's drunk, the woman who sees him as he is; BRANDON deWILDE as the teen-ager who thinks Hud is a cool guy to be around until he understands the tension between his ethical grandpa (MELVYN DOUGLAS) and Hud; and Douglas who gives a flawless performance as an old ranch hand who defiantly stands his ground against the man without a conscience.Ironically, because Newman plays the role with all of his trademark charisma and coolness, rather than being seen as the devilish anti-hero that Hud was, fans of the film fell in love with the smooth talking character he played--warts and all. Newman had the capacity to make folks feel sympathy for the devil.The character relationships here are brutally honest and real, with many touching moments between scenes of harsh reality. Brilliantly performed by the entire cast, thanks to some firm direction from Martin Ritt, this is a real winner--even with the downbeat ending and a rather spare score by Elmer Bernstein. "},{"Title":"Where did this great film come from?","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film blew me away. I had never heard of it before it came on AMC one day. I had been changing channels and was about to pop in a DVD when this movie came on. From the opening shot I was riveted...The movie takes its title from the lead character, Hud (Paul Newman). Hud is, in a very honest way, one of the great dramatic film characters. In hindsight he is actually reminiscent of Charles Foster Kane from the great Citizen Kane. Hud, like Kane, never cared about anybody but himself, and always wanted people to love him. Both characters have the same theory on interpersonal relationships. Hud is loud, handsome, fast- and sweet-talking but morally bankrupt. People love the idea of people like Kane and Hud, but never do they love the actual person.Kane said, You know, Mr. Bernstein, if I hadn't been very rich, I might have been a great person. If that is true then Hud has less going for him than Kane--Hud is not a very rich man.But I digress. Newman is brilliant (his best performance I have ever seen and one of the greatest period) as Hud, and manages to swagger, strut, be tough and desirable--all stereotypical traits we identify with cowboys--and yet strangely pitiful and vulnerable.The story goes something like this A ranch in Texas houses four people. Homer Bannon is the head of the ranch, a sort of poor man's wiseman. His son, Hud, drives a pink cadillac, is a tough guy, popular with the ladies and envied by the men. Lonnie is Homer's grandson, Hud's nephew and the emotional center of the film. The other character is the hired housekeeper and cook, Alma. (It's a very good ensemble cast.) A sow on the ranch dies mysteriously and Homer calls in the state vet to determine what caused the death. The entire population of cows on the ranch is eventually quarantined while the state vet determines whether the cows have the fatal, contagious and devastating foot and mouth disease (the vet says, the worst possible news).Homer and Hud do not get along. Hints are made that it has something to do with Homer's other son and Lonnie's father... but to say too much might spoil some of the dramatic tension. In fact, discovering what the underlying tension is between the characters is one of the film's great delights.What really sets this film apart is the way we identify with the characters. Everybody knows (from watching films or from real life) people like the four main characters, including the middle-aged Alma, who engages in sexually charged banter with Hud at times, always wise enough not to fall for his advances. The plot has a series of events that illuminate the strengths and weaknesses of the characters, instead of exploiting them. The viewer is saved the honor of making their own judgements, and nothing is in black and white.The film won Academy awards for best (b&w) cinematography, best supporting actress (Patricia Neal as Alma) and best supporting actor (Melvyn Douglas for Homer). Too bad Newman couldn't have won for best actor (he was nominated). He of course lost to Sidney Poitier's performance in Lilies in the Field.Hud is not often mentioned as one of the greatest films ever made. I have seen most of those and without question this belongs amongst them. Do yourself a favor and see it. Now that it is available on DVD it shouldn't be that hard. "},{"Title":"That Loving Bannon Family","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As a film Hud answers the burning question of the day whether a person has to be a nice guy to be in the right. The answer is indubitably, no.Personally I think Paul Newman has done a lot better roles than Hud Bannon, but the film certainly does have a lot of merit to it. Hud's the less favored son of Melvyn Douglas, the older son having been killed in a car crash years ago. Living on a rather large cattle ranch is Newman, Douglas, fetching housekeeper Patricia Neal and the son of that late brother Brandon DeWilde.Two Oscars came from Hud, Best Actress for Patricia Neal and Best Supporting Actor for Melvyn Douglas. Neal is the 40 something housekeeper taking care of the aging Melvyn Douglas and even in those drab housewife outfits, Neal somehow manages to look fetching. Newman and DeWilde would like a quickie with her and if truth be told, old Melvyn wouldn't mind either. She kind of likes Newman, but his drinking, his womanizing, his total contempt for any values repels her. She's a tolerant, take life as it comes soul, but Hud proves just a bit too much to take.But it really is Melvyn Douglas who sets the tone of the film. He's a righteous man with a set of ideas that cannot change with the times. Even with the crisis of which he brought on by buying infected Mexican cattle with hoof and mouth disease which necessitates killing the whole Bannon herd, he won't go for the oil on his land. He'd rather earn through hard work though he won't be in a position to earn anything for a few years with cattle.Hud maybe no good, but that doesn't stop him from seeing the gross stupidity of his father's idea. And because opposition comes from the son he despises, Douglas won't concede any merit to anything Newman has to say.In the end when he's alone, Newman gives that smirk as he closes the door. He's a sad case because while he'll be rich, he'll never have any real kind of attachments in life. He might not care now, but in years to come when he's his father's age, or his own age in real life now, they're going to be lonely like he can't conceive.Newman got one of his many Oscar nominations, but he lost to Paris Blues co-star Sidney Poitier for Lillies of the Field.Hud is not dated in the least and with oil in the news so much today, it has a relevance undreamed of by Paramount and director Martin Ritt in 1963. "},{"Title":"He's a cynical cowboy who's anti-everything!","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gritty, downbeat drama about a feckless, cynical cowboy who affects different lives in the dusty modern West. Prototype for the rebellious youth movies which flooded the market in the late 1960s, with Paul Newman brooding angrily, sexily in the lead; he's so convincing, it may be hard for those who haven't seen a lot of Paul Newman pictures to separate him from this role later on. Supporting Oscar winner Patricia Neal is terrific as the family cook with the warm, husky growl in her voice, and Melvyn Douglas also won an award as Hud's conflicted father. Never quite moving enough to be an enveloping experience, but perhaps it wasn't intended to be an emotional document (there's certainly little sentiment). What feelings we get are from the actors themselves, particularly Neal, and the images recorded by James Wong Howe (another Oscar winner for his incredible cinematography). Irving Ravetch and Harriet Frank based their mature script on Larry McMurtry's novel, and improved upon it. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Hud's A Dud But Rest  Of Characters OK","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a bit too much of soap opera for me and not pleasant to watch at times because of Hud Bannon's (Paul Newman) attitude, which grated on me after awhile. Newman certainly didn't play a likable lead character. The character, Hud, and the story in general, is just too much of a downer for me to enjoy for more than one viewing. It reminded me of The Last Picture Show.I liked Melvyn Douglas in this film. I thought he was terrific. His character, Homer Bannan, Hud''s father, stood out in this film. It was interesting to see Brandon de Wilde, too. I hadn't seen him since he had played the little kid in Shane in the mid '50s.After reading rave notices about the cinematography, I was anxious to see this. I didn't find it anything extraordinary, but my tape wasn't the best, either. Perhaps a viewing on a nice widescreen DVD transfer would make me change my mind about the photography and the film. Since the acting is so good in here, too, I would gladly give this another try. "},{"Title":"The story of a human volcano.","Date":"7 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like the story of the prodigal son, Paul Newman's Hud wants more than his father can give. The only difference is the prodigal son went away and Hud remained, causing his aging father (Melvyn Douglas) more turmoil with his lifestyle-drinking, womanizing and carousing. He's also a bad influence on his orphaned nephew (Brandon De Wilde), getting him drunk, teaching him how to fight and using him in his battle against his father.This Freudian tale of family relations falling into an unrepairable despair also features Patricia Neal, taking an essentially supporting part and turning it into so much more, the heart and soul of the family she works for, an earth mother who has pretty much seen and done everything twice, yet can still smile underneath decades of tears. When Hud makes a sudden drunken pass at her, the stage is set for his destruction, especially when issues with his father's cattle threaten the family estate.After playing the son of a wealthy Southerner in Cat on a Hot Tin Roof dealing with identity problems, he takes on a much different form of the same character-one so selfish, he's equally as deadly to himself as he is to his family. When DeWilde's hero worship for Newman gets too much, Douglas warns him that just because someone is popular, don't make him right. It is the performances of all four actors as the people in this household (in a town celebrating its annual rodeo) that gives you a keen eye into the souls of those much damaged creatures of the plains.You've seen so many tales of the despair of the family structure, especially those who are supposedly living a simple life yet are involved in something much more psychologically complicated. The middle of nowhere is a metaphor for the emptiness in these people's lives, a last picture show where the end of the movie isn't quite what they expected. Powerfully directed by Martin Ritt, this has a house set off in the middle of nowhere, a representation for each of these character's loneliness even in being surrounded by others. Neal is simply divine as this heartbreaking character, a far cry from her most recent performance as the wealthy woman paying for companionship in Breakfast at Tiffany's.It took Melvyn Douglas 30 years to get past the screwball comedy's and romantic leads he had played in his prime, and as the patriarch of this troubled family, he is truly heartbreaking, especially when his cattle must be sacrificed to save the rest of the cows in the area from getting the disease they carry. Newman's character may not be quite so likable, a selfish rascal willing to let his nephew take the rap for a married woman's infidelity, but there's more to his persona than simply just an ungrateful man out for his own interests and to hell with everybody else's. The quiet performance of De Wilde is also memorable, with the character learning from the surrounding characters how not to be, and the actor learning from the beloved veterans surrounding him how to really make a character great. "},{"Title":"The only question I ever ask any woman is What time is your husband coming home?","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is little argument that this is one of the best of Paul Newman. He garnered an Oscar nomination for his performance, as did Director Martin Ritt. Melvyn Douglas, who played his father got an Oscar, as did Patricia Neal, who was the housekeeper.This is a classic clash of generations. Douglas played a man of honor and principles whose son, Newman, was a rake that just spent his time not working in the bottle and in any woman's bed he could find - married or not.In the middle was Lonnie (Brandon De Wilde), the nephew, who was trying to follow in his Uncle's footsteps, but had to see the damage he was causing to others.The pain of seeing everything you worked for buried was deeply evident and made for compelling dram with a brilliant script based upon a Larry McMurtry novel, and outstanding black and white cinematography. "},{"Title":"HUD is wild, an underrated American classic","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the best movies I have seen with a terrific performance of Paul Newman (his best performance for me). I would recommend this movie to anyone who want to watch an intelligent, entertaining film with great black and white shots. Because of this movie I became a fan of Paul Newman when I saw it for the first time about seven years ago.Hud Bannon (Paul Newman),a cattle breeder who works for his father (Homer Bannon) is a wild man who doesn't get along with his old man because they have very different ways in conducting their life. Homer Bannon is a good man of moral values. Hud is a selfish man who want to have a lot of money to live drinking and having sex with many women, but his behavior is going to bring him troubles with his father, his nephew (who admire him) and the wise street housekeeper. This movie is a must see and deserves to be in the top 250 IMDb list. "}{"Title":"Hoof & Mouth Disease First Publicized Here","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the film which taught me what hoof & mouth disease is. It is the most serious disease in cows that was common prior to Mad Cow disease. Entire herds are destroyed today due to either of these diseases. With recent public health alerts on lots of foods, these diseases should not be forgotten as threats as well as other recent outbreaks. Bill Cosby once did a comedy routine about HUD that was extremely funny & educational. This was during Cosbys early career but the routine is still a classic today. Out of Paul Newmans 82 film acting credits, this is perhaps the most solid drama he appeared in. He is surrounded by a great cast including Oscar Winners Melvin Douglas & Patricia Neal. Now that Newman is pretty much done with his film career, it is becoming more in vogue to go back through the films he was in. This is a fine one to look at.It has Director Martin Ritt who only directed 22 films in his career but did more than just this one with Newman. The Long Hot Summer & The Balck Orchid come to mind as other films Martin Directed. For some reason, Newman must have like this director because there are not many directors he worked in multiple films with.The drama in this story is classic, earthy, & rich textured. The film creates an environment which pulls the viewer into the story. It is among the most serious of dramas Newman played in and the results are very pleasing to the viewer. "},{"Title":"Bum Steers","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" By one of those fortuitous coincidences that punctuate life I watched Ninotchka for the umpteenth time twenty four hours before watching this equally fine albeit totally different Melvyn Douglas entry and one for which he deservedly won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar. This was the first Larry McMurty novel (Horseman, Pass By) to reach the screen and it would be eight years before a second (The Last Picture Show) so it's just as well that this was enough to be going on with. Superficially it was Alfie with sagebrush but Paul Newman was able to get beyond the brash arrogance of Michael Caine and show us the self-disgust of Hud Bannon even as he's pulling another scam. Newman could easily have carried this movie but it wasn't necessary because he had Douglas, Patricia Neal and Brandon de Wilde dividing acting honors equally with him with Whit Bissell turning in a quietly understated cameo as the vet who condemns the Bannon herd to slaughter. All the technical credits are right on the money and unlike Alfie it holds up remarkably well after forty-something years. "},{"Title":"flatlands","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this is maybe Paul Newman's best performance,albeit that of a totally dislike-able character.Hud Bannon is in many ways like Eddie Felsen in another of the H films,The Hustler.but there is no redemption for Hud,unlike that of Fast Eddie.the Faustian Hud believes life is for drinking and chasing women,and has no concern for anything that doesn't benefit him.at one point,he even devises a way to wrestle control of the family ranch away from his upstanding father.if it had been anyone but Newman in the role this would have become tiresome quickly.surprisingly,there was no academy award for him(although Melvyn Douglas and Patricia Neal did take home Oscars).great black and white photography showing the desolate West Texas plains(garnering a statue for James Wong Howe),as well as great direction.don't expect a lot of laughs because this is the story of a good for nothing louse.the tone of the film is similar to a later Texas-based movie The Last Picture Show(both written by Larry McMurtry)and shows life in a sort of hopelessness.look out for a young Brandon De Wilde in a supporting role as Hud's nephew. "},{"Title":"The Man With the Barbed Wire Soul?","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I believe there's more to the bastared Hud (the character), then most reviewers have touched upon. I mean the moment when this I am the center of the world man was created.Hud's character reflects hurt. I borrowed this from Leisuresuit.com He's a heartless prick, but at the same time you sort of feel for him . . . his father has been convinced for so long that he's unsalvageable, did the dude ever really have a chance? Now here's a line from Hud himself.....referring to his father He didn't ask me about anything in fifteen years. When I'm asked by friends or anyone I happen to be discussing films with, many times they ask what's your favorite movie? For many years I have had no problem,even though I may find it impossible to choose, in saying Hud, with Paul Newman! This is what a drama should be. A great, great movie! "},{"Title":"Texas captured as was and is and one of so few times on film.","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Newman was short-changed twice by the Academy, once for HUD and once for ABSENCE OF MALICE. It is hard to pick between the two as to which is my favorite Newman movie. I just watched Hud again and except for a few minor glitches in speech and technicalities involving Texas ranches and cowmen; this picture is an excellent portrait of real Texans and a bookend to THE LAST PICTURE SHOW. Both were written by Larry McMurtry and he knows these people from the inside out, even though he has apparently never really been one of them save having been born into a North Texas ranching family. In watching this movie and like LPC, I can relate to it so much on a personal level. I was a kid of 17 when Hud came out and I worked on my best friend's father's ranches in the Archer City area on weekends and the summertime. I never met McMurtry back then, even though I always hoped I would bump into him on the street. I did, finally, meet him just a few years ago in his book store in Archer City. But back to the movie, I have few other complaints except this film should have been shot in color to really capture the beauty of a barren and rough country. I feel the deep and sometimes dark emotions of the characters would still have shown through on the colored screen while black and white was the only way to capture the characters and locale of The Last Picture Show. The performances of Melvyn Douglas, Patricia Neal and Brandon De Wilde, along with Newman, are as close to real rural Texans as any actor could hope to capture. Douglas as Homer was every tired old rancher trying to hold on to a few cows and a piece of land, Neal as Alma exuded so much raw sexuality and beauty it was interesting that she was just another woman down on her luck and working as a cook, and De Wilde's character, Lon, was everything a grandfather could hope for in a grandson to pass his legacy on to, and Lon's unspoken attraction for Alma obviously caused him many uncomfortable dreams at night. Hollywood got this one right, showing Texans as real people with the same problems as everyone else in the United States whether they are corn farmers in Iowa or spinach farmers in California. I just wish there were more movies like this to erase the stereotype and prejudice against Texas and Texans. "},{"Title":"Once a Louse . . .","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This thoroughly depressing Larry McMurty story of a womanizing, manipulative and lonely ranch hand is given superlative screen treatment.Under Martin Ritt's sure direction, Paul Newman offers one of his most effective performances. Long taken for granted, Newman's work is so good one can't readily see the amazing ability behind it. Oscar winners Patricia Neal and Melvin Douglas fully earned their accolades in powerful characterizations.Edith Head's costumes and Elmer Bernstein's sparse score are both just fine.However, it's James Wong Howe's work that gives Hud its distinctive look. Every brilliant black and white shot is eye popping. Likewise, his supporting crew of special photographic effects and processing are exemplary.This slice of life film, for all its skill, however, to me lacks a sense of poetic and philosophical enlightenment and enrichment. I don't come away from it at all energized. It's too lazy and lacking in energy to be called a tragedy and too pedestrian and humorless to be considered a gateway into the human condition. It sits there a piece of technical brilliance from 1963. "},{"Title":"You're an unprincipled young man Hud.","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I recently saw this gem, again. I really appreciated the performances and the simple, real-world-like interaction of the Bannon family w/ each other and the town folk. Father/son relationships when properly explored in film can be impact-ful and rewarding to watch. Many men, like myself, grew up w/ father's like Homer and rebelled against their way of being most of our own lives. Hud is a great movie, not heart-warming, but authentic in telling the drama that too often consumes some fathers and sons, even after death which is only the end of a life, and not the end of a relationship. The Newman/O'Neal pseudo-romance, second story also rings true and then (once again) there's the small-town life these characters know and live which is expertly presented. "},{"Title":"A Modern Western Tale with Resonance","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this to be film to be an utterly engrossing study of the modern urbanized cowboy. James Wong Howe's photography captures the loneliness and pain of the film central characters each of whom react to Paul Newman's Hud in strikingly idiosyncratic ways. For his nephew, he is slick and cool with the ladies, to his father, he is a man without principles, to his housekeeper, is testosterone unleashed. Though this is not one of Paul Newman's strongest performances, I do feel he gives wide berth to the other cast members and brings out their best. I strongly recommend this film which leaves one with the a kind of mournful resonance, in the mold of The Last Picture Show or Tender Mercies.  "},{"Title":"A harsh film, looking at desperate situations and the human spirit","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A harsh film, looking at desperate situations and the human spiritAs this is shot in black and white, we see the big open spaces of Texas in shades of grey, giving a suitable depressive feeling to this harsh film.It deals in truths without pulling any punches, placing you in plights real people have and still do face. The style of the film and brilliance of the acting puts you with the characters so totally you can taste the pain and feel the despair.It's so evident, immediately that there are no options but to just let fate take it's course, how cruel life can be.And what effect can this have on a human heart, can the harshness of life crush it, turn it sour.Can a man's spirit, honour become infected, can the whole world just be going bad and so a man has no choice but too succumb, this is how Paul Newman character Hud justifies the crooked, uncaring path he has chosen to take, but through the brilliance of Newman's acting we see subtle clues to his inner turmoil and guilt.All the characters are all brilliantly portrayed and it's interesting to see how Hud's nephew, father and maid products of the same harsh land, are effected by and deal with it's punishing nature.  "},{"Title":"An unequivocated masterpiece","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Paul Newman is Hud, a man at odds with his father, tradition, and himself.  Hud's only interests are fighting, drinking, hot-rodding his Cadillac and womanizing.   Melvyn Douglas is the father, an old-line cattle rancher, and Patricia Neal is the understanding and appealing housekeeper.  Academy Awards went to Patricia Neal for Best Actress, Melvyn Douglas for Best Supporting Actor, and James Wong Howe for Best Cinematography.  However, Paul Newman lost Best Actor to Sidney Poitier in Lillies of the Field, Martin Ritt didn't win for Best Director and the film failed to win also for Best Adapted Screenplay and for Best black and white Set Decoration.This is one of the few times that Hollywood turned out an unequivocated masterpiece...and failed to recognize it, by making one of the strangest and biggest gaffes itself.Patricia Neal was fabulous, Paul Newman was superb (this is another great role done almost in tandem with his stinging portrayal as Brick in 1958's Cat on a Hot Tin Roof), and Brandon deWilde gave what I like to call the grown-up version or an extension of his role in Shane (1953).  So sad, because deWilde died in a car accident just years later.My rating 3 stars "}{"Title":"Shooting Buzzards","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a cinematic tribute to the last of the modern Westerns, cattle ranching and farming.  Novelist Larry McMurtry wrote about a slice of Americana during its waning years.  Hud is the main character who has the worst affect on the people he comes in closest contact with, namely his immediate family members (father and nephew) and their employees (mainly, able and caring housekeeper, Alma). If you're not affected by this small, Southwestern personal tragedy, then you never grew up in a small, rural town (as I did) during its last legendary days.The quartet cast of actors is excellent and moving.  Newman, Douglas and Neal were each nominated (Douglas and Neal took home Oscars for Best Supporting).  1964 Brandon De Wilde accepted Douglas' Academy Award (Douglas was in Israel at the time).  That year, the ceremonies were held at Santa Monica's Civic Auditorium.McMurtry never topped this, his most dramatically challenging novel (Horseman, Pass By).  His other books were adapted as films, but nowhere more satisfying than this adaptation.  Among other books, he wrote The Last Picture Show and Terms of Endearment. "},{"Title":"Paul Newmans Best Performance","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although Newman won an Oscar for Color of Money,finally, he deserved it for The Hustler, and even more so for HUD !!! This is his best work, the perfect study of a modern day cad !  Patricia Neal deservedly won an Oscar as Alma, nothing short of brilliant as were Melvyn Douglas (also Oscared for Hud), and Brandon de Wilde (we miss you, Brandon).. MartinRitts best  work also, although how can we ignore Norma Rae, and yes, Nuts!, that much maligned Streisand film !!  Great to see again and again !! "},{"Title":"A treat for Paul Newman lovers","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is among my favorite Paul Newman films.  Newman plays Hud Bannon, a roguish son of a respectable rancher who spends most of his time drinking and womanizing.  He is idolized by his nephew Lonnie (Brandon De Wilde) who is always trying to tag along so he can become just like Hud.When a cow on the ranch comes down with hoof and mouth disease, Hud tries to get his aging father (Melvyn Douglas) declared incompetent so he can take over the ranch.  This is a brilliant character study of an unrepentant and self-centered scoundrel and the people he uses people to fulfill his own wicked desires.  Director Martin Ritt (`Norma Rae', `Murphy's Romance') takes a well-crafted screenplay and delivers a powerful presentation that never drags despite its depth.  He brings us a subtle struggle between good and evil, pitting the saintly father against the malevolent son with the soul of young Lon hanging in the balance.  The fact that Hud is such a charismatic character makes his nefarious nature both seductive and despicable, leaving the viewer hoping he will learn his lesson and reform.  This takes the story one step beyond the standard white hat versus black hat Western.The most important part of any character study is the acting.  In this film, the acting is superb.  Newman brings a forceful haughtiness to the screen along with a heart of granite.  He was nominated for an Oscar for best actor, but was beaten by an electrifying performance by Sidney Poitier in `Lilies of the Field'.   Patricia Neal is earthy and tough as the live-in domestic, a role that earned her the Oscar for Best Actress.  The sexual tension between her and Newman sizzles.  Melvyn Douglas also won an Oscar for best supporting actor.  He endowed Homer Bannon with a noble character and high integrity, an archetype of good that served as a perfect contrast to Hud's immorality.  Brandon De Wilde is best known for his role as Joey in `Shane', but I believe this is his best performance.  As he did in `Shane', he plays a young man idolizing another only to be disappointed in the end.  This mature performance might have helped De Wilde bridge the gap between precocious child star and the adult roles for which he longed.  Unfortunately, he had a promising career cut short by his tragic death in an auto accident at age 30.This film is a powerful look at the human condition at its best and its worst.  It was nominated for seven Academy Awards and won three.  It is difficult to find a film with a stronger moral.  I rated it a 10/10.  This film is required viewing for Newman lovers.  "},{"Title":"A marvelous achievement in truly American filmmaking","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I consistently select this movie as one of the top five best films, in my opinion, ever made.  Every member of the cast does the finest work of their careers, and James Wong Howe's stark black-and-white lensing adds another element of mood.  Newman's character is as cynical and rotten as can be, yet you can't help but like him.  Melvyn Douglas is utterly believable as the stubbornly honest rancher, and Patricia Neal smolders with buried sexuality and emanates smart-alecky charm.  No car chases, no special effects, no gunplay and no profanity ... yet a marvelous achievement in American filmmaking. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, but not necessarily uplifting","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a good one by any standard. There are stellar performances by at least four Neal, Newman, Douglas and DeWilde. There are any number of quotable quotes - two come to mind (by Hud) about how one can't help but step in excrement and about how the only helping hand one can depend upon is the one you get when they lower the box. First rate "},{"Title":"Hypnotic","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie has a quality which is rather hard to describe.  It is so well cast and so real that at times you may forget it's a movie.  You cannot imagine anyone else playing any of the parts.Thanks to Paul Newman, Patricia Neal, the late great Melvyn Douglas, and Martin Ritt for an American classic that should be seen by any serious moviegoer. "},{"Title":"A complete lack of character....","Date":"21 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The star of Hud is Paul Newman, and he plays the title character. Hud works for his father, Homer (Melvin Douglas), on the family ranch. While he's a hard worker, he's also a hard-living and amoral man. He loves to drink, carouse with married women and do what pleases him. While this is a problem, it's a much more serious problem because his young nephew, Lon (Brandon De Wilde) is impressionable and looks up to Hud. He sees Hud as a real manly sort...and Homer has a decidedly less favorable impression of his son. Just how bad is Hud and what is he capable of doing and will Lon follow him in his depravities?While this is a slow-moving film and there isn't a lot of action, it is filled with excellent character studies. Newman clearly is in his element and is riveting, though at least equally interesting is Douglas--who does a wonderful job conveying decency and integrity. The rest are fine...but these two dominate the film and you can see why they were both Oscar-contenders. Overall, a rather adult film for its time and one I don't recommend to kids even today...but also a textbook example of fine acting. "},{"Title":"Life in Black and white","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am compelled to watch these cinemascope black and white films from the early 60s for their atmosphere alone.... what is it about these films (also THE STRIPPER, THE MISFITS, .....BABY THE RAIN MUST FALL, .......KISS ME STUPID etc) that are set in sad lonely Mid west American towns. HUD, to me is simply a visual masterpiece. Then there is the casting, acting and story which are equally compelling. Somehow, like faded memories (I know, I know) these films strike a chord within me that allows me to almost live the film. I sink so well into the imagery and the atmosphere because of the black and white photography and the cinemascope. Scenes with astonishing teen star Brandon De Wilde take on a tragedy of their own considering his young death. He actually matures before your eyes, some scenes he looks 14 and others he looks 19, and has a lot of the Dean imagery we carry from GIANT. Newman is spectacular and Patrcia Neal perfectly cast. As a tale of brute loneliness and derailed idealism set in windswept bleak cattle country HUD for it's quiet street scenes, night time cafe/bar wanderings and bored dialog reflecting the isolated hearts and lives ... gets it right every scene. What a great 1963 film. No wonder THE LAST PICTURE SHOW just 6 years later scored so well again from a Larry McMurtry script...then of course BROKEBACK MOUNTAIN. Try this head spin watch the 1962 STATE FAIR musical with Pat Boone and Ann-Margret... then watch HUD for the reality check. "},{"Title":"Hud  Machiavellian cowboy on self-destruct....","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The only question I ever ask any woman is 'What time is your husband coming home?'You've got to admit, Hud Bannon has got that wry wag's sense of humor. His cowboy angel's ride through life reminds me of Milton's Satan in PARADISE LOST, especially as Hud has most of the best lines in the movieYou don't look out for yourself, the only helping hand you'll ever get is when they lower the box. or Well, I've always thought the law was meant to be interpreted in a lenient manner. Sometimes I lean one way and sometimes I lean the other.Hud's not living for an afterlife paradise so, he's not worrying about losing it by living life passionately. Hud's a now man and to his credit, a libidinous, carefree, pleasure seeker--a libertine of the early '60s West Texan ranch town scene. Hud's also very much a me man. Hud can be a mean man, a sadistic man (especially to his masochistic objects). He's a real life He-Man, a winner of pig chasing contests of all kinds. But he's not all bad boy, turned petty, individualist rebel. He is also portrayed as having a few endearing qualities in addition to his sarcastic sense of humor, like the time he steps in to protect his 17 year old nephew from a jealous, all too ready to fight, brawny Texas cowpoke.Hud, looking over at the woman Now wait a minute. You sure you didn't give him some encouragement? 'Cause I was sittin' way across the room and got a little encouraged watchin' you move around inside that dress. Cowpoke, Why, you... Hud, Now I don't want to be hoggish. Lon, you want some of him? At which point, Hud surprise punches the jealous cowpoke and the bar turns into a scene from Fight Club. So, sympathy for this devil is quite possible, as he exhibits at least a modicum of family loyalty. But, to what purpose? Why does he risk anything?Hud wants forgiveness for sins of the past and acceptance by the family patriarch and if not by him, then at least, his dead brother's son, Lon. Hud wants to be loved. He yearns for it, but father Homer isn't going to give him that satisfaction. He never has. Homer is too much the true stoic of the soil, concerned more for honor than wealth. By contrast, Hud is the quintessential, narrow individualist, Homer's seemingly unnatural offspring, a man fostered and stamped more by the crass cash ethics of this modern, capitalist world than his father's rustic, semi-aristocratic attachment to nativist, nationalist morality. Hud to his father on the ethics of reporting foot and mouth disease to the government This country is run on epidemics, where you been? Price fixing, crooked TV shows, inflated expense accounts. How many honest men you know? Why you separate the saints from the sinners, you're lucky to wind up with Abraham Lincoln. Now I want out of this spread what I put into it, and I say let us dip our bread into some of that gravy while it is still hot. Father Homer's response to Hud's amorality,You don't care about people Hud. You don't give a damn about 'em. Oh, you got all that charm going' for ya. And it makes the youngsters want to be like ya. That's the shame of it because you don't value anything. You don't respect nothing. You keep no check on your appetites at all. You live just for yourself. And that makes you not fit to live with.Hud's reply is telling, My momma used to love me, but she died. And with her died Hud's ability to care for others in any way, other than in a self-serving manner. No nurture, no nature. This is made most manifest in Hud's relationships with women. Alma, the Bannon ranch housemaid, does offer Hud a chance for love, but Hud's too hard to see it. His motto is take love when you can, by force, if necessary. Consent is just a weakness for him.Hud's nephew Lon mirrors Hud's materialist view when, at an important funeral, the pastor tries to comfort him, I know what you're feeling, my boy. Look at it this way, he's gone to a better place. To which Lonnie replies, I don't think so... not unless dirt is a better place than air. But eventually, even Lonnie grows to see and reject the self-destructive, self-hatred which is Hud's lot, when he chooses air over dirt, leaving Hud to his self-imposed sentence to solitary confinement unto death.Hud is a character study par excellence. Which of the limited influences on offer in this late capitalist era will win the battle of personal, existential choice an alienating acceptance of moral stoicism or a hooray-for-me-devil-take-the-hindmost, individualism? It's the typical either/or choice of bourgeois art in the age of mechanical reproduction. To be sure, there's no exit to class conscious liberation in Hud or any other movie which has been, is or will be cranked out of Hollywood. Still, Hud remains an excellent film of a time gone by, a time which is still very much within and without us. "},{"Title":"The 8th Best Ever!","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of Martin Ritt's GREAT films (it wasn't even up for Best Picture in the hip 60's) that is his best, Newman's, and Neal's. An anti-hero to the nth degree (the new modern man - selfish, arrogant, bossy), BUT even if you hated Hud, he had charm AND he would STILL have charm (even more now). This movie isn't about Hud's character (morally); it's about the changes in America (in '63?) through one guy's channel. Newman (great actor) was never more impressive (37 at the time), Patricia Neal was never more glowing, wise, hip, and beautiful, Melvyn Douglas (playing an old guy) won ANOTHER Oscar beside this 17 years later in BEING THERE with P. Sellers, and Brandon DeWilde's career was winding down because he died in a car crash around 1970, and this is his best performance since SHANE (when he was nominated as a kid); he was also good in ALL FALL DOWN (with Beatty) a year or two before this.THIS ISN'T ABOUT Texas..or cattle..or greed..or generational conflict - Hello - it's about the changing aspects of American yuppie-greedy-futuristic-watch out for yourself kind of NEW Americanism (it's fitting that JFK was assassinated that very year; whatever). It's got brilliant Oscar-winning (rarely) cinematography by James Wong Howe who only did a million films and it's a rare (for it's time) treat into realistic human American behavior in a time that will never be lived again, unless Spielberg or some idiot decides to go down South again to make a masterpiece for some wacky reason. Great script by the husband and wife team that wrote many of Ritt's great films and you can figure out for yourself whether Hud is a bastard or hip or ...! One of the great American films (I've seen a lot and have realized that Americans, Europeans, whoever are all capable of Art in whichever time period if the director or writer are willing to walk the blade. A 10 out of 10. Best performance = Patricia as Alma with Paul a close second as Hud Bannon. Don't pass this one up!  "}{"Title":"By all means watch it for Newman's performance but I'm sure that by the end you will remember it for much more than that (minor spoilers)","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It has been several decades since I watched this film last and I'm not sure what the child version of me made of it, because this s a very adult type of film that exists on many levels &#150; all of which work. Although Hud is the title character, the film is best summed up by Homer when he says that the country is shaped by the men we admire, and it is this sentiment that makes Hud the subject of the piece even if he is not the main character in regards the surface level narrative. I have read reviews that criticised the film for Hud being hard to like &#150; as if he is somehow the hero that we are meant to be behind. I have read others that have discussed how Hud is relatable underneath his superficial behaviour and, while I'm not saying these writers are wrong, for me the film is not about anything that would be interpreted this way.For me the film is about an accidental battle for the very new, between the old school and the new school &#150; as represented by Lon, Homer and Hud respectively. This plays itself out across all interactions and takes the film to its logical if slightly depressing conclusions. This in itself is bigger than these three men, as it appeared to me to be a scathing commentary on a new generation within America &#150; one that would be quick to exploit the land for oil rather than live off it for, one that drinks to excess rather than for the taste, one that wants whatever woman is already taken rather than taking one woman. I'm not saying anything that you won't already know here, but just in case you miss this, the film gives us the foot & mouth disease scenario to further highlight the difference in approach between the old and the new. On this level the film is fascinating to watch as it gives a greater meaning to the destructive excesses of Hud and the film grips as a battle that none of the characters know they are having or really ever decided to have, it is just a change that is happening.The sense of stark differences is also captured in the excellently clear film of James Wong Howe; the black and white is sharp and the lighting powerful in creating clarity in each scene as well as producing some great washed out landscapes. Ritt works from this to get great performances out of his cast &#150; most noticeably from Newman. Although he has failed to some viewers, who did admire his character, to me Newman manages to keep Hud unsympathetic throughout while also making him someone who we are drawn to. He displays the arrogance of youth so well &#150; knowing that his body will never age or his looks fade and totally certain that the only thing that matters is himself. This character is in the script of course but Newman doesn't wear the words like clothes but is soaked in it, making his portrayal utterly convincing and real. He dominates the screen and accordingly the rest of the cast do not try and be such a big character. Douglas is wonderfully restrained as the figure of the older generation, not weak by any means but realistically lacking the outward passion of his younger rival. It is De Wilde that they are technically competing for and accordingly he has to play his character quite innocent and child-like. Some have criticised him for this and his character is a bit simplistic, but he deserves credit for playing it the way it had to be played. Patricia Neal is perhaps given a bit too much screen time as a character but she works as a lively character in the male household.Hud was shown recently for the same reason that it is mostly remembered &#150; a powerhouse performance from Newman. However the film is much more than that, being a scathing and compelling battle between the old and new generations which focuses on one household while also commenting on an entire country. That it mostly manages to achieve this without being pat or obvious is a feat in itself but that it manages to do it in a film that works on all levels is even more impressive. By all means watch it for Newman's performance but I'm sure that by the end you will remember it for much more than that. "},{"Title":"Paul Newman's most overrated film?","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hud has only two things going for it Patricia Neal's performance and James Wong Howe's photography.I urge everyone to read Dwight MacDonald's film criticism (much of it originally published in Esquire magazine), but especially his irreverent review of this Martin Ritt movie. MacDonald is devastatingly on the mark. The highlight is his summation Melvyn Douglas plays the Texan patriarch up to the hilt brooding, bushy-browed, slow-spoken (if at all), a real down-to-earth old- timer, just like Ward Bond or Walter Brennan. He has many big moments&#x97;after all, his part has been taste-tested since 1910 and he introduces no new flavors&#x97;but perhaps the biggest comes when, leaning on a property fence and gloating over his broad acres, he tells Hud that oil prospectors have been after him, but that long as I'm above ground (son) there ain't going' to be no holes punched in THIS land. The entire herd of cattle has just been slaughtered by gov'nment agents because of hoof-and-mouth disease, and Hud, greedy and corrupt as usual, suggests that those oil checks would come in mighty handy. But his old man takes the position that if God had wanted oil wells in the good earth, He would have put them there. At one point, Hud tries to have his father declared legally senile. Despicable. But understandable. Most IMDb reviewers like this movie. I can only assume none of them value the oil that comes out of West Texas as much as they do the arid, scrubby landscape which Howe captures so beautifully. "},{"Title":"Hud","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I only heard about this film because of the leading star and because it appears in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, so I had to give it a go. This modern western focuses on the life of ruthless young man Hud Bannon (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Paul Newman), who seems to only care about drinking and women, causing conflict between him and his stern father Homer Bannon (Oscar winning, and Golden Globe nominated Melvyn Douglas). Hud's nephew Lon 'Lonnie' Bannon (Brandon De Wilde) admires his Uncle's cheating ways, but he becomes aware of his reckless amorality to bear him anymore. The only other person who seems to talk to Hud is the housekeeper Alma Brown (Oscar and BAFTA winning, and Golden Globe nominated Patricia Neal), who he and Lonnie find attractive. The big story of the film that brings Hud, Homer and Lonnie together is the cattle developing foot-and-mouth disease, and of course they have to kill them to stop a spread. In the end, after Homer has died, Lonnie finally decides to leave the ranch and get away from Hud, asking him to put his inheritance in the bank, and Hud dismisses his departure just smiling and taking a swig of alcohol. Also starring John Ashley as Hermy, Whit Bissell as Mr. Burris, Crahan Denton as Jesse and Val Avery as Jose. Newman does do well in his role, but he was beaten to the Oscar by Sidney Poitier in Lilies of the Field, the first winning African American leading actor, and Douglas and Neal as the Oscar winners also do very well. I admit it took me a little while to get into it, but it turned out to be a good drama. It won the Oscar for Best Cinematography, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Director for Martin Ritt and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Motion Picture Director. Very good! "},{"Title":"Newman's best performance. The film's pretty good, also!","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is far and away Paul Newman's best performance and given the roles he's played over the past fifty years, that's saying something. His acting in Hud parallels the film itself- raw, gritty, unapologetic. And, it is indeed a shame that the Academy failed to reward both Newman and Hud with deserving Oscars.Even though I reside only 30 miles from where Hud was made, I am still awestruck by the surrealistic quality of the landscape in the film, a testament to the skill of James Wong Howe.Hud- and Paul Newman- are truly American classics. "},{"Title":"Sets the bar","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was truly great. One of the best character study movies ever made. I am just starting to watch the classics and this has set the bar to high. All the old black and white movies suck when compared to this one. In summary you have an older man who is honest and has integrity (Hud's Father) Then Hud (Paul Newman) --who is the complete opposite of his father--(Typical father and son conflict that still holds true even it today's time) and the nephew (Brandon De Wild) who is trying to choose the right role model. The three characters come full circle at the end of the movie and its conclusion is realistic with no bsht fantasy crap. Hud is a classic because you can relate and see bits of yourself in every character of the movie. Definitely one of my alltime favorites "},{"Title":"Parallels between Lyndon Johnson and Paul Newman's Hud","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There seems to me very interesting parallels between President Lyndon Johnson and Paul Newman's title character, Hud. If you read Robert Caro's multi-volume biography of LBJ, you see this clearly in the Texas backgrounds, the amoral duplicity, the selfish ambitions, the callous abuse and disregard for the people around them. The movie Hud is really a character study showing the nature of President Lyndon B. Johnson in so many ways.Another excellent reference is the book, Lyndon Johnson and the American Dream by Doris Kearns Goodwin. Referring to Caro's work, he vividly describes the issue of Ballot Box 13 in the 1948 US Senate race in Texas and the controversy around Ballot Box 13 that enabled LBJ to win the election through very controversial measures. The movie Hud is an outstanding work that reflects the character of Lyndon Johnson like no other movie can. Both Hud and LBJ exude a virility, a wily rough charm that can strike out at others when things don't go their way. A cinema tour-de-force. "},{"Title":"What's good about this ?","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Just can't join in with the rave reviewers of this unappealing story. Everything about it may be as wonderful and special as they say, but in the end it's an intensely depressing, misery-making, simply feel-bad kind of film. Acting, writing, shooting are all excellent but the characters and the theme are either deeply unhappy or repellent. There was an aura of cynicism and disillusion about many movies of this era, starting perhaps with Look Back in Anger, and the British school of kitchen sink, moving West with a variety of American productions, including this one, of course. The obverse of this trend was the birth of Rock and Roll, which took place at about the same time. Perhaps both trends had the rejection of parental values in common, but, frankly, I prefer the Elvis sneer to Hud Bannon's when it comes to offending the wrinkly and righteous. There is positively nothing interesting to me about Hud's personality he's nothing but a good-looking jerk. Every episode presented, the opening scene, the pointless brawls, the greased pig contest, the ugly rape attempt, the cattle slaughter, the old man's death-rattle, just leave a nasty taste in the mouth. Don't bother. "},{"Title":"Three Cheers for the Turner Classic Network","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like who gives a flip about renting all those fancy DVDs and such when one can get the TCM channel? To me, it's the greatest thing since Moses parted the Red Sea.I had taped Hud off TCM a few days ago and caught it last night. A wonderfully acted film about a father and grandpa(Mervyn Douglas who easily stole the film) having scruples and discipline versus a roustabout, drunken,conniving son(Paul Newman) having neither scruples nor discipline. And that included bedding other mens' wives.If you want to know the details of the plot, I invite you to read all about it on the IMDb.com site because it's not my job to recite what's already in print. My job is to tell you how the film affected me and it was riveting. I must take exception to something though.I cannot understand how Patricia Neal ever won the Best Actress Oscar for it. In 1963, the nominees for Best Actress were her, Leslie Caron in The L-Shaped Room, Shirley MacLaine in Irma La Douce, Rachel Roberts in This Sporting Life, Natalie Wood in Love with the Proper Stranger I saw all those films and, without question, Neal gave the WEAKEST performance of all. Rachel Roberts easily deserved it so I guess Pat knew somebody in the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.Of course I'm being facetious but frankly,not only didn't she deserve that award but also for Best Supporting Actress had she been nominated which would have made more sense anyway.Mervyn Douglas, who DID win the Best Supporting Actor most assuredly deserved it. His performance was remarkable. All in all, the film was certainly worth the 112 minutes viewing time so catch it on either Turner or rent it. "},{"Title":"Unoriginal and over-rated","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I know I'm leaning toward giving a movie a so-so review when I'm less interested in the characters and the moment to moment interplay and more interested in watching the story unfold as pieces of a puzzle.We know almost everything we need to know about the characters within the first 10 or 15 minutes of the film. From there, there is little development, little change, little growth. Just an obligatory playing out of scenes we know must take place given the plot set-up, the character descriptions.The characters themselves have limited depth. As do the performances. Subtle to the point of being dry and flavorless. While Douglass and Neal are good, they're never challenged as actors. I can't fathom their being selected for Oscars. Newman got better as an actor as years went by &#150; he pointed that out himself once in an interview adding that in his old films he could see the actor working. So can we. The movie's theme is standard, even trite, it's message mundane. It's also too derivative of Giant and East Of Eden. It's watchable for it's grittiness, cinematography and pace, but in the end is vastly over-rated. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After looking forward to seeing this classic movie, with actors that I admire, I felt very disappointed. Yes the acting was fine and casting was fine and the sets were fine, but the plot line was just to flat for me. I love old movies and have rated many very highly, but this one just seemed pointless to me. There was nothing in the movie that I felt I could take away from it that was worthwhile. I would have to say my favorite part of the movie was Lon playing with his pocket transistor radio, as I could relate to that, growing up in that era. And yes the cattle being destroyed was poignant, but it just didn't seem to matter to the storyline and wasn't enough, oomph that I felt the movie needed. I did not connect to any of the characters and felt that the movie just didn't make you feel like you knew or cared for the characters. There are so many great older movies, but this is not one of them. "}]