[{"Title":"Wonderful, even 37 years later","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"68 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":"  This was a great film in its time, and is still a great one today. Well-directed, well-acted, well-shot, great soundtrack, and based on a splendid literary vehicle.   It's frustrating to see so much uninformed voting and so many uninformed remarks on this otherwise wonderful site; I guess its inevitable since anyone can post anything.  But I would like to point out that Tom Jones did not sleep with his mother as erroneously alleged, and that Albert Finney, 26 or 27 years old at the time of shooting this film, clearly did not look too old for his part.I haven't read the book(s), but from the film it's obvious that Dickens was much indebted to Fielding, using his amazing invention as a convoluted plot model (and perhaps a character-naming model) for many of his works.Go rent this film after seeing Finney in the currently playing Big Fish -- it's great to see him do so well in such very different films made in different millenia, nearly a full professional lifetime apart.   "},{"Title":"Lyric beauty, bawdy humor and adventure set to celluloid and music.","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"54 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":"  In 1963 two of the most important productions in the history of movie making were released.  The first was Cleopatra with Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor, a cast as long as the Manhattan telephone directory and a budget bigger than the combined egos of the stars.  Cleopatra was a total disaster.  It has no redeeming quality that I know of.  It is therefore important for embodying in one film, nearly everything that you can do wrong in making a movie.  It is a movie that you must see if you are ever to understand what a truly good film really is.  The second was Tom Jones with Albert Finney and Susannah York, shot with rented equipment and costumes on the streets of London with a supporting cast of brilliant British ensemble players and extras who stood-in just to get in a film. Tom Jones is simply one of the best motion pictures of all time, for my money, The Best from Literature.John Osborne who wrote the screen play produced a marvelous vehicle, but the genius of Tom Jones is Tony Richardson.  He moves the actors and the story about the screen with a bawdy grace and earthy gentility that paints action and raucous laughter and beauty across one another with an even hand.  It is a glimpse of antiquity so close and real that we can nearly touch it, and it makes us want to.  (Though to be perfectly honest, I'm not sure we'd care for the smell of it.)Tom Jones is a low budget, low tech, high quality film that must win the award for the Most with the Least.  The photography is beautiful, not because it used a dozen half million dollar cameras, it is beautiful because it is good photography.  The acting wins out, and casts of thousands would only serve to clutter the stage.   See this film whenever, wherever and as often as you possibly can. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest farces of all time","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"50 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":"  Tome Jones came out of the wonderful 60's when all the stuffy conventions of British theater, film and music were turned upside down. I first saw this film while stationed in Wiltshire in the Royal Air Force, and having grown up in the industrial West Riding of Yorkshire, my eyes had only recently been opened to the staggering beauty of the English countryside. Tom Jones represented that unspoiled English countryside to me. I could smell the hay, the wildflowers and the livestock.  Never mind that unless you were rich it was serf labor, I saw England through a wonderful fantasy of a film.  The action never stopped.  This movie was just hilarious from beginning to end. No glossing over the crude realities of country life - this was a period when the poor folk shared their hovels with the chickens and other small animals, when sex was raw, albeit punished on Sundays, and when the local gentry had their way with the wenches. Rarely has there been such a belly laugh of a movie.  Laugh until the tears roll down your face.  "},{"Title":"I fell off my chair!","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"38 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":"  While my mother claims this is a guy movie, I'm not a guy and find it one of the funniest, most charming movies ever made. The narration, music and just plain spunky tone of this movie makes it a unique piece -- you really DO have to see it to understand what it's all about! I highly recommend this movie -- as well as the book, which was published in 1749 but is just as funny today and highly readable, not quaint at all! "},{"Title":"it gives the sense of the joy of living through the movie media at the highest level","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"37 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":"  Tom Jones is a movie adaptation of the classic Eighteenth century novel masterpiece of Henry Fielding made up by the greatest contemporary British playwriter John Osborne and directed by one of the main film directors of English Free Cinema, Tony Richardson. This film came at end of this golden period of the English Cinema in the sixties and it is the highest moment of this cinema. Tom Jones shows in the person of Tom Jones (the masterly Albert Finney) the point of view of the angry young man looking to the stupidity and the hypocrisies of the Eighteenth century society, which resembles our times. It is not at all just a funny film, even if some scenes are extremely funny and are some classics in the history of cinema, famous like the one in which Tom eating a rich supper with his woman is really looking like eating her with the eyes. Tom Jones is the adventurous hystory of a modern hero, who finally conquers his true love, after any kind of trouble. This is an highly cinematographic film, e.g. the movement of the camera gives itself the idea of happiness in the scenes of love in the country of Tom and Sophie (the beautiful and greatest Susannah York), the drama of the situation in which Tom risk to be hanged or the funniness in the bawdy scenes in the inn. In the beginning the film even outlines the beginning of the complex story using even the style of the silent cinema...Tom Jones/Albert Finney even also speaks directly to the public of the film reaching with his greatest originality an extreme level of funniness and pleasantness. The photography of the film resembles with its colours and views the landscapes of English painting of the Eighteenth century, like in Hogarth's pictures. The fox hunting scene is pictorially beautiful. The actors are all the best of the English theatre of that period and playing at their best, where theatre is so important and lively in England. Concluding, a film that gives the sense of the joy of living through the movie media at the highest level, it's a must to see even only this film, a masterpiece of the forgotten but greatest English film director, Tony Richardson. As Giancarlo Grazzini, the greatest Italian cinematographic critic of that time, wrote, it was the best film presented at the Film Festival of Venice, worthy of winning also the Golden Lion there and not just the Oscars!  "},{"Title":"Stand and Deliver!","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"38 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":"  A fun and fresh screen adaption of British writer Henry Fielding's 18th Century novel of the same name, made at the threshold of the swinging (19)Sixties.  Like the original story's French counterpart (Les Liaisons Dangereuses=Dangerous Liaisons), at its heart is a mannered metropolitan love triangle.But before we arrive in the heart of London the stage is set amidst the lush green English countryside in Summer.  Here we first meet the protagonist, Tom Jones, played by Albert Finney in his most youthful bloom, and his extended family representing every facet of post-Glorious Revolution England.An incorrigible ne'er-do-well, Tom's genuine love for his neighbor Squire Alworthy's daughter Sophie (a very lovely Susannah York), takes him to the heart of fashionable London society in a series of comedic wrong-turns and misunderstandings.  Here he becomes embroiled in the games of the jaded aristocrat Lady Bellaston played by Joan Greenwood.  Greenwood steals the show as the original Mrs. Robinson and, through her machinations, Tom is led to the gallows.  But at the last minute...Throughout the movie is paced with a modern sense of realism, made effective by hand-held camera sequences and the quick editing of Antony Gibbs.  Old-fashioned film techniques are used effectively with eye-to-the-camera realism, and convey an up-to-date feel.  There are moments of beauty as well as comedy in this very satisfying entertainment.  The cast is stellar with many familiar names--Hugh Griffith, Rachel Kempson, David Warner (in his first movie), the settings realistic, and the the musical score a perfect fit.  A great time overall!An interesting note, supposedly this is the last movie seen by John F. Kennedy (in a White House screening) before he was assassinated.  "},{"Title":"Thirty Seven years later.......it remains a splendid piece of art","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"38 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" Just two hundred years after Henry Fielding's novel appeared, the theatre-actor-turned-cinema-director Sir Tony Richardson rounded up a few Shakespearean-trained prodigees, got John Addison to compose hectic clavichord accompaniment a little in the style of Handel operas and set all this against lush photography to produce one of the most hilarious films of the last five hundred years. Fielding's novel &#150; which is a most definite recommendation &#150; rather cynically but good-humouredly exposed mid-eighteenth century British hypocrisy at its best and the landed gentry's obsession for fox-hunting at its worst. Richardson directed all this a bit like an elderly Sir Thomas Beecham ('the important thing is we all start and stop together; nobody notices what happens in between') raising his baton in front of the London Symphony Orchestra the result in both cases is astounding. Richardson conducts his piece at a tremendous pace, Addison's clavichord tripping along gaily so as to keep up the illusion, and visual sequences such as a young trouserless Albert Finney escaping out of a window, shinning down a tree and running off into the nocturnal depths of a beech forest, all combine to keep you breathlessly awaiting the next scene. Susannah York is just delicious, with that innocent facial beauty that raises heartbeats, especially in the latter parts; and Angela Baddely as Mrs. Wilkins and Diane Cilento as Molly play some great scenes. And some of the great scenes are worth telling...... Tom and Mrs. Wilkins enjoy a good roast with fruit, eating lusciously and lascivously, eating each other up with their sparkling eyes this scene is hugely delightful. The other great scene is the fox-hunt this alone puts the whole film into a special category brilliant film-making, almost comparable to the famous chariot race in Ben Hur........ I loved this film 37 years ago, and recently had the luck to see it again having doubled my years, I was just as enthralled and enraptured as the first time. A splendid piece of art. "},{"Title":"Magnificent movie with four deserved Academy Award winner","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" Tom Jones (Albert Finney) is a 18th century orphan who is adopted by an aristocrat but he lives his own life in mirth and freedom . The philander English lad has good heart and affinity for troubles and an eye for the ladies , confronting amorous and bawdy adventures . His true love is Sophie (Susannah York) , the daughter of a higher-class rich owner (Hugh Griffith).The picture is a lavish rendition of a classic novel written by Henry Fielding with lots of entertainment and fun . It is plenty of satire , irony , comedy , tongue-in-cheek and amusement . Nice acting by Albert Finney ; however , he felt the lead role wasn't serious enough, and agreed to star only if he got a producing credit ; he later traded the credit for profit participation . Very good support cast gives splendid acting . Feature film debut for David Warner , Julian Glover and Lynn Redgrave . Lively and jolly soundtrack by John Addison , author of numerous classic scores of the English Free Cinema . The film was very well directed by Tony Richardson who in 1977 made an attempt to return with similar character -Joseph Andrews- but the freshness , inspiration and magic had gone . It is followed by a sequel -The bawdy adventures of Tom Jones- an exploitive extension directed by Cliff Owen with Arthur Lowe , Joan Collins and Trevor Howard . Tom Jones picture was undoubtedly the biggest year . The film obtained Academy Awards in 1963 to best film for United Artists , Director -Tony Richardson- , adapted screenplay -John Osborne- and original music -John Addison- and was nominated  Albert Finney , Hugh Griffith , Diane Cilento , Joyce Redman and Edith Evans by their robustly agreeable characterization . Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"A New Sense of Moderism","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" This is an adaptation of a large book, a Henry Fielding novel. In the early 1700's the growing middle class in Europe, especially in the British Empire, became literate. As an entertainment to get through the long hours of new leisure, novels flew from the printing presses. Tom Jones was a hit from the first. It was a bawdy tale with amusing detail. It is lucky that an experienced playwright like John Osborne was assigned the screenplay and double lucky that a fine director, Tony Richardson brought the tale to life.Indeed, Richardson is a poet with the lush English countryside. Since much of the film depicts Tom Jones' amorous adventures in the grass with Molly Seagram, the peasant wench, on a skiff with the Squire's daughter, Sophie, in the tavern with Mrs.Wilkens, and in the suites of a countess, the bawdy adventures spin by as food shoots from the mouths of lovers. There are also duels, a misunderstanding about the linage of the Jones baby, and an unwanted suitor for the lovely Sophie, Susan York.I saw this film as a teen in 1963 and it telegraphed a new sense of modernism and sexual freedom without pretense that is ironic since Fielding's story was hundreds of years old on the eve of the Beatles and the swinging London of the 60's. "},{"Title":"one of my personal  favorites","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" If you cannot enjoy this movie, you have no relish for life and comedy and the human spirit. Albert Finney and Suzannah York are a delightful couple as Tom and his one love Sophie. One of the great things about the movie is the comments to the audience by Tom. The technique is not new (see The Road Movies), but it is used to great comic effect. And the voice-over narrator enhances all the action. If you don't know the story, Tom Jones is about a 'bastard' boy trying to make his way in the 1700's world of England. The story is delightful through, with the requisite villains, 'fallen' and lusty women, sword fights and some amazing coincidences. Everything about the movie is delightful, with great production values and an excellent cast. If you haven't seen this movie, please do so. I don't see how you can not enjoy it from beginning to end. "}{"Title":"One of the funniest ever.","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":"  I find it almost impossible to believe that there are people out there that did not find movie hilarious. There are so many memorable scenes, so many wonderful lines and such great acting! This is easily one of the most entertaining movies I've ever seen, and definitely the most entertaining British film. It gets a perfect 10. "},{"Title":"Horse Play","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" This was the period when French New Wave was supposedly reinventing cinema. Unfortunately, the French could only do so by citing Hollywood forms (mostly gangsters) and placing them in new contexts. That left lots of room for an intelligent Hollywood project to best them by exploiting itself. So much more could be done.The rough form would be a contrast between the refined and the uncouth, between disciplined manner and unbridled lust, between old Hollywood presentation and the new. Thus, the uncouth merges with sex and the presentation used here.That presentation form is at once hyperrealistic &#151; hand-held verity, engagement with running horses, A specific film joke where Tom and Sophie follow each other riding animals, widely varying lighting schemes using found light, frequent direct dialog with the audience &#151; and highly stylized old stuff swordfights, wellworn plot closures, a typical love story but where the girl is halfway in the old and new worlds.Make no mistake the star of this is Suzanna York as our surrogate. Will we embrace this new manner of film-making, directly sensual and real? Of course we do, as much as no woman can refuse TomNo serious watcher of film can omit this from their schedule. And it needs to be followed by Barry Lyndon, and Sex and Lucia.Kubrick's project took this same story from the other side, the refined one. Its cinematography is lush and precise. But the project is one that contrasts nature (rather than raw sex acts) with foppish aristocracy (rather than general city society). But the intent is the same, to charm through images, just in Kubrick's case the images are aristocratic.Medem's project is much more sophisticated, switching the dial so that the sex/repress, country/city, realistic/stylized image contrast is between experienced truth and written truth. But the same noir-like capricious fate is at work through copulation in Lucia as in Tom. The same idea as targeted woman, lovely desirable woman as the viewer's surrogate (and judge).Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" Finney is terrific as Fielding's fun-loving, irresponsible hero, and is ably supported by a game cast. Richardson's direction is wonderfully inventive, using all kinds of cinematic tricks to make the story come alive. The asides to the viewers are hilarious, as in the blithe shrug Mrs. Waters gives to the audience when she is told that the man she bedded may be her long-lost son. The first half hour or so is rather uninvolving but things really get going with the exciting deer hunting scene. The sensual and funny dinner scene between Tom and Mrs. Waters is justly famous. The score by John Addison perfectly complements the lunacy. "},{"Title":"A Goof in Tom Jones","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" I am another viewer who saw the movie in a theater in 1963 and just today saw the video, 42 years later. It was just as hilarious to a viewer in his late eighties as to one in his forties. It was pleasant to see it on a big screen, via video projector with a group of friends, rather than on the small screen at home. I came right home and looked in IMDb to see if anyone had noticed what I thought was an anachronistic goof. Did you?As the hunters in the fox hunt rode down a dirt road (in about 1775), I thought that the road ahead of the horses looked very much to contain automobile tire tracks! Does anyone agree, or think that my eyes deceived me? jrd0022 "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" How do they do it? The casting was perfection. Albert Finney and Suzanna York were great. But, then, Hugh Griffith, Joan Greenwood, the guy who played Mr. Blifil, the wenches, the men who were out to get Tom Jones could not have been played any better by anyone else. Each scene, while keeping the plot going at a rapid pace, was complete and a delight to watch all by itself. What I really loved about the deer hunt besides the beauty of the English countryside and the aerial shots was the whooping and yelling of the riders, dogs barking and hooves pounding. It seemed much wilder and less elegant than the fancy fox hunts we've seen in more contemporary films. I was almost out of breath by the end.A movie like this I can watch over and over for the performances and the beauty of the direction even though I know the plot by heart. It's like listening to a favorite song by a great artist. I wish I could have been on the set to watch the fun in person. How do the people who make these wonderful types of movies walk away from them at the completion without feeling sad that they are over? "},{"Title":"A Randy Film, From A Ribald Book,  For A Bawdy Age","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" A thorough adaption of Henry Fielding's novel would require a mini-series which the work later got for television. But John Osborne's adapted screenplay for which he won an Oscar captures the right spirit of the ribald and rollicking novel of the mid eighteenth century in Great Britain.It was one bawdy age, the dissolute courts of the first two kings named George set the tone for British society at the time. The title character played by Albert Finney is a young man of questionable origins, illegitimate no doubt who wants the love of young Susanah York, but will settle in a pinch for any and all of the other women who can't seem to help throwing themselves at him.Finney as an infant makes his introduction into the world by being found on Squire Allworthy's bed, planted there as it were with no clue to his origins. The Squire played by George Devine thinks that servants Joyce Redmon and Jack McGowran are the responsible parties and he banishes them both. But keeps the infant to raise in his household.Finney grows up to be a likable young lad who holds a great attraction for anyone of the female persuasion. Even the neighboring squire Hugh Griffith likes him, but not as a suitable husband for his daughter Ms. York.The story in many ways sets the tone for the novels of Charles Dickens, many of which concerned young men like Tom Jones, David Copperfield, Nicholas Nickleby, Young Pip in Great Expectations, who seek the meaning of their origins. But Fielding was writing for a public that had a lot less of a sense of decorum than Dickens's readers were. I doubt Charles Dickens could have gotten his work published if they had been as naughty as Fielding's.Director Tony Richardson really captures the look of 18th century Great Britain, no doubt part of why he was named Best Director and Tom Jones awarded Best Picture of 1963. Albert Finney got an Oscar nomination, but lost to Sidney Poitier for Lillies of the Field. Hugh Griffith was also nominated for Best Supporting Actor, but he lost to Melvyn Douglas for Hud. It probably didn't help Griffith that he already had won one for Ben-Hur. And Diane Cilento as the town tart, Dame Edith Evans as Griffith's sister, and Joyce Redmon were all nominated for Best Supporting Actress. Three British women lost to a fourth however as Margaret Rutherford trundled up the middle with her performance in The VIPs.Back in the day I remember seeing Hedda Hopper on Art Linkletter's House Party show and she was asked about her upcoming Oscar predictions. Hedda surprised me and everyone else by saying that she loved Tom Jones and said it was going to win everything it was nominated for. It didn't quite do that, but it certainly was successful in getting those gold statues. That the conservative Hedda Hopper would champion a film like Tom Jones was the surprise. But I guess Hedda knew times were a changing.Now I suspect a lot more skin would be shown in a remake of this film. Yet Tom Jones will always have a lot of randy charm about the movie. It's one for the ages. "},{"Title":"Maybe the best literary adaptation ever","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" Having recently read Fielding's novel and re-watched the movie, I am particularly impressed by how effective this is as an adaptation of a sprawling, great novel into a feature length film, something that has so rarely been done in a truly satisfying way. John Osborne's script and Richardon's witty directorial style brilliantly capture the flavor of Fielding's writing, and also manage to include all the main lines of the narrative. Almost every scene in the movie has a counterpart in the book, even the famous eating scene. The sole exception is the rescue scene at the end - in the novel Tom is threatened with hanging but never actually taken to the gallows - but how could any director resist a closer like that.I really can't think of a literary adaptation that is better. "},{"Title":"Worth Seeing","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" Beautifully filmed, marvelously acted but since it's a farce there's little doubt about how things will eventually turn out, and given that, it lags in parts and could have benefited by better editing. Having said that, still a rare treat! The leads, Finney and York are fine, but it's the supporting cast that steal the show! John Osbourne stuck close to the novel and the sumptuous photography and little details (hardly a scene in the countryside lacks a stray dog or a hen, urban scenes reflect the squalor of 17th Century London) impart a strong sense of place. But again, the overall spriteliness wears a little thin over the length of the film. It's still a worthwhile experience! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"An avant-garde, trippy romp through Merrie England","Date":"3 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" Tom Jones (1963) was directed by bisexual Englishman Tony Richardson. The style and compositions of this film were avant-garde for 1963 as this production almost feels like a drug film from the latter sixties. There is a plethora of odd camera angles, breaking the fourth wall (which was still rare even in 1966 with Alfie), looking directly into the lens, and lengthy sequences with no dialogue. The stag hunt scene stands out in particular for its use of motion, colour, and sound, having tracked a vigorous hunt through the English countryside. I could go as far as to compare it to the car chase in Bullitt (1968). One may think that an early 1960's adaptation of an eighteenth century novel would be some hokey, ultra-conservative, John Bull-ish type affair, but I assure you that this film is anything but that. Animal and nature lovers will also find much to admire in this film as scores of dogs, chickens, ducks, horses, swans, bulls, cows, etc. are prominently depicted, as the first two-thirds of this story are set in the verdant English countryside. One can take itself as a tongue-in-cheek and drugged out version of Barry Lyndon. I love it. "},{"Title":"A totally British Masterpiece","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" This movie is an excellent representation of the first English novel. While it may be termed a classic bawdy tale told during the sexual revolutionary sixties, it employs suggestion and humor, and even direct to camera commentary to capture the flavor of the times, in a totally engaging way. As such it is unique- and well worthy of the Academy Award it won.Filmed during the London theater season's recess, it brought together some of Britain's finest character actors and actresses. Some may criticize it's pace when compared to movies of today- other's will savor it's unique brilliance as it otherwise remains the masterpiece it is. "}{"Title":"Successful period comedy","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" Tony Richardson's film reaches a high level of interest with appealing characterizations and somewhat unusual camera work, but fails ultimately to reach the extraordinarily high level of sophistication in Henry Fielding's original novel.The story is set a few hundred years ago, and begins with an interesting silent film homage which reveals the bastard parentage of our hero, Tom Jones (Albert Finney), who is adopted and raised by the kindly Squire Allworthy (George Devine). Tom Jones is a lusty lad who raises eyebrows among the country noblemen (and a different sort of attention from the ladies), but his true love is for his neighbor Sophie Western (Susannah York). Her hunt-loving father (Hugh Griffith) will of course have none of his girl marrying a bastard. And Tom Jones has a rival for his adopted father's attention, the duplicitous Blifil (David Warner) who is aided by Jones' hypocritical schoolteacher Thwackum (Peter Bull... yes Fielding was not subtle about his names) and preacher Supple (James Cairncross), and they succeed in chasing him out of town. Jones heads to London to find his way in the world, chased by lovely Sophie and the secret to his lineage which he does not even suspect.Finney is suitably dashing and has a lot of charm, which is what you need to play Tom Jones. I didn't really think York was quite as spicy as she should be. Griffith did some extraordinary character work as the father -- he was the very definition of earthy. Warner was also perfect in his character performance as the sniveling legitimate heir.I thought the most striking aspect of the film actually was the camera work, particularly in the scene where they were chasing the stag. Really exciting, involving stuff. There were also a lot of interesting shots that played on the perspective of the audience. Quite a bit more involved and playful camera than usual in a period film, which is suitable since this is a comedy.Nothing much too wrong with the film, I just didn't feel it captured all the nuances of the characters in the same way the book did. The interesting aspect of Fielding's work, aside from the socio-economic aspects of it, was the way that you had a narrator who was standing outside of the action and commenting on it. Fielding made sure that even the narrator would not be so much omniscient as to appear to believe himself to be omniscient. The book is very much about examining the frailties and weaknesses of the human condition, not so much with an eye like the eye of judgment but more with an eye that is amused at the same time as saddened by these events. The book presented many different perspectives on the events, and it was not always that the perspective of the narrator and Tom Jones would coincide, nor was it always the case that the reader would have no reason to suspect that the actual writer's opinion would not vary from its narrator. A very human point of view, in other words, and this film achieved that kind of subjective/objective layering only very partially. However for what it is and what it intends to be I think this is a fine film that can stand on its own among British comedy masterpieces. "},{"Title":"lives up to its reputation","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" Wonderfully energetic, entirely cinematic, very funny adaptation of Fielding's novel. Whether or not everyone was really having a good time, they all certainly look as if they were. The deer-hunt scene is terrific, shot breathtakingly from above or below or in tight close-ups of the riders, with bravura editing. The sword fight between Albert Finney and George A. Cooper is another tour-de-force - suddenly panning to the right when you least expect it. And the eating-scene between Finney and Joyce Redman is bliss every bit as good as I'd heard it was. Picaresque stories tend, when transfered to stage or screen, to seem rambling and episodic. But this one is superbly held together by Finney's staggering talent and star-power, Richardson's flamboyant direction, and the cheeky screenplay by John Osborne. Though it's quite a long movie, it never flags.The quality of the DVD transfer is erratic, which as I understand it is because no particularly good print has survived from which a worthwhile restoration can be made. It's a pity, because the production design is full of wonderful things. "},{"Title":"wonderful to see again after forty years, still amusing","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" I remember the uproar this film caused when it first came out, and have since wondered if it deserved such attention. The dinner scene has been regarded as one of the most erotic moments of cinema, odd because the only undressed creature in it was the chicken they were eating, but it holds up even today, and is definitely as comical today as it was erotic back then, which is noteworthy considering the changing mores of the period. Altogether, it's a wonderful movie, even with its traditionally happy ending which is a tad smarmy but cheerful. Most notably, the cast of this film is an amazing collection of superior talent - willing suspension of disbelief is never a problem even with the outlandish conditions that develop. I love this film and agree that the early attention to it was well-earned. "},{"Title":"Time has aged Tom Jones little","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" Tom Jones is a rollicking tale of an 18th century rake roaming the English countryside where trouble is sure to follow. Tony Richardson's interpretation of the Fielding novel captures the ribald flavor of the book while Walter Lassaly's flawless photography stunningly captures picturesque landscapes, candle lit interiors and the frenzy of the hunt littered with hounds and horses. Richardson chooses wisely from the picaresque work and Jones gallops along at an energetic pace as Richardson fills his painterly compositions with scenes of subtle and slapstick seduction and narrow escape.As Tom, boyishly handsome Albert Finney is a combination of irresistible charm and clumsy stealth. In spite of his lustful predicaments and date with the hangman Finney somehow maintains a priapic innocence throughout. The supporting cast is uniformly excellent with special mention going to Hugh Griffith's gruff Squire Western Edith Evans, Joyce Redmond and the venerable Jack MacGowan as Patridge.Honored in its day but mostly ignored for its importance today Tom Jones has aged far better than most. Its irreverent style, lush look and energetic rhythm is as fresh and impressive now as it was when first released. An excellently crafted work. "},{"Title":"Good, Clean, English Fun","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" In eighteenth century England, first cousins Tom Jones (Albert Finney) and Master Blifil grew up together in privilege in the western countryside, but could not be more different in nature.This is a truly odd film. It could be a straight drama, but instead has a humor that is reminiscent of the works of Beaumarchais. Was the original novel this humorous? I have my doubts, but perhaps so. Even from the very beginning, we have a silent film gag that is more appropriate in a Mel Brooks movie.Strangely, today the words Tom Jones are never used to refer to the novel or the movie, but to the singer. His name is Thomas Jones Woodward, so whether or not he took his name from the book or just thought it sounded better than Tom Woodward, I have no idea. "},{"Title":"Guffaws galore","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" I managed to get into the theatre to see Tom Jones when I was a tender 16-year-old (the film got an R rating in Ontario). It was and remains at the zenith of my movie-going experiences. The theatre was packed and the reaction of the audience to the movie gives new meaning to the words guffawing and rolling in the aisles and rollicking.Tom Jones came out at the height of the British New Wave. It eschews impeccably grand and fussy shots of stately mansions and serene crowds in favour of wildness and chaos. It plunks the camera in the mud with the pigs, plays peek-a-boo with the ladies' bosoms (the elderly Dame Edith Evans, thwacking the hogs with her parasol, her own breasts seemingly in danger of popping out of her bodice, is a sight to behold!), and completely thwarts our expectations of how a period piece should play. Masterpiece Theatre this is not. I doubt that Tony Richardson ever made a better - or more robust - movie.Yet, in spite of its satirical bent, there's not a mean bone in its body. It displays the ugliness, dangers and unfairness of the society it's portraying (I noticed, at the time, that British cinema was largely about class), but Tom Jones won my heart because it does so much more. It's full of joy, hope and optimism, and it's a celebration of love, life and youth. It makes me feel young again. "},{"Title":"those who criticize, know not about what they speaketh...","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" ...sorry for the bad British imitation.but this film is truly one of the best of its time.strong cast.strong director.strong script.strong music.this film is a true and clever window into 18th century England, and some of its literature.the subtleties people miss when watching it are apparent in their reviews.this film also represents a very excellent adaptation of the story to film.it is no wonder that it won accolades from both the public and critics.those of you who say this film is raunchy and the beginning of the end of Hollywood and its so-called submission to sex and cultural depravity, should go rent some of the films of early 1930s, the pre-code era.Hollywood, from it very beginnings in the silent era, quickly saw and realized the fruits of the relations between sensuality, bawdy stories and setting it all to film.Tom Jones is hardly the signal of cinema's downfall in the 1960s. "},{"Title":"In a word Illegitimate","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" TOM JONES may not be the worst movie to take home the Academy Award for Best Motion Picture, but it certainly is in the running for being the most ineptly directed. Tiresomely clumsy and terminally long-winded, this so-called rollicking comedy barely merits a legitimate smile, let alone any laugh-out-loud moments of glee. Under Tony Richardson's amateurish direction, the film suffers from having little sense of comic timing, a lack of the astute use of editing or camera placement or even the slightest hint that the famed director had ever been behind a camera before.It is easy to see what Richardson was going for; he wanted to cut the historical epic as a genre down to size. The austere, pretentious, pompous Hollywood-style history lessons that were once a staple -- and a symbol of what in Hollywood passed for class -- were often humorless and self-aware of just how important they were. With actors giving solemn, coldly pious performances, the characters they played were placed on pedestals as being morally and intellectually superior to the commoners who served them -- and who sat in the audience watching. TOM JONES' purpose -- if indeed it has a purpose -- is to show that the nobility was no better than the peasant class -- other than maybe having lived in a slightly better quality of squalor.So be it -- but by the same token, big deal! The tendency of the movies to alternately worship and mock the rich and powerful has always been a given. There isn't much here that hadn't already been made fun of before (and better) in the period parodies made by Danny Kaye or Bob Hope. Or for that matter, the Three Stooges. The best you can give TOM JONES credit for is being a forerunner of the snob-and-slob comedies of later generations; move the story to contemporary Beverly Hills and cast some refugee from Saturday Night Live in the Jones part and you'll have a modern day CADDYSHACK. I mean is Hugh Griffith's over-the-top vulgar nobleman really much different from the below-the-belt nouveau riche vulgarians that made up Rodney Dangerfield's film career? The simple-minded attack on the upper class is nothing new or different, but that wouldn't matter if the film itself were, well, funny. It's story is the standard picaresque adventures of a young rogue's life among his social betters -- jazzed up with all the cheap sexual innuendoes, mistaken identities and misunderstandings that farce requires. For the most part, the film seems to be a desperate attempt to blend the gritty realism of the various European new waves with the orchestrated anarchy of the Marx Bros. -- while not succeeding at doing justice to either. It is like a rough cut made up of poorly chosen outtakes; instead of a work of slick, carefully crafted chaos, it is comprised of one poorly staged scene after another, a soundtrack of disconnected voices and a droning narration that always seems to be describing missing material. Impressed with Richardson's use of silent movie gimmicks (title cards, speeded up action, iris fade outs, etc.), the film critics of the time lavished the film with praise for being new and fresh -- by using tricks that even then were old and cliché! The cast of distinguished British stage notables tend to mug for the camera as if they were in a Jerry Lewis movie. Even Albert Finney in the title role fails to give any real performance, his character is jerked from scene to scene by circumstance rather than by dramatic motivation. Indeed, lovingly photographed as though he were in a spread for a fashion magazine, Finney has never looked so unrelentingly handsome and dashing -- and, yet, been so vacuously lacking in personality. Amoral and callow, there is little reason to care for Jones' fate other than the fact that he is so gosh-darn pretty.Even granting that 1963 was a remarkably weak year for movies, TOM JONES' winning of the Oscar (among several other prestigious awards) is a puzzlement. These things rarely go to comedies, unless it is perceived that they somehow represent something groundbreaking (like ANNIE HALL or AMERlCAN BEAUTY). Yet, even if TOM JONES was seen as some sort of bold departure from the norm, it didn't stop the Academy from soon going back to form and giving their top prize to such stiff, shallow and self-important historical epics as A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS, CHARIOTS OF FIRE, GANDHI, THE LAST EMPEROR, THE ENGLlSH PATIENT, BRAVEHEART and GLADIATOR -- all of which carry at least some glimmer of high-tone British superiority. So I suppose that even the thinnest patina of British class somehow, in their eyes, raised this low-brow mess to the level of high-brow social commentary. Or worse, art. "},{"Title":"Not All It's Cracked Up To Be","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" I understand why this movie is called a classic. The camera work is dazzling and fresh, sweeping away all the stodginess of a period picture. The cast is attractive, cheerful, and plainly having the time of their lives. The direction makes it easy to laugh along and get caught up in the sheer sexual charisma of Tom Jones' personality.But personally, as an English major who really treasured the book, I find that this movie is not all it's cracked up to be. It plays up all of Tom's worst qualities -- his lustfulness, the impulsive and almost infantile side of his personality -- and plays down all of his loyalty, courage, and higher feelings. This movie was influential for the rest of the Sixties, and in all the wrong ways.Tom was the first anti-hero in Sixties film, a guy who is good looking and sexy but not especially brave or clever or even kind. Note again that this was NOT Fielding's intent. In the novel, he says explicitly that Tom is as much a Hercules as an Adonis meaning that he is a real hero, who fights for right, not just a lover boy. But this movie plays Tom's fist fight scenes strictly for laughs, as if to say courage and manhood are out and getting by on sheer charm is in. Not to carry it too far, but you can draw a straight line from this vision of Tom Jones to the increasingly repulsive anti-heroes who followed later in the decade. They range from the ultra-violent Alex in A CLOCKWORK ORANGE to the cowardly Indian warrior in LITTLE BIG MAN to the criminal Michael in THE GODFATHER.What's missing from the film -- but not the book -- is any sense that Tom really loves Sophia, or that he learns from his adventures and becomes more worthy, more manly, at the end. The book takes the idea of choice and responsibility seriously, the movie just laughs it off. Not surprisingly, Tom's love affair with Lady Bellaston comes off differently as well. Casting the exquisite and sultry Joan Greenwood as Lady Bellaston was delightful, but wrong. In the book she is a fat, dumpy old hag who buys Tom and tries to corrupt him. In the movie she is a stunning older swinger who indulges him just for the fun of it. Sure it's sexy to watch -- really sexy. But what does it prove? Nothing. Tom doesn't resist temptation, he isn't punished, and he doesn't grow. It's the infantile approach that was to become all to popular during the idealistic sixties. "},{"Title":"This was so NOT the best movie of 1963.","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" To people in the 21st century, the name Tom Jones brings to mind the singer of songs like It's Not Unusual, and maybe also Tommy Lee Jones. Tony Richardson's Tom Jones has nothing to do with either of them. It was apparently intended as an indictment of the British aristocracy's hypocrisy. It comes across more as a romantic comedy. But most importantly, contrary to its Oscar wins it was far from the year's best movie. Nineteen sixty-three gave us movies like The Birds (the ultimate Hitchcock movie), Hud (a look at alienation), Lilies of the Field (a call for tolerance), It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World (a hilarious indictment of greed) and Charade (one of the cleverest thrillers of all time).A line that caught my attention was during the dinner. Tom says something to the effect of A person can be uneducated and know a lot, and a person can be educated and know nothing. For proof that the second part is true, I submit as evidence George W. Bush and Prince Charles.And now the cast. Albert Finney we all know. Susannah York is a hottie here; her most significant role was in They Shoot Horses, Don't They?. Diane Cilento was married to Sean Connery at this time. David Tomlinson is best know as George Banks in Mary Poppins. Jack MacGowran played the alcoholic director in The Exorcist. Peter Bull played the Soviet ambassador in Dr. Strangelove (so naturally, I told his character here not to fight in the war room). Julian Glover later played Donovan in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade and later played Grand Master Pycelle on Game of Thrones. And of course, Lynn Redgrave was director Tony Richardson's sister-in-law.As for Tony Richardson, his best movie that I've seen was the posthumously released Blue Sky, which won Jessica Lange a Best Actress Oscar. Richardson hadn't publicly acknowledged his bisexuality until he contracted AIDS, which eventually killed him. Due to Orion Pictures's bankruptcy, Blue Sky sat on the shelf for three years.In conclusion, Tom Jones is a movie that will probably draw more than a few MST3K-style comments. Although I will say that Susannah York probably had to beat guys off with a stick after appearing in this movie. "}{"Title":"Forgettable and chaotic. A regrettable Best Picture choice.","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" People were excited about Tom Jones in 1963. I read in an archived paper that it was considered the next Citizen Kane. Somehow someway that translated to 4 Oscars, including Best Picture, where it's now considered the weakest winner outside of Crash since the 50s. Probably even weaker than Driving Miss Daisy. It's a bizarre blend of period costume drama and screwball comedy, and neither parts work. It's really all over the place, and I'll admit to not being able to follow the story besides the broad strokes. There's little to find engaging. It's so unbelievably rough around the edges, so horribly shot and overlaboured in the editing. No, those scenes don't need speeding up. That doesn't make it funny. That makes it cheap. Maybe it was an innovator at the time, but it innovated the worst ideas. Albert Finney does have charm, but the film savours none of it. The acting from the ensemble spare a few is solid, but the filmmaking is too weak for them to steal the show. I'll give it credit that the score is Oscar- worthy and is the only thing that efficiently sets the tone. Poor show on Richardson and the Academy's behalf.5/10 "},{"Title":"Happy the man, and happy he alone, who can call today his own.","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" Tom Jones is a renegade who flies in the face of the upper-crust, stiff-upper-lipped British society of his time. Tom is carefree and full of life, often dismissing societal norms in his pursuits of fulfillment and expressions of passion. He is also compulsive and lustful &#x96; two characteristics that often beset him. The young Sophie Weston sees in Tom the life of fun, adventure and unpredictability she desires, and she loves him despite his shortcomings. Her father wishes for her to marry Tom's cousin Blifil &#x96; the antithesis of Tom &#x96; whom she despises.Tom's courting of Sophie is presented in such a perfectly (absurdly) romantic way, I couldn't help but fall in love with the couple and root for their forbidden romance. Their courtship is presented in a series of montages complete with an aptly giddy score that perfectly complements the farcical nature of the proceedings.Albert Finney takes the lead and runs with it. He is sensational here, encapsulating Tom's charm and intrigue with complete understanding of the film's tone. From his lustful entanglements with Molly (and many others), to his earnestly sweet infatuation with Sophie and his perfectly judged breaking of the fourth wall, he makes Tom a lasting, charismatic protagonist. Both York and Cilento are infectious in their own ways as the polar opposite objects of Tom's desire. Pretty much everyone else in the cast was nominated by some awards body, so I won't mention them all, but the supporting cast is rich with colourful, interesting performances.Tom Jones is messy, outrageous and, at times, ridiculous. It is also a resplendent, bawdy, sexy (Dat dinner scene) comedy that satirises the hypocrisies of censorship and moral indignation. This isn't a film for everyone &#x96; it can often feel clumsy and chaotic. But there is rhythm in the chaos. And the only way to truly experience, grasp or even give the film a fair chance, would be to let your hair down, accept it for what it is and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":"  The movie takes place in England in the 18th century, and involves the many adventures (mostly sexual) of a young, handsome Tom Jones.  This movie has many terrific moments--exciting sword fights, some great lines, GREAT music score and a very accurate portrayal of 18th century England.  Unfortunately, it also has many dull moments (to move the plot forward), unpleasant moments (18th century was NOT pretty) and a very quick ending.  Still, it's worth seeing.  Director Tony Richardson is obviously enjoying himself and it comes through.  Also, the cast is great.  Nobody is bad!  Especially good are Albert Finney as Tom, Susannah York as his love Sophie and Joyce Redman as Mrs. Waters.  Special acclaim must be given to Edith Evans as Miss Weston--she's absolutely uproarious!  Also nice to see David Warner before he was known.  If you're in a silly frame of mind you'll probably love this movie.  If you're not, you'll probably LIKE it.   "},{"Title":"complete crap","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" I've attempted to watch this Oscar winner a number of times and have not gotten through the entire movie. This is a mess! Dialogue undecipherable, no plot, little in the way of characterization. It is a series of pointless scenes leading to nothing. I will say that it foreshadows a great deal of pointless,mindless, noisy, messy drug addled swinging 60's films that followed it. I refer to Casino Royale, the last part of What's New Pussycat and Rowan and Martins Laugh-in. I suppose at the time it seemed revolutionary and rebellious. But like many a sixties extravagance, it now appears to be nothing but self-indulgent senseless garbage. Oh, and why was Molly hanging out in the woods? "},{"Title":"Keeping Down With The Jones's","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" This is yet another example of a movie weighed down with gongs and critical acclaim at the time - the so-called renaissance of British films aka the kitchen sink school - that seen today is both embarrassing and cringe-making. Albert Finney, always, like Hitchcock, vastly overrated, adds another wrongly overpraised character to his Arthur Seaton (Saturday Night And Sunday Morning)and leads a cast of British luvvies who have been encouraged to let their hair down and slum it in the interest of adding 'picaresque' to their CVs. John Osborne who had not yet joined the Establishment, has fun sending it up and allows himself at least one stinging satire in the hunting scene in which an innocent deer is torn to pieces by the hounds. Osborne allows Michael McLiammoir to narrate in the equivalent of Chapter Headings and the whole thing is totally forgettable. "},{"Title":"Tom Jones Puts You To Sleep","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" Based on Henry Fielding's classic, Tony Richardson's 'Tom Jones' has received quite a lot of acclaim and is still highly praised after almost half a century. It's quite nicely shot with the exception of the cinematography which was flat. The English location is pleasing to look at and the performances are very good. Albert Finney fits Tom Jones like a puzzle. The costumes are great and the director manages to capture the essence of the time period.However, I found the movie to be incredibly boring. I really tried to enjoy it. The beginning is very rushed and perhaps after about half an hour it moves at a snail's pace. The humour in the dialogues works to an extent, not enough to save this from boring me.There's also a disturbing hunting scene. I don't mind when a movie shows disturbing elements (as long as its relevant to the story) and hunting was a big game during that time period but it just seemed pointless to really kill a deer over it.Anyway, 'Tom Jones' just didn't work for me. Other than Finney's terrific performance and some nice dialogues, it didn't offer much. "},{"Title":"Cinematically important, though a messy and self-satisfied piece of lunatic grandeur","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" After a wonderful 'silent movie' prologue in which the 18th Century Squire of Western England accepts custody of an illegitimate baby boy--born to be hanged--this hoked-up variation on Henry Fiedling's novel moves in fit and starts, the product of a poor direction which was then aided by feverish editing. Albert Finney's Tom falls for the Squire's comely daughter (a pensively ravishing Susannah York) but is prevented from marrying her due to his questionable heritage; he hits the road after his beloved is promised to another man, becoming involved in sword-fights, infidelities, and assorted promiscuities. Certain set-pieces (a rowdy, savage deer hunt, a seduction/dinner sequence at the inn, a courtship amongst the blossoms) have become legendary--and for good reason. The picture is smashing to look at (as photographed by Walter Lassally), though the movie-narrative is squashy and the character of Tom Jones is a bit of a sod (Finney brings charisma to the part, but he does more for the enterprise than it does for him). The winner of four Academy Awards (including Best Picture!), the film is usually described as 'lusty' or 'bawdy', but the development of the many assorted characters is poor, the smirking overall tone is tiresome, and the general heart of the piece becomes lost in the morass. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Very good,...though it seems like an odd choice for the Oscar","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" Now please understand at the outset that I am NOT bashing this movie. However, this is indeed one of these cases of a film that has won a Best Picture Oscar and years later when you see it you feel absolutely stunned that it was given this honor. A very good film, of course,...but Oscar-worthy,...I sincerely doubt it. Now it is very possible that 1963 was a slow year and that is why it won the award. And, it is also very possible it won because the film was, for its day, quite bawdy and the Academy wanted to recognize a picture that pushed the envelope. Regardless of why, today the film seems pretty inconsequential--not bad, but certainly not a film that deserves all the accolades it received decades ago.The film itself is a combination of comedy and drama set in the 1740s. The comedic portions, for the most part, are kind of funny and the romantic portions are just okay--though it was really hard to understand exactly why Susanna York's character was in love with Tom--particularly after his many escapades and dalliances. To me, I actually would have enjoyed the film a bit more if it had chosen to emphasize the humor a bit more--sort of like the extremely funny START THE REVOLUTION WITHOUT ME--a very madcap film made just a few years later and starring many of the same supporting actors in TOM JONES.As far as acting goes, everyone was fine in the film. In particular, Albert Finney was great as Tom, though it is sad to see his career never exactly took off after his success in this film--after all, he really could act. The direction, sets, etc. were also just fine and I must say that at least the film was a lot of fun and enjoyable to watch--unlike the later (and much heralded by film snobs) BARRY LYNDON---one of the duller costume dramas in Hollywood history. "},{"Title":"Trivial, tired and dated English comedy","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" Tom Jones is a film that has not dated well with references to bygone silent films and English country life lost on myself; the photography and editing seems to be from another era as well. I found it difficult to see what the point of the film.The vague story after the book by Henry Fielding follows Tom and his adventures across England making a life for himself after being run out of house by his uncle landlord. Theis film reminded me a little of Barry Lyndon, with it's rogue character crossing English countrysides encountering shifty characters and overcoming dilemmas along the way. Add to that the sumptuous natural photography and it should be a winner.The direction is very clunky and unfocused - many close-up shots and the much celebrated countryside scenes were hazily shot and dizzying in nature - the director could not keep the camera still few even a few moments. The plot devices and turning points seemed fabricated and just unbelievable especially when former characters were introduced at key moments in the story just to solve the problem. The speaking -to-the-audience technique and cut transitions that are meant to hide further action to the audience was just pretentious. There are many extraneous scenes that do not enhance the plot and therefore the pacing suffers, especially for a film 2hrs in lengthThe acting fitted the style of an olde English 18C tale or if it was supposed to be in the fashion of those BBC miniseries and that era. However it could have been so much better. Most of the characters could only do one expression whether it was angry, sullen, bashful or clueless. And Tom Jones himself just spent the film running around like a spoiled immature brat.I will admit the one feature of the film I (mildly) enjoyed was the music - adapted from the style of early silent films; a mixture of music around Tom Jones time and 17C English composers. It was pacey and moved the action on the screen along.I can't believe that this won so many major awards that year for being a tired, preposterous, farce of a comedy. It didn't work in the slightest way for me. The script should have been much more clever and wittier but in the end was very mediocre. The film's climax was overblown and the dilemmas experienced by all characters in the film were just overlooked to achieve a happy ending to the film given the final scene of he picture. For a film lauded as best picture by many critics of the time, I fail to see any elements of film-making that make it truly great - in fact they were poor and vague. In the end it came off as nothing more than a tired trivial comedy. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable anti-farce but sometimes difficult to watch","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":"  Enjoyable but sometimes difficult to watch. I liked the farce and anti-farce elements, but this movie's best moments are the broad, drawn-out action sequences. The hunting scene alone is worth watching the entire movie.The romance aspect of the story isn't particularly well done, and neither is the essential plot. This movie is goofy sometimes, in both a good and bad way. For me, it breaks down where it tries to follow the story.The entire movie seems to be about experimenting with the Victorian English period piece as a genre (and poking fun at it) - sometimes it succeeds and sometimes it fails. It's good fun though, and worth watching. "}{"Title":"A funny film, but an Oscar?","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":"  A fine example of farce, with several very funny scenes (especially the famous dining scene) and some excellent camera work (especially a fox hunting scene in the first half hour of the film).  The acting is excellent, with Hugh Griffith's marvelous portrayal of loutish bumpkin Squire Western a real treat.  However, I find it hard to believe this film won the best picture Oscar.  Was this really the best film that 1963 had to offer?  It must have been a mediocre year.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" I had gone into this movie with high hopes. My Tivo had recorded it off of TCM, and I figured if it had a top rating it must have something going for it.I was profoundly disappointed. I never walk out on a film, but I almost turned this one off halfway through. Badly lit scenes, sloppy camera-work, really odd editing choices, nonsensical transitions - it definitely felt like a '60s modern feature, and not in a good way.A few members of the all-star ensemble cast mugged for the camera and chewed scenery. The rest were given nothing to work with. I think this was supposed to be a lighthearted, playful romp, but the whole thing was really weighed down by the heavy-handed dialogue.As for the lead, I didn't like him. I know I'm not meant to like every character that comes along, but I truly did not understand why I should care anything about this guy, let alone sympathize with him or appreciate the irony/satirizing of the Upper Class his story represents. From what I had heard of the film, I had expected a lot more slapstick sexual encounters and pillow talk. Instead I get a romance novel with less interesting plot lines.Throughout my viewing of this film, I could not help but compare it to another famous Young Englishman Makes His Way In The World film, Stanley Kubrick's 'Barry Lyndon.' That movie is an order of magnitude superior to Tom Jones in just about every aspect, especially visually. I wasn't expecting to like that film - after seeing it, thought, it became one of my all-time favorites. I feel the opposite about 'Tom Jones.' "},{"Title":"Aristocratic Burlesque Movie Wins Best Oscar?","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" The only reason I didn't rate this movie lower than 6 is because imho there are even worst movies that have won the Oscar for Best Pic, namely, Shakespeare in Love & Milliion Dollar Baby. Tom Jones, for all intents and purposes, isn't too bad to watch for entertainment when there's nothing else better showing on late night TV (which was when I watched it). But for it to win Best Picture over Lilies of The Field- what was the Academy panel of judges thinking of? Just goes to show that they don't necessarily have better taste even if they are all involved in the movie industry.Sure, it has some redeeming scenes which are well worth looking at, like the hunt and the dining scene at the inn, but it was a bit hard to get into at the beginning and I was nearly tempted to turn off the TV after the first half hour. Far from attention-catching, the bawdy scenes of Tom cavorting with nearly every willing female he encounters bored me to tears.Don't bother buying the video or DVD for that matter. Go borrow it from the local video shop or library if they got it. "},{"Title":"Interesting, Bawdy, Comedy","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" The success of Tom Jones is an example of a film being released at the right time. In 1963, there were not very many extraordinary films that were released. This is borne out by the very films that were nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture. The best film of the year, Hud was not even nominated. But the awfulCleopatra, Elia Kazan'sAmerica, America, the mediocre How The West Was Won and the mediocre Lillies of the Field were all nominated.Now while there are many good things to recommend (Albert Finney, camera-work, direction, costumes and setting), I can't say that I really enjoyed this film. It just didn't work for me. Yes, parts of it were humorous, not really funny, and most of the time I found it annoying. The forced gaiety of the situations, the bawdiness seemed forced.I realize that maybe I just didn't get it. But I for all that this film had going for it, I'm sorry to say that I just found it annoying.4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Kooky and Fun --- But Adored?....","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" I have a feeling that, in 20 years or so, people will look back on the 2002 Oscars and be mystified by the amount of hoopla surrounding Chicago. Looking at it now that the hype has died down, it proves itself to be a very very entertaining film but not much more; what someone 20 years from now won't be witness to is the context in which the film was initially released, and the degree to which the cultural climate at the time was was perfectly poised to foster a public mania for this particular story and this particular way of telling it. I wonder if much the same thing happened with Tom Jones. I saw this probably ten or so years ago and thought it was light-hearted and breezy, but I couldn't for the life of me understand how it could have been universally liked enough to win the Best Picture Oscar in 1963. I guess it does have a kind of groovy style about it that was in line with the direction of pop culture during that time period -- it certainly makes two of its Best Picture contenders from that year, Cleopatra and How the West Was Won (the only two I've seen), look like hopeless dinosaurs staggering from the remains of an out-of-touch Hollywood. But still....Grade B "},{"Title":"Historical Interest...","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":"  Vincent Canby, the late Times (NY) film critic, listed this as one of his 50 favorites. I suppose it was ground-breaking at the time, but several elements are jarring today, starting with the silent movie opening, the overbearing narration, and the farcial set-pieces.The technical quality of the HBO (US) distributed DVD is the worst I've seen.Disclaimer I was too lazy to read the six-volume original novel.If literary adaptations are your thing, I daresay the BBC/Channel 4/Granada TV series are much better.Likewise, if 60's European cinema is what you're after, try Blow-up for starters... "},{"Title":"Tom Jones","Date":"30 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" Most people will know the famous Welsh singer, but this is actually a period costume comedy adventure that I knew won a number of awards. Basically Tom Jones (Golden Globe winning, and Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Albert Finney) was abandoned as a baby, and brought up by Squire Allworthy (George Devine). Resented by the Squire's heir Blifil (David Warner), Tom grows up into a rascal, very fond of women, including the daughter of Squire Western (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Hugh Griffith), Sophie (Susannah York), and discovered with local girl Molly Seagrim (Oscar nominated Diane Cilento), he is banished. After numerous adventures, he goes to London to make his fortune, meeting wealthy Lady Bellaston (Golden Globe nominated Joan Greenwood), while Squire Western's sister arranged Sophie and Blifil to marry. Sophie runs away, along with her cousin Mrs. Henriette Fitzpatrick (Rosalind Knight), and Tom is the one suspected of seducing Henriette. In the end, when it looks like Tom could be hanged, he is rescued in the nick of time, his real heritage is revealed, and he can court Sophie. Also starring Oscar and BAFTA nominated Edith Evans as Miss Western, Oscar nominated Joyce Redman as Mrs. Waters, Patsy Rowlands as Honor, Rosalind Atkinson as Mrs. Miller, Lynn Redgrave as Susan, Mary Poppins' David Tomlinson as Lord Fellamar, For Your Eyes Only's Julian Glover as Lt. Northerton, and narrated by Micheál MacLiammóir. It is interesting to see a British film of this sort getting all the hype it did, but it is also good incite into 1960's Swinging England cinema, and Hollywood was more attracted to filming in Britain, which is great. It won the Oscar for Best Director for Tony Richardson, Best Music for John Addison, Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, it won the BAFTAs for Best British Film, Best British Screenplay and Best Film from any Source, and it won the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy and the Samuel Goldwyn Award, and it was nominated for Best Director. Good! "},{"Title":"Historical Perspective","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" While it's perfectly true that a film whose cast includes such wonderful actors as Albert Finney, Susannah York, Hugh Griffith, the divine Joan Greenwood, Edith Evans and, in minuscule roles Angela Baddeley, Rachel Kempson (as well as Kempson's daughter, Lynn Redgrave, in her film debut) can't be all bad, I can't say I enjoyed TOM JONES much better on a second viewing about 17 years after the first. I found it pretentious and too clever for its own good with its irises in-and-out, its wipes and dissolves, Prologue in the fashion of a Silent film, and the use of fast-motion photography - even the famous dinner scene between Finney and Joyce Redmond seemed painfully obvious and self-conscious.This is another What were they thinking? Oscar choice for Best Picture - perhaps, still stunned in the months following JFK's assassination, the Academy wanted to honor something light and amusing.As has been mentioned elsewhere, the transfer on the M-G-M Vintage Classics DVD isn't worthy of a Best Picture winner - it's murky in some places, grainy in others, and on the whole could use some touching up. "},{"Title":"Weak Best Picture Oscar Winner.","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":"  Luke-warm Best Picture Oscar winner from 1963 has Albert Finney (Oscar-nominated) as the titled character in this small little film that used smoke and mirrors to make the audience think it is a masterpiece. Left to be reared by a wealthy English family after his mother (Joyce Redman, in an Oscar-nominated role) is banished for having him out of wedlock in 18th Century England, Finney grows up to be a wild young man (ala his mother) who loves nothing more than sleeping around with multiple women and taking life as it comes to him. Those around him have enough after a while and banish the youth and it is up to him to find his rightful place in a world that sometimes spits in his face. The one true love of his life (Susannah York), her parents (Oscar nominees Hugh Griffith and Edith Evans) and the seductive Diane Cilento (also with an Oscar nod) are also along for the wild ride. Tom Jones is one of those films that never does make a whole lot of sense really. It is way too uneven to be a complete success, but its unique subject matter for the time period and a crazed screenplay were enough to make it a critical and box office success in 1963. Finney tries to carry the film and does an admirable job at a very young age, but those around him are little more than scenery most of the time. New age Oscar-winning direction by Tony Richardson helps to make the movie better than it should have been. A really over-rated production that somehow overcame better competition to win four Oscars overall. Strangely, the last film President John F. Kennedy saw before his assassination in November of 1963. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"How did this movie win Best Picture?","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" It must have been a sorry year for movies if this horrible movie won Best Picture. Cleopatra was not the greatest epic ever made but it is a heck of a lot better then this boring movie. I honestly tried to enjoy this movie but it was just soooo boring (and they try to pass this off as a comedy). I can see women enjoying his movie because of the romance factor and maybe in 1963 that was what was popular. I can not blame the love affair with this movie on drugs because the flower generation were still a few years in the future (maybe movies like this one sped up the quest for drugs). Honestly, I am baffled as to the allure of this movie. I just do not get it. "}{"Title":"Don;'t know what all the fuss is about","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" For 37 years I have heard the name Tom Jones. The title comes up a lot, in review books, commentaries...and I have finally watched the movie and boy was I disappointed.I almost felt like I was watching a College final thesis movie. What's bad? Hard to understand dialogue, been there done that plot, horrible cinematography and hype.Redeeming qualities Albert Finny looks his best. He has never been more handsome in a role. Susannah York, also beautiful. Great costumes and some authentic realistic scenes.Overall I could not wait for the movie to end. Watch it on TV but don't purchase this one unless it's on a used VHS rack for .99! "},{"Title":"A Clear Picture Of The Garbage To Come","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"14 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" The fact that this won four Oscars including best picture tells you how Hollywood was well on its way down the dumper, which was fully flushed down the drain about five years after this trash came out. A big part of the reason this was given such prestigious honors was it dared push the envelope. Soon, the Hollywood would be free to give us about all the profanity, nudity and sex people would want. This movie - and Best Picture Award - helped set the stage. (Didn't Charade come out in 1963? That movie lost out to this????!)In this movie, the young man (Albert Finney) who screws anything that moves is the good guy while the uptight, nasty bad guy is, of course, the religious guy. How many times have we seen this bias?Finney was so young looking, I didn't recognize him when I watched this film in the 90s, about 30 years after seeing it in the theater when it came out. Albert's voice didn't even sound the same. This movie was supposed to be hilarious. It wasn't. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":" Tom Jones is on the whole not a very good movie. It is in fact really falling apart at the seams. Pretty much everything in the film is very bad. The only real part I liked was the performance by Albert Finney in the title roll. Although this may sound as if I really hated Tom Jones that is not true. Tom Jones is weirdly funny and entertaining. I had to like it no matter how bad it was. This was hurt by the films length and complete lack of a story we could keep track of but it is still vaguely entertaining. Tom Jones is based on one of the first novels ever written and I feel that the only reason it is remembered is just that. If it had not been one of the first no one would know anything about it because it is really not very good. Both are very boring. "},{"Title":"Do not watch this moving picture","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":"  I have to tell you that I've seen a lot of lousy movies, but this one takes the price.The main character Tom Jones is a disgusting man that makes out with every woman he possibly can, while as he says that he's deeply in love with a young woman named Sophie. I was not the only one in the class-room that found him to be a male chauvinist pig. "},{"Title":"If there is a God, why does he allow people to suffer through this movie?","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":"  If you think it's funny to watch people kick dogs and have sex with their own parents, then this is the movie for you. Albert Finney looks about 15 years too old to portray the virile title character in this adaptation of the classic 18th century novel. The `plot,' if you can call it that, is a little hard for me to describe since I am expending a tremendous amount of energy trying to block it from my mind. Suffice to say it plods along much like a typical episode of Three's Company, with it's misunderstandings, sexual escapades and slapstick humor. The difference of course being that a typical episode of Three's Company is better written, better directed and far easier to stomach. In particular, the last hour of the movie is a boringly boring bore. Sitting through it is like sitting through the end credits of the Olympics. I find it to be unbelievable that this movie was nominated for any Oscars much less win for best picture given the fact that it is as difficult to watch as footage of starving African babies with flies all over their heads. Wow, that is two hours of my life I can never get back. "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, History","Review":"  My english teacher is forcing my class to watch this and I hate it because we didn't even read it. I hate it. The music is ridiculous and makes no sense. Our favorite part is when Sophie's father gets really mad and wakes up his pig and it makes no sense. I hate it. "}]