[{"Title":"Paradise Isle","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"51 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" My conceptions about the South Pacific were formed when I saw this movie at the Elm Theatre in Brooklyn growing up. It has an honored place in my collection.First off that music does get you. Every John Ford film is marked by a great use of music, in his westerns the use of traditional western themes pace the action. Here in Donovan's Reef the music under the credits sets the mood for the story set on this South Seas Paradise.Secondly this was the last film that John Ford made with John Wayne. I believe this is the most successful actor/director relationship in the history of film by just about any standard you want to use, box office, quality of work, etc. The partnership went out on a high note.John Wayne's westerns are usually a self contained world that operates on the principles of his universe. This film does also, but here it is more believable. This mixed group of people really do know the secret of living and let living. And the outside world occasionally does intrude and violently as the World War II background of the principal characters demonstrates.This is also a film about believing stereotypes. John Wayne, Lee Marvin and the rest of the island believe Elizabeth Allen will be a racist. She's hurt by the abandonment of her father (Jack Warden) but she does come to accept her half-siblings. The film is anti-racist, but it also teaches a great moral lesson in not making your mind up about people prematurely.The comedy as in all Ford films is heavy handed, but I still crack up at Wayne and Marvin and their escapades.This is what the definition of escapist entertainment is. "},{"Title":"John Ford and John Wayne's last hurrah.....together","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"37 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"     From the very beginning of this movie you know what you have let yourself in for, when Lee Marvin belts the ship's bosun over the ear with a broom.  Followed by, Permission to leave the ship; then literally jumps ship and swims for the beach.  You realize then that you are in for 150 minutes of a Fordian, boisterous  knockabout comedy.   This was the last time that Ford and Wayne would team up together. Maybe this production was a farewell rave-up for both of them.  With Lee Marvin thrown in to assist in turning it into a roughhouse just for the hell of it.  Added to this pugilistic mixture, you have the jumbo-sized heavyweight, Mike Mazurki, serving as a French Colonial Gendarme.  As a welcome opposite to the boisterous muscle we have the smooth, suave Cesar Romero, oozing glossy charm and good manners, serving as the colonial governor of this supposed French Polynesian paradise.  Add to that, Dorothy Lamour, back in the sarong after a long absence, as a duskey maiden-type decoration. The three children belonging to Doctor Dedham  add a nice child-like innocence to this warring male atmosphere.  Here the softer side of Big John comes to the surface when he tries to comfort the eldest of the three children who becomes emotional over her half-cast origins.  Elizabeth Allen adds a well bred prim and proper touch of class to this nonsensical tropical South Pacific potion.   This movie then, has a friendly-like approach to bar room brawling with smiles thrown in.  Harmless and bruising fun all the way.  I always imagine that this kind of rough and tumble movie seems to be cobbled together...somehow.  Then  everything seems to fall into place at the end.  The end result being order out of chaos.   It's a sad to think that nearly all the lead characters plus John Ford, have all faded out and gone to the big movie studio in the sky.  God help anybody else up there with this lot! That's all.  "},{"Title":"A fine, funny movie, with moments of deep poetry","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"32 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Donovan's Reef is an accurately made, funny, light-hearted work, with some moments of deep poetry. For the audience it is more a relaxing vacation than an actual movie we are transferred to a paradisiac South Pacific island, where a bunch of super-nice guys, our friends John Wayne, Lee Marvin, Elizabeth Allen, Dorothy Lamour, Mike Mazurki, Cesar Romero make a funny show to entertain us. From the very beginning we find John Ford's characteristic sense of humour we see a family meeting of sullen Bostonian shipowners, who all take for granted that their relative Dr. Dedham (Jack Warden) is living in orgiastic promiscuity over there, in the Islands of Sin. And then there is the usual number of (harmless) fist-fights and brawls... and a quarrel-loaded love-story... and many comic misunderstandings... Donovan's Reef is one of the very last cinema appointments of John Ford. Inside this light comedy, the old Master inserts touches of his poetic legacy, his trade-mark messages of peace, brotherhood, anti-racism. An evident instance is the scene of the Christmas Mass and Ceremony, with the islanders in their native costumes. And then there is an extremely poignant short scene, just few seconds. The nice little French priest is walking on a beautiful, sunny lawn, shaded by palm-trees, close to the sea it's the cemetery. We see tombs with a Celtic cross, a French cross, a David's star; then the priest stops at a native barrow, covered with garlands, and he starts to pray (this is the tomb of the late native princess, the doctor's wife). After the storms of our life on this earth, we become all brothers in a better world. This quiet and dignified, yet full of religious hope acceptance of death is one of the most felt and profound themes of Ford's poetry. I recommend Donovan's Reef enjoy the humour, the funny action, the fine performances of the cast, and don't miss the deep poetic touches of the Master John Ford. "},{"Title":"Paradise Lost","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"27 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" With The Duke and Lee Marvin, I knew that this was going to be a fun movie to watch. No disappointment there. Filled with the splendor of the South Pacific and scored with beautiful music from the islands, it will appeal to any fan of the tropics. Elizabeth Allen is stunning as the leggy Boston blue blood who arrives on the island and gets everyone stirred up. She, along with Wayne, Marvin and Jack Warden make the film funny and appealing. If you want to watch a film that does not use today's hackneyed formula of gratuitous sex, profanity, explosions and car chases, fix yourself a Mai Tai, put on your flowered shirt and watch Donovan's Reef. Aloha. "},{"Title":"A very entertaining film that doesn't take life too seriously","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Donovan's Reef is set on an island in the Pacific, which is basically getting by on its own merits without much contact with the modern world. John Wayne and Lee Marvin team up to portray two navy buddies that seem to have two things in common--the same birthday and a desire to punch each others' lights out because of a quarrel that started several years before on that birthday.  The rest of the cast occupy themselves trying to keep the two friends alive because they genuinely are decent guys.Into this island bliss comes Elizabeth Allen, portraying a lady from Boston who is attempting to prove that her father, played by Jack Warden, has been living on the island in standards less than acceptable by Boston customs so she can claim his share of a family shipping business.  Through one scene after another, the film takes a merry romp through its plot and gives the viewer a very enjoyable time. "},{"Title":"Better than Average John Wayne","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Some people thought that John Ford was crazy to do such a picture with John Wayne. Where is the action? This movie is a departure for Ford and Wayne collaborations in that it plays more like a 30s screwball comedy in a scenic location that the typical Ford/Wayne picture that you've seen before (Rio Grande, She Wore a Yellow Ribbon etc). All the actors do good jobs and the script, like a 30s screwball comedy, is not likely to happen in real life but fun to watch. The movie was filmed in Hawaii and the scenery is gorgeous. The interplay between Wayne and Co-Star Elizabeth Allen (Amelia) is reminiscent of Wayne and Maureen O'hara. Allen compares favorably to O'Hara in that she plays the strong woman who is not overshadowed by Waynes Guns Donovan. I enjoyed Caesar Romero, who played the Governor of the island and is looking to court Amelia only after he checks her wealth in Dun and Bradstreet. Pay particular attention to Lee Marvin's Boats Gilhooley, grab a beer, and sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Good non- Cowboy role for Wayne","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is not one of Johns best but it ranks pretty high. It's good to see John Wayne in something besides a cowboy movie. It has a great supporting cast. Lee Marvin out does his self in his role as the out cast friend who has the same birthday as John Wayne. Cesar Romero plays his part brilliantly as the French Ambassador. And the kids in this film could not have been cast better. Jacqueline Malouf plays her part as the teen age daughter of Jack Warden so convincingly you forget she was 22 at the time. And Cherylene Lee is the cutest little girl who ever played a part in the movies.The plot is a little lame and Elizabeth Allen is a little young to be playing John Wayne's love interest. John Wayne appears to look the oldest of the three Americans who stayed on the island to help the inhabitants during WWII. But the movie comes off pretty good if you can over look the age difference. Besides, Wayne and Allen do work well together. I like to watch this movie from time to time. It's a feel good movie were everything comes out good in the end. "},{"Title":"a light comedy with a serious undercurrent.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Donovans Reef was the last collaboration between John Ford and John Wayne. Its not a great film, but its a very good one. Like The Quiet Man its a pastoral symphony, but its pastoral with an edge. This is ,in fact an anti_racist, anti-Puritan film.This well cast, well acted, and very funny picture is worth watching and enjoying. "},{"Title":"A Really Entertaining Movie","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oh gosh, how many times have I watched this truly entertaining movie? Probably fifteen or so, and I still enjoy it as much as the first time. As others have said, this is not John Wayne's best movie but it is enjoyable. My favorite part is the scene near the end when Amelia discovers that she is half sister to Dr. Dedhams three children and that the eldest of them is the reigning Princess of the island culture. It is a very touching scene that is preceded by a bevy of island women performing a stick dance that is absolutely beautiful to watch and listen to. I would rate it 9/10. "},{"Title":"This is why you go to the movies. Because it's fun.","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Donovan's Reef is fun. It has a decent story, good characters, and stunning scenery. This is why you go to the movies, isn't it? If compared against Ford's acknowledged masterpieces, Dononvan's Reef does not measure up, but measured against other escapist films, it is a great movie. John Wayne's performance is consistently good, and as always, believable. Wayne was so real in his films, that he is never considered to be a good actor, but if you look at his body of work, you have to admit he could do it all. His Guns Donovan character is certainly up to snuff, and he does well with what he has. His interaction with Lee Marvin as Boats Gilhooley is as good as any of his other brawling, head-butting clashes with legends like Ward Bond or Victor McGlaglen. Lee Marvin is very funny and clever in his scenes, and very rarely over the top. He could always deliver on a character that was supposed to be likable, but mentally ill.Aside from the fun, we have a significant plot element of prejudice considering the behavior of Guns, Boats, and Andre, where they hide the Doctor's half-caste Polynesian children from the All-White Bostonian daughter, Amelia. Paradoxically, we have Chinese stereotypes in the form of goofy looking morons with toothy grins and heavy accents. Still, in the end reason prevails in that the young Leilani shows wisdom beyond her years. When she sings a prayer of thanks to the goddess of the canyon where Guns chops down their Christmas tree, Amelia asks if she believes in gods and goddesses. Leilani replies, I believe in one God, as we all do, but I respect the customs and beliefs of my people. Amelia subsequently accepts the cultural differences with a gracious bow to Leilani, who is being honored as the last hereditary princess of the island. That is a nicely done scene.If you focus on what Donovan's Reef isn't, it will be a disappointing film. If you enjoy it for what it is, you will have a great time. "}{"Title":"Happy, Beautifully Shot; WWII Polynesian Comedy-Romance","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Donovan's Reef is a strange film I suggest or many reasons, and about as physically glowing as a film can be. it is a hymn to Polyneisa, to its natural beauty, its friendly people and its future, from John Ford and John Wayne who clearly by the film's message hope not to see these qualities spoiled. I find it a strong element in the script that the faults of Bostonians, an allegorical composite for super-rich-government connected types, are discredited---with the qualities that describe unrealistic power-mongers--inability to enjoy simplicity, lack of a sense of humor, intolerance, frigidity in sex, inability to seek amity, unwillingness to compromise on nonessential points, bigotry against all those poorer or differently, worship of power...all the traits that define corporate-man of the U.S. increasingly throughout the 20th Century (but have the opposite quality of truly American values). The film is gentle, deliberate in pace and pits two screwball comedy types, the seemingly over-macho but lovable brute and the seemingly stuck-up by basically-goodhearted girl against one another; and from the beginning as his steely spirit and her iron resolve meet sharply , sparks fly. In the film's focused storyline, a youthful, would-be heiress from Boston, Ameiia (Elizabeth Allen), travels from her cold, snowy and overly-formal zone of existence to locate her father, missing since WWII. She had been born near the beginning of that Pacific conflict; but he stayed in French Polynesia and has never seen her. He stands to inherit millions, that is the prospect; she needs to prove that he is morally unfit in order to overturn that provision of a will. The assumption is he must be living in sin, he's in paradise--not Boston. She is met not by her errant papa but by his friend, Guns Donovan, an ex-sailor, and a man who who owns the local saloon, 'Donovan's Reef'. What she does not know is the father has had three children since, by a Polynesian mother. It takes time, a brawl over a shared birthday, meeting and growing to love the people, some tense scenes with her father, ceremonies, arguments, a water-skiing contretemps involving two sorts of bathing suit representing Boston and Polynesia and an opportunistic play for her by the governor that the girl finally melts--in so far as iron can. She decides it is more logical to stay with Donovan than to deny her feelings, and her love for the island. Donovan spanks her, the Amelia that was; but the action is symbolic, for from this point on they will be equals,; his brawling partner will own 'Gilhooley's Reef' and and they will make a life together where people get along and respect one another's differences. . The film is an amiable service-style comedy--John Ford is never far from cavalry-post humor--and the build of the romance from a hotly-denied spark through incidents, misassumptions, mutual interactions and learnings prepares us not for surrender but for a warlike alliance at the end; and for a procession of priests, friends, children, Gilhooley, her father, and a huge French policeman bearing her worldly goods to Donovan's house in train behind the happy couple. The cinematography by William Clothier and the art direction by Sam Imazu and veteran Hal Pereira are I found often stunning. Icons Sam Comer and Darrell Silvera did the set decorations, Edith Head the colorful costumes and Nellie Manley the many hairstylings. Wayne's favorite writer James Edward Grant worked with Frank Nugent on a story by Edmund Beloi(out of James A. Michener's works, uncredited); Cyril Mockridge provided original music. In the cast, Wayne, whose heavy-handed but genial comedic touch went unrecognized for years stands his own with Elizabeth Allen, one of the strongest and most-underrated actresses in the history of the screen. Other standouts in the cast include Cesar Romero as the governor, Lee Marvin who gets to be loud and occasionally rambunctious, Marcel Dalio, Jack Warden, Dick Foran, Edgar Buchanan, Jon Fong, Mike Mazurki as the policeman and the children Jacqueline Malouf, Cherylene Lee and and Jeffrey Byron. The movie has a Christmas feel about it in some strange manner; I believe it is its message of Americanism set against a rather silly and stuffy set of 'republican' attitudes of petty power-wielding that cause it to be so happy a film; this was what, despite its errors, worked for It's a Wonderful Life and Giant, for instance. This was also the last that lasted over many years. And we are the richer for it. if you're looking for tons of action, for this one; it's more of the How Green Was My Valley and Rio Grande sort of atmospheric tale about common sense being taught to those who have been avoiding it, by gentle comedic example. "},{"Title":"DONOVAN'S REEF (John Ford, 1963) **1/2","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Brawling, leisurely-paced comedy with an island setting typical of director Ford in its plethora of colorful characters and occasional sentimentality, but is actually a heavy-handed attempt at the Howard Hawks style (as displayed most recently in another John Wayne vehicle, HATARI! 1962 - which I've just learned, via the McLINTOCK! 1963 Audio Commentary, was critic Leonard Maltin's favorite film growing up!); this is most evident in the love-hate relationship between the Wayne and Elizabeth Allen characters.Despite a stalwart cast, all performers are basically operating below-par (Lee Marvin's co-star credit isn't really justified, Dorothy Lamour's role is insignificant, while Jack Warden is not only too young to play Allen's father but too 'modern' to fit in this company!). All in all, it's a harmless but disappointing swansong for one of cinema's most famous and durable director-actor teams; pity they didn't part company with the elegiac THE MAN WHO SHOT LIBERTY VALANCE (1962) - also featuring Marvin - which preceded it! "},{"Title":"Lovely music, superb scenery, some fun, fights and frolic","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm here for the music -- well almost. I just love the opening theme and hum it often, not sure if it's traditional but it sort of sticks in your mind long after. While other commentators have already dissected the plot and the people in it, I'm just enjoying the wonderful scenic views of the locale, the pleasant unfolding of the story, the quiet, touching moments of simple sentiment that keeps us all human, and of course everybody loves a happy ending. I enjoy this one a great deal each time I see it. John Wayne looks good in shorts too! Lee Marvin is his old ornery self, and Dorothy Lamour is an amber glow of beauty, giving a nice extra interest to the movie. Cesar Romero adds his distinguished touch of class too. Altogether they create a fine blend of ingredients that makes for thoughtful and enjoyable entertainment. Add this one to your list of viewing experiences. "},{"Title":"It is one of our favorite movies!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This had been one of my husbands favorite movies when we first met and he would always watch it on his birthday.  We just watched it again on New Years Eve and it still stands out as one of our favorite movies. Actually, it's my favorite John Wayne movie!  It's light and funny and thoroughly entertaining! "},{"Title":"A perfect easy-going movie","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Put a master of more than 130 films; add one of the strongest antagonist tandem in American film history; add marvelous and transparent Pacific islander landscapes and a great cinematographer behind the camera; add one or two gorgeous women (maybe not first-rated and from different background and age); add your own eyes to the recipe and you¨ll get a picture like Donovan´s Reef. John Ford, John Wayne and Lee Marvin, William H. Clothier, Barbara Allen and Dorothy Lamour and YOU...      "},{"Title":"I'd have gone straight for Elizabeth Allen....","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This was a beautiful film, not least because of the warm and lively music, and also because of the cool, sensual presence of Elizabeth, who died only recently. The comedy, as written above, could indeed be a little ham-handed, but there's no substitute for the scene when Amelia, riding the back of a jeep, is vaulted off the rear as it hits a bump and lands flat on her a**. John Wayne looks down at her and asks quietly, Did you hurt your ---- self? This is a pleasant, human drama, with a strong anti-racist message built around a great cast of characters. A solid, pleasing John Ford / John Wayne partnership, and Elizabeth Allen was a pure pleasure. "},{"Title":"What a wonderful film.","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is the most underrated movie of all time and certainly the most underrated John Ford film. I love Wayne in this movie. Lee Marvin is just superb genius no other way to describe that performance and the whole picture made me want to see the South Seas which I did. I still see Te movie often and there are still lovely surprises. John Wayne has such a magnificent presence and the fight scenes are violent but still funny as I was brought up to appreciate them. The Aussie sailors sequence at the end is actually believable it is so bad. I don't know the name of the big polynesian policeman but isn't he wonderful in that part? Pity real life isn't so. But you know that is why we love the movies after all isn't it? regards Frank Smith. "},{"Title":"Sunny, breezy and flipping delightful.","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" You hear the names John Ford and John Wayne and one automatically thinks of Westerns, sprawling landscapes and machismo in bunches. Odd then that their last collaboration should be a knock about comedy set on a paradise isle. Perhaps even odder is that it should turn out to be one of their most entertaining films. Donovan's Reef finds the two Johns in very relaxed mood, as is the rest of the cast I might add. A cast that includes Lee Marvin, Mike Mazurki, Jack Warden, Cesar Romero, Dorothy Lamour and the lovely Elizabeth Allen.Speaking personally, I found the film far more rewarding by not knowing much about it before hand, I really only ventured into it out of loyalty to the Johns and the Marv. So in that, this isn't much of a review as such, because I would simply urge people to give it a go. Why you ask?, well because it's one of those films that can brighten your day when things have gone dark, you got The Duke and The Marv slugging each other at regular intervals, not in the normal way associated with these guys, but jocular-with this biff bang machismo comes laughs a plenty. We have Romero and his beard on prime slime mode, Allen as delicious as she is prim and proper and the Kaua'i location work gorgeously realised by William H. Clothier's photography. It's not just a comedy either. Under the mirth we find Ford dealing in thematics such as anti-racism, anti preconceptions and one of his pet leanings of brotherhood.Donovan's Reef is a smashing film, it's far from perfect, something the principals were aware of. But in the end it's obvious that all involved just said to hell with it, lets enjoy it and hope the audience buys into that attitude as well. One can only hope that you do buy into it, and thus get as much fun from it as yours truly most assuredly did. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A beautiful film","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A flawed film, certainly, but also an enormously beautiful one. It seems like simple, frivolous fun at first, but I also found it quite moving. I love the setting, above all else. The film is set on a small island in the Pacific where elements from a handful of cultures have been mixing for many years already. There are the Polynesians who originally inhabited the island, the Japanese who took it over during WWII, the French who established a mission there, the Americans who washed up there after their ship was sunk during WWII, the Australians who occasionally dock there, and the various Asians who have established themselves there. Perhaps the most beautiful scene takes place on Christmas Eve, where all the people of the island celebrate in a joyously syncretic festival. Silent Night is sung first in the Polynesian and then in English. During a Nativity play, the three wisemen are the ancient Polynesian king of the island, then the emperor of China, and then the king of America. After the king of America delivers his gift (a broken phonograph), a cloud bursts into torrential rains that easily penetrate through the roof. The audience unfurls a gorgeous rainbow of umbrellas. This sequence brought me to tears.The film's problem is its plot. It seems to just want to exist in its state of sheer beauty, but is worried that its audience will walk out if they aren't spoonfed a conventional romantic plot. A young, would-be heiress from Boston, Ameilia (Elizabeth Allen), goes to this tropical paradise to find the father whom she has never met. She was born near the beginning of WWII, and her father, although he had survived, had decided against coming home. Now he stands to inherit millions of dollars unless she can prove that he is morally undeserving of the inheritance. When she arrives, she finds not her father but his friend, Guns Donovan, who owns a local saloon, Donovan's Reef. Donovan is afraid that an uptight Boston woman would immediately reject her father, who has since had three children by a Polynesian princess. The most cliched part of the plot has to do with the burgeoning relationship between Donovan and Ameilia. It's basically adopted straight from The Quiet Man, which is, despite its fame, one of my least favorite of Ford's films. Not too much time is wasted on this part of the plot, and what is there isn't too bad. Lee Marvin and Cesar Romero have really nice supporting roles, as well. In fact, Lee Marvin is so funny in his role that I almost wish he had more scenes. 9/10.  "},{"Title":"One of Wayne and Ford's Best","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is sad that this was John Ford and John Wayne's last film together, but they went out on a high note.  It sometimes veers into sentimentality, but the comedy is very funny.  It is creepy to see all these actors smoking and drinking, knowing how most of them died.  I give this an 8. "}{"Title":"Popo O Ewa ((Pearly Shells)","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie contains a piece of music that is played through out the movie that several artists later recorded as Pearly Shells. IMHO, none of these later recordings can compare to the original music heard in the movie. The movie did not have a sound track album released so the only way to get a copy of this theme music is to record from the movie ... not an ideal solution but that's all there is available.I would like to know (if possible) who recorded this theme music for the movie. IMDb says original music was by Cyril J. Mockridge. Did he record a local group? Did he write Pearly Shells or was it native music he just arranged for the movie? I assume the music was recorded onto tape and then edited into the movie. Does the original tape recording still exist? Or was it destroyed like so many other things in the music/movie world because no one has any foresight as to future interest in the material? If this music existed before the movie was created, was the music ever recorded? If so, by who and when? Are these recordings still available? Probably the only person(s) who could answer these questions are those involved in making the movie ... over 40 years ago. Time may have taken its toll here but I'm hoping someone can shed some light on this music. "},{"Title":"Just about the best the 'Duke' has done.","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you like knock-down drag-out punch-drunk macho hard-drinking soft underbelly kind of movies then this one's for you. How can you watch John Wayne and not expect this kind of movie and yet it's good. There's a bit of plot (not too much) and a lot of character examination (and that's a good thing) and in the end they've made a very watchable movie...heck maybe even memorable. "},{"Title":"a silly, slight movie starring a less macho John Wayne","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is a little different from the average action picture starring John Wayne. While Wayne still is a hard-living, hard-drinking guy, this movie is neither a cowboy nor war picture but is about a middle-aged guy living in the South Pacific along with his goofy friends (including Lee Marvin). In many ways, Wayne and company play a group of older guys trying desperately to live like crazed frat boys. On that level, the movie actually works at times, though this also greatly detracts from the rest of the film. If this is a kinder and gentler John Wayne who can take care of children and romance a woman, then bar room brawling seems out of place and contrived--much like what occurred in another John Ford film, WHAT PRICE GLORY?. I really wish Ford had directed this film a little less like a party with his drinking buddies and stuck to the other 90-95% of the film. Still, it is a lot of fun to watch and is a very amiable time-passer. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, But Dated","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is not a terrible film, though it is a tad dated. I have a copy on VHS, and will get a DVD if I find a bargain copy. The film is easygoing, to reflect, one supposes, the easygoing life on the Islands, whichever Islands these may be.Possible spoiler(s) One recurring theme in the film is that initial impressions might be deceiving. When the prim lady from Boston is invited to go water-skiing, she shows up in a bathing suit at least half a century out of date, but the sort of suit that an Islander might expect of an uptight Bostonian of the time. Then, after she sheds the suit to the one-piece modern bathing suit she's wearing underneath, she reveals that she's as modern as anyone. The film skewers prejudice.Likewise, the birthday fight has gone on so long that neither principal can remember who started it, or what they were fighting over. That's a backhand slap at meaningless tradition.There's meaning in the film if you look for it. But it's not necessary the film entertains. "},{"Title":"A wonderful Movie with Great Scenery","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie often and continue to enjoy it. I used to wonder what it would be like to visit an island such as this and now I've been there!The filming locations included Kauai (one of the Hawaiian Islands) and it is still as beautiful as the movie depicts years ago. Towns like this still exist too, although the island of Molokai might be closer to that shown in Donovan's Reef.I agree with other comments that the film does not take its self too seriously and neither do the actors. It is a fun movie with breathtaking scenery. "},{"Title":"A prim and proper Boston lady travels to a beautiful South Sea Island to try to acquire her father's share of the family business, but finds true love instead.","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  FYI...the summary of this film identifies Dr. Dedham's daughter as Elizabeth.  Elizabeth Allen is the actress who portrays the daughter. The character's name is Amelia. This film may not be one of John Wayne's best movies, but it provides all the action, fun and adventure typical of all his films.  This is a film for the whole family to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not John Wayne's best movie, but one of my favourites.  I love the locations, which I believe was Hawaii.  It is just a fun movie to watch.  The type of movie you don't have to think to hard about. "},{"Title":"Enjoy it for the fun and the loss of history","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a comedy with some romantic themes and even a couple heartstring tugs of emotionality.Comedy  Lines like (when signalling Dr. Dedham)Wayne  What's this, daughter spelled DOTTER?Marvin Yeah, two T'sandWayne Light? (asking Allen in her bathing suit)Allen (feeling down her suit) Nope - sorry.andeveryone carrying heavy furniture, trunks and a piano except the biggest and strongest, Mazurki, who is carrying the stool.andwatching Marvin getting drowned out during the Christmas pagent.RomanticWatching Wayne and Allen fall in love while you know that Wayne is trying to get rid of her.Watching the cad getting his come uppanceHeartstringsWe should all remember that Wayne married Pilar, a hispanic, and knew racism first hand.The acceptance of Dedham's kids by AllenThe price paid by the Navy crewmen and the island's inhabitants while fighting the Japanese.The fact that a lot of women used to die in childbirth (who would want to be the next wife of Lorne Green in Bonanza???)The joys of childhood the rock and roll pianoplaying, the ballcap in Luki's pocket when he is wearing his Buster Brown outfit, water skiing, and Christmas.The value of religion donations to the poor via the church, the honorable place the padre has in the community, the honorable place Christmas has, the religions mixed together in the graveyard, etc.I loved the pagentry and music of the natives.  The music does stay with you.  My Dad used to go crazy over his lawn and I laughed in horror as John Wayne spins his tires on Dedham's lawn.John Wayne ReduxWant a similar spanking scene?  The end of McClintock has it.Want to know the full verses of The Monkeys have no tails in Pango-Wanga???  Watch the Duke in They Were Expendable with another total dish in her day, Donna Reed.Loved it.  I watch it once or twice a year and wish there could be a DVD with commentary but all the principle actors are pretty much gone, even the oldest child is dead. "},{"Title":"Last Ford/Wayne Teaming a Lighthearted,  Brawling Comedy...","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" What do you do when you're a workaholic 68-year-old director, and your doctor orders you to take a vacation? Well, if you are John Ford, you grab John Wayne and your 'Stock Company' of actors, jaunt off to Kauai, the Flower Isle of Hawaii, and make Donovan's Reef, a old-fashioned, brawling comedy! While the film was certainly not 'top-drawer' for either the director or star, it is a pleasant diversion, and would mark the final 'film' teaming of the legendary pair.Donovan's Reef, equal parts South Pacific, Hawaii, What Price Glory?, and She Wore a Yellow Ribbon, was already 'nostalgic', by the time it was made, as so many actors who would have been Ford 'naturals' in key roles had passed away, or were too old to play the characters believably. Thus you have Lee Marvin instead of Victor McLaglen, Jack Warden in a 'Ward Bond' role, and Elizabeth Allen in a part 'tailor-made' for a younger Maureen O'Hara. Even Wayne, himself, at 56, seems a bit 'long-in-the-tooth' for the physical demands of his role (challenging the 32-year-old Allen in a swimming race?), as well as the romance (a fact that even the Duke would agree with; this would mark the last time he would play a romantic lead, 'winning' an actress so much younger). Also, knowing that in less than two years Wayne would lose a lung to cancer, one winces at the number of cigarettes he lights up, throughout the film. Donovan's Reef was certainly geared to an earlier time and sensibility.All this being said, if you can leave 21st century wisdom about tobacco and alcohol abuse at the door, the film is a treat, with postcard images of Hawaii, Lee Marvin, an 'over-the-top' joy as Wayne's drunken buddy/adversary (tuning up for his Oscar-winning role in Cat Ballou), hilarious support from Cesar Romero as the lecherous Governor/General, and Dorothy Lamour (who'd starred in Ford's classic South Seas adventure, The Hurricane), as a husband-hungry chanteuse, and, in memorable bit roles, Duke's son, Patrick, Edgar Buchanan, Dick Foran, and Mike Mazurki.I truly wish there WERE a Donovan's Reef in our world...it's the kind of place where I'd want to live! "},{"Title":"Memorable picture set  on a Pacific atoll with the great John Wayne and many John Ford regulars","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wonderfully shot Ford film with a lively look at the Pacific atoll life , including amusing scenes , humor , acting class , familiar drama , a love story and sentimental nostalgia with interesting character studio of a varied assortment of individuals . Entertaining and fun story with agreeable romance adding strong knuckles for spectacular fight between Wayne, Ford's favorite leading man, against brawling Lee Marvin . It deals with two WWII buddies Donovan (John Wayne) and Gilhooley (Lee Marvin , similar role to starred by Victor Mclagen) are supposed to share December 7th for their birthday and meet every years on a South Seas paradise to engage a perpetual bar-brawl until a stuck-up Bostonian maiden (Elizabeth Allen) appears to find her lovable dad (Jack Weston who played Elizabeth Allen's father, was only nine years her senior in real life) who has fathered a brood of intimate half-casts . This amusing , good-natured film contains Ford's usual themes as familiar feeling , a little bit enjoyable humor , friendship and and sense of comradeship among people . Interesting screenplay portraying in depth characters and brooding events with interesting issues running beneath script surface was written by James Edward Grant and Frank Nugent , John Ford's habitual , and based on the story by James Michener . Here Ford goes to an atoll in an evocative and idealized portrait , paintstakingly constructed , about life in an idealized Pacific island .The main heroes , Wayne and Marvin , are two mighty tough guys who break beer bottles , tables and brawling among them . As in a fight with Lee Marvin, John Wayne underestimated an uppercut , he crashed through a table and fell down and director John Ford decided to leave the scene in the movie . This rollicking film featuring a magnificent performance by whole casting and acting class mainly supplied by starring duo and an excellent plethora of secondaries . This is the technically last movie that John Ford and his favourite actor , worked on together, although Wayne later provided the voice-over narration for Ford's documentary Chesty A Tribute to a Legend . Both of whom , swap the wide open spaces of the prairie for the spaces of a marvelous Pacific island . That's packed with many Ford's regulars a and familiar characters such as Mike Mazurki , Dick Foran , Mae Marsh , Chuck Roberson ,some of them are uncredited and Patrick Wayne, John Wayne's son, has a small cameo, he plays the Australian Shore Patrol officer that breaks up the final fight . Good and colorful cinematography by William H Clothier and evocative musical score in Hawaian style by Cyril Mockridge . This sprawling , brawling adventure story was well directed by John Ford in a personal style . It's a hight-spirited tale with a sensitive fresh-air feeling , and one of Ford's finest movies . Rating  Better than average . Well worth watching for John Wayne and Le Marvin fans . "}{"Title":"Ford and Friends on Hawaiian Vacation.","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This colorful story of Wayne and Marvin getting together for their annual fist fight on their shared birthday might have been preposterous and funny -- something along the lines of What Price Glory? It had the right ingredients in its cast and crew.But by this time, maybe, Ford was pushing seventy and age usually doesn't help the configuration of a good comedy. Wayne looks a bit old for the part of Guns Donovan, ex-Navy man who runs a saloon on an island in French Polynesia and falls for the much younger Elizabeth Allen, who isn't a bad actress and is nicely put together.Marvin is about right in his appearance and he hams it up vigorously as if actually enjoying the role of the shallow and sneaky ex-boatswain's mate. The rest of the cast makes the most of what they have.The exuberant fist fight involving the Royal Australian Navy is, if not the equal of some of Ford's other comic brawls, at least a wonder in its own right.But Ford's judgment lapsed now and again. Jack Warden has proved that he can do comic support in films like Heaven Can Wait and Being There, but in this film he seems to be wondering why he's here. The quasi-romance between Marvin and Ford's old native seductress from The Hurricane, Dorothy Lamour, is shallow, but nobody cares much anyway. Certainly not Marvin, distracted by his toy train set, squinting at the locomotive from rail level, as every kid has done at Christmas.Maybe the problem is that there's simply too much sentiment and not enough comedy. Those three kids are pretty tiresome, especially the two younger ones. Jacqueline Malouf I give a pass to. She's supposed to be only a teen ager but, well, I give her a pass for looking so thoroughly nubile.Ford's own yacht, The Araner, has a couple of featured moments. The director was to sell it shortly because it was so old that just keeping it up was a financial burden. Ford hated giving it up, as he hated relinquishing anything from the past. But like the movie, like Ford himself, it was simply past time for its retirement. "},{"Title":"Good departure for Wayne and Ford","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Donovan's Reef was technically the last film that John Ford and John Wayne did together. Having made several other pictures, most of them Westerns, their last collaboration was a definite departure from the others that they had made together.Donovan's Reef is a slapstick filled, ridiculous film about two life long friends who share the same birthday, and their pursuit of a stiff, straight-laced woman, who happens to be the daughter of their best friend.Beautifully filmed, with a different type of scenery as wonderful as any of those Ford films that were shot in Monument Valley, Donovan's Reef seems as though it were made for no other reason than for the stars and their director to make a film and get a free vacation in Hawaii thrown in for good measure.The performances are all terrific. Wayne and Lee Marvin are a good comic pairing. Jack Warden, Elizabeth Allen and especially Ceasar Romero are all wonderful to watch. It's clear that there was a lot of fun on the set, and that they all enjoyed making the film.A pure trifle, Donovan's Reef is the fun to watch. It's also something of a timepiece, as they clearly do not make movies like this, or have stars like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Auteurism Si! Donovan's Reef No!","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Every couple of years I check back in with my least-beloved John Ford films to see if and how they've changed...I love the work of this past master. I love how his sort of Victorian Era sensibility confronts the modern world and how he tries to make sense out of it all. This film is no exception - it is pure, 100 proof Ford - but I still don't love it. The bonhomie is always pretty forced in Ford's films but here it is the main subject. That makes this work perhaps the only one in his oeuvre which focuses on this element of his style. And that's certainly interesting enough. And you have echoes of many of his greatest works here the Wayne - Marvin relationship hints at The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence, the Wayne - Allen relationship hints at The Quiet Man. And so on. And the issues of race are so complex and ambivalent in this film - you could almost say this film was directed by a humanist racist. And that's interesting too. All men are brothers, but don't forget the racial stereotypes. And speaking of which, Marcel Dalio! How far the mighty have fallen!! His overacting French priest is a long, long way from La Regle du Jeu.Having said all this, I am touched by the non-auteurists on this site who love this film for itself - not particularly for its Fordian-ness. It's yummy; the South Pacific looks so good, as do its people. But I can't stay with this film's conceits, its pageantry, its rituals. They are touching on paper (when Allen intones Sister Lelani at the end, for example). But they don't move me. Sorry! "},{"Title":"Too dated, too sexist & too racist to be a commentary on race.","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Having just been to Hawai'i, I decided to watch movies filmed in Hawai'i. Even better (I thought) were that the films attempt to address racism and mixed race children. By was I wrong. In both cases I got a severely dated film that seems racist in it's attempt to counter racism. Last week was South Pacific= Woman learns to love half breed children & ends up with old guy. Donovan's Reef=YOUNG woman comes to meet her father, learns to care for her half caste siblings. And falls (for NO discernible reason) for her father's OLD friend. Lots of ethnic stereotypes. Lots of TOTALLY RANDOM fight scenes. Some discussions of god, random Christmas mass thrown in. Lovely views of Kauai, the Waimea canyon save about 10 minutes of it, but over all not worth watching. "},{"Title":"Paradise Without A Point","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Having not seen The Wings Of Eagles, I cannot say that Donovan's Reef, the last collaboration between director John Ford and star John Wayne, was also their least. But Eagles would have to be remarkably bad to beat this.Guns Donovan (Wayne) lives on a faraway island in French Polynesia which he helped liberate from Japanese occupation in World War II along with buddies Boats Gilhooley (Lee Marvin) and Doc Dedham (Jack Warden). Trouble comes in the form of Dedham's long-estranged daughter Ameilia (Elizabeth Allen), who travels from Boston to prove her father is not of fit moral character to own a piece of his family's fortune. Donovan hides Dedham's three native offspring by pretending they are his, to buy time while winning Ameilia over to the ways of the island and her father.There, I just spent more time on the plot of Donovan's Reef than the movie itself does! Donovan's Reef is a rambling mess, perhaps an attempt to grab all the comic relief bits from Ford's more serious films and build an entire movie around them. Either that or an excuse for Ford to throw himself a party in the Pacific. Beyond the arrival of Ameilia, nothing happens during the film's two-hour running time. Gilhooley and Donovan smash up the latter's bar, Donovan's Reef, while Gilhooley is chased by aging barfly Miss Lafleur (Dorothy Lamour). Christmas is celebrated in a rainy church. The French governor of the island (Cesare Romero) makes eyes for Ameilia.William H. Clothier fills the screen with some remarkable Hawaiian landscapes, and Allen gives her part, Miss Bunker Hill as Donovan calls her, more than it deserves. She also gives Wayne someone to play off of that rouses his better moments in this film, something that can't be said of any other member of the cast, including Marvin, who after a big build-up retreats to the background and acts drunk. Maybe he WAS drunk; it's that kind of film.Warden plays his part way too straight and Marcel Dalio as a French priest plays his way too broad. One of these guys is in the wrong picture; I think it's Warden. Ford plays everything too broad, with annoyingly repetitive musical cues and endless ceremonies. The island seems a haven for Ford's cinematic tics and idiosyncrasies. People don't walk anywhere, they file in tight parade, two by two. They also burst into sudden song, the same dreary number complete with arms waving in unison and invisible instrumental accompaniment. When Ameilia swims onto an empty beach in a revealing bathing suit, an unidentified character runs into the frame, throws her a towel, and runs out.What really annoys me is the script by James Edward Grant. We are asked to side against Ameilia because she took badly to her father's abandonment and because she is stuck up. Yet as soon as she's on the island, she's being abused by Donovan, doused in the ocean and then dragged across a beach. Grant liked his women being spanked and thrown out of windows, but here he really shoves your face in that, along with icky cute scenes featuring the Dedham offspring.If not for Allen and Clothier, Donovan's Reef would be much worse than it is. As it is, it's pretty bad, showing even the best of movie partnerships needed the right help to make something for the ages. "},{"Title":"Clichés and overacting abounding","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Fun movie if you can get past the clichés. Ford's use of Marcel Dalio as a French priest is appalling, ditto the Royal Australian Navy coming on like a bunch of Cockneys saying they were born in Tipperary, complete nonsense, but Dorothy Lamour is a delight, as are Elizabeth Allen and Cesar Romero. Wayne and Marvin seem to have been over-encouraged to just play themselves and the results are pretty disastrous. I don't know why John Wayne would really spin wheelies every time he got into his jeep and leave skid-marks on people's lawns. The fight scenes are pretty tedious really.Good use of landscape and interiors.Re the music, it seems badly played to me. The band is clearly not a Hawaiian band at all but a bunch of C&W pickers who are in entirely the wrong idiom. And we didn't need a thousand repetitions of the theme song or especially Frere Jacques. "},{"Title":"Ford does comedy","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hoping to inherent a substantial fortune by proving that her estranged father is a man of ill repute, a Boston woman travels to the tropical island where her father has long resided in this late career John Ford comedy. Elizabeth Allen is well cast as the prudish woman in question who gradually softens during the course of the film, but top billing here goes to John Wayne and Lee Marvin, cast as her father's friends. Wayne in fact has the most screen time as he takes to covering up the fact that Allen's father married a local woman - and had three non-Caucasian children - by pretending that the kids are his own. The comedic potential of this angle is never quite maximised though as Ford instead tries to derive humour from friendly fistfights and physical comedy (a man crashing through a concert piano). Wayne's formulaic romancing of Allen is not especially funny either, but then again comedy was never Ford's strongest suit. The film is more worthwhile than it may sound though. The snapshot of island life is fairly alluring with many races living there in peace and harmony. The locations are quite spectacular too and one gets a sense that the characters living there are quite rich in other ways, even if they do not have a fortune to inherit. The film has a very good supporting cast too, though most do not have a lot to do. Caesar Romero is perfectly smarmy, Jack Warden is solid as Allen's father and Jacqueline Malouf is great as Warden's eldest daughter who has to contend with the emotional toll of meeting her half-sister for the first time and pretending to be someone else. "},{"Title":"John Wayne and Lee Marvin Re-Teamed For Action","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This was a fun outing for John Wayne in the spirit of McClintock (including the spanking). I always enjoy seeing actors that have worked well together re-teamed, and here you get the Duke back with his nemesis from a year before, Lee Liberty Valance Marvin. And they do a great job of delivering an hour and fifty minutes' worth of entertainment, aided and abetted by a great supporting cast, Cesar Romero especially standing out.I was a little frustrated by the underutilization of Jack Warden and Mike Mazurki. In fact, the scenes with Jack Warden almost seemed to be from another movie (such as Woody Allen's INTERIORS), with a humorlessness at odds with the rest of the picture.My personal disappointment as a fan of singing cowboy Dick Foran was having to wait and wait for his appearance and then have it over way too quickly. Though he did sing! "},{"Title":"Donovans Reef","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you like the 'Duke' and I always have done, then Donovans Reef is up there as one of his best. It exemplifies the strong beliefs that he himself held throughout his life, that of family and pride in ones self and ones country. The film maintains a sense of fun throughout, with Lee Marvin playing the perfect foil for JW - brawling and arguing but under it all sharing an experience of war that made them friends forever. The film is set in the idyllic south pacific islands, friendly and loyal people sharing an island, respecting the traditions of it's indigenous people. I love this film, having seen it many times over the past 30 years. I am touched by JW's portrait of the tough but tender USN veteran who made his life in the islands he defended from a cruel enemy. It is testimony to the genre that this film stands tall even now and Wayne remains one of Hollywoods greats. "},{"Title":"Song Credits","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Unless my ears are fooling me, the song sung in the opening credits and throughout the film, is Pearly Shells sung in Hawai'ian. I don't see any credit for Kui Lee, the person I always thought was the author of this song. As a child, I worked in the dance troop at the International Market Place in Waikiki. This song is one of the many that we sang for the tourists on Sundays in the big green area near the Tea House. It was a very popular song in the 60's.The scenery of the location shots can really make a person (like me) homesick. However, the relatives that still live there constantly remind me that the Hawai'i that I left in '73 is no more. More people, more buildings, more tourists. no more sugar plantations, no more pineapple plantation like when I was growing up. Oh well, I hope someone can find out about the true credits for the song. "}{"Title":"Lackadaisical Romp.","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Once again, director John Ford and star John Wayne make a picture together, as Wayne plays Guns Donavan, who, along with his friends Boats Gilhooley(played by Lee Marvin) and Dr. Dedham(played by Jack Warden) who lead an easygoing life on their Pacific island reef. One day, Dedham's daughter(played by Elizabeth Allen) comes to visit her father from their native Boston. Being a proper woman, she is appalled by the free-living(and often drunken) state her father lives in, so has decided to use his lifestyle against him in order to acquire his share of their lucrative shipping business for herself, but doesn't count on the determination and charm of Donovan...Overlong and frivolous film isn't really hard to take, but is easy to forget, with a totally predictable plot that unfolds far too lackadaisically. "},{"Title":"Interesting period piece","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Donovan's Reef is a most peculiar creature.You might call it a romantic comedy, because that is probably the strongest thread running through it. Then again, there is a large element of knockabout farce involved. At the same time, it makes some quite serious points about racism, albeit it does so in a way which was reasonable at the time but which, seen from a modern viewpoint, almost reinforces a racism viewpoint (the Japanese residents of Haleakaloa, for instance, are very stereotyped). And you might also think of it as a travelogue, because it makes full use of the beautiful Hawaiian locations. It's also worth observing that, viewed from 2010, it is pretty sexist, too - all a woman needs to bring her into line is a good spanking followed by a good kissing, and all that! But for all that, it is a good natured film, and it has a warm heart. Wayne delivers the character we have seen in so many westerns, Lee Marvin and Caesar Romero overact dreadfully (but, to be fair, they are required to), Jack Warden is the conscience of the film, and the sinfully underused Elizabeth Allen (she had a successful TV career, but this was her highest profile film) is its heart. I also very much liked Jacqueline Malouf as Lelani, in a performance of maturity beyond her years, bridging the gap between the inconsequentialities of a child on the brink of adolescence and the dignity of a princess born.I simply enjoy this film very much, and I treasure it for the moment which Amelia shows that she has worked everything out, and welcomes Lelani as her sister. one of my all time favourite movie moments. "},{"Title":"Good movie!","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Donavan's Reef is a decent film.This is one of John Wayne's best films. He has a strong supporting cast with him and a great musical score.But there is one moment I must note for you. There is a scene that has to be seen to be believed. Lee Marvin ( as a bad guy) is dunking the head of an innocent man into a barrel. Wayne comes over, grabs a piece of wood that resembles a bat, and cracks Kennedy right in the face. It's a moment that causes the viewer great pain as he laughs at how real it looks. The timing is precise here and looks very painful.So by all means watch this film if only for that scene. But you will be well rewarded if you stick it out. "},{"Title":"Great and different John Wayne movie.","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite John Wayne movies; and that's saying a lot considering I think almost all his movies are terrific.The one thing I wish to add to the various reviews that have been made is that this movie has nothing to do with racism, which many claim it does. I see it as Donovan, Gilhooley and Andre trying to hide from Amelia that her father has other children with a woman not her mother, after her mother's death. The mother of the three children was Polynesian, but that's not the point; the point was that he had other children than Amelia.It's lots of fun, lots of laughs, great music, great scenery. I think it's great. "},{"Title":"Not great...","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a strange one. John Ford and Wayne's last film together starts out looking like its going to be a typical 'rollicking' fight-fest with he and Lee Marvin trading blows and insults throughout. But after being set up as a potentially major thorn in Wayne's side, Marvin fades into the background to become just another supporting actor. It's a shame, because their first scene together, in which they warily greet each other and gingerly shake hands before inevitably getting down to some no-nonsense fisticuffs is probably the best moment in what is nothing better than an average film.Marvin's screen time is inherited by Elizabeth Allen's stuffy daughter of Wayne's doctor friend who is visiting her father for the first time in the hope of finding that he lacks the requisite morals to inherit the family business she has her eye on. Of course Allen's Amelia isn't really stuffy at all. She's a whole bundle of fun just waiting to be unwrapped, a point made in over-obvious fashion when she peels away the layers of her 20s bathing costume to reveal a lithe figure that immediately hooks Donovan. Wayne was more than twenty years older than Allen when this was made &#150; he was even thirteen years older than Jack Warden, who plays Allen's father &#150; and it is an incongruous pairing to say the least.The film labours towards its climax and, unless I fell asleep for a while without realising &#150; which is an unlikely but not altogether impossible scenario &#150; the ending didn't make a lot of sense to me. Of course, it all ends happily enough but then, given the far-fetched basis of its storyline, the ending is never really in much doubt "},{"Title":"A Great Feeling - Good movie!","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Having a Blue Day? Go watch Donovan's Reef! Got fired? Go watch Donovan's Reef! Got a promotion? Go watch Donovan's Reef! Won the lottery? Go watch Donovan's Reef! Lost a loved one? Go watch Donovan's Reef! This film has many stereotypes, a few under-stories, and has a very transparent plot, but is done so well that it leaves you with a very good feeling toward life! With a good mix of elements of Comedy and Tragedy, the Good Guys win in the end, the girls get the guys, and Paradise goes on! Too much fun to analyze too deeply; just go with it! My tour guide on kayak trip up-river in Kauai, Hawaii, was amazed, when he showed me a house used in the film, that I was not only familiar with the movie, but could quote whole scenes! This is my absolutely favorite movie, eclipsing even This Island Earth and King Kong (the original, of course). Lionel Train (3-rail track; a freight like mine) featured (at least I think so) in closing scenes! Mike Mazurka (I seen it done!) is a welcome treat (without searching for Velma). Couldn't imagine a better cast! Great (apparent) chemistry. Seems like it was great fun to make! 11 out of 10 in my book! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Ah, Hawaii","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Filmed in majestic Hawaii, DONOVAN'S REEF is a picture made to entertain. Filled with cartoonish sequences, many which include John Wayne and Lee Marvin exchanging fists in a bar, REEF spins a nice web 'round you and then shows you the sun.  Over and over, we watch people overcome mild obstacles in order to obtain infinite bliss.  A perfect ideal if you ask me.  And only possible in a place where the world thank you is translated as Mihalo.  "},{"Title":"Easily The Most Underrated American Film Ever","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I may be a minority of one, but I regard this as John Ford's very best film and one of the top 10 American films ever made. Like most great art, the film makes a serious examination our complex human condition - the bonds of family and love contrasted with tribal and sexist stereotyping. It does this through a comedic overlay which simultaneously provides entertaining relief while ridiculing our social prejudices. Very few works of comedy pull this kind of thing off well, Moliere comes to mind. This ranks right up there.The true test is to give this film multiple viewings. Our family watches it every Christmas. (The Christmas pageant scene is truly classic.) I guarantee that the only scenes that will grow stale are the two fight scenes. Every other piece becomes richer and lovelier. Now that is rare! "},{"Title":"My Best Christmas Film","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" We truly like this movie and we view it around the Christmas season every year. John Wayne and Lee Marvin are outrageous and Dorothy Lamour and Cesar Romero were very good as window dressing. Yes, it is not a classic or critically acclaimed movie and all of the Hollywood clichés are in it - but we still enjoy the simple message it contains. The story takes place in French Polynesia (actually Hawaii) where our heroes fought the Japanese (they never made that far). But, no matter, it didn't detract from the premise of the film and the storyline of the present (1963). John Ford did an adequate job of directing and the stars seemed to have enjoyed themselves. The scenery was spectacular and the last scenes were heartwarming. "},{"Title":"Donovan's reef","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" if ever this movie comes on - i always make sure i watch it - its a movie that can be watched again and again - it has all the ingredients that make it watchable - the duke and wonderful lee Marvin and a young jack warden. a delightful comedy that is made all the more watchable by the sights of the south pacific, customs that carry on even in the modern age..a deception so as not to offend the visitor, 2 wonderful kids who are in on the deception as are the rest of the islanders...a great start - great middle and a nice ending make it a family film that in my mind isn't made anymore.if ever there is a real Donovan's reef i would hope it is free of tourists and only family, friends and the occasional boat would stop there...if only life was really this idyllic .... "}{"Title":"Merry Christmas to me!","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I got myself a copy of this on DVD for Christmas. It's one of my favorite John Wayne movies, right up there with The Quiet Man and The High and the Mighty. Jimmy Buffett would feel right at home hanging out with these characters! The anti-racist and anti-prejudging themes are nicely slipped in without being hammered at; there are scenes, such as the Christmas program, which manage to be at once touching and hilarious; there's all that drop-dead-gorgeous tropical scenery to look at (a definite plus when you're enduring a Wisconsin winter or the equivalent!); and of course there's that ongoing brawl... Donovan's Reef may not be a classic as some film buffs define the term, but it's a very likable movie and a whole lot of fun! "},{"Title":"Donovan's Reef","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wonderful fun this movie but the miscasting is incredible!Wayne looks more like a grand-dad than an uncle to the kids.Lee Marvin steals the film with his superb cameo.Miss Allen is awfully mismatched with Wayne.In fact even Warden who played her father was many years Wayne's junior.Had he made this film 10 years earlier it might have been more plausible with the usual Maureen O'Hara.The story line is apt as well as the script.As usual Mr.Ford uses nature to good effect.A good roll-licking film for the die-hard Ford fans but no more than an escapist farewell to once an heroic star.John Ford probably was not aware of the tremendous changes there were going on.A younger,fresher actor to pair with Marvin would have done more justice.But in his lifetime there was only one man this director had in mind.John Wayne! "},{"Title":"Love, Honor and the South Sea Island","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" A prudish woman from Boston goes to the South Sea Island to seek a father she's never seen and try to find a secret to discredit is ability to keep is stock in the Dennim Shipping Co. Many surprises await her , three delightful children unbeknown to her are actually her brother and sisters. The confrontation with Donovan played by John Wayne, who eventually wins her heart and turns her in to a human-being.The child like behavior of Lee Marvin as Gilloohy. The infamous birthday fight between friends. The shifty Cesar Romero who wants to marry the wealthy Amelia. The South Sea Island has beauty which can't be found any where else. The story of family, respect and love. "},{"Title":"A family favorite","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one my favorite Christmas movies.  My wife loves the romance, my 6 year old son loves the action, my teenage daughters love John Wayne and I love the comedy.  We watch this movie 6 or 7 times a year and it still brings a smile.  Among all of the John Wayne movies, this one, Hatari and McClintock are the ones that we watch the most.  It is too bad that he spent so much time making 'bang-bang shoot-em-ups' when he was so good at comedy.  "},{"Title":"...but, uh, three carts and no horse, eh?","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is the kind of movie that after I've seen it, I wonder why it took so long to get around to it. It's not your typical John Wayne movie, and seeing how it was directed by long time collaborator and director friend John Ford, I found the change of pace from their traditional Westerns a welcome diversion. With Lee Marvin in the picture, I had to wonder how the three of them got any work done as all were prolific drinkers, and Marvin in particular seemed to be playing himself pretty much throughout the entire film. I have to say, I never thought I'd see the day, or the movie, in which Edgar Buchanan showed up in a jacket and tie. As the Boston attorney who encouraged Amelia Dedham (Elizabeth Allen) to 'cheat' on a will, he almost looked like an honest to goodness lawyer. Well, maybe not honest. And with Dorothy Lamour on hand in a small but noteworthy role, I was secretly wishing for Hope and Crosby to show up in a cameo appearance. That would have been kind of cool given the tropical setting; Crosby could have sung 'Mele Kalikamaka', a snappy tune that would have been right at home for the holidays in the picture. Once the premise is set with Miss Dedham's arrival on the island, the story becomes fairly predictable, as all the while one is waiting for the big reveal concerning her three young siblings. So most of the fun is seeing how the story gets there with the various diversions offered by Donovan (Wayne) and Gilhooley's (Marvin) annual birthday brawl and the colorful island dances and traditions. The picture reminded me of a 1955 film that also took place on an island, We're No Angels starring Humphrey Bogart, Peter Ustinov and Aldo Rey. The trio are convicts who ingratiate themselves with an elderly couple's family after escaping from Devil's Island. Quite coincidentally, that story also took place on Christmas Day and had a roof that needed patching. "},{"Title":"Some Red State residents still believe that if you spare the rod . . .","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" . . . you'll spoil the child, but DONOVAN'S REEF provides just one more example of John Wayne's take on Family Management, which might be summed up as, Spare the hand, spoil the wife! DONOVAN'S REEF concludes with Mr. Wayne's Mike character closing his engagement deal with Elizabeth Allen's Amelia by turning her over his knee and giving her a few mighty whacks on her rump. A few years later John would reprise this mode of domestic man-handling in his penultimate collaboration with frequent co-star Maureen O'Hara, McLINTOCK! (Perhaps he spanked Mo in all the pictures they made together; my memory is NOT photographic!) Of course, in McLINTOCK!, Mr. Wayne made Whaling on the Wife a multi-generational family affair, as he had one of his Real Life sons redden the rear of the latter's movie mate. When these flicks featuring Battles of the Buttocks were originally released, Wayne's focus on the female derrière probably was considered to be, Good, Clean Fun. When you ponder over this today, remember that if John had just spent MORE time recreating with ladies' butts and LESS time creating cigarette butts, he might have been able to make more movies! "},{"Title":"Very good island adventure comedy for the whole family","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Donovan's Reef is one of the films I missed in the theater while I was serving in the Army in Germany. I didn't see it for many years &#x96; then, probably as a late night TV film. Today it's a film in my collection to play when family, friends, or I just want to relax with some good old-fashioned entertainment. Besides the last pairing of John Ford and John Wayne, this was near to the last movie that Ford made. The plot is a good one, and somewhat unusual. The characters are great, and the actors are just right for each role. The Duke was 56 years old when he made this film, but his Guns Donovan character doesn't seem to be much older than the 39-year-old Lee Marvin, as Gilhooley. All the cast are very good in this film. Cesar Romero is very funny as the Marquis Andre de Lage, the governor of the island. French actor Marcel Dalio is a hoot as Father Cluzeot. The setting on a South Pacific isle somewhere (filmed in Hawaii) is perfect. And the story is very good, and plausible. It reminded me just a tad of the musical South Pacific, for the Americans and Europeans being on Polynesian islands. The story is a little serious but mostly funny and a lot of fun. I can imagine that the cast thoroughly enjoyed making this film. It's a very good, entertaining, adventure and comedy romance that the whole family should enjoy. "},{"Title":"When you are left with a feeling like this, you feel as if you have met God","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" WOW! There are some movies that from the very start grab you and don't let you go......and this is one of them! Top Marks! First of all,though, if it weren't for the cast, I might have never have bothered with the flick based on the cover art and back of the box (VHS) summary. Many a movie summaries, even when this one was put out in VHS, seem to either be completely wrong about the movie or give away the first half in a few sentences. This summary was the former and it was wrong for it was not a story of two old friendly brawlers competing over the new girl on the island............far from it.The movie is dated. There are points here and there that would be unacceptable in today's politically correct world. Of course, some of them one might have needed to been in nautical service to pick up on. However, perhaps one should take a brief lesson from the flick, if only for a moment in even though I believe in one, I still respect the beliefs of those before me.It's a tear jerker at times but on a good note. It also brings back personal memories of where the senior government official for an away station would provide narration for the Pageant.Technically, the movie moves smoothly along. There are some non smooth spots such as major players perhaps not being used as much as their fame would have and minor players supporting a particular scene but not much else. That in the latter case, though, is life for one can't be everywhere at once. In either case, they do not detract from the main thrust of the story. Further, the story does not give away all its secrets at once for there are some mysteries that the audience is finding out just about the time, if a little sooner, as the antagonist is.When I watched movies at the theater, there would be often a feeling on exit, blinking in the sunshine, of what a wonderful experience that I just had. This movie has the same, even if I watched it on a large box TV, sitting in a den. "},{"Title":"small taste for the Hawaii","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- Donovan's Reef, 1963. Life on a Pacific island for two ex-Navy buddies is just perfect, they spend most times at a local saloon, Donovan's Reef. Into this life comes a straight laced Bostonian in search of her physician father, their best Navy island neighbor and friend.*Special Stars- John Wayne, Lee Marvin, Dorothy Lamour, Cesar Romero, Mike Mazurki. DIR John Ford.*Theme- Shipmates during war make lifelong friends.*Trivia/location/goofs- Island parts of this film were shot on the south side shore of Kauai in Hawaii Islands. John Wayne's eldest son appears (much like in his other films) as a British Navy Shore Leave patrol officer*Emotion- A memorable film for those of us that saw it young in the film theaters. The film is magical and supplies the silliness and fun heroic themes that make a large impression on viewers. It gives you some small taste for the Hawaiian or Polynesian spirit of friendliness and hospitality. This film is great and well worth your time to see it. "},{"Title":"A movie with lots of fun - casting problem gets in the way","Date":"7 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is a lot of fun to watch, the scenery is great, the singing lovely, the people beautiful, the characters interesting and the performances are very good too. My major problem with this movie is the casting of the two youngest children of 'the Doc' and Manulani - Sarah and Luki were in no way children of the Doc and Manulani - Leilani looked the part and played it well but Sarah and Luki each had at least one Chinese parent. They could not have had an Hawaiian mother and a Caucasian father. The visual clash really interfered with their being presented as Leilani's siblings. The two child actors did well - but couldn't overcome their appearance. Trying to pass them off as half Hawaiian and half Caucasian was really an insult to them and their own heritage. My other problem with it was the spanking scene - I know, those kinds of scenes were in several movies of that time period but even then I found the 'it's okay to spank a woman to get her to behave the way you (the man) want her to behave' was objectionable. Other than those two issues .. an entertaining movie. "}{"Title":"Excellent movie, entertaining, heart warming, full of love & family","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Heartwarming story about Life and how Love keeps it all together thru thick and thin... All actors did a great job... Elizabeth Allen should have been in a whole lot more movies - She was GOOD... John Wayne, Lee Marvin - and all the rest of the actors made this movie - GREAT! What an awesome Cast... Recommend this movie highly to all ages... Our youngest daughter - loved this movie ever since she was old enough to watch/comprehend... taught her and all of us that life has it's ups and downs... but with love, kindness, true caring... anyone can endure anything this life deals us... It also teaches forgiveness and shows that having that quality within us - it only can make our lives better... and better... amen. "},{"Title":"Notable only for all the local Hawaian scenery...a disappointment otherwise...","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Perhaps the kind of role JOHN WAYNE should have taken a bit earlier in his career. The age difference between him and ELIZABETH ALLEN is really noticeably distracting here, but their constant squabbling and ribbing each other is pleasing enough to make the slight story entertaining--at least for John Ford's staunchest fans.Otherwise, it's a case of scenery taking center stage over the actors for a picture postcard view of Hawaii. Aside from Wayne and Allen, none of the other principals have too much to do--particularly DOROTHY LAMOUR who merely makes a few fleeting appearances wearing a sarong-like garment as in days of yore. Nor does LEE MARVIN get a real chance to play a substantial enough role.Ford lets his cast brawl with realistic fistfights and lots of physical stunts that must have kept an army of stuntmen on hand for some of the dirty work. CEASAR ROMERO is pleasant in a supporting role and JACK WARDEN, as Allen's father, injects humor into his character.Miss Allen is a surprise as the leading lady--the aristocratic Boston society lady in stiff opposition to Mr. Wayne's brusque manners and brawling ways. She, of course, eventually melts and sees thing differently after she's been around awhile. Although her performance is fine, it's interesting to note that right after this film, she went back to a career consisting mostly of TV roles.Very lightweight entertainment that depends on its gorgeous scenery to keep you awake and interested. Certainly not the best of Ford. "},{"Title":"John Wayne in an Elvis type film.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not one of John Waynes finer films but it's part of the Dukes filmography. It's something like what Elvis Presleys movies were. The plot is not very deep and various scenes are thrown in simply for laughs. Duke throws some punches, Lee Marvin throws some punches. Character actor Mike Mazurki walks around in his French Foreign Legion garb as the islands law enforcer. Characters are mad at each other but not really. It's entertaining but just didn't fit Duke or Marvin. "},{"Title":"Someone should have gone over the script more thoroughly","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie a half dozen times and the more I see it, the less I like it.  It is still enjoyable, but I find that certain elements of the script are too nonsensical and have not much to do with the story, and were probably added to the movie to fill in time (action sequences for John Wayne fans).  e.g. the water-skiing scene with the old-fashioned bathing suit didn't make sense.There are certain racist elements to script that would not be tolerated today (scenes with the Asians referred to as lowly heathens).  And what's with the spanking scene at end of the movie?  We call that assault and battery now.I've only seen this movie on television, and never seen an uncut version from video rental.  Maybe if the next time I look at it, I'll get a complete version.  The last one I saw was on A&E and the editors went nuts with the scissors. "},{"Title":"This movie is adrift, with nowhere to go.","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  John Ford at his worst.  This movie goes nowhere, slowly.  It is just a collection of pointless fights and slapstick gags that fall flat, followed up with a trite and cliched romance.  Lee Marvin is almost completely absent from this movie, yet is noted in the opening credits right after John Wayne. Anyone who has Lee Marvin in a movie and fails to use him doesn't know what they are doing. "}]