[{"Title":"Greatest comedy of all time, period.","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"211 out of 258 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I never planned to write a review for this movie, until I took a stroll through the user comments, and was shocked at all the people who think it is.... God help us... overrated. No way. If anything, it is UNDERrated. I see people complaining about the endless shouting, the over the top slapstick, the brashness, the loudness, the length. I can only conclude that these people are a bunch of humorless dorks.First of all, you can't just sit down to watch a three hour movie without knowing what you're in for. This is not your typical comedy--this is an EPIC comedy, the first of its kind, that inspired other such epics as Those Magnificent Men in their Flying Machines and The Great Race (which happens to be my favorite comedy--in fact, I'd like to say it's the better movie, but props go to this one for inventing the genre). And I can't speak for everyone else, but this movie leaves me laughing from start to finish.Yes, it is very long, but it NEVER has a dull moment. Even if the amazing car stunts aren't particularly funny, you can't tell me they aren't wildly entertaining. I have yet to see an action movie with better car chases than these. And yes, the slapstick is ridiculously over the top, although I can't see how that's a problem (the gas station scene is one of the funniest in movie history, in my opinion). But underneath all the slapstick and shouting, holding the whole movie together, is that incredibly cynical message. It is a movie about kind, decent folks turning into law-breaking lunatics and ruining their lives for the sake of money. The subplot with Spencer Tracey realizing his entire life has been a waste, and then ruining what life he has left, is one of the most tragic story lines I have seen. But it's also pretty darn funny.All the critics need to lighten up and see this for the absurd, delirious, hysterical farce it is.10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"More than the sum of its parts","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"138 out of 167 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Often accused of being less than the sum of its parts, It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World is one of the most precious gems in filmdom.  True, it's far from being the funniest movie ever.  Once, when Monty Python was putting a film together, they found that after fifty-odd minutes the audience stopped laughing.  Thinking it was the material, they recut it so the latter material came out first.  The audience still stopped laughing at fifty-odd minutes, even with what MP assumed the funnier materials backloaded.  The fact is, people can only laugh so long.Even armed with the information that an audience cannot sustain laughter for three hours, Mad World is not overwhelmingly funny.  Though lots of dialogue is amusing and all the performances are outstanding, but the movie suffers from a common delusion of people outside comedy, as Stanley Kramer was, that the mere vision of cars crashing is somehow funny in itself. One is reminded of the spectacular sequence in 1941 when a ferris wheel breaks loose and rolls off a pier into the ocean.  The sequence itself is jaw-dropping and extremely well-done, and not funny for a moment.The value in Mad World is its cast.  Most of the big names in comedy in the 1950s and 1960s made it into the cast (Ernie Kovaks, arguably the brightest of the lot, originally cast in the Sid Caesar role, unfortunately died not long before shooting started).  The casting of name comics in tiny roles doesn't do them justice  Stan Freberg has nothing to do but watch Andy Devine talk on the telephone;  Doodles Weaver is an uncredited Man Outside Hardware Store;  the Three Stooges merely show up to be recognized; even Jack Benny, in a miniscule role funny merely because he's in it, doesn't have an impact today because too few people remember who he was. Again, some milk their small roles for what they are worth, giving the movie an undercurrent of true humor beyond the principals  Don Knotts, Carl Reiner, Jesse White, Paul Ford, Jim Backus.Mad World is most valuable simply because it is a cross-section of comedy in its day.  Although he was talented in many ways, anyone unfamiliar with Phil Silvers will see him in a performance that was the epitome of what he was famous for.  Dick Shawn's manic wildness is captured forever in a way that is little seen in his few other films.  Terry-Thomas, whose brilliance was too often relegated to obscure British films rarely seen anymore, is a joy to watch and his British tilt provides a variation from Americans who learned their craft in the Catskills and Vaudeville.  Jonathan Winters, whom Robin Williams used as a prototype, was the most gifted ad-lib comic of his day and rarely showed up well when he was constrained by a script and a sustained character, but he brings off many of the best laughs in this film, and, with Arnold Stang and Marvin Kaplan the most memorable set piece in the movie.  Milton Berle and Micky Rooney both bring lifetimes of stage and screen work to the project, and their input was invaluable.All the principals (Berle, Caesar, Adams, Rooney, Hackett, Terry-Thomas, Shawn, Silvers, Winters, Anderson, Falk) are good.  Even the ones who seem to have been shorted of funny lines, like Edie Adams, and Eddie Anderson, nevertheless come off well.  Although they blend well together, there is a subtle fight between them for attention, to steal a scene with a facial expressions (watch Adams' face, for instance, when Caesar drags her away, in front of the Big W, though you may have to put it on slow-motion) or a bit of business.  You can see each of them thinking, at all times.  Each gives an intelligent performance, having laboriously hammered out their timing and their business, and they're all thinking, with the clockwork brains the best comedians have.  They may not all be funny every minute, but every moment they know what they're doing, crafting better performances than many Oscar-winning serious actors have ever turned in.Though the movie might be too bloated for the promised three hours' hilarious ride, with too much dependence on, Hey, there's Edward Everett Horton flicking a switch!  But anyone who loves comedy and its history needs -- deserves --  to see the best in the business of comedy in 1963 interacting with their schtick, especially if they don't mind sitting through -- occasionally mindless -- car chases and crashes. "},{"Title":"A Comedy Classic that Still Holds Up...","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"70 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A couple of years ago, I finally managed to get IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD, MAD WORLD on video. I saw it as a kid and remember enjoying it but watching it again for 40 years later, I still found myself LMAO. This is still the granddaddy of all comedy/adventures directed by Stanley Kramer, who up to this point had only directed serious dramas like THE DEFIANT ONES and JUDGMENT AT NUREMBURG. A dying man (Jimmy Durante) who was thrown from a car that careened over a cliff, tells a group of witnesses to the accident (Sid Ceasar, Mickey Rooney, Buddy Hackett, Milton Berle, Jonathan Winters) that there is $350,000.00 hidden under a big W in a nearby town, which sets off one of the wildest, craziest chase comedies made in the history of cinema. A rather tired and haggard looking Spencer Tracy heads the cast as the cop on the trail of these greedy money-mongers and just about every comedian or comic actor alive in 1963 appears in this film, either in a starring role or cameo and despite this impressive gathering of the best comedic talent in the business, towering over all of them in one of her few film performances, is Broadway legend Ethel Merman, who gives the performance of a lifetime as Berle's shrew of a mother-in-law. Her performance alone makes IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD, MAD WORLD worth seeing. Check out this classic if you've never seen it. "},{"Title":"A classic you'll never get tired of watching","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"66 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My parents took us when we were little kids and we saw It's a Mad Mad Mad World in 1964. I don't remember much about it because I was only 6 years old back then, but I do remember the audience in the movie theater laughing continuously.I bought the DVD, which was remastered in DTS Surround Sound, a couple of months ago and it's definitely a good comedy classic to have. My parents came over and they watched it on my High Definition 52 DLP TV, with Surround Sound and they loved it. There's never a dull moment in it because it's good clean comedy that doesn't have to rely on vulgar language, nudity or violence to win the approval of crowds. They definitely don't make movies like that anymore, that's why I gave it a rating of 10.Although most of the actors in it have passed on, I still love the comedy and acting styles of Milton Berle, Spencer Tracy, Ethel Merman, Buddy Hackett, Terry Thomas and others, plus there are cameo appearances in there with Jerry Lewis, Jack Benny and The Three Stooges. "},{"Title":"A King With a Hundred Jesters","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"54 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World has to be the funniest film ever made because no one, but Stanley Kramer ever got so many funny people together in one film. With a cast headed by his favorite dramatic player to boot. Four out of Spencer Tracy's last five films were made for Stanley Kramer. The others, Inherit the Wind, Judgment at Nuremberg, and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner dealt with weighty issues like, free speech, genocide, and interracial marriage. What It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World deals with is greed, simple normal human greed. If something looks too good to be true, chances are it is.Jimmy Durante an old time crook crashes off a highway and down a steep cliff. He's on the way to digging up the loot from a $350,000.00 robbery from years ago. His dying words tell those people went to aid him where in Santa Rosita Park the loot is buried. Off the group of them go, every man and woman for themselves, with some alliances of family and convenience. A few more treasure seekers get picked up along the way.That barebones plot description doesn't begin to tell you about some of the funny sequences that follow, Buddy Hackett and Mickey Rooney in a private plane with a drunken pilot Jim Backus passed out, Edie Adams and Sid Caesar trapped in a hardware store desperately trying to get out, Jonathan Winters as the lunkhead truck driver generally running amuck wherever he goes, and Milton Berle the henpecked husband of all time married to the beautiful Dorothy Provine, her braindead brother Dick Shawn and Ethel Merman the mother-in-law from hell. Berle has a package deal and when you watch the film, you'll see what I mean.Along the way, the treasure hunters pick up Terry-Thomas, Phil Silvers, Peter Falk and Eddie Anderson. And they leave a whole lot of some of the best character actors and comedians who each in their own way contributes a certain specialty they're famous for.There are two unbilled appearances by Jack Benny and Jerry Lewis each in situations that show off their peculiar style of comedy.Watching it all is Spencer Tracy as the Captain of Detectives of the Santa Rosita, Police Department both before the camera and between takes. I remember seeing a quotation by Stanley Kramer that with all these comedians on the set, Tracy was like a king with a hundred jesters, each looking to amuse him. Tracy besides keeping track of this freak show has some domestic problems of his own which are told in telephone conversations with the city pension bureau, his wife, and his daughter. Tracy's expressions are priceless. My favorite in this film has always been Ethel Merman. Mainly because I know someone back in Brooklyn named Gladys who's exactly like Ethel is here right down to the flaming red hair. I haven't lived in Brooklyn for nine years now, but reports I get say she hasn't changed. I can't watch this film and see Merman without thinking of dear Gladys and the schlump that married her.It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World is about greed, yet greed has never been presented with such rip roaring humor as it is in this film. For those who need a good laugh and who in this world doesn't. "},{"Title":"Just push the button marked BOOZE!","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"42 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What can I say? It's an epic adventure and comedy rolled into one! It's been my #1 all-time favorite film since childhood, which says a lot. I was surprised to find out how underrated it is. Critics always talk about how it stars so many famous comedians. The novelty overshadows the movie itself. Like I said, I saw this at a very young age, and didn't know who all these actors were. This is the movie that introduced me to them.It also gets downplayed, being labeled as slapstick. But that's cutting it short. There's a lot of subtleness in there too. The performances are outstanding. I've never seen a movie that has so many memorable characters all in one. Each of them go on their own adventure, inter-cutting along the way, as they each have to overcome their own obstacles and meet other characters on their journey. It's like several movies all intertwined together, and most of it happens in real time. The 2 1/2 hour run time feels appropriate and passes like nothing. Every second is entertaining, which is the greatest accomplishment for a motion picture to achieve.The film resonates with me on a deeper level. All these characters met on the side of the road. They were just ordinary hard working people who had nothing in common, except for one dream. That unreachable fantasy. They all wanted the money so bad. They weren't happy with their lives. They wanted a change, and they would do anything to beat each other. They're overcome by greed which becomes their overlying problem. Fantastic movie! Full of hilarious moments, and a great story! "},{"Title":"An Epic Comedy","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"55 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was the first time a comedy got the epic film treatment and after getting increasingly pretentious in his previous two dramas, Stanley Kramer just went all out for simple old-fashioned fun with the largest ensemble of comic talent he could get his hands on.  How big?  Consider that this is a film in which both Jack Benny and Rochester appear, but not together (also true of Phil Silvers and his Sergeant Bilko nemesis Paul Ford).  Just about every big name in TV comedy of the 50s and 60s is here and the results, while not the greatest of its kind (The Great Race is a funnier film in my opinion) still manages to deliver the laughs.It's too bad the remaining ten minutes (plus the police bulletins intermission) of the road show version still is missing, because the expanded version helped me appreciate the film a lot more than I did the first time out when I saw it on TV as a faded pan and scan atrocity.  This is one film that makes great use of the widescreen. "},{"Title":"Yes, It's Loud But It's An Incredible Comedy Classic","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"48 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well, if I named all the famous comedians who were in this film it would a long, long review. Just check the credits - it's unbelievable! Suffice to say, it was an all-star cast of everybody you could think of who was a big-name comedian in 1963 including some old-timers like Mickey Rooney, Milton Berle, etc. Add a famous dramatic actor, Spencer Tracy, to the mix,, too, and you have one of the most famous comedies ever put on film.When I saw this in the theater, and even in the '80s on tape, I liked it immensely, but now it's just a bit loud and too much for me in spots. I'm either getting too old or this film is getting to look dated and corny.....probably both. However, if you want three hours of pure lunacy and escapist fare, you could do a whole lot worse.Despite all the shouting, this film has some of the all-time most memorable comedy scenes ever put on film. Plus, unlike today's comedies, there is no profanity, no sex, no blood....just silliness and one wild scene after another, with an unbelievable slapstick ending atop a building. For anyone who collects movies, or enjoys a good laugh, this a must for your collection, and I don't say that very often. However, as I get older, all that yelling and screaming has made me downgrade my rating from 10 to 9 to 8 and now 7. "},{"Title":"Classic epic comedy with too much editing","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"51 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Having been born in 1965, it's safe to say that the first time I ever saw It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World was on network television. Every other user comment already reveals enough about the movie, so I'll just stick with my own experiences regarding the film. If you must know, yes I do believe this film is a well-deserved comedy classic, but it's also loaded with breathtaking scenery (natural and contemporary) that's often overlooked by most critics. Many a fan wants to know where that mountain road is. Since I'm also a fan of big cars of the post-WW2 era I can easily spot every one. Mickey Rooney's Volkswagen must be worth a fortune if it's still around. And I don't care if this movie is over 3 hours long. As one commenter put it it has been edited to pieces. I envy those who saw the original 1963 version of this movie, but even they didn't see everything. The versions I've seen include the original television edit, the director's cut on 2 VHS tapes which contain some lost scenes and people I never even knew were in the movie, the DVD, and even a version on TV where some scenes were shown out of order. The director's cut VHS tapes is the best, partially because of those scenes such as additional police observations, as well as having the sense to keep the original overture, entr'acte, and exit music title cards. Unfortunately, the DVD removes those lost scenes and mixes them with a section of other deleted scenes, like a louder version of Buddy Hackett's 17 ways of figuring it speech, and some riskier ordeals in Santa Rosita Park.I've come to the conclusion that there's only one solution to this problem -- unless all footage is found and re-installed into the original version, the screenplay must be released into a book and sold to the public. "},{"Title":"Personifies everything I hate in movies yet oh how I laughed.","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"56 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well-so far I haven't read one good review of this movie on here. I don't have a lot to add except growing up, this was one of my favorite comedies. This is totally slapstick, lots of chases and things breaking-silly and almost plot less-but oh how I laughed. I'm not quite sure WHY I did but I have never been able to view this movie without breaking out into Gales of laughter. Since I'm writing a review, I'd like to try to give a specific reason Why this off the wall, completely silly movie appealed to me so much but I can't because there is no reason. This movie is ridiculous in it's way, but it knows it, and doesn't Take itself at all seriously. It's like Seinfeld-a movie about nothing.(Except Chases, things falling, breaking etc). That's it. But It's funny. It's mindless and it's entertaining and I loved it! Since, I haven't seen it in quite awhile, maybe I wouldn't love it now and I can see how it wouldn't be for everybody but all I know is this is one of the few comedies that rendered me absolutely hysterical through most of it and I'm not the only person who had that reaction. This is coming from someone who isn't particularly fond of slapstick. There's not much else to say about it-it's certainly a mad, mad movie and one that gave me numerous laughs many a time. "}{"Title":"Dated, overrated and full of dead space","Date":"30 September 2008","Score":"36 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The overblown title of this film gives a clue as to what appears to be the creative and pretentious intention of its makers, and that was no doubt to make the most ambitious, epic comedy with the biggest comedic cast ever.Unfortunately, somewhere in all that effort, they forgot to include a script that would actually elicit laughter.Mad etc. World attempted to utilize a bigger is better approach with the misguided notion that that approach alone would guarantee hilarity. Unfortunately it does not. Much is made over the cast, which was well padded with cameo roles. Apparently, just the appearance of a Don Knotts, or the Three Stooges, or a Jerry Lewis, et al was supposed to be cause for laughter, so no attempt at actually giving the cameo comedians funny lines or utilizing them in a clever way was a consideration.Not only are the attempts at humor lame and unfunny, but a heck of a lot of time in this 3 hour movie is nothing but dead space, with a lot of film footage spent on the cast getting into and out of automobiles, transitioning from point A to point B, and chases that are neither cleverly choreographed nor funny. It makes me shudder to think that the director had to reluctantly cut this mess down from an original running time of FIVE hours!Anyway, no sense in beating this dead horse, it's not even worth the commentary. Suffice to say, the final scene perfectly captures the essence of this film. Ethel Merman slips on a banana peel, and the rest of the cast immediately launches into forced and extremely fake laughter, as if trying to ram down the viewer's throat what he or she is supposed to find hilarious. If that brand of humor, completely devoid of anything subtle, clever or creative is what makes you laugh, then by all means don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"This was funny when I was a child","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"23 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remembered watching this film on television as a child and I remember it being very funny to me at the time. Today, I sat down to watch it again, nearly 40 years later, and I regret it.It's amazing how our tastes change over the years. With a star studded cast of well established comedians, you'd think this movie would have an easy time at being funny. Instead it struggles along *trying* to be funny instead of actually being funny. This movie is a non stop conglomeration of bad slapstick humor, car chases, and people yelling at the top of their lungs over a paper thin plot. It's painful to watch as an adult. If you're 8 years old, give it a try. Otherwise give this one a miss. "},{"Title":"greed and depravity","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"32 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I only saw this twice in my life (my mother insisted on it, both times), the last time 30 years ago, and I still have a sour taste in my mouth.Take practically every living comic who made a movie between 1910 and 1950 and completely throw their talents away on cameos and one-liners (on the obviously self-indulgent whim that 'we're oh-so-much-more-sophisticated-now').Take a whole host of post-'50s B-movie character actors television comics and have them draw out every damn line and bit of physical comedy, until all possible laughter is lost in the bewildered effort to guess whether they'll ever stop.Dump in a whole ton of car chases, train chases, bicycle races, plane chases, along with the inevitable crashes of every description.Make sure your script is written by nihilistic cynics who think human beings are the lowest form of life on the planet, and comedy the lowest form of entertainment they ever came up with.As garnish add Spencer Tracy, who really does look like he's dying throughout the film.And voilà! - Mad Mad (etc.) World, a joyless, tiresome spectacle of greed and depravity - Hollywood having nothing better to do than spend hundreds of thousands of dollars excreting on itself.The good news? If you haven't yet seen it, you don't need to, ever, for any reason. "},{"Title":"More is Less","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Contrary to some other comments, It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World -- though released by the Cinerama corporation -- was not shot in the Cinerama process. It was filmed in Ultra Panavision 70, a one-strip process. That's your first tip that you're getting ripped off by IAMMMMW. The one-strip Cinerama films were NOTHING like the original three-strip effect.It's obvious that a tremendous amount of work and preparation went into this feature. A tremendous amount of work. With a tremendous amount of stars. All doing tremendous amounts of work. And tremendous amounts of stuntpeople and special effects teams doing tremendous amounts of work.A tremendous amount of work is up there on the screen, and IAMMMMW never lets you forget it.There's not a single spontaneous moment in the entire enterprise. Lots of comedians get to do their schtick. Lots of comedians are also utterly wasted (most prominently, Jonathan Winters).If you think Eddie Rochester Anderson (Jack Benny's black sidekick) getting thrown off a ten-story fire-truck ladder and accidentally landing in the arms of an Abraham Lincoln statue is funny, this is your movie. How many outdoor parks outside the Lincoln Memorial (which is covered, by the way) have YOU ever seen with a reproduction of the Lincoln Memorial statue? Answer? None.The humor here was long dated before the film was released.All that work up there on the screen looks like just what it is a lot of tedious work. A huge disappointment at the time, and an even bigger one today. "},{"Title":"We're going to have to kill him! Arnold Stang.","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This certainly had them rolling in the aisles at the London Coliseum back in 1964 when I was a rookie cop in the Met and had travelled up west from East Ham to see it in the wonder of Cinerama just a pimp's roll from Soho.There was a thick brochure on sale for 6 shillings,which took a fair slice of my budget for the evening.As the huge screen lit up and the Saul Bass titles started to roll I felt the slight tingle in my spine that was usually an indication that I was about to have one of the great movie experiences - and so it proved to be. M4W is the ultimate comedy of greed.Perhaps if Eric von Stroheim had had a sense of humour he would have made it.As it is,Stanley Kramer,himself hardly known as a barrel of laughs,was left to surprise admirers and detractors alike by producing a movie that was very long,very loud and very funny.Helped no end by a procession of the best comics of stage screen and radio,Mr Kramer micro - managed the whole production so that even the smallest parts were perfectly cast and brilliantly played. There was not a dry seat in the house when Jonathan Winters runs amok as he methodically destroys Arnold Stang and Marvin Kaplan's garage, We're going to have to kill him,says Stang grimly as he and his partner grab an auto engine on a hoist and rush it towards their foe. Mickey Rooney and Buddy Hackett do a creditable Abbott and Costello routine in an aircraft and Sid Caesar is,perhaps surprisingly,the best of the younger comics. Most people nowadays will be watching this on DVD which is about as useful a way of judging it as buying a postcard of the ceiling of the Cistine chapel.Remembering it in its pomp is one of the few perks of old age. "},{"Title":"The original Cinerama roadshow","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Is anyone out there old enough to remember the original three-and-a-half hour Cinerama roadshow presentation of MAD WORLD before it was recut in Feb 1964 from 192 to 162 minutes?  Anyone remember a radio news bulletins intermission or a second Buster Keaton phone conversation with Spencer Tracy?  I only have vague recollections from age 13.Is what I think is still missing something that was really in the original presentation in Dec 1963--radio news bulletins intermission, Sylvester car stealing, Culpeper on phone with wife and daughter more, intro of the police reporter we see in one scene, getting Tyler Fitzgerald into a North Valley shower, Sid and Edie getting into a taxi at Blue Lake that they get out of in town, Don Knotts trying to call the CIA from a drugstore phone??I'd be grateful for reminiscences on an all-time favorite movie from the over-50 crowd here.  Thanks a bunch.   "},{"Title":"The greatest comedy ever made; period.","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If ever a movie (and in particular, a comedy) deserved a 10-star rating, this is it. From first to last, this movie is terrific. I have seen it so many times (and so has my family) that we have dozens of standing jokes/gags in our collective repertoire derived from it. Two things make it great (1) the script, which is just crackling with fabulously hilarious lines for all the actors; and (2) the cast which, without doubt, is the greatest comic cast ever assembled in the history of the civilized world.It's so hard to single out individual performances when they were all so good, but...- Spencer Tracy his portrayal of the henpecked, tired, ready-to-retire civil servant is phenomenally realistic.- Ethel Merman can you even begin to imagine someone else in that role? - Jonathan Winters the big sweet guy you can't help but like.This film is the gold standard by which every comedy is judged; very few even come close, and there isn't one that has surpassed it. Nor is there likely ever to be one, given how comic creativity is generally in the skids. "},{"Title":"A Movie Possibly Out of Its Time","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have been watching this wonderful, amazing movie once every few years or so. It was one of the first DVDs I had to have in my collection. It is a movie of another era. As the technology of movies changes ever more rapidly, the special effects are more streamlined nowadays and the story suffers and takes a backseat. I don't care how funny some parts of 'Rat Race' or 'Million Dollar Mystery' or 'Scavenger Hunt' (see it if you can find it) are, this movie did it first. A cross-country search for a fortune (well, $350,000, anyway) awaits the lucky folks who get to the loot before the others is now a movie genre all its own. Aside to other posters  its possessive; and  it's = it is; there is no plainer way to put it. But this was the film that did it before anyone else, crudely edited as some people say. I disagree that it was edited poorly. I think the editing achievement for its time is remarkable. There can never be such a cast of famous actors assembled these days that could cost under a million dollars because too many egos would be involved, so 'MMMMW' is a time capsule in addition to being a lot of fun. The impatient, low attention-span viewers born after 1987 or so are too hopped up on caffeine (since Starbucks has taken over worldwide) to sit and enjoy a movie that takes some thought. Yes, I said thought. If you really pay attention to the dialogue instead of just getting the gist of the exposition, you'll hear that there is more to what's being said than on the surface. I know this seems at first glance like a throwaway, goofball movie, but there is a lot of commentary about how life in middle-class America was in the early '60s. To those who find the movie repetitive and boring and long and unfunny, please give it another try. Some day when you are laid up in bed with a cold or a broken leg and you have nowhere to go in a hurry, pop this in and give it a second chance. The secret to enjoying it is to have the time available to watch it, without your cell phone or pager going off and without thinking about the film's running time. After reading the negative comments here, I felt obliged to stick up for this raucous, side-splitting film that you shouldn't have to struggle to watch. Let it wash over to you, like the event that it is. If you don't have three hours to devote to its viewing, go watch 'My Big, Fat, Greek Wedding' instead. It's half as long. In these modern times, it is nearly impossible to keep your thoughts focused on something like a silly movie without your mind bouncing synapses off the inside of your skull to distraction. But you have to remember that this movie was made forty years ago when there wasn't as much need to worry and plan and react to that which is not immediately in front of you. As I said earlier, if you project yourself back in time to when life was a bit simpler and the world was slightly less complicated, you will laugh. It is now especially when we most seem to really need it. "},{"Title":"It's a Funny, Funny, Funny, Funny Movie","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World could be described as the quintessential comedy. It features elements from almost every kind of comedy that has been made before. An unrelenting farce, Mad World never gives you a moment to rid yourself of the smiling face that you'll have during the two and a half hours it lasts.The story is supposedly very simple and it begins quite quick. An old prisoner who escaped from jail has a serious accident and before passing away, he reveals to the five witnesses around him that he buried a treasure in Santa Rosita Park under the big W.The five men agree to search for the treasure altogether, but because one of the guys is accompanied by his wife, another one by his spouse and his annoying mother-in-law, two of them are together and the last one is alone, dividing the treasure into equal parts becomes too much difficult (ah, women...), so it becomes every man for himself.From that moment, the movie turns into a monumental collection of goofy moments, involving more and more characters, each one earning his merit. They're all played by legendary comedic actors, ranging from Spencer Tracy to Jonathan Winters, and including Milton Berle, Sid Caesar, Buddy Hackett and Mickey Rooney. Other legends are also only cameos, such as Buster Keaton and the Three Stooges.The comic elements of Mad World are so much diverse that we could think that every joke or funny moment that has been put on screen is presented here.The movie is profoundly silly but is also surprisingly intelligent. I say intelligent because each gag is carefully plotted and it never seems out of context and never looks like an excuse.The result, for each scene, is the following one everything that could possibly go wrong DOES go wrong. And each plot element that could make the treasure chase easier for one of the contestants hides a trap that cancels the character's excitement and ignites ours.To prove it, just consider this part Melville (Sid Caesar) and his wife Monica (Edie Adams) are in Santa Rosita well before the others. All they have to do is go to the hardware to get a shovel and a pick. They're told that the owner is downstairs in the basement so they go there. However, the owner was upstairs and he unconsciously locks the basement, confining Melville and Monica into the basement.There are so many comedic moments like this one that we could almost forget that it is a treasure hunt. It's because of the quality of the Roses' (William and Tania) screenplay and of Stanley Kramer's solid direction, which is surprising when you consider that Kramer is a drama expert.The makers of the movie are so talented that they're able to turn a very simple plot into a comic extravaganza that lasts for about 155 minutes and we never notice time's running. And even when they all arrive into the Santa Rosita park, there's about one hour remaining, but surprises occur at every corner and the comic lot goes over again.The different jokes portrayed on screen vary from the unintentional firing of several firework boxes to the very last one (and most classic one) the legendary banana peel on which we stumble. Some of the most unforgettable moments are the tower controller falling and hanging from the tower, Melville and Monica jailed inside the hardware basement and their numerous escape attempts, Dingy and Benjy trying to fly a plane and the list goes on and on and on...However, the best moments are certainly the climatic triple-car chase and the slapstick finale in a condemned building and on a firetruck's ladder...So, so, so... You want to laugh a lot and you don't know what to rent, buy or watch? Look no further. This hilarious near-celebration of comedy itself is unrelentingly funny from the beginning to the end. Because of the laughs it provides, it makes you understand how the world is mad, mad, mad, mad... "},{"Title":"The Comedy of Comedies","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe best comical depiction of the essence of capitalism and its utter irrationality. Look, I hear the other reviewers, it is too long, it has too many stories going at once, to wit, I reply SO WHAT? If it only had the one scene of Jonathan Winters at the gas station and how he single handedly wipes out the two geeks and their station it would be a classic. That, my friends, in one of the funniest scenes ever put on film. When I saw this movie, people, including your author, fell out of our seats onto the floor. The entire audience of 500 people were choking from laughing so hard. What a cast!! Winters, Rooney, Berle, Hackett you have assembled the greatest comedians of that generation. The infighting, where they try applying reason to the problem is also drop dead funny. You cannot use reason with greed; good luck, it is a form of insanity that is Kramer's whole point. They are insane. The feeble attempt to try and reach a quiet, rational accommodation is worth me writing pages about reason and greed; if you just watch the movie you will see the folly while you are laughing.Yes, the Spencer Tracy story is an unfunny disaster. Hey, go make a sandwich and come back it is a three hour movie. Watch Phil Silvers and his instant Karma for being so cruel to Winters; the little brat from hell sees to that. It has so many funny scenes; my favorite, after the gas station, is when Merman tells her crackpot hippie son that some English guy attacked her. When he runs Thomas and Berle off the road, he says, ''hey man, are you English?'' Thomas says,''Why, yes don't you like the English? he throws him off the hill. It has so many great moments. Yes, it is long but within that length are scenes that are some of the funniest ever put to film. Also, there is a depth within the humor; if people ever took a step back and looked upon the insanity of acquisition and possession, this is what Kramer is trying to accomplish. Spencer Tracy's family problems are not funny and slow the pacing way, way down. I love that the studio is pushing a longer blu ray version, save yourself some money, the extra footage has not even been processed properly; it has color fading in and out, snow and you will see why it was removed it sucks. Look, I agree with earlier critics it could use some serious editing. If Kramer had lived, I think he would have cut a lot off the film. The Tracy scenes need to go, Sid Caesar and his wife are a big bore in that hardware basement. Yes, it is too long but it still has some of the funniest scenes in any movie. The ruthless infighting is very funny with skilled comedians working really well together. A one of a kind funny movie. "}{"Title":"Mammoth comedy that could have been funnier.","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Gigantic car-chase comedy is somewhat better than the similar Great Race (made two years later), but that's not much of a compliment. The pacing is highly inconsistent, because there are too many side trips and Spencer Tracy shows a rather heavy spirit, and the mammoth length diminishes its comic power considerably. Still, it has its undeniably enjoyable moments and a good, delirious climax.  (**1/2) "},{"Title":"It's every man and old bag for himself .","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World is one of those films that as a child I went to the cinema to watch and then proceeded to talk about it enthusiastically in the playground for weeks afterwards. So I find myself here in my middle age with mixed feelings after just revisiting this extravaganza for the first time in many a year.It's very much a film of three parts to me, and each part impacts differently on the entertainment scale, the first part of this multi cast piece is as madcap and as mirthful as you could honestly wish to see, but this sadly ill prepares you for a middle part that outstays its welcome to the point that you can't believe they stretched it to an original cut of 3 hours. The final third of the film saves it from smug overkill because by now you have invested so much time into the film, you thank the gods for any sort of frivolity, and thankfully the film does lift you back up to the happy place that you visited an hour before .The cast are fine, some brilliant shows are mixed in with the merely acceptable ones, and I wouldn't want to be so churlish as to dissect each actors respective show, but as a Phil Silvers fan I'm rewarded enough, and as a Spencer Tracy acolyte I'm burning candles again in his honor, but it's Ethel Merman as Mrs Marcus that lives long and glorious in the memory here, and honestly I feel the film is worth a watch just for her . The set pieces are fine, and the stunts are truly a feast on the eyes, but ultimately I feel the film should of been a masterpiece instead of the overkilled and overlong experience it is, a mismatched 6.5/10 from me. "},{"Title":"Unless you saw this in Cinerama in 1963....","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"25 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The 'Greatest comedy of all time'? Hardly.A time capsule of mid-20th-Century comic talent? Almost.Worth buying the DVD to see? NO.This is simply one of those wonderful, yet rare, 'easy' to understand examples of what is meant by the phrase the medium is the message. There are some hilarious scenes, and some great lines, but not enough to sustain such a long film-- not on TV, anyway, nor on VHS (and certainly not on the currently available DVD version).I am one of apparently not too many folks here who saw this film in it's original release. In 1963 I was a junior high school student in New York City. I was old enough to know who all the film's stars were, and young enough to be stunned by the theatrical experience of Cinerama in midtown Manhattan.Before 'Mad World' was made I had only seen Windjammer in Cinerama-- a film that did not appeal to me, content-wise, but as it was shown in a medium that boggled my young mind, I attended as many screenings of Windjammer on as many Saturday afternoons as was possible.When 'Mad World' was released I was well aware of the fact that films made in Cinerama were so few in number that they could be counted on one hand.....and that that small quantity was not likely to climb into the double digits.Its hard to rate this film on a 1-to-10 scale today, not because of lame reasons like it does (or doesn't) hold up today or the humor does (or doesn't) play well to 21st century audiences. -- Such then-and-now comparisons are both tedious and moot. The reason it's a hard-to-rate film is because we are not (all of us here, posting to IMDb) seeing it in Cinerama in it's original release.But for that one long-ago experience for me, at least, I rated it 9.I can't expect similar feelings from everyone here (except those of you who were in one of the nation's very few Cinerama theaters in 1963.....staring wide-eyed at that jaw-dropping triple-wide screen....and wondering, as only a 13-year-old can, if such marvels would ever come again..... "},{"Title":"All-Star Madcap Comedy.","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Director Stanley Kramer tackles comedy over drama in this all-star madcap comedy that begins when a dying thief(played by Jimmy Durante) tells 8 motorists trying to help him, where he had buried a big bundle of stolen money. After he (ahem) kicks the bucket, the group(played by Milton Berle, Sid Caesar, Buddy Hackett, Ethel Merman, Mickey Rooney, Phil Silvers, Jonathan Winters, and Terry Thomas) go in fast pursuit to its location, which is marked by a big W. Spencer Tracy plays a policeman named Culpepper who also pursues them, but succumbs to the temptation of the money. Dick Shawn, Peter Falk, and William Demarest costar, among many others. Despite some undeniably funny moments from the talented cast of comedians, this film goes on far too long and becomes way too silly and absurd(mainly in the big climax) to succeed. "},{"Title":"Every Man And Merman For Himself","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A hot morning on an isolated stretch of California desert road is interrupted by the crash of a speeding car. Five motorists stop to help (this is in 1963) and the dying driver tells them of a vast sum of riches, $350,000 (again, 1963), buried under a big W. After he literally kicks the bucket, the motorists' budding partnership to fortune falls apart as greed and suspicion set in.Stanley Kramer was known as a maker of serious social films about problems like racism and religious persecution. It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World was his foray into comedy, though one dealing with the problem of greed. Money was a problem for the film, too. Made as a comedy spectacular over three hours in length, Mad4 only just earned back its high cost. Kramer later sighed the film just had too much of everything. Ironically, it stands today as his most popularly remembered film.I definitely see Kramer's point. Mad4 is overloaded with everything stars; stunts; setpieces; hairpieces; slow burns; gurns; twists and turns; one-liners; wisecracks; pratfalls, insult humor; and a walking, talking mother-in-law joke in the form of formidable Ethel Merman. There's little subtlety to the humor, and no heart. Everyone suffers miserably in pursuit of the money, deservedly or not.Does everyone have their own favorite character, who they root for? It's J. Russell Finch (Milton Berle) for me. He's stuck with both Merman as mother-in-law and crazy Sylvester (Dick Shawn) for a brother-in-law. He does have a couple of things going for him, a jaunty captain's cap and a pleasant British traveling companion Col. Hawthorne (Terry-Thomas), though things sour between them when Hawthorne comments on the totally emasculated American male, of which Finch is a prime example.They die like flies from coronary thrombosis while their women sit under hair dryers eating chocolates and arranging for every second Tuesday to be some sort of Mother's Day, Hawthorne notes. And this positively preposterous preoccupation with bosoms...The comedy is not always this sharp, however. More often, Mad4 substitutes comedy with shots of people in crazy, dangerous situations screaming or crying, sometimes both at once. The film succeeds as much as it does from piling on talent No sooner do the first group of comedians begin overstaying their welcome than they meet up with other, fresher characters, including Shawn, Terry-Thomas, and Phil Silvers as a delightfully snakey lowlife, one of the few characters in the story who genuinely deserves his miserable fate.Mad4 may celebrate film comedy, but most of its key actors earned lasting fame either on TV (Berle, Silvers, Sid Caesar) or on stage (Merman, Shawn, Jonathan Winters, Buddy Hackett). The only genuine comedy film legends here are Jerry Lewis and Buster Keaton, who have one line and 20 seconds on screen between them. But its great especially seeing Berle, Merman, Silvers, and Winters shining on screen, given the paucity of film roles in their otherwise sterling careers. Shawn is good, too, though I enjoyed his performance more when I was 15.Maybe the film's biggest miscalculation, other than going as long as it does, is casting Spencer Tracy as Chief Culpepper, who watches the proceedings with wry, tired bemusement. He doesn't seem to be in the same film as anyone else, even when he's on the scene with the others at the end. I admit I'm not a Tracy fan, but even Katharine Hepburn couldn't have seen much to enjoy here.Great stunts, though, and some genuine laughs make this fun to watch, even when it does drag. Mad4 works today as both a comedy time capsule and a still-zany goofball lark for wiling away a lazy Sunday. "},{"Title":"The new 70 mm release is great.","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw the new 70mm print of Mad Mad World at the American Film Institute's theater in Silver Spring, MD.  It was shown in a beautifully restored art deco theater, with a real working curtain, in a spotless 70mm print and in full stereo.  The original overture was played, as well as the police bulletins during the intermission.The total effect was awesome, and replicated the experience I had seeing this in its original release at age 12 (at the Empire Theater in Kansas City, Mo).  Watching it on video several years ago, I thought it dragged in places and came to the conclusion that the producers had been right to cut out some material, particularly from the early scenes.  Now seeing it as it was meant to be seen led me to revise this opinion.  Mad Mad World is the comedic equivalent of a French grand opera - a melange of fantastic images, with duets, trios, choruses, and ballets stretching over multiple acts. It deserves and requires to be seen in a grand setting, and works far less well otherwise.  I hope that more of you will have the chance to see this far from perfect, but marvelously entertaining, film in its original style of presentation.   "},{"Title":"Leave this movie relegated to the past","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember watching this movie a long time ago when I was young. I used to watch Wonder Woman at the time, but I guess the season had finished and I was at a loose end, so I watched this movie instead. However, many years later (ie recently) I got the opportunity to watch it again to see what it was like. In a nutshell I was unimpressed, very unimpressed.Four cars are driving along the highway from Los Angeles to Las Vegas when a fifth car speeds past them, loses control, and flies over the edge of a cliff. Not really wanting to get involved, the four cars pull over and the occupants, after a brief discussion, decided to attempt to help the driver out. When they reach him they discover that he is dying, and in his dying breath, he tells them of a treasure hidden in San Dieago, and this sets them all off on an adventure to be the first to locate it.If this one movie has a theme it is that the pursuit of greed will turn even the most noble character mad. In fact the title reflects the insanity of all of the main actors as they attempt to outdo each other to get to this wealth. Honest police officers become corrupt, loving partners split up, and friends become enemies as each and every one of them attempts to get to the money.In fact, the more they pursue this money, the more help they seek, and the more people become involved in the chase. By the end of the movie there is a whole hoard of people all chasing this money. In the end, they all land up in hospital without a cent to their name. The money is gone, their friends have deserted them, their wives have turned their backs on them, and the police sergeant is up on charges of corruption. All this for money.What annoyed me even more was that this movie was supposed to be a comedy. Unfortunately (or should I say fortunately), I really do not find people treading on each others toes or stabbing each other in the back all that amusing. I guess some people do, but I am not one of them. As for this movie, don't waste your time. You will never get it back. "},{"Title":"A Looney, Crazy, Madcap, Silly,  Slapstick Comedy Romp!","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm still amazed at how many actors are actually in the movie! This film may not have invented the cameo appearance, (See around the world in 80 days, released in 1956 for that)but this movie sure has what could be the biggest cast of comedians and character actors ever in one movie at one time! This movie is hard to explain, you just have to see it! There are other posters here on IMDb who tell what the story is about.Yes, it's a really dumb, stupid, silly slapstick sort of movie, but it is a comedy treasure.It's so cool to see so many great stars who have passed away. I am a pop culture fan, and this movie is one of the all-time toppers! Having Spencer Tracy as the film's main star still makes me shake my head. I guess he just wanted to do a light comedy. He worked with director Stanley Kramer a total of four times in his film career, so maybe it was a favor to Kramer for Tracy to do this film.If you're a fan of slapstick, comedians and comic actors, as well as classic character actors, you will probably enjoy this silly spectacular! In the 1970's when I was a kid, this film was shown about once a year on a Sunday night on Network TV here in the USA, and we always watched it every time it was on. It was a tradition like the yearly viewing of The Wizard Of Oz.In my 43 years on earth, I have seen this movie at least 15 times, maybe 20. It's an old favorite that I never get tired of!How many movies have you seen 15-20 times? It's an addiction! I love movies! "},{"Title":"Hilarious - (they don't make 'em like this anymore!)","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have seen this movie so many times and find it just as fresh and hilarious as when I first saw it.  Ethel Merman has got to be one of the loudest mouths ever!  Just how she bullies and bulldozes her way through this movie is a sight to behold!  Her asking Terry Thomas 'where shall I put this?' (cactus), elicits a muted response from Milton Berle that makes me chuckle.  Thomas is on cracking form, as usual.  Her son, Sylvester, is an absolute nutter and just cracks me up with his Twist dance, crying as he goes to save his 'mama' as well as his 'you're bugging me' talk!  From Sid Caesar electrocuting himself to the dizzy heights reached by the two idiots in the plane...from Phil Silvers doing a Bilko in civies to the grand climax, this has got to be one of the funniest films ever!  I could go on and on listing the fine performances of each member of the cast. If you haven't seen it before, you're in for a treat.  If like me you've seen it for the umpteenth time, you'll love seeing it again, and again, and again.....  "},{"Title":"funny even when you know it by heart","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film for the first time when I was seven or eight -I don´t remember it exactly. What I do remember is that it made me spend one of the funniest whiles in my life. At that time I didn´t know very much about the actors except for Spencer Tracy, Mickey Rooney and possibly Peter Falk (who had already come into my heart as Lt. Columbo), I didn´t associate their faces with their names. Now I have a much better information about each and every one of them Berle, Caesar, Hackett, Merman, Shawn, Thomas, Winters and all the rest. What I´ve always regretted is that I´ve never got to see the unabridged version of the movie it lasts more than three hours and the prints that I´ve always watched last only two and a half hours. Nevertheless, I think this is one of the most amusing films I´ve ever seen. It seems obvious that the traces left by the greatest comedians of the silent period or the early talkies -Chaplin, Harold Lloyd, Laurel and Hardy, the Marx Brothers or Buster Keaton (who makes a cameo appearance in the film)- are present here in this picture. From the moment you see the amazing credits created by Saul Bass and hear Ernest Gold´s tremendous score, you know there´s something great coming in. Everything is perfection into the genre it belongs to all that happens with the cars, the destruction of the service station by Winters (who looks like a raging bull in an antique dealer shop), the plight of Caesar and Adams in the basement of the hardware store, the scene of the pilot-less plane, Shawn´s attack against Berle´s and Thomas´s rented car...and oh, yes, the pursuit of Tracy! Well, in short, this film goes to show that in this mad, mad, mad, mad world there are many people who would do ANYTHING for money. I hope that someday I can see the integral version of this movie I´ve seen it a hundred times in video, I know it by heart and I never get tired. The big W stands for WONDERFUL! "}{"Title":"Very Funny Film With A Moral Message","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film when I was nine years old and the non-stop action really holds your attention. Mickey Rooney and Buddy Hackett's escapades in the plane are hilarious. In some ways it's a bit like a cartoon for adults and there are quite a few actors who did cartoon voices in it. For instance, the owners of the garage that Jonathan Winters demolishes are played by Arnold Stang and Marvin Kaplan who respectively did the voices of TC and Chooch in Top Cat. The scene on the fire escape is brilliant. When they lose all the money in that scene I remember  thinking it served them right for being greedy. It's a brilliant and funny film and also a tract on greed! An all star comedy caper like this should be made nowadays. "},{"Title":"I've always hated this depressing movie","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Reading through the comments, 'winner55' pretty much nailed it with 'greed and depravity' review Anyway, i first probably saw this movie as a little kid in the late 60s or early 70s.It seemed incredibly dated at the time, even though it was probably less than 10 years old. And i love classic moves, from the 1960s in particular But this tired, lame movie seemed like such a parade of clichés (such as 'kick the bucket' HAW HAW HAW), stereotype comic book like characters, that are degrading portrayals of people in general and have no redeeming or sympathetic qualities whatsoever. Each of the better known actors seems like they are trotting out their most tired retread performance schtick to just run out the clock in the movie and get paid. Many of these actors had great moments in other films - but not here, for this film, they're just 'phoning it in'.If you hate comedies that just aren't funny, you'll hate this movie. "},{"Title":"Words cannot summarize this crap.","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"22 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" SPOILERS AHEAD.1. This isn't funny. There is no clever writing or interesting dialogue. The attempts at humor are overblown, impossible situations that aren't even kitsch-funny. It's not even *silly* fun like 'Rat Race' is. It's just dull and overdone to the point where any possible humor is hammered into the ground, or is totally predictable. The guy is trapped in a basement and we see stacked crates of dynamite and fireworks. You know what's going to happen, but you have to sit through half an hour of lame buildup before it happens. By then, you're half asleep and it isn't funny at all.2. Very little happens. Actually it's like a marathon of really dangerous car stunts. That sounds exciting, but after an hour of watching people run each other off the road and walk away from horrendous crashes and rollovers, it's tiresome. The rest of the movie is drawn out scenes of arguing and fighting One guy ends up in half-hour brawl with two gas station attendants. Then we have to sit though a screaming argument between a mother and daughter on the phone. Then there is the irritating mother-in-law who yells at people through the whole movie. And there are scenes that idle forever The two guys have never flown a plane before, but they manage to keep it in the air for an eternity and accomplish a dozen hazardous fly-by stunts that get boring fast. Later we see a bunch of people clinging to the top of a firetruck ladder as it sways back and forth in the air for ten minutes and tosses them off one by one at forty miles an hour into windows and buildings. Of course, they don't die or anything, because these aren't real people. Well, there is a man who can can level a gas station or tear off a car door with his bare hands, but another one with a sledgehammer can't even get out of a basement. (?)3. The ending is predictable. You know exactly what's going to happen to that money as soon as you see these people start up the stairs with it. Then there's the crowd below and the flimsy ladder, so the film provides no other possible outcome. Worse, fully an HOUR before the end, it's clear that Spencer Tracy intends to take the money and try to head down to Mexico. Again, we know it's going to happen, but we have to wait an hour to see it. 4. This movie is WAY too long. You could easily cut an hour from it!5. The characters aren't interesting or different from each other. Some of the guys seem identical, and the mother in law and the police Captain's wife are basically the same person, too overblown nags with the same voice. Actually all of the characters are either jerks or nags, so you're not rooting for any of them.6. Production value is 0. You can see MANY instances of sharp cuts and background scenery used over and over, and some of the acting is awful. The film itself must have been burned or something, as the color inconsistencies are atrocious and some the frames are even *warped* at the sides. 7. A better, proper rendition of this movie exists. Why rent It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World When you can rent RAT RACE?? Rat Race is actually FUNNY, the characters are distinct and fun to watch, the action moves well, the scenes are varied and colorful, the length is good, and best of all, the ending is actually an unspoiled surprise and brings out morality in the characters.I give It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World an emphatic THUMBS DOWN. One of the worst I've seen in a long time. And I have just come off a bender of flops over this past week (The Love Letter, AI and The Mummy Returns!)2 out of 10, and believe me, that's generous. "},{"Title":"I like silly slapstick but not the unlikeable characters","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Smiler Grogan (Jimmy Durante) loses control on a winding road and drives off a hill. People from 4 vehicles go down to help. With his last words, he tells them about a buried $350k. Melville Crump (Sid Caesar), J. Russell Finch (Milton Berle), Benjy Benjamin (Buddy Hackett), Ding Bell (Mickey Rooney) and Lennie Pike (Jonathan Winters) decide to keep it a secret when a police detective (Norman Fell) comes down. The group goes on a cross country race to find the money with Capt. T. G. Culpepper (Spencer Tracy) tracking them all the way.My biggest problem with this is the unlikeability of everybody. I find no rooting interest in anybody. However, there is a certain greatness about all these old-time comedians doing their shtick. Ethel Merman is a great loudmouth, but she really should be Milton Berle's wife. It's just silly to have young thing Dorothy Provine as his wife. She just gets into the way. In fact, both trophy wives are terribly stiff and does nothing more than stick their chest out. The addition of Judy Garland could have been great. My favorite of the group is Buddy Hackett. His voice is hilarious to me and the plane is great fun. "},{"Title":"Very Funny Movie -but make it a two day event for the family.","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Revisted after forty plus years, this movie held up for me and I thought it was still very funny. Also, seeing many of my old time favorites that are no longer with us, made it even more enjoyable. But the funniest line in the movie, at least this time around, was one I did not remember. Probably because I never heard it because of all the shouting that was going on when it was delivered. For that reason I would suspect that most people would have missed it too. Here is the scene When the fire ladder reaches the group as they are dangling from the fire escape, you hear someone say, while everyone is screaming to get to safety. Let's get on alphabetically., obviously spoken by a character whose name was one of the first in the alphabet. It made me laugh out loud. "},{"Title":"Very, very funny","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For me, few movies have as much great comedy packed into them as this one. It simply shows how crazy people can go over money, and it details the events of 13 peoples' rush to find $350,000 buried in Southern California under a big W. That's funny enough, but throw in a starring cast of many of the greatest comedians at the time, including Milton Berle, Sid Caesar, and Jonathan Winters, as well as cameos from just about every other funny person at the time, everyone from Carl Reiner to Don Knotts to the Three Stooges, and you have this very funny movie. As these people split up, the film flashes back and forth between each character and the ridiculous situations they find themselves in every couple of minutes. Everything from car crashes to destroying gas stations to landing planes after pilots are knocked out happens in this film, and the incidents continually get more people involved in the rush. Most of the specific gags are too funny to give away here. This film must be seen to realize just how funny everything in it is. It's about three hours long, yet I have watched it over ten times without getting bored. The characters and situations here are just too hysterical to be missed. Some may dislike the non-stop comical action nature of this film, but I love it. One of the greatest and most perfect comedies ever made.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Ignore the conventional wisdom; see this movie!","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The critical conventional wisdom on this movie is that it's too forced, too overblown, etc.  This usually comes from the same people who tell us that There's Something About Mary is brilliant. No offense to that funny movie, but this is something on a higher plain. Stanley Kramer, director of many heavy films, brings an intensity to this film rarely seen in comedy. He evokes career performances from a number of performances Buddy Hackett, Mickey Rooney, Phil Silvers--people I usually can't stand!  And the really funny folks are beyond funny in this film Jonathan Winters, Milton Berle, and above all, Sid Caesar.  See Sid in this film! "},{"Title":"This Movie IS A Treasure!!!  )","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Since I was around 10 years old and my family got our first VCR,  I have enjoyed this hilarious,  brilliantly written,  beautifully acted classic comedy caper about how money can banish common sense,  decency and concern for other human beings.  On a California high desert highway,  Smiler Grogan (the one the only Jimmy Durante) is being pursued by police,  and while passing a string of vehicles,  he crashes into a ravine.  Several people stop and talk to him and before he dies of his injuries (he literally kicks the bucket) the Smiler tells these people a secret that before long,  has them racing toward the southern California coastal town of Santa Rosita Beach,  and to a buried treasure of $350,000.  On the way, every shred of human decency has been lost as each person lies to,  cheats,  steals from and assualts any person who gets in the way of the cash!!!  Sounds like a horrible story,  but it is hilarious instead,  because you realize that people can go mad for money.  I loved every single character,  but the standouts are Milton Berle as the pill popping wreck Russell Finch,  who seems to want to follow rather than lead,  and who repeats just about everything people already said;  Jonathan Winters as Mr. Pike,  the truck driver who makes anyone who crosses him pretty sorry for crossing him;  Ethel Merman as Mrs. Marcus,  Russell's screechy mother in law who,  whether they like it or not,  is the leader of this mad pack;  Terry-Thomas (who also voiced Sir Hiss in Disney's Robin Hood cartoon!!!) is delightful as the British Colonel Hawthorne,  who suffers racial assaults from Merman and Berle over and over again;  Mickey Rooney and Buddy Hackett as Dingy Bell and Benjy Benjamin and their hilarious struggle to fly a rented airplane whose pilot gets knocked unconscious;  and of course,  Phil Silvers as Mr. Meyer,  the epitome of a dirty crook.  So many hilarious chases,  so many unforgettable faces,  so much howlingly funny quotable dialogue.  If you haven't seen Mad Mad World as it is called in my house,  you really should see it.  There's nothing to make you depressed,  nothing to make you cry.  There is just endless laughter and delight,  not to mention a message if you're in the mood to think of this movie as a movie with a message. "},{"Title":"The last hurrah for many comedy geniuses","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was three years old when this movie came out and I first  saw it when I was eight. I can still remember my sides hurting because I was laughing so hard towards the end. I loved it then, I love it now. But what is most poignant about this classic is how many greats of comedy are now dead, but had almost their final swan song in this film. Spencer Tracy, Terry-Thomas, Phil Silvers, Ben Blue, Dick Shawn, Jim Backus, Ethel Merman, Eddie Rochester Anderson and Jack Benny, Andy Devine, Moe, Larry, Curly Joe, William Demarest, Joe E. Brown, Buster Keaton, Jimmy Durante, Paul Ford, Leo Gorcey, all  dead but not forgotten. This is a tribute to them and to  remake this film today would be an insult. As the years pass, more of the comedic genius will be lost forever and we will only have the films they created to remember them by.  "},{"Title":"There's not enough room on the Internet to critique this masterpiece of comedy!","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Tania Rose and William Rose...Are they related?  This is amazing.  Simply amazing.  Did this incredible work of classic art actually come from only two heads?  Well, I'm sure, as the comedy teams and soloists all crowded in to show off their stuff, there were rewrites galore, with approximately 80 different styles of handwriting as well!  Everyone was shown with their best faces forward.  There is nothing but talent in this film, and these people don't mind proving it.Spencer Tracy, as Capt. Culpeper, tosses his hat out the window!  Uncle Milty, as J. Russell Finch, has a seaweed farm!  Sid Caesar's character, Melville Crump, falls into yellow!  Buddy Hackett, as Benjy Benjamin, cannot fly a twin-engine Beechcraft!  Ethel Merman, playing Mrs. Marcus, takes the car keys!  Mickey Rooney is Ding Bell, and he's gets filibustered! Dick Shawn plays Sylvester Marcus, speeding to his Mama's rescue!  Phil Silvers, as Otto Meyer, needs a canoe!  Terry-Thomas, as J. Algernon Hawthorne, plays a foreigner!  Jonathan Winters, as trucker Lennie Pike, levels a gas station -- by hand!  Edie Adams is Monica Crump, trapped in a hardware store!  Dorothy Provine gets to be Emmeline Finch in a biplane!Not enough?  Well, folks, it just gets better and better!  And what started the whole mess?  Why, Jimmy Durante, aka Smiler Grogan, 'kicked-the-proverbial-bucket', of course!  But don't fret.  The Three Stooges are on hand to assist as the airport's emergency crewmembers.  Who could possibly ask for more?  Well, I don't know either, but there's a lot more here!Now, you wanna have some fun?  Then sit back, enjoy -- and see how many faces you can name in this spectacular film event! "}{"Title":"Mad x 4 World = BIG W = WONDERFUL.  Simply priceless.","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Made over 40 years ago, twice as long as any comedy should be, it is a non-stop, mad fun, and a very beautiful and well crafted movie to that, the true achievement by Mr. Stanley Kramer. Did I mention the feast of stunts? As stunt coordinator Carey Loftin claims, You name a stunt, we did it - in airplanes, automobiles, tractors, trucks, fire engines. It never slows down. It was funny 40 years ago when I saw it in the theater in Moscow with my friend, and we , two teenage girls laughed so much that we could not breathe. It is still funny. What a great monument to the American famous comedians who gathered in the movie. I've always been a subscriber to the opinion that the best comedies are short, swift, and fast. As the saying goes, dying is easy, comedy is hard. One can only wonder how hard it was to make a Colossus of the comedy 195 minutes long, to gather dozens of the best and most famous comedians of their time, and to give them all the moments to shine. What did it take to send them all in the mad, mad, mad, mad race for the buried treasure that require them to drive, to fly, to swim, to run, to crawl, to fight, to cheat, and to fall hard from fire escapes, ladders, palm trees, and building tops under the watchful eye of the police chief Spencer Tracy (famous dramatic actor happened to be very funny, too) on his retirement day, and to have as the result the film that never hangs or runs out of breath - now this is a BIG W - WONDERFUL. Every actor/actress in a big role or the small cameo deserves praise and admiration, and it is simply impossible to even try to mention them all but for me it was Ethel Merman, the loud, obnoxious , pushy mother-in-law from hell who stole the show. As for the small cameos, uncredited Jerry Lewis with the idiotically happy look at his face driving over Tracy's hat in the beginning of the film and Peter Falk as the easily irritated cab driver in the end make me laugh as I am writing it. Well, whom am I kidding? Everyone was funny and everything was memorable in the mad, loud, huge, great - one and only Mad x 4 World "},{"Title":"All those comedians causing all the damage","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The thief Smiler Grogan, played by Jimmy Durante in his last screen appearance drives off the cliff and as his last words, before he kicks the bucket (literally) he tells the bystanders about the hidden $350,000 in Santa Rosita under the big W.The bystanders include comedy writer Dingy Ding Bell (Mickey Rooney), his writing partner Benjy Benjamin (Buddy Hackett), moving van driver Lennie Pike (Jonathan Winters), dentist Melville Crump (Sid Caesar) and edible seaweed company owner J. Russell Finch (Milton Berle).Now all these people start a big race to get to the money.On the way they meet other people who find about the money and want to get it themselves.What they don't know is that they're being watched all the time and Captain Culpepper (Spencer Tracy) is aware of every step they take.Stanley Kramer is the director of It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World (1963).This one tickled my funny bone.There's a whole bunch of fantastic actors/comedians that make sure you won't get bored.Spencer Tracy is fantastic as the tragicomic Culpepper who suffers both from stress at work and domestic stress.Milton Berle suffers mostly from domestic kind.He keeps popping pills mainly because of his mother-in-law from hell, Mrs Marcus.She's played by the wonderful Ethel Merman.His wife Emeline is played by Dorothy Provine.Sid Caesar spends some time stucked with his wife Monica (Edie Adams) and in an airplane built in 1916.Buddy Hackett and Mickey Rooney also have some unpleasant times in an airplane.Phil Silvers, who plays Otto Meyer makes Jonathan Winters mad.And see Winters on that tiny girls' bike.Terry Thomas as the British Algernon Hawthorne fights with Berle and Dick Shawn (Sylvester Marcus).Peter Falk is a cab driver and he's as funny as ever.Carl Reiner plays the tower controller.Charles Lane, who we lost last year at the age of 102 plays the airport manager.Andy Devine is the sheriff.Joe E. Brown is the union official.Arnold Stang is the garage man Ray and Marvin Kaplan is Irwin.Don Knotts is very funny as the nervous motorist.Jack Benny is seen there as the man offering help.And so is Jerry Lewis runing over Culpepper's hat.The silent star ZaSu Pitts is Gertie the switchboard operator in her last movie.The Three Stooges appear as firemen.Buster Keaton does his moves familiar from his silent pictures as Jimmy the Crook.All those people and a few more make you laugh like you've never laughed before.Slapstick can't get too much better from this. "},{"Title":"Lots and lots and lots and lots of Talent Wasted","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World assembled the largest pool of talented comedians of its era, put them together with Spencer Tracy and Stanley Kramer and produced a chase movie that is sporadically amusing but ultimately a colossal dud. How the script writer and the director managed to coax such mediocre performances out of -- in no particular order -- Phil Silvers, Sid Caesar, Buddy Hackett, Milton Berle, Terry-Thomas, Dick Shawn, Jonathan Winters, Ethel Merman and Tracy (with cameos by Jack Benny, Rochester and Joe E. Brown) is a near miracle. They all get plenty of screen time but only Winters is anywhere near the top of his game. Merman is successfully shrill and obnoxious as the mother-in-law of Berle's character but she's meant to wear out her welcome quickly, and she certainly does so. I have to suspect that the script (and the director) left the comedians little or no room to improvise so as to project their own particular style of comedy. Tracy certainly does not enhance his reputation in this dreadful, essentially mirthless comedy. "},{"Title":"It's a mad, mad, mad, mad movie indeed...","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Stanley Kramer set out to make the ultimate comedy film in It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. It was extremely popular despite the Kennedy assassination just days after its release.How can I summarize it? Simple things go boom. You'll see explosions, walls crashing, fireworks exploding, ladders going awry, gas stations tumbling down, airplanes malfunctioning... I am reminded of a sequence in 1941 where a Ferris Wheel is attacked by the Japanese, rolling into the water. Technically brilliant? Yes&#x97; and not even slightly funny. Kramer makes the error of assuming that every car crash, every explosion, every malfunction, etc. is going to be funny. He was wrong. At 2 hours 41 minutes, the film drags on and on and on.The first, say, 70 minutes of It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World are completely dry. There's practically no humour in it at all. Somewhere around there, two men get into a plane with a pilot who loves to drink. From that point on, the movie is hilarious for about 20-30 minutes. After that, it's dry again until the final hilarious sequence involving a ladder on a fire truck. The movie is devoid of humour for most of its duration&#x97;the fact is, an audience can only laugh for so long. Kramer attempts to lure audiences into the cinema (don't forget that epics were on the rise, as the cinema attempted to win over TV), and forgets about comedy.One more thing Ethel Merman's screeching gets REALLY annoying. The only payoff about this is in the film's final gag.What is fun about It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World? The answer spotting the cameos. It's hilarious to see Jerry Lewis run over a hat. Watch for the Three Stooges appearing as firemen. Practically every comedian of the century makes a cameo, and spotting them is fun.The Verdict It's worth seeing this film only to say that you saw it. Its running time makes the movie drag on and on and on. So much goes on, it's hard to laugh at any of it.Overall Rating 4/10 "},{"Title":"It's like the all-star game","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The plot device and the actual quality of the script is nearly irrelevant.It's like going to an all-star game. You don't go because it's going to be a great game. You go because you want to see all of your favorite players in one place at one time.Or one of those rock concerts with 20 different acts playing a couple of songs each. They may have their moments but by necessity their greatness is strictly in the number of big name acts to perform.This film is now over 40 years old. If you aren't familiar with and are not big fans of the cast of this film, you aren't going to enjoy this film very much. Probably if you are under 45 years old, you won't know many of the actors all that well, unless you've spent many years watching Nick at Nite reruns.I saw this for the first time in a theater in 1970 and enjoyed it very much then. But some of these actors were even before my time. "},{"Title":"The Screen Comedy Goes Epic","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hollywood insulted our brains and our backsides with any number of serious epics in the 1950s and 60s, like Ben-Hur, Cleopatra and How the West Was Won. It also gave us the not-so-serious but no less boring cameo pseudo-adventure pics like Around the World in 80 Days, which existed mainly as celebrity-spotting exercises for the movie audiences, and which I guess were supposed to tickle people silly by giving them a chance to recognize obsolete and creaky film stars popping up in bit roles as chauffeurs, doormen, organ grinders, etc. So it was only a matter of time before Hollywood would give us a new mutation of the formula the epic cameo comedy.It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World is of course ridiculously long, grotesquely overblown and as overstuffed as a Thanksgiving turkey, but it also happens to work a sort of charm on its audience. Anyone who was anyone in the world of film comedy appears in the picture, either in a lead or cameo role, and the results are nearly frightening any single member of the cast could (and did) carry films on their own, so when you throw them all together, it's like a shark feeding frenzy, with each actor trying his or her damnedest to shout down the others in an attempt to steal the scene. Some, like Ethel Merman for example, are better suited for this than others, and they're the ones that you'll remember later.If watched in a certain frame of mind, ...Mad World is grim and grueling, working over time to wring laughs out of its high-concept premise. But if you sit back and ease into the ride, it's almost impossible not to be won over, mostly because it would take superhuman stamina to hold out against this cast of Tasmanian devils, and it's just plain easier to give in.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Stanley Kramer was Steven Spielberg's dad!","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm serious! Think about it! Both specialize in big, loud, self-congratulatory message movies Racism is bad; Nazis are bad; Intolerance is bad; Playing God is bad, and that old chestnut, Kids are Our Most Precious Gift. Is it any wonder when they decided to make a comedy, they fell flat on their face?!The making of doc boasts that everyone who was anyone in comedy begged Kramer to be in his little opus (can you say full of himself?) So, where were Lucille Ball, Bob Hope, George Burns, Carol Burnett, Jackie Gleason? Weren't they funny enough? Didn't they beg enough? Let me guess, they didn't beg, period! The nerve!Too long and over-written, it didn't make sense. Why did the kid take Meyer on that detour? Why was there dynamite in a hardware store? What took the Crumps so long to get out? Why does Culpeper throw his career away? Why can't directors shoot mattes so the actor(s) don't look as though they are NOT being shot against a rear-projection? If you think CGI has solved this, check out when Neo holds onto Morpheus over the city in The Matrix.Anyway, the characters were selfish jerks and I didn't care about any of them! "},{"Title":"It's a strange world, we live in! Let's keep it that way. Watch it's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World! It's crazy good!","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" On a Saturday morning on a Southern California desert road, four carloads of strangers from all walks of life see a reckless criminal driver, Smiler Grogan (Jimmy Durante) go over a cliff with his car. Before he dies, Grogan confides with the witnesses of his car crash, that there is a $300,000 fortune, in which, he stole that is all buried in a park 200 miles away. This inspires, all of the witnesses, to search for this treasure in a free-for-all rat race to the cash. Directed by Stanley Kramer, this slapstick comedy was mostly funny. I love the stunt work in this film. The film was so crammed with action that each leading actor was given two scripts one for the dialogue and one for physical comedy. However, the film does kinda fall apart, when the police tracking subplot, kicks in. I really don't like how the police, are allowing these idiots to endangering innocent bystanders, with their reckless driver, and odd behavior. There is a scene, where one of the treasure pursuers kidnap a kid and another is planning to set off a bomb for goodness sakes. You would think, it's there, that they could step in, and control these people. I just found it to be too unrealistic not to notice. Another scene that kinda ruins the film is the ladder scene toward the end. I found that sequence, to be a bit over the top with the fake looking stop-motion special effects. It really doesn't hold up. Sorry, to say this, but that whole sequence looks really dated. Another problem with this film, is the pacing. The preview version of this film clocks in, with a length of 210 minutes resulted from a 5-hour-long work-print. Kramer himself made further cuts for its theatrical release which is also super-long with 192 minutes. But that still wasn't enough for producers United Artists, because they intended to show the movie in theaters as often as possible on one single day. As a result, the studio made further cuts on their own, with 161 minutes without Kramer's involvement. It wasn't until later, that a final theatrical version was made with both director and producers. Weighting in, with 154 mins running time. This version of the film, is almost the only option to watch the movie, even these days. If anything, the best result of getting everything, you need out of the movie, is to check out the 1991's Special Edition version. This Special Edition contains delete footages found in the archives. Admittedly, the new footage does often some differs from the rest, but unfortunately, only 20 minutes of the footage could have been reconstructed. Another problem is how roughly, it has been reinserted. While, technically, the Special Edition isn't the original Director's Cut, however the resulting version runs more smoothly than the others film versions. Nevertheless, the positive impression of this edition overbalances the negatives. Anyway, no matter, which version, you watch. This comedy is still a marathon to get through. It took me, a few seats to finally, finished this movie. Another problem with this film, is the huge cast. There are just way too much characters to remember. The film starts out with a few characters of the main cast; J. Russell Finch (Milton Berle), an entrepreneur who owns Pacific Edible Seaweed Company in Fresno, Melville Crump (Sid Caesar), a local dentist; Lennie Pike (Jonathan Winters), a furniture mover; Dingy Bell (Mickey Rooney) and Benjy Benjamin (Buddy Hackett), two friends on their way to Las Vegas; that for the most part, were very entertaining and funny. However, I couldn't say, the same for the female cast; while Crump's wife, Monica (Edie Adams) & Finch's wife (Emmeline Marcus-Finch (Dorothy Provine) was mediocre, and kinda bland. Yes, all the character driven by all-consuming greed, but it's Mrs. Marcus (Ethel Merman) who takes the cake for the most annoying character in this film. All of her screaming and whining, really made this film, hard to watch, at times. I really couldn't stand, any scenes that had her, there. Despite that, there were a lot of supporting actors that really shine in this film. Terry-Thomas as, British scientist, Lt. Col. J. Algernon Hawthorne and Spencer Tracy as Captain T. G. Culpeper, the local police trying to solve this case were some of those secret gems. Dick Shawn as Sylvester Marcus and Phil Silvers as Otto Meyer, also did fine, adding to the madness of the film. But, some of the other celebrity cameos in this film, felt a little bit wasted. Actors like Jack Benny, Jerry Lewis, Don Knotts, and Carl Reiner should had played, a bigger role than what they got. However, they do kinda shine, within the small roles, they got. One thing, I could do, without seeing is Buster Keaton, and The Three Stooges. They look way past, their prime. All four of them, look creepier than ever. Even with that, the movie does have other good things going for it. The opening animated credits, designed by Saul Bass was amazing. The main theme song by composter Ernest Gold, really sound joyful. It's remind me of a silly circus. The 1960s vibe in the rest of the music was rich as hell, too. I really can't stop, laughing at the 'Thirty-one Flavors' go-go dance scene. It was so odd and yet, so charming. Overall I have to say, you have to be bat-sh*t crazy to hate this movie! It was a lot of fun. Yes, it's not the funniest movie ever, but a film worth checking out. This movie proves without a doubt, that the world is full of crazy people willing to do anything for money. If you don't find that funny; then you're mad, in a bad way. "},{"Title":"Very slow, but those with a larger attention span may love it.","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is anything but unwatchable. However, I became very bored of it quickly as I discovered how much the characters began blending together. I often found myself looking at the clock to see when it would end. This movie is VERY LONG. I feel as though it could have been cut shorter. I couldn't say when, but I really feel that they could have sacrificed comedic slapstick for how much this movie drags itself along the ground. It may be that I'm not interested enough in the subject matter to be fully embraced by its fun and games. The actors are fine. They didn't exactly stand out to me enough for me to say, Oh wow, I want to see them in a different movie! Their characters are complete stereotypes at the end of the day. In some comedic moments, I found myself wondering if they were hurt or if they were okay instead of laughing at their destruction. And yes, they do destroy a lot of things in this film for laughs. I would recommend this to someone who enjoys the cat and mouse sort of humor and has a lot of time to kill. For someone who enjoys comedic banter that is unexpected or has many layers to it, I would not recommend it. "},{"Title":"Remarkable cast of comedians surrounding Spencer Tracy","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What is it about this movie that makes it an almost cult-like favorite? It isn't the most clever or best written plot. It isn't the performance by any particular actor. No, it's just great fun.In reading some of the other reviews here, it's clear that younger audiences just don't get it. Partly they don't get because today slapstick isn't quite as respected as it once was. But also, younger audiences don't get what spectacular casting was included in this motion picture. The whole story is held together by Spencer Tracy, considered by many critics to be one of the very finest of all American actors. Milton Berle -- Mr. Television. Sid Caesar -- another pioneer of television. Ethel Merman -- star of stage and screen. Jonathan Winters -- one of the greatest of all comedic minds. Mickey Rooney -- one of the two or three greatest former child actors. Buddy Hackett -- at the time one of the leading monologists. Phil Silvers. Terry-Thomas. And that's not even mentioning the Who's Who list of secondary actors and cameos. Unbelievable. One of the funniest chase movies ever made. Great characterizations. And a dramatic director (Stanley Kramer), who put together a great comedy. Bravo. One for the DVD shelf. "}{"Title":"A great funny movie which showcases the talents of many comic actors","Date":"18 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw the original version of this movie in Cinerama and loved it. I laughed the whole movie and still laugh today when I see it. I particularly liked the Winters' demolition of the nerds service station. Terry Thomas was a hoot as the proper Englishman. The dialog and physical comedy are both funny. As a Sid Caesar fan, the hardware store farce and his temper tantrums against inanimate obstacles reminds me of myself and is hilarious. Dick Shawn, his unsmiling girlfriend, his sobbing pursuit of his Mama and other antics are funny as heck. The use of cameos and the cast of comedy icons really makes this movie one to see for younger people to get a good sampling of the comedic talent in that era. Merman was great in her portrayal of the harpy mother-in-law putting her famous vocal pipes to good use. Tracy, as the beleaguered father with the world weary face was a joy to watch. At the risk of sounding stuffy, the movie was and is still funny without the use of profanity and bathroom humor, which to me are the two crutches of comedians and comedy writers who lack true creativity and talent. If you haven't seen this movies and like farcical comedy see it by all means. "},{"Title":"Sylvester!!!!!!!!!","Date":"9 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the ultimate comedy. All other comedies are judged by this one. Every comedian in Hollywood wanted to be in this picture. Don Rickles still rails about how he didn't appear in the greatest comedy of all time. He appears in one of the featurettes. Sid Ceaser's facial expressions alone are worth the price of admission. And seeing Ethyl Merman get it in the end (slipping on a banana peel, which is the ultimate joke). Milton Berle rules as does all of the cast. I've been saying for nearly 50 years that this is the best comedy ever made and I stand firm on that statement. This movie and Star Wars (1977) are the only two movies (out of hundreds) that I've given a 10 out of 10 score. "},{"Title":"Just Press The Button Back There Marked BOOZE!","Date":"28 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Director Stanley Kramer directs an all star cast in Its A Mad Mad Mad Mad World, A slapstick comedy about a group of people who witness a man dying. The mans last words are that he hid 50,000 dollars under a big W. The group played by Edie Adams, Milton Berle, Sid Ceaser, Buddy Hacket, Ethel Merman, Mickey Rooney, Dick Shawn, Phil Silvers, Dorothy Provine, and Jonathan Winters are on a wild goose chase to find the money, all the while they are being watched by a police detective played by Spencer Tracy. The group gets into a lot wild situations, ones that you could not believe. I certainly recommend this flick.Dedicated to James Rolfe A.K.A. The Angry Video Game Nerd.Rated G.3hrs 30min/210min cut down to 3hrs 12 min/192min cut down to 2hrs 41min/161min.****/**** "},{"Title":"Ridiculously fun","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm not sure I've ever seen a film title more correct and more blatantly honest. It is a mad, mad, mad, mad world indeed and this film was made in 1963, before the world became as mad as it is today. But those were simpler times. Times when the dying words of a jewel thief could spark a mad race to his buried money stash. And that is just what happens in It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World. When a group of people witness the fatal car crash of a notorious thief he tells them where he has buried $350,000. This group of argumentative and loud mouthed buffoons fail to come up with a fair way to split the money so the game of every man for himself begins as they all race to the stash, encountering all sorts of wacky characters on the way; wacky characters who want their shot at finding the money as well. I don't remember the last time I had this much whole hearted and innocent fun while watching a movie. It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World is an absolute blast.This is an hilarious situational comedy and the situations that occur are so nutty and so over the top that you have to wonder how anyone could have thought them all up for the same movie. Variety is this film's best friend. The characters are all so different and so fun while all the situations they get themselves mixed up in are all different and exciting. Two characters will be stuck in an airplane having no idea how to land it while two other characters are locked in a basement trying to blow their way out with dynamite. The film keeps up the excitement and fun very well. It does start to slow down by the end as things finally start to get a tad repetitive and dull. Of course this was almost inevitable for a film with a two and a half hour runtime. But it was by no means enough to hurt the film and I still loved all of it.This film's greatest success would have to be its characters. The whole cast is such an eccentric and kooky bunch, yet none of them are similar. They all have unique personalities and even different types of humor. Some have lines that are more witty and sly while other characters elicit laughs through physical comedy. But no matter what I was still laughing hysterically at any situation or dialogue the film threw my way. This film is truly hysterical. It possesses a brand of comedy that is in no way outdated and can satisfy any age. It is clean, innocent, and fun. The film never feels the need to be serious and even if it does have some sort of subtle morals they are buried beneath the jokes and the wackiness. This makes It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World a funny yet smart film, and there's a lot to be said about that.It is truly phenomenal how much fun this film is. It is so loaded with energy and that energy transfers perfectly to the viewer, drawing them in and making them enjoy watching the film as much as it is evident that the actors enjoyed making the film. A lot of films will pride themselves on their opening and then begin to flatline towards the middle. But not this film. It starts well and then just gets better and better. The ending gets slow and there was a point where I was sort of ready for the film to end. Regardless, I still enjoyed this film way more than any film of its nature I can think of off the top of my head that I have watched recently. This film reminds me why I enjoy watching movies so much and it reminds me what great filmmaking is all about. "},{"Title":"its a great great great film","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" So I watched 1963's classic comedy It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World, directed by the late great Stanley Kramer. This is the second review I have done of a Kramer film recently the other being Judgment at Nuremberg. So is this movie truly a classic, I say hell yes! This movie is hilarious (the exact opposite of Nuremberg). The movie starts with a dying man telling a group of perfect strangers about the location where a large stash of cash is buried and the hilarity ensues. This movie has an ensemble cast, which includes several of the best comedians of the 60's including Jonathan Winters and Phil Silvers. This movie is also full of cameo appearances including a brief shot of the three stooges. This movie is just one laugh after another. It is perfectly acted, and the story allows the characters to get into crazy disasters one after the other, without seeming contrived. A very similar movie was made a few years ago called rat race. However, this film is far superior though I did kind of like rat race, it's funny (not good but funny). This movie is not only good it is excellent and should be liked by a broad audience including kids. I would rank it among one of the best comedic films of all time. if you like concise reviews of interesting films please read my other reviews at http//raouldukeatthemovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Comedy Classic from 1963, with all the Stars","Date":"29 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watched this movie again after about a 15 year hiatus, and it still holds its own. Yes...it is a bit long winded in some spots, but the actors and the comedy in the movie make it all worth it.Jonathan Winters is a riot. Ethel Merman is wonderful. Dick Shawn who plays her son is crazy. Milton Berle, more subdued in this film, plays his role very well. Sid Caesar was at the very top of his game. Mickey Rooney and Buddy Hackett are outstanding as well.It is interesting, because with todays technology, a movie premise like this would never work. Just use a cell phone or navigation system, and the chase would not be necessary.I introduced this movie to my younger one, who is 10, and doesn't know any of these actors. This is the TRUE test if the movie can hold it s own over the course of time.Well....he was laughing. So, if you need a break, and want to see an excellent comedy, try this out. You will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"If you can't laugh at the absurdity of life, you won't get it","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was prompted to look at this again by the recent death of Peter Falk, Colombo,' who plays a cabbie near the end of the movie. Just watching Falk and Rochester made me smile and laugh. Some people say this film works, others say it doesn't. I think they're both right. It is a rare comedy that is funny every time you watch it; most only work once. I have watched this many times over the years, beginning with seeing it in the theater as a kid. Sometimes when I watch it, I chuckle over every detail of a scene, sometimes laughing out loud. Other times I am just amused. And sometimes I am slightly bored. The question is why -- why does it work sometimes, and not others? I guess you have to be in the right mood. You also need to not look too closely at the plot as a whole, but rather at the absurdity of the individual scenes, and how beautifully they are played by the great comic actors, even the tiny cameos. What It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World is ultimately about is the absurdity of the whole damn crazy human condition, and that we are all fools for taking it so seriously. The movie is saying, the whole world and everyone on it has gone mad, probably including you. This was a common theme back in the Sixties -- A Thousand Clowns, Stop the World, I Want to Get Off, etc. Now the world's a lot crazier, yet we have become more serious, and don't find the mass insanity quite so amusing now that it has become so dangerous and annoying. So, if you can't see the world is nuts, and can't laugh at it, you might have trouble enjoying this film. That's how it all ends -- they all realize they're nuts. And there may be a problem with this edited down version, cut by about a half-hour from the original. A reviewer on Amazon said this took out the context for many of the scenes, leaving mainly the slapstick, which may be why the film doesn't work for some people. Perhaps someone was afraid it would slow things down. But I think change of pace is a good thing for comedy, and more grounding in reality would have strengthened this movie. Perhaps a restored version will be released one day. I wonder how Europeans like this film, vs. Americans? I hear they love Jerry Lewis, and this is a very Jerry Lewis approach to American comedy, which is to make fun of straight-laced American mores. Say, where is Jerry Lewis, anyway? Don't blink. I suspect this is one American movie that foreigners are better able to enjoy than Americans. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I can remember seeing this movie when I was a young kid. The movie was always on late at night and would go 5 hours long with commercials. Every time the movie was on, I was up to view. Many a sleepless night for me as a kid, but I just loved the way the movie moved, who was in it, and the action. The comedy brilliance is to die for. To this day, I will stay up and watch until the movie is over. My favorite person in the movie is the truck driver played by Jonathan Winters. Outstanding. The number of cameos is awesome with the 3 stooges, Don Knotts to name a couple. I am not sure if I want a remake of this movie ever, but this is the greatest movie (IMO). Worth watching over and over again (yea DVR and DVDs). Oh yea, still hate Ethel Merman's character! "},{"Title":"A wild Goose Chase with too many famous people to count!","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A spectacular goose chase Directed by Stanley Kramer (Also Know for Guess who's coming to dinner) consisting of an All Star comedian cast to big to count racing to claim $35k from a deceased thief. You got the nagging Mother and law who's contently bitching through out the entire movie, The fat clumsy guy, British Guy, Insane guy who dances to weird ass music, I can't even keep track of them!Lets just go by the tagline Everyone who was funny in 1963 is in this movieThis movie is one of the definitions of Comedy, Slap Stick, Subtlety, Over the top, you name it.The Characters do tend to get obnoxious at times but not to spoil the end don't worry the naggy woman gets what's coming ;)If you seen the Modern day equivalent Rat Race this ones a lot more enjoyable If your a fan of nostalgic comedy this is a must watch!PERFECT 10/10!***WEGRA APPROVED*** "},{"Title":"Plus It Includes Spencer Tracy","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When director Stanley Kramer assembled the cast for It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World, the comedians were standing in line for a chance to appear in the film. The result is a veritable Who's Who of comedy from silent film days to 1961. (Check out Rat Race (2001) for another comedy with a large ensemble.)I saw IAMMMMW at a drive-in on its first release. I enjoyed the film, with its cartoonish action and characters. It was like watching Wile E. Coyote and the Roadrunner (and friends) played with human actors. Over time, it has not become dated. In fact, I enjoy it more today. As an older viewer, I can better appreciate the subtleties of the performances (even within the slapstick) and the quality of the script. Also, even though I knew who most of the actors were back in 1961, I now have a greater respect for and knowledge of their abilities and careers.There are so many talents in this film, both as leads and as supporting actors and in cameos. But there are a few who really drive this comedy. Jonathan Winters, for example, plays a manic character who is like an unstoppable force. Dick Shawn portrays a kooky, west coast surfer dude like no one else can. Ethel Merman--surprisingly--is like a walking punchline, giving all of the actors something to play off of--like an MVP. And Phil Silvers always makes me laugh, with his Why I oughta snarkiness.For cinema fans, this is a film that should be watched for its record of comedic talent. Consider Milton Berle, Buddy Hackett, Mickey Rooney, Terry Thomas, Don Knotts, Jimmy Durante, and Jerry Lewis, just to name a few. The jokes come from every direction.The stuntwork and car chases are also a lot of fun. That this piece of cinematic history is also so much fun to watch is just a bonus. "}{"Title":"I've always loved this movie","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie when it was first released, which was when I was in junior high school. My friend and I laughed all the way through it. In the decades since then I must have seen it at least half a dozen more times, and still enjoy it - but from a different perspective today. This was maybe the greatest assemblage of comedy talent ever put together in one movie, even if it isn't the greatest comedy due to a pretty thin story line. There are actors in it, like Buster Keaton and Ben Blue, who started in silent movies. Many of the others came out of the vaudeville circuits. The characters are all great, with some wonderful cameos, such as those by Jack Benny and Jerry Lewis. A personal favorite is Jonathan Winters portrayal of the put-upon moving truck driver.While the story line is thin, it's still a funny movie from beginning to end. Today, hopefully viewers will appreciate what a tribute this movie is to a true all-star cast. "},{"Title":"Thin plot binds one hilarious scene after another","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" With a cast of 50 people, including many big names of the movies and comedies of the era, It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World is one of the funniest movies of all time. It may be the very best and funniest film of those that barely have a plot. It has just enough of one to set in motion the hijinks and madcap race of numerous people to find their fortune, tax free. All of the cast perform very well. Some stand out for their characters or particularly funny lines. Ethel Merman plays perfectly the nagging, shrill-voiced mother-in-law, Mrs. Marcus, whom no one can stand. Buddy Hackett is excellent as Benjy Benjamin, both for his character portrayal and some very funny lines. Phil Silvers is Otto Meyer, and reprises his Sgt. Bilko character to a tee; only this time he is as much disliked for his conniving as we find him funny. Terry-Thomas is the English gentleman, J. Algernon Hawthorne, who is actually Colonel Hawthorne. He, too, has a touch of greed amidst his genteelness. Peter Falk and Eddie Rochester Anderson have somewhat smaller roles as cabbies, but their roles and lines are very funny. Others of the big name stars, Spencer Tracy, Milton Berle, Sid Caesar and Mickey Rooney have very good roles and some funny scenes, but otherwise straight dialog. The many smaller roles are funny or lend to the hilarity. Jerry Lewis, Jack Benny and the Three Stooges have very funny cameos. But, you'll notice I haven't yet mentioned one name that has a prominent role. Jonathan Winters as Lennie Pike steals every scene in which he appears. His character, his expressions, his temperament, and his lines at times are riotously funny. One particularly laugh out loud scene is the fight between Thomas's Hawthorne and Milton Berle's Russell Finch. I couldn't stop laughing in the long scene of Lennie Pike tearing into the two service station owners, Ray (played by Arnold Stang) and his partner after they tie him up. I can't think of another film that had such a hilarious total demolition of a set. Each encounter after that between Winters and Silvers was hilarious. Two of the funniest scenes also had the dialog to match the facial expressions and the setting. Jonathan Winters and Buddy Hackett are the laughter kings in these scenes. In the first, Hackett's Benjy says, So now, there's only one way to figure it. And that is, every man &#x85; including the old bag (Mrs. Marcus), for herself. Mickey Rooney's Ding Bell says, So, good luck and may the best man win. Benjy, Right! Except you, lady. May you just drop dead. Pike, All right. All right. We all agree on that.I'm chuckling as I write this last hilarious scene. Winters' Pike says, If we find the money we still have to report the taxes. Otherwise it's like stealing from the government. Melville Crump (played by Sid Caesar) says, Could you explain it to him please? Berle's Russell Finch, Who me? Well, don't you see, if we find the money, there may not be any taxes to pay on it &#x85; just because we did find the money. (Winters has an incredulous look of disbelief on his face). Finch continues, What he was trying to say is &#x85; Pike interrupts, Everybody has to pay taxes. Even businessmen that rob and steal and cheat from people every day &#x85; even they have to pay taxes.This movie came out while I was serving in the Army in Europe, during the Cold War. I didn't see it for the first time until years later on TV. I think movie buffs today will find it as funny as it must have been when it came out. It's a very good family film for lots of laughs. Parents or grandparents can explain to the younger kids (who should enjoy some of the hijinks), that there's a message amidst the laughter. Crime and dishonesty don't pay. "},{"Title":"Yes, that is the title. Have you never heard of it?","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Wow, this film is beautiful. Being longer than The Godfather Part II, It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World still had the qualities, stories, and attractive visuals to keep me entertained the whole time. Not for one second did I even feel like I was bored. Every character had their own development that flowed together so well that it made one of the best comedy stories of all time. Winters was excellent at being a raging bull; Hackett and Rooney were excellent at being greedy, Vegas-bound dim-wits; and Tracy was just good at looking like an annoyed and greedy man with the façade of being calm. This is one of the best comedies of all time and should be viewed by everyone with a classic sense of humor. "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Many movies may boast that they have the greatest cast ever assembled, but no one will dispute It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World has the most legendary. It's a big, big, big, big movie with lots of comedy stars (circa 1963). It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World was created at at time when movies were getting bigger to compete with television. It was written by William Rose, who wrote the yard-for-yard funnier The Ladykillers. Director Stanley Kramer's forte was not comedy, but hand-wringing topical melodrama.With so many comic geniuses in the cast, one might have had the courage to point out that bigger is not necessarily funnier.Most depressingly, It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World is chock full of wanton destruction. It might be funny to have a car crash with some particular point about plot or character development. It is funny when Phil Silvers' car sinks in the river or when the wheel comes off Terry-Thomas' machine. It is not funny playing demolition derby just because you can. Nor are some of the characters humorous in themselves. Milton Berle gets a lot of mileage out of his seaweed magnate. Sid Caesar (possibly because he was a last-minute replacement for Ernie Kovaks, who died shortly before filming) does not manage to wring much out of his dentist character. And for all the bluster of some characters who are always shouting and gesticulating, some of the best laughs from from deadpan throwaway lines from the likes of Jesse White.Many cameos are wasted today. In the twenty-first century a nostalgic giggle is no long elicited from a few second's sight of Zasu Pitts, Edward Everett Horton, Jack Benny, Joe E. Brown, or even the great Buster Keaton (who does more with his itty-bitty cameo than some of the main actors do with extended parts).This is not to say It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World can't be funny. Some of the humor comes from odd pairings. Newcomer Buddy Hackett and life-long star Mickey Rooney, on something like his third career, bounce off each other like they've always been a duo. Despite very different backgrounds, Milton Berle and Terry-Thomas play well together. And for my money, the single best scene is the all-too-brief teaming of Phil Silvers and Don Knotts.Though some of the main characters get lost in the shuffle, a few scene-stealers emerge. Phil Silvers' name keeps cropping up in this review. Another major scene-stealer is Broadway star Ethel Merman as Berle's uber-obnoxious mother-in-law (of the kind Berle made a living telling jokes about). Newcomer Dick Shawn, looking not the least bit like a comic character, has hilarious break-downs, particularly when he's trying to force a car off the road (one of the few times car destruction actually comes off with a laugh). Brilliant off-the-cuff comic Jonathan Winters was never quite as good with sustained characters in film or television, but his nimble truck driver has a few beautiful moments.Caught between the stars and the blink-and-you'll-miss-them parts (which, apart from one glimpse of the Three Stooges, will be mostly lost to all but old movie buffs) are cameo parts in the truest sense of the word. Near the end, a young-looking Peter Falk and an old-looking Eddie Rochester Anderson are picked up as cab drivers; both are superb and they help give the movie a second wind as it flags toward the end. The invariably irritating but amusing Paul Ford pulls out all the stops of his schtick as a befuddled air traffic controller. Jim Backus, showing a preview of Thurston Howell III, raises a smile as the high-class pilot and drunk; while Ben Blue, forgotten today but for a handful of notable film appearances, is his usual other-worldly self as the lower-class flier of a World War I vintage biplane. And William Demarest's overacting is all that makes the police-station scenes endurable (besides the few shots of Madlyn Rhue, a hard-working actress in the 1960s, looking extremely sexy).In the center of the maelstrom stands Spencer Tracy, looking very old and tired (as befits his character). He may have been a great actor, but he lacks the comic timing of his co-stars and he makes the movie feel heavy at times.Of the twelve who travel throughout the movie, Silvers and Merman are worth the ride, with Winters and Shawn not far behind. Rooney and Hackett get their share of chuckles, especially in the airplane, though Rooney is a soupçon too manic on repeated viewings. Berle and Terry-Thomas are funny on and off; Caesar, hardly ever. Unfortunately overlooked is Edie Adams, who should have been playing with her late husband, Ernie Kovaks. Adams underplays magnificently -- while Caesar plays loud, watch Adams' simple looks. And Dorothy Provine, who had a significant presence in movies at one time (remember The Great Race, That Darn Cat, or Who's Minding the Mint?) is stuck portraying the sole reluctant treasure hunter; but she has a pay-off in an almost ethereally wacky scene in the end.For all its many faults, I keep being drawn back to It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World. I was brought up in the generation born just around the time this movie was made, and I am an old movie buff; so many of the great names, even those plugged into worthless parts, were not unknown to me. I keep coming back to it to laugh at the funny parts, which are good comedy done by true professionals; and I watch the rest of it with the interest of a rubbernecker at a train wreck. "},{"Title":"It's very very very very good","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I like this movie for one thing; it is definite that when you are done watching you will walk away with some scenes glued to your mind. The idiotic dialogue and the way the characters are made to be so greedy that it seemed too out of place that a group of people with such insatiable greed will ever meet. But in It's a mad mad mad mad world, they did meet and these people did everything within their power to make sure that they get to the money first before the other party.Getting an all-round comic cast, with numerous cameos from stars like Buster Keaton, Jerry Lewis, and others, must have been a mountain climb for producer and director Stanley Kramer, who got the script idea from William Rose, whose initial idea was first based on a bunch of characters in Scotland, but Kramer later pushed for the movie to have an American setting. The movie's name changed from Something a Little Less Serious to Damn Thing After Another and then it was named It's a Mad World gotten from a 1605 comedy Titled A Mad World, My Masters. It was later on during production that the pair (Rose and Kramer) added two more Mads, to the movie title.The movie plot was about a man (who was wanted by the police for robbery) who had a nasty car accident and in his final words told complete strangers who gathered to help that there is $ 350,000 buried under a big W in Santa Rosita State Park in Santa Rosita Beach. With this information the group at first tried to see if they could share the money equally but after 17 different sharing scenarios and no one agreeing, everyman set off on his own to go claim the money for himself. The main star in the movie is Spencer Tracy who played Captain T. G. Culpeper.The scenes that were glued to my mind in this movie were the scene where Dingy and Benjy were stuck in an airplane, and they had to pilot it because the real pilot was drunk and got knocked out (by leaving the steering stick of the plane to get a drink). The other scene that stood out or got glued to my mind is the scene where couple Melville and Monica got trapped in a hardware store and Melville ended up wrecking the place all in failed attempts to get out.Here is a movie that I can bet you if you do get to watch, you will like and you will come to love the dialogue. One thing though the movie is known for its length it is over 2 hours 30 minutes long but for me, it was worth the fun.www.lagsreviews.com "},{"Title":"Gargantuan Comedy is Only Mildly Amusing","Date":"9 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Stanley Kramer apparently thought that if he assembled a huge cast of famous comedy players, he would create the funniest movie ever. He was only partially successful. It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World is hilarious in spots, but is otherwise only slightly amusing, despite the presence of many of the top comedy stars of the day.The story is well known by now. Escaped convict Smiler Grogan (Jimmy Durante) crashes his car in the California desert, and several passersby rush to help. Before he dies, Grogan tells the group about a big cache of money buried in California under a mysterious big W. The rest of the film is one frantic dash for the buried cash, under the surveillance of corrupt Capt. Culpeper (Spencer Tracy). The loot is finally dug up, then predictably is accidentally lost during a chaotic final sequence that's more agonizing than funny.The big-name cast is too large to name individually, but Mickey Rooney, Sid Caesar, Jonathan Winters, and Dick Shawn probably do the best jobs. Ethel Merman, Milton Berle, Buddy Hackett, and Phil Silvers are mostly irritating, but their characters were probably written that way. Jim Backus is hilarious as a hung-over small plane pilot. A number of famous folks (including Jerry Lewis, Jack Benny, the Three Stooges, Don Knotts, Norman Fell, many others) appear in brief cameos but their parts are so small they contribute little to the plot. The great Spencer Tracy seems out of place in the middle of all the outrageousness, but is really good anyway.After the initial car crash, this 2½ hour movie overdoes just about everything endless car chases, Winters destroying a service station by hand, cars careening down hopelessly steep roads, screaming arguments, and airplanes flying at full speed through hangars and billboards. After a while, the non-stop foolishness is so ponderous that you'll be completely worn out. I know I was.Despite the tragedy and sadness of the Kennedy assassination, this film was a big hit in late 1963. You'll probably want to watch this movie&#x97;once&#x97;to see the once-in-a-lifetime comedy cast, most of whom are now deceased. However, you'll be quickly overwhelmed by the whole thing. It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World is funny, but come on, it's not THAT funny. "},{"Title":"Just Not the Same Laughs as I Felt Before","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I wish I could put ten stars in my rating of this wonderful film. However I feel I'd be doing the ratings and readers an injustice, by doing so.I was a kid when I saw, It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World, in the early 1970's. It became my favorite comedy film of all time, then. I laughed so very hard that my gut hurt the rest of the day. Whenever I heard that the film would be shown on TV, I'd try to clear everything from my childhood schedule to watch it.I watched it just now, and the same laughs simply weren't there anymore. I simply grew up. I'm not panning this film, but it's impossible to ignore the era from where the film was produced. There are some scenes with African Americans present, in which the slapstick is made with reference to race. It put a damper on my enthusiasm, even while I understand that any film becomes a bit of an historical reference to mirror its era. With regard to the climax of the film, I found myself forcing some laughs, as though I felt compelled to show that the scenes were still funny. At that moment, watching the scene at the abandoned building, I couldn't help but think about the children of today. And a sadness crept over me for a moment. Mad World is slowly withering, because the youngsters of today have no idea who Buster Keaton was, or Buddy Hackett, or perhaps all of those wonderful stars that made cameo appearances throughout the film. As a kid, I could instantly identify with almost every star that appeared, from Jimmy Durante in the opening scene, to Joe E. Brown, the official screaming in the crowd near the end of the film. That made it so much easier to be in the moment as each cameo popped up. I felt great about knowing them, which added to my enjoyment. Today, what kids recognize Uncle Milty? Don Knotts? Jack Benny or the Three Stooges? Even the clean slapstick is a thing of the past, just like films that are rated G, like this one. But it was still nice to see those actors pop in for their cameos, because their memories still live on, for now. "},{"Title":"It's a Loud, Obnoxious, Overbearing, Grating Movie","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This Infamous Comedy with All of it's Comedians, Cameos, and Excess Never Goes Beyond Average at Best. Endless Car Sequences that Never Approached Anything as Funny as the Keystone Cops and that was done Before Movies Learned to Talk. Ethel Merman All but Ruins the Movie and Starts Shouting, Yelling, and Generally is Overbearing, Obnoxious, Grating, and Insufferable from Her First Scene and it Never Stops in the Movie's Long, Long, Long, Long Running Time.It is a Curiosity and that's it. A Vanity Piece Resembling a Kid's Game of Spot the Star. The Film is Never Hilarious and Often is Nothing More than a Ponderous Recycling of Familiar Gags and Situations. Stripped of its Novelty There is No There There. It is Fetishism. It Makes Love to Dozens of Star Comedians and Cars. Most of the Time it is Narcissistic in the Way it Makes Love to Itself Hardly Ever Bothering to Think What Others May Think.Throw Enough Money at it and Enough Name Dropping and Something is Bound to Stick (be funny) and there are a Couple of Scenes that do Work and are Righteously Famous. Jonathan Winters Garage Destruction for Example.Overall, You Might Want to Watch This Once to Say You Have, but Be Advised, it's an Endurance Test, and Cotton in the Ears is Recommended and Keep a Few Aspirins at the Ready. "},{"Title":"It's an unfunny, unfunny, unfunny, unfunny world","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's an unfunny, unfunny , unfunny world. This-the SHORT version-is at 154 minutes, mind-blowingly overlong. I laughed, no, make that snickered maybe 4 times, and not at the slapstick . The Lincoln statue, and Terry Thomas' monologue about bosoms are the biggest laughs in the film, which ain't saying much. Ethel Merman is supposed to be annoying but she is so abrasive as to be unwatchable. Not until Vince Vaughn in Made 38 years later would we see a film character this irritating. Spencer Tracy is the only character not yelling and screaming but he looks so old and frail that you actively worry about his well-being. On the plus side, the car stunts are probably the first of their kind-no Cannonball Run without them. But, like those other epic 60's comedies The Great Race and Those Magnificent Men in Their FLying Machines this is way too long and not funny. The epic comedy was not done right until The Blues Brothers, Ghostbusters and , God forgive me, 1941, which was promoted in the UK with the line it's mad, mad, mad ,mad! Rat Race is the unofficial remake.rip-off of this film, and it's actually better, although I never saw Scavenger Hunt or Million $ Mystery. And, as my name indicates, I am a huge fan of classic comedy , but this is no classic. "},{"Title":"Spencer Tracy's Comedy Classic","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Stanley Kramer and Spencer Tracy had a great partnership with Inherit The Wind, Judgement At Nuremberg, Mad World and the last classic Guess Who's Coming To Dinner. Stanley Kramer must have truly loved the Great Actor and showcased Spencer Tracy brilliantly.In this film Stanley Kramer collects many a great iconic funny man and funny lady in a film about greed, and what a cast it is! with a lovely spot by zingy Dorothy Provine who also was in Warner Bros all star Great Race. Imagine lovely Ms. Provine starring in the two all star comedies of the 60's! Funny Lady Lucille Ball was apparently too busy running Desilu and Stan Laurel regrettably turned down Mr. Kramer for a cameo but just about every other comedic actor was cast. I wish Stan Laurel would have made his cameo, Mr. Laurel would have brought the house down and from I read needed money but Mr Laurel preferred to retire when Stan Laurel's great legendary co star Oliver Hardy died. "}{"Title":"Would you be perfectly happy with 2/8 instead of 1/4?","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is easily my favorite comedy of all time. Not only does it star the biggest names in comedy (at the time of filming), but it also sports a great series of one liners.A few of the posters have mentioned Buster Keaton. His scene takes place near the end of the movie,  when all the players have loaded into the taxis and are chasing Spencer Tracy. Tracy pulls into a garage to hide, but the others soon find him. As all three cars are pulling out,  there is a man standing in the middle of the auto circus. That is Keaton. In restored versions, he has a few lines with Tracy, but in older versions all you see is his body. His scene is basically an extended sight gag, much like his silent movies were...Its a joy to watch this movie multiple times, because you always see something new. Either a cameo you never noticed before, or a line you couldn't quite hear.My favorite line?Mrs. Marcus Are you from Harvard or something?Englishman No, Madam. I'm BritishMrs. Marcus Well, it sounds so foreign!10/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Witty, and Downright Endearingly Funny","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This comedy is absolutely beautiful in its execution. The wacky story line is classic in that it's been remade (whether intentionally or unintentionally) twice over the years with Cannonball Run and the more contemporary Rat Race. This features an all star case and great performances. It entertains, regardless of the age of this work. Featured herein are some of the world's greatest comedic actors, a rousing story line, and a tragically zany ending.Watch it, if for no other reason, than the greats this work holds within its cast members. Some of these guys have been dead for decades, but the greatness of their works still lives on. Although this work is not as good as it could have been, it is entertaining enough that if you love classic comedy, this is a must see.It rates an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Cinerama comedy is designed for big screen viewing","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First there was 3 panel Cinerama in 1952.  Then came Todd-AO 70mm in 1955. Then the two processes were combined in 1963 with 'New Cinerama' which was an anamorphic 70mm print shown on the same deeply curved screen that the original 3 panel process was shown in.  It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World was the first feature film released in the latter.Kramer combined Mike Todd's 'cameos' (Todd's term for guest star gems) with the adventure/travelogue genre that Cinerama was associated with to make a spectacular comedy.  This film is very reminiscent of Todd's Around the World in 80 Days with an episodic structure and multiple characters and incidents taking place simultaneously in different locations. It's still very funny but loses much of it's impact on the TV screen/monitor even in the letterbox format.  The same applies to the original six channel stereo which is mixed down to two.What's missing on tape, laserdisc and DVD?  The original image circled around you forcing the viewer to look back and forth on the enormous screen to watch the double-takes and bits of business in the wide 2.76 x 1 ratio.  Audiences also experienced motion sickness in some of the chase scenes, especially when the cars go down the bridge and when Sylvester chases Milton Berle on the highway.  One of the funniest shots is when the entire cast looks down into the frame when they find the money.  The six channel mix had all kinds of funny sound effects bouncing around different channels.  The old bi-plane tracks were amusing.The film itself holds up far better than Kramer's heavy-handed and pretentious 'message' movies.  It's his best picture and only attempt at comedy.  Fans of vaudeville and early television will appreciate the old timers who make brief appearances.  The vivid Technicolor cinematography and bouncy Ernest Gold score are also topnotch.  I miss the days of 'Glorious Technicolor' when film prints were rich and vibrant rather than grainy and de-saturated as most are today.I highly recommend this film to baby boomers although many generation X kids might not get the humor since it's based on an abandoned style of slapstick with comedians who were popular in their day but forgotten now.Richard W. Haines "},{"Title":"Still my fave and always will be","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was my favourite movie as a kid and still is today.  I made my brothers and sisters sick of always talking about it, and before we had a VCR, I recorded it on audiotapes and listened to it endlessly till I memorized the dialogue.  I recited Terry-Thomas' rant about Americans for a speech class. Almost forty years later now, it is holding up in a stellar manner.How could it be remade as the final joke is crucial to chivalry keeping the women off the fire escapes at the end.  They must enter the hospital room for that last final joke to take place.  It would not have worked had they been in body casts as well. Another note, for Dick Shawn to have laughed at the end would have been out of character, but notice his face is wrapped up like a mummy.Ethel Merman literally tears into everyone at one time or another, but her antics are provoked from the likes of Thomas, Rooney and Hackett, even Silvers in the hole.  She obviously got this part for being passed over in favor of Ros Russell for 'Gypsy'.  This was her only non-singing part too. All persons are from different walks of life; Winters is blue collar, Ceasar is educated, Berle is business, Rooney and Hackett are entertainers. Kramer obviously strived to do more about the relegation of women to wives or mothers-in-law by giving Dorothy Provine a very special moment with Spencer Tracy (won't spoil it).  Both Provine and Adams seem to be included simply to keep Ceasar and Merman from being alone. Rooney/Hackett and Berle/Thomas were perfect matches. the gas station scene I cannot comment on any further, the men in the airport tower are hilarious on their own as well, Don KNotts scene always made us laugh (Deputy Fife with Sgt. Bilko),the black couple who are run off the road at the beginning was always one of our biggest laughs as children and still is.  Kramer also seemed to want to do more about blacks with the addition of Eddie Anderson (who just as easily could have been omitted) and to keep the mood light with his plummet off the ladder at the end. I, too, have commentary from the surviving cast and they refer to the dialogue that sounds so ad-libbed.  They insist it isn't, but oh, it is so raw and stale.  I think that is why so many enjoy this movie as we cannot say we would handle the situation any better.  We would try to call friends or relatives who were closer and hope they would not behave like Dick Shawn or Terry-Thomas' unseen brother he referred to, Reggie.  "},{"Title":"what a movie","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i too saw this movie when i was small.  when my daughter was nine, i bought the movie. i couldn't wait for her to watch it!  she loved it too!  ethel merman is priceless.  what a cast.  the movie i bought, at the end, has interviews from the stars, their memories and revealing comments that are almost as good as the movie.  it's was interesting hearing what they thought about making the movie.  now that my daughter is hooked i'm sure love of the movie will continue into the next generation. "},{"Title":"The years have not been kind to this movie.","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sorry, but for all those who say this is the funniest movie ever, I must strongly beg to differ.It just doesn't hold up. It's massively in need of an edit. 192 minutes? REALLY? The misogynist jokes about Ethel Merman get very tired after a while. Yes, we know she's a loud battle-ax, can we move on please?Basically all they do is run around like crazy people for two plus hours (we watched the 160 minute version, not the 192 minute version, both were in the Blu-Ray box) and it simply gets tiresome. None of these are actual characters, they are just outlines of characters. And from where we sit today lots of them look like really boring stereotypes as well.I spent the last 60 minutes wondering when is this going to be over? "},{"Title":"john j. macreedy/capt culpepper","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have seen this movie more times than I care to count, starting with 3 consecutive times on a Saturday when the film was released.one of the things that I have noticed in the many viewings I have seen, is the entrance that spencer tracy makes at the police station. if anyone has ever seen, bad day at black rock; tracy makes his entrance with that fedora pulled down and with his arm in his coat pocket, just as his character, john j. macreedy did in bad day at black rock. I have never heard of anyone else who makes this connection.when I was a kid, I thought this film was hilarious, but humor has changed over the years, I no longer think hogan's heroes is a laugh riot either. I still do get laughs from it, just to see all the famous faces in it is worth the time to sit and take it all in. I grew up in the long beach, calif; area and to see much of the old city on the screen brings back memories. if you know where to look, you can see the old, cyclone racer, roller coaster in the distance during the rescue scene at the end. there is a shot of death as the cars whiz around the streets of long beach. he was located on ocean blvd and kept track of how many traffic accidents and traffic fatalities occurred during that year. "},{"Title":"Screwball epic","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's hard to call to mind a comedy as massive in scope as It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World, because there aren't any. Even Dr. Strangelove, where the fate of the world hangs in the balance and several plot lines unfold, seems restrained compared to this sprawling but light-hearted showbiz extravaganza.Starring everyone, featuring everything, unfolding more or less in real time, and clocking in at an absurdly overlong 161 minutes in the restored version (still short of the incomprehensible 188-minute original cut), IAMMMMW is Hollywood at its most...well...Hollywood. It makes Cannonball Run look like Annie Hall.But Hollywood excess from 1963 tastes a lot sweeter and more wholesome than Hollywood excess from today, and it's hard to imagine anyone not enjoying the razor-sharp comic performances (especially from Ethel Merman), the spectacular chase/race sequences, the ditzy slapstick, and the general sense of goofiness.It's so entertaining I'd probably vote it an 8 if it were, say, two or two-and-a-quarter hours. But the sheer length causes it to drag heavily for a while after the intermission (YES! INTERMISSION! IN A COMEDY!) before it picks up for the climax, bringing it down to a strong 7 (7.5, maybe?). Whatever you want to grade it, it's an absolute must-see.  "},{"Title":"Madness is us","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD, MAD WORLD offers to its viewers almost three hours of non-stop silliness, and contains a manic magic that has aged very well these forty plus years since its creation. A group of holiday travellers are witness to a mountainside auto wreck in which a dying bank robber tells them where they may find three hundred thousand dollars to divide between themselves, tax free. Naturally, there's a falling out amongst our heroes, and the quest becomes every man (and old bat) for themselves. For the following two and a half hours, these upstanding middle class citizens commit every criminal trespass that time allows short of actual murder in order to be the first to reach the site where the money is buried. The work is uproarious, and is refreshingly nihilistic when considered alongside some of the almost strident political works (INHERIT THE WIND, THE RUNNER STUMBLES) also offered up by director Stanley Kramer. Here's comic art from a director who never thought of himself as a comedian per say. The color is dated and looks almost as antiquated as three strip technicolor, but that doesn't matter. The craft of the performers in this work- and the cast and cameo list is too busy to bear citing here- is full marks. One last note is that the stunts you see performed here were done long before the age of computer animation, so there's that. And on that note, I should also mention that the movie contains one of the final walk-ons performed by Buster Keaton, who is, for seven to ten seconds, impeccable as always. Madness is us. When the reality of who we in the United States have become gets to stinking too bad, toss this disc on and reflect on the fact that Kramer and his all star cast saw this in us long before we got to this point. Don't forget to breathe. "},{"Title":"One of the best...","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...comedies of all time. Someone asked me yesterday what thefunniest movie was that I have ever seen and this movieimmediately popped into my head. I saw it on the giant Cinerama(wow!) screen back in '63 when only a few theaters even hadCinerama. I still pull this movie out every once in a while and laughalmost 'til it aches.Maybe you have to be of a certain age to appreciate this movie.Maybe it's not edgy or crass enough for the under-25 crowd. Maybeit's too long for some people and maybe some of the bits don'thold up well in the passage of time or don't make sense tosomeone who is younger than I am.BUT...there will never be another movie with this assemblage ofcomedic talent. Tracy's Culpepper is perfect, Dick Shawn (whatever happened to him?) is brilliant and Jonathan Winters is, well,Jonathan Winters. The basic premise of the movie-the pursuit ofmoney and what people will do to get it-is one that translates wellfrom one generation to the next.So I will continue to watch this movie every few years and loveevery minute of it... "}{"Title":"It's a Long, Long, Long, Long Movie!","Date":"24 February 2012","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK, it's probably better than Blake Edward's The Great Race(1965) and John Schlesinger's Honky Tonk Freeway(1981), but It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World is often grating with too many characters, not one of whom you give a damn about. There are more laughs in Airplane (88mins.) or Take the Money and Run (85mins) than in the 154mins of IAMMMMW! Since everyone is one-dimensional and constantly squabbling, they overstay their welcome. Stanley Kramer the director of The Defiant Ones, On the Beach, Judgement at Nuremberg and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner? never had a flair for comedy or for that matter cinema There are bigger laughs in Kramer's Ship of Fools(1965)than in IAMMMMW! The film is large scale but small-minded and at 21/2 hours it feels laborious. The diverse and surprising cast helps, but their talents are largely wasted. "},{"Title":"An OK collection of somewhat funny scenes.","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm amazed at how many absolute fans there are to this movie. I was young when I first saw it on TV. I've seen it a few times since and when I do, I try to analyze what it is that makes it so popular. It is a slapstick piece and you never stop getting the gags thrown at you throughout it's 3 hours.... Now I'll admit that it is somewhat funny a lot of the time, but that's because you have some of the greatest comedians in the early years of audio/visual entertainment. Several of them were around before televisions existed. And these were the early years. Most older people from that time period remembered the days of no television and many of them still had no TV. Some of the slapstick humor in this movie was new to a lot of people, even though much of it came from the silent movie era. But, that was because not that many people had seen a decent number of silent movies. In any case, these comedians were able to take a simplistic script and shape it in a funny way. I never laughed really hard during this movie though, because the jokes are not new (even back then) and it takes too long to get to the point on most of them. Also, certain gags are stretched for way too long. Now it's fun to watch certain scenes, like the airplane flying (which is one of the most impressive flight scenes ever), but it's just not really funny. Dick Shaun is funny no matter what he's doing. As far as I know, he was a 'one-trick-pony', but he's hilarious to watch. Actually, most of the comedians had their plus sides, but the script limited them greatly. The cameos are a nice part of the movie, but that's about it. The movie is just way too long. I grew up in Southern California and I love to see the scenery of the desert and the ocean highways, the towns, and the buildings (so much is not shown in movies these days because of release forms that need to be signed). But there's no deep characterization or plot structure in this movie. That's one part of this work that makes 3 hours a damn long time. Of course, how can you develop a character from a plot that can be described in a few words, Dying man tells where to get lots of money. Everybody's greedy side comes out - in a funny sort of way. What I can say that's good about this movie, is that many of the scenes have their funny little moments. But, as I've read from other reviewers here, almost everything is quite predictable. The moral lesson at the end of the movie actually hurts it considerably. I can think (as many people could) of many other possible ways to build to a climax that could make this movie infinitely better. One of these ways is definitely to shorten the movie. I would say that this is kind of like a SNL show. It has some skits that are funny, but there's not a real story that connects them. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Comedy Of All Time...NOT (but it sure is fun)!","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the reviewers here called it The Greatest Comedy Of All Time, Period. Well, it's not - but it sure wants to be. It sure tries like...mad...to be. Regardless, it sure is FUN! I was nine years old when I first saw this at the Imperial Theater in Inglewood, CA and you could bet the farm that, at the time, I did indeed believe it to be the greatest comedy of all time, period. But then, back then, I also thought The Monster From Green Hell was tied with The Crawling Eye and The Four Skulls Of Jonathan Drake as the Greatest Film Of All Time. Lord know, everyone connected to Mad Mad World tried. They REALLY tried. But it falls so short so consistently that, well, it's not even funny.One two-minute segment of The Bank Dick contains far more jokes and better crafted humor than in the entire three-hours of this film. However, that being said, I still watch it whenever it's on. It takes me back to my childhood. "},{"Title":"So much wasted talent","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a grotesque, ugly mess of a film that involves a LOT OF SHRIEKING (isn't that annoying?), a lot of the basest and ugliest misogyny, and a lot of forced cameos. How Stanley Kramer and Spencer Tracy, two of the best and most ethical entertainers of their generation, could create such a monstrosity is beyond me. Both ought to have known better. Both ought to have seen how irredeemable, how mean- spirited this movie is. Audiences often love mean-spirited comedies, and in this case many critics have also been enamored of it, but Kramer and Tracy should not have&#x97;need not have&#x97;stooped to this lowest of common denominators. One of the film's most minor but still egregiously awful mistakes is its misuse of the Three Stooges (well, two Stooges plus Curly Joe.) The quintessential masters of slapstick are cast in a madcap physical comedy but are made to stand perfectly still and silent for all of five seconds. It is difficult to conceive of a greater waste of talent than this, but it is somehow appropriate in a movie that is one giant waste of talent and one giant black mark on a lot of people's otherwise solid careers. "},{"Title":"Like running a marathon.  With the original Marathon.","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Guffaw! as Stanley Kramer spends a fortune, and generations of America's most beloved comedians (and Mickey Rooney), in creating a tortuous anti-comedy!  Chortle! as the inversely talented Kramer mimics one of the world's greatest directors, Luis Bunuel!  Chuckle! at a three-and-a half hour long mother-in-law joke!  Laugh! at the great liberal's race-mongering and cheerful misogyny, where shrewish women get their comeuppance!  Hoot! as noise and violence become synonyms for comedy and character!  Be confused! as the film's most glaring waste - a brief cameo from Buster Keaton - is also the film's one important moment, as the abandoned comedian in an empty landscape, watching the main players drive off, teaching valuable lessons in comedy to people who refuse to listen!  Watch!  Paint!  Dry! "},{"Title":"A very bad movie","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"27 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm sorry to offend anyone, but this movie has only two funny scenes1.Milton Berle and Terry-Thomas in a fist fight. 2.Buddy Hacket and Mickey Rooney in an airplane. The slapstick is poorly done, it gives many great comedians next to nothing to do, it has hardly any funny lines, it's a hour too long, and Ethel Merman's character is totally annoying and unfunny.  If you want to watch a funny slapstick movie, rent a Laurel and Hardy movie instead. "},{"Title":"In a democracy, it don't matter how stupid you are, you still get an equal share!","Date":"3 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Epic comedy about assorted wacky characters racing to find $350,000 a dying man says is buried under a big W in Santa Rosita, California. Very funny, often hilarious, with an all-star cast. It's hard to pick a favorite but I think I laughed most at Jonathan Winters and Phil Silvers. This was also Winters' film debut. Ethel Merman is probably the worst, yelling her way through the whole picture. I watched this years ago with a girlfriend and she said Merman nearly ruined the movie for her. It wasn't quite that severe for me but be forewarned some of you might have an especially low tolerance for harridan humor. The car stunts are outstanding, far better than today's CGI cartoonery. The movie is very long for a comedy but the pace is pretty tight. They don't call it epic for nothing. It's a very entertaining movie. One of the best comedies of the '60s. Even when it's not necessarily funny, it's still fun. "},{"Title":"if you want it ALL, here it is - and the range in quality is immense","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When it comes to Stanley Kramer's HUGE attempt at comedy - looking at his credits he usually wasn't a ball of laughs (i.e. holocaust, racism) - I really wish I saw this as a kid first.It has that big dumb broad humor that maybe I liked more as a real little kid who just loved seeing people acting crazy and cartoonish. Seeing it now, I probably respect it more than I overall *like* it. And yet, it's a wild feat, and it's the movie that reminded me I must watch everything Jonathan winters ever did. Other highlights include Dick Shawn (every single moment, cracking up), Peter Falk, some of the Milton Berle scenes, and that one moment where Buddy Hackett just stares at Spencer Tracy. And of course some of the set pieces are just so tremendous, particularly the climactic chase and high-wire comedy on the fire truck, which makes the Blues Brothers look like child's play.Some of it, for me, is just TOO loud and TOO one note (Ethel Merman, Jesus) and some of the hijinks end up being very funny one moment and just not funny at all the next. It's one of the most inconsistent epics of all time, and is wildly hit or miss beat to beat. For all the times that a gag worked or a line or a look, another minute something would come up that could grate on my nerves, be a bit dated or, again all down to subjectivity, fall flat.But it's the quintessential zany 60s comedy, much the way that Kramer was always after that quintessential thing with the movies he made - for better and worse, that's what he did. Needless to say if you want to see MOST of the best talent in comedy in the first half of the 20th century - from Buster Keaton to Carl Reiner - it's in a super deluxe platter of madness like the parody version of The Good the Bad and the Ugly years before it was made. "},{"Title":"Just Not the Same Laughs as I Felt Before","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I wish I could put ten stars in my rating of this wonderful film. However I feel I'd be doing the ratings and readers an injustice, by doing so.I was a kid when I saw, It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World, in the early 1970's. It became my favorite comedy film of all time, then. I laughed so very hard that my gut hurt the rest of the day. Whenever I heard that the film would be shown on TV, I'd try to clear everything from my childhood schedule to watch it.I watched it just now, and the same laughs simply weren't there anymore. I simply grew up. I'm not panning this film, but it's impossible to ignore the era from where the film was produced. There are some scenes with African Americans present, in which the slapstick is made with reference to race. It put a damper on my enthusiasm, even while I understand that any film becomes a bit of an historical reference to mirror its era. With regard to the climax of the film, I found myself forcing some laughs, as though I felt compelled to show that the scenes were still funny. At that moment, watching the scene at the abandoned building, I couldn't help but think about the children of today. And a sadness crept over me for a moment. Mad World is slowly withering, because the youngsters of today have no idea who Buster Keaton was, or Buddy Hackett, or perhaps all of those wonderful stars that made cameo appearances throughout the film. As a kid, I could instantly identify with almost every star that appeared, from Jimmy Durante in the opening scene, to Joe E. Brown, the official screaming in the crowd near the end of the film. That made it so much easier to be in the moment as each cameo popped up. I felt great about knowing them, which added to my enjoyment. Today, what kids recognize Uncle Milty? Don Knotts? Jack Benny or the Three Stooges? Even the clean slapstick is a thing of the past, just like films that are rated G, like this one. But it was still nice to see those actors pop in for their cameos, because their memories still live on, for now. "},{"Title":"A laugh a second from a comedic dream team","Date":"25 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World is one of the nuttiest, zaniest, most sidesplitting comedies to come out of the 1960s. It starts out with a bang and rarely lets up. With a cast including Spencer Tracy, Mickey Rooney, Buddy Hackett, Cid Caesar, and even the three stooges, expectations are high, and believe me, they're more than met here.The movie opens with one of the screen's most outrageous death scenes, in which dying conman 'Smiler' Grogan reveals to onlookers that he hid three-hundred and fifty grand under the big W in a California state park. When attempts to be reasonable and work out a deal fail, four carloads of people set out to be the first to reach the money, any way they can.These normally law-abiding people will lie, cheat, steal, double cross, do absolutely anything to get an edge. Alliances are made and broken with a frequency that surpasses even survivor. The situation snowballs out of control as more and more people are let in on the secret and succumb to the fever. And all the while, unbeknownst to them, their every move is being watched by the police.The movie's real genius is to let each member of its diverse cast play to his/her strengths. Ethel Merman takes the mother-in-law shtick to new heights, bickering with everyone she meets, yelling, screaming, and constantly tearing into her luckless son-in-law (Milton Berle), the weak willed manager of an edible seaweed company. As far as she's concerned, everybody's an idiot, and either it's her way, or their pulling off the highway.Her son Sylveter (Dick Shawn) is an even bigger basket case, completely misunderstanding the situation at every turn and going through endless histrionics. Caesar, for his part, spends almost half the movie locked in a basement along with his wife (Edie Adems). This may not sound promising, but each of his attempts to escape is funnier than the last, as his frustration and anger build and his methods escalate.But for anger management issues, no-one can hold a candle to truck driver Lennie (Pike). In what might be the film's most hilarious scene, he completely demolishes a gas station as he tries to get his hands on a pair of hapless attendants. Often, scenes like this are a desperate attempt to get laughs, with it being painfully obvious that the actor is going out of his way to knock things over. But here, the destruction is a natural by-product of the fight, and the scene builds and builds until the whole heap comes crashing down.And what's got him so hot under the collar? The treachery of Otto Meyer (Phil The King of Chutzpah Silvers). He wasn't even one of the original witnesses, but he's the biggest schemer and conniver in the bunch, hands down. He plays everyone one he comes across, fast talking his way through every situation with outrageous lies. He'd beat everyone to the money for sure if he didn't have the worst possible luck.Terry-Thomas puts in a part as a typically bullish Brit, who turns out to be quite the pansy when the going gets tough. His verbal, and eventually physical, sparring with Berle is priceless. Meanwhile, Mickey Rooney and Buddy Hackett find themselves on a terrifying flight with the world's most booze soaked aviator, and Don Knotts even makes a cameo as a sheep for Silvers to fleece.But the guy with the most problems just might be Captain Culpepper (Spencer Tracy). He's got enough on his plate keeping track of these nuts, but family issues and ongoing squabbles over his pension keep butting in. It also begins to seem that he's strangely preoccupied with something else. Is this guy crazy, or crazy like a fox? Eventually all the big players are gathered beneath the big W, which I wouldn't dare reveal the identity of. But even when the money's found, it ain't over yet. The movie continues to a completely over the top conclusion, in which everybody gets exactly what's coming to them.Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World is bit on the long side at two and a half hours, but the running time is necessary to give every cast member time to shine, and as they say, no good movie is too long. This is a real comedy gem, appropriate for the whole family. If you're looking for a good laugh, count on this one to deliver. "}{"Title":"Madness Unlimited","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What happens when so many gifted actors (and that's a long list) come together to make one of the most exciting and hilarious chase movie? You certainly get laughter in abundance. People may find it loud, a little too much slapstick etc but this is mad times four and none of that bothered me. Quite the contrary because it adds more humour. The stunts are pretty awesome. The cars look great and the mountainous landscape is beautiful. Will and Tania Rose's writing is solid. The lines are laugh out loud funny credit for which also goes to the actors. It's as though they've come together to celebrate comedy.Although it's a comedy, 'It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World' reflects a bitter truth about how greed can literally drive people crazy. This is not uncommon in today's world. How this affects Culpepper is shown with a twist of irony and latent sadness. On the brink of retirement about to get his pension but at the last moment, temptation gets the better of him and he not only loses everything but may even face prison time.'It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World' is over the top, loud, energetic and 2.5 hours of crazyfunny. "},{"Title":"Sheer comic brilliance that shall never be eclipsed","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" No film has ever assembled this much talent, unless you consider the MGM spectaculars of That's Entertainment and sequels (which is no fair) and no film ever shall. It has all the star power of (the original) Ocean's Eleven, the cinematic splendor of Lawrence of Arabia, the suspense of Witness for the Prosecution, and the side-splitting, belly aching, rolling on the floor laughs of 1,000 Mel Brooks' movies.If you were born after 1980--and that's stretching it--then you've been reared on the mediocre products that pass for entertainment and likely haven't enjoyed what has come before. If I see one more review that proclaims the genius of Adam Sandler or the idiots who wrote Clerks, then I'll write Congress to ban movies forever.Some of the funniest moments of American cinema are present in this film--Lennie Pike's (Jonathan Winter) destruction of the desert gas station; the airplane crashing through the Coca-Cola billboard; Phil Silvers driving his Ford into the fast moving waters of a mountain stream--and have spawned countless copycat scenes.To be fair, there are many versions of the film out there ranging from 154-192 minutes. Shorter versions could leave you feeling shortchanged. With a cast like this, they can't have enough minutes into the film. "},{"Title":"Opening scene","Date":"26 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Yes, this movie gets better every time you see it. For me, the best scene is the opening scene when they go down to help the old man and the cops arrive. Durante's rantings about back to the neighborhood and the look on everybody's face is classic. The music is right on. Then when the cop shows up and he is questioning them, ever notice he gets an answer from someone behind him? The choreography is brilliant. did he say anything? about what? There are so many great lines. What makes this movie work is great writing that makes all the characters so believable even though the movie itself is so unbelievable. What is amazing is how good the actor's were but few of them went on to make any other movies of any value, Sid Caesar, Milton Berle, Jonathon Winters ( okay- The Russians are coming)Mickey Rooney. "},{"Title":"Comedy Gold!","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Its a Mad Mad Mad Mad World is a comedic masterpiece and every one who was a part of it is etched into Hollywood History. I know this came out way before my time but it made an everlasting impression. Its just flat out laughs from beginning to end. The cast was phenomenal. From Sid Caesar and Milton Berle to Spencer Tracy and Ethel Merman. The story is good and the fact that most of the movie was filmed throughout SoCal made it awesome! My one complaint about this movie is that of all the comics, the 3 stooges were in it for only 5 seconds! They are the greatest comedy trio in history and they only make a 5 second movie appearance? Overall, I'd recommend this movie to any comedy fan. Just sit back, grab some popcorn, a good beverage (preferably a good beer) and laugh your rear off. "},{"Title":"Epic overkill.","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" With a three hour running time and over a dozen headliners as well as an army of known bit players It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World is much ado about nothing. It's a non-stop deluge of slapstick that becomes tiresome and repetitive after an hour with over the top performances from nearly all involved and we are talking some pretty abrasive and unfunny shtick from veteran up stagers (Milton Berle, Sid Caesar, Phil Silvers, Mickey Rooney, Ethel Merman) on the downside of their careers as well as a very tired one from Spencer Tracy.Smiler Grogan in haste to get at a haul he made fifteen years previous drives off of a cliff. A group of strangers that come to his assistance are given clues to where the treasure is buried. The group are soon in pursuit of the cash trying to undercut each other the entire trip.Mad is a paean to the great silent comedies with its dizzying chase scenes and prat falls. Problem is the sound part exposes us to reams of boorish behavior by performers not used to sharing the stage with others and the film becomes an endless free for all as they bump into each other and yap away like a pack of foxhounds. There are simply too many cooks in the kitchen. It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World most impressive feature is in the courageous stunt work of the doubles but it's the mugging comedians taking the bows (something only Jonathan Winters deserves) with crass heavy handed interjections that prove beyond a doubt that silence is golden. "},{"Title":")","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For my summary I couldn't think of a summary good enough to show just how entertaining this movie is. So all I did was show what this movie will make you do for about 3 hours. This movie in terms of pure entertainment will have you eating 15 boxes of popcorn by the end. It is just amazing how much fun can be had with this movie. The jokes never fall flat, the movie never gets dull, and it will entertain you to the point where you'll be knocked out cold when the credits start rolling. It is a true showing of just how entertaining a film can be. Yeah I think that a film making me cry is more impressive than entertaining me a bit, but sometimes you want to take a break and enjoy yourself. You'll take out a comedy, put it in the DVD player, and have a few good laughs, but this movie takes it as far entertainment can go. So in my opinion this is the most entertaining movie ever made. Not the best in my mind, but the fun I had with this movie has skyrocketed this film very high on my list of favorite movies. The characters, music, and acting are also very good. It's filled to the brim with cameos of every big comedic star at the time. They are totally pointless, but add more to the fun to be had. As for the main cast of big comedic stars everyone is hilarious, and bring these characters to life. Also I love the music in this movie. Just the intro credits on their own could be considered a short film with the fun animation, and great music. It also has a smart original idea for it. It's all one big race to try and get to a stash of money. That alone is a fun idea, but this movie for the way through is particularly in real time. That makes you feel more engaged in the movie, and it makes you feel like your watching an actual race rather than a movie. It's like Nascar just not boring. I also like how we start out with our big characters. We think they are the only people we will follow, but as we go along more people join in the race. My favorite part I think is the ending scene, but it is best to look at the film all together as one big great part of film history. Overall this movie is as fun as I have ever seen film get, and most likely I will never see one that is more entertaining.4 stars out of 4 "},{"Title":"Everybody in Hollywood and Bring Your Car!.......Our Late Sister, Joanne Ryan (1942-'90)","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" THAT which makes us laugh has been both a great blessing and a permanent enigma to mankind; for forever, it seems. Whatever the media, the comedies are always perhaps the most sought-after commodity. This is a universal truth, wherever the locale. (We once saw a list of the top 10 Radio Programs of the year of 1942. It was published in Chuck Schaeden's NOSTALGIA DIGEST & RADIO GUIDE (a companion to his Those Were The Days Old Time Radio Syndicated Radio Show. It was no surprise to find that 7 of the 10 top shows were comedies; with the likes of JACK BENNY, FRED ALLEN, FIBBER McGEE AND MOLLY and AMOS N ANDY all finishing in the Chip$.AS far as motion pictures, the laugh, be it in a Comedy Short, an Animated Cartoon Short or a Feature Film from the likes of names such as Frank Capra, Leo McCarey, Ernst Lubitsch or Preston Sturgis, has been a most admired commodity. Comedy Teams such as Clark & McCullough, the Marx Brothers, Laurel & Hardy, Wheeler & Woolsey, the 3 Stooges, the Ritz Brothers, Abbott & Costello, Brown & Carney, Martin & Lewis, Noonan & Marshall and even Rowan & Martin have labored diligently in earning their bread by making us laugh. (There were many others, of course.) BUT this would certainly beg the question as to whether or not that a super-spectacular, double length feature could be created using Comic Actors, Comedians and other Assorted Funnyman Types and thus totally immerse the viewers in comic and outright farcical situations as to give the World a Super-Laugh to end all Laughs!.THE Answer is Not Really.THIS is not to say that we didn't enjoy this or any other of this Comedy Spectaculars. We did. But there seems to be a sort of law of diminishing returns that applies here. Ergo, the Laugh Volume doesn't keep pace with the high increase of talent, money, length and promotion.IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD MAD WORLD (Casey Productions/United Artists, 1963) will ever serve as a curio of a film; albeit one that should be seen , at least once. It serves as an example of a progenitor of a sort of Sub-Genre of Comedy Film. The All-Star Super Spectacular; of which there were many to follow. Blake Edwards' THE GREAT RACE (Warner Brothers, 1965) THOSE MAGNICICENT MEN IN THEIR FLYING MACHINES (20th Century-Fox, 1965) and the multi-director James Bond Super Spy Spoof, CASINO ROYALE (Famous Artists Productions/Columbia Pictures Corporation, 1967) are all fine examples of the film type.AS far as giving MAD WORLD any bouquets, it's deserving of a few. First of all, there is an excellent use of a very basic plot; that being the old throwing away a lifetime's of hard work and living right living on the temptations of fast, illicit Ca$h. Everything is built on this.SECONDLY, Director, Mr. Stanley Kramer did a fine job of getting the most from some (not all of the multi-talented cast members. The first is with having the great dramatic actor, Mr. Spencer Tracy cast as the aged, ready to retire Police Detective Lieutenant; tempted to literally take the money and run! The second is in the use of Jerry Lewis in a very brief Cameo; which is surely as funny as anything that he's ever done.TO sum it up, WE SORTA LIKED IT, BUT DIDN'T LOVE IT! Check it out yourself and see if you don't agree with me and Schultz.POODLE SCHNITZ!! "},{"Title":"Long and repetitive but classic comedy","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Recap An old man is driving along the highway like crazy. He almost pushes the other cars off the road. But instead he misses a curve and is thrown far off the road. The one's he just passed stop to aid him, but the old man is fatally wounded. But before he dies he says that there are 350 000 dollars buried under a W in Santa Rosita Beach Park. And now the race is on. But in their greed induced rush everybody is going to have misfortune along the way. The question is, who will get out of their misfortune first. And in the background the police is watching them all.Comments A classic comedy that had big ambition in its day. And it shows in two ways, first off its long, running at over 150 minutes. And second off the cast list is stunning, studded with known actors and comics in cameos throughout the movie. And I gather it was a success when released.However, success doesn't always stand the test of time, and this proves that some comedy has an expiration date. The main problem isn't that the jokes and puns aren't funny. Neither is the idea or story bad. But they don't know when to quit. Many scenes and jokes are stretched out far too long, the jokes get repetitive and loses their edge. Simply put, it stops being funny.And when most of the jokes are about someone falling, crashing or tumbling over, that too becomes too repetitive. There's no development, just a change of scenery. I suppose some of the fun is supposed to be a few characters with loud and quick mouths rambling about. But to me they're more obnoxious than funny.The main reason to watch it now is to go star-spotting, but that doesn't really motivate watching for two hours and a half&#x85; 5/10 "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Films Ever Made","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World was really one of the most excellent movies ever written. This movie was written well for it's time and really was an extremely amazing movie for it's time. Now most of us today will not appreciate this because it does not star people we know at all, but for this time period this movie had a ton of stars in it. Everyone in this movie was a huge star at the time which made this movie even more epic than it was. The whole story and how it plays out is truly epic. The actors play their respective parts well and the story follows into one of the funniest endings of all time. This is really a must see, if you have at least two and a half hours to sit through it. You will not be let down because this movie is truly an excellent one.Easily 10/10 "},{"Title":"BEST COMEDY OF ALL-TIME (Perhaps best Movie of All-Time)","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Forty five year since it's release and my first seeing it, have now watched it at least 60-75 times - and it's still funny !!!!!! One of the best writers and directors, plus a cast never matched before or since (and never will be with today's salaries.) Basically, if you were to eliminate the stars of this classic from show business history, it would never have had the same impact which it did. No Sid Caesar, Phil Silvers or Uncle Milte (Berle) in television. How about stand-up comedy, no Dick Shawn, Johnny Winters, Buddy Hackett or Jack Benny. No Spencer Tracy and Mickey Rooney would certainly have changed the history of film entirely. And music and Broadway without Ethel Merman. Haven't even touched on the little side characters like, Jerry Lewis, Three Stooges, Don Knotts, Terry Thomas, Eddie Rochester Anderson, Peter Falk, Carl Reiner, Ben Blue, Buster Keaton, Paul Ford, and that's just about half of the cast !!!!!!!! One thing I strongly recommend, if you don't find this movie absolutely hysterical do yourself (and the rest of us a favor) and immediately have yourself analyzed ! Enjoy. "}{"Title":"Best G Rated Movie Ever","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The charm of this movie is not in perfection. It is what it is, and that being just a fun movie to watch, at anytime; When you are down or even having a few beers with buddies or for kids to watch or to stroll down memory lane. In other words , its a film for everyone. The fact is the cast is stellar. I challenge anyone to come up with a better cast than this in any movie. I wont go thru the names but you get the idea.I challenge others to name me another cast that even comes close. There were more A-list actors in this movie than not, from this time period. This movie was ,basically, a celebration of these 'actors'. I read the goofs. Couple things to understand though, this movie is 45 yrs old.Besides the goofs are part of the aura , in my opinion. I hate to sound cliché but its TIMELESS. To take this movie seriously in the same tongue as say CASABLANCA, GONE WITH THE WIND, or even THERE WILL BE BLOOD is not only ridiculous but unfair. The movie rocks . I think I have seen the best facial reactions I have ever seen. The music was fit in perfectly. The lines were delivered with such precision and at times just great tidbits that hit the bulls eye ala Ethel Mermans rant of WHY THESE THINGS HAPPEN, simply superb. I will say I did not give this a ten , mainly because the plot was very simple, but a 9 is not too shabby. "},{"Title":"A time capsule","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Let's face it, ultimately this is a collection of funny skits than a coherent movie. And it is conceivable that competent, less famous actors could have still made this movie work.But what makes this movie immortal is its immortal cast. It is a time capsule of 20th century comedy. It is a joy watching it just to see masters at work.This movie is the definition of a blockbuster, a movie crammed with great stars. You couldn't fit many more in if you tried.A younger generation might not appreciate this, and might not find the movie as amusing. But they should watch it, if for no other reason, to attain basic cultural literacy.On the other hand, it is interesting to contrast this movie with The Russians are Coming! The Russians are Coming! It is also a semi-blockbuster, though probably for a different reason that so many fine actors wanted to avail themselves of the opportunity to thumb their noses at the anti-communist censors of the 1950s, I bet.But what made The Russians stronger is that it was not non-stop slapstick comedy. In Mad, about the only sane person is Spencer Tracy, and he is heavily outweighed by the insanity. In The Russians, there is more balance to contrast with the humor. And so I find I can put the movie on a day after watching it and still laugh at the scenes. I suspect once every year or three is enough for Mad.At the time it came out, Mad was a must see movie. It still is. Go make some popcorn, don't think too hard, and just enjoy it for what it is. And maybe read up on IMDb and elsewhere about the background of these great actors.BTW, I happened to read Sid Caesar's autobiography, Caesar's Hours, in which he talks about the filming of Mad. It is good reading. And reportedly all the actors had a heck of a good time making this film. "},{"Title":"Its a Mad Mad Mad Mad film - that's for sure.","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A fully restored brand new 70mm print in it's original format of Super Panavision (the image on the 70mm frame was squeezed which resulted in a much wider picture than regular CinemaScope/Panavision) - was recently produced, and for which to present it, theaters had to hire special lenses from Panavision - and re-configure their screens, BUT the pleasure of witnessing this comedy gem in its original theatrical format far outweighed the logistical hassles of its presentation. From the deliriously choreographed opening titles and memorable music, you knew you were in for a treat. Although some of the plot line and dialog are now dated, the performances were spot on the mark. In particular Ethel Merman's demented mother-in-law character will leave you in stitches. For those lucky enough to have seen this in a 70mm Super Panavision theatrical screening - you have witnessed a vanished part of Hollywood history. "},{"Title":"Good escapism","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Stanley Kramer's sprawling, overlong chase comedy remains great escapism and a fine souvenir of a more innocent age, with more than its fair share of genuinely funny scenes and great performances. However, it must be said that it's about half an hour too long, with a lot of dead weight that could have been quietly jettisoned. In the final analysis, it's only as funny as whoever's on screen at any given time. The solid winners in that regard are Ethel Merman and Milton Berle as the ultimate battle-axe and her put-upon son-in-law, Dick Shawn as a spaced-out beatnik who's not normal (to put it mildly!), Mickey Rooney and Buddy Hackett as a couple of luckless chancers who find themselves in an out-of-control airplane with a drunken Jim Backus, Terry-Thomas as a plummy British military man with some of the best dialogue in the movie, Sid Caesar and his increasingly manic frenzy in the hardware store, and the famous roadside garage destruction with Jonathan Winters and the underused uber-geek Arnold Stang, whose voice is instantly recognizable from Top Cat cartoons. There are also nice cameos from regular Disney voice man Sterling Holloway (remember him as Roquefort in The Aristocats?), chipmunk-in-chief Stan Freberg, Jack Benny (whose performance, though barely four words and one minute long, encapsulates a sense of disgusted, prissy camp and beautiful comic timing perfectly), the Three Stooges (who get a laugh out of just standing there!), Buster Keaton and a host of others. The least convincing scenes, for me anyway, are those that involve Phil Silvers (couldn't the scene with the short cut have been dumped?) and Spencer Tracy and his colleagues at the police station, all of whom seem to be sleepwalking through their roles. In short, if you like old-fashioned slapstick, quick-fire verbal humour, chase scenes, destruction and comic stereotypes, this is the place for you, and despite its slack stretches, it's still the perfect film to unwind with on a cold and miserable winter's night.  "},{"Title":"THE epic comedy","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  An enormous amount of famous comedians compete to find money under a big W.One of the few of its kind,Stanley Kramer's epic comedy features an amazing castSpencer Tracy,Milton Berle,Sid Caeser,Buddy Hackett,Phil Silvers,Jonathan Winters,Mickey Rooney,Ethel Mermin,Terry Thomas,Eddie Rochester,Buster Keaton,Dorothy Provine,The 3 stooges,Don Knotts,and lots others.The biggest problem is the length,which clocks in at over 2 1/2 hours,but there are enough cameos & laughs to keep your attention.Filmed in Ultra Panavision 70,widescreen is the best way to watch this movie.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"One Of The Funniest Films Ever","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World is simply one of the funniest films ever. Made in 1963, it showcases one of the best casts ever assembled for a movie, and uses all of them incredibly well.When a group of strangers finds themselves helping a dying man after he ran his car off the road, they have no choice to believe his final words about $350,000 being buried under a big W in Santa Rosita Park. Thus starts the mad dash for the money, and nearly three hours later, the story is resolved.Despite its very long running time, World never loses your attention. There is so much comedy here, and it happens at such a frequent pace that it is impossible for any scene to be slow. The filmmakers did an amazing job of keeping each subplot straight as we follow the adventures of all the people who are in the hunt for the dough.There are so many standouts in this movie that it is impossible to point them all out without forgetting someone. The highlights for me were Jonathan Winters and Phil Silvers, as well as Sid Caesar. Unbelievable comedic talent in this film.If you haven't seen this movie yet, by all means rent it. It holds up very well against the test of time, and it looks like new on DVD.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this film at the age of eight on BBC TV while visiting my Grandparents in London in the early seventies. Never will I forget my Grandad saying You´ll like this one - there are a lot of stars in it. And indeed, from that day I really loved this movie! It is funny, entertaining and above all it is clean! I have seen It´s a mad, mad world lots of times since, even a dubbed version in Germany, where I live now. Unfortunately, the german version is the only one I have, that´s why I was glad to read in earlier comments that an original DVD has been released. SEE IT!!!  "},{"Title":"Where human greed is concerned, this is as good as Treasure of the Sierra Madre","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I sincerely believe that this is a comment on human greed first and a comedy second.  I take this movie as seriously as I would The Treasure of Sierra Madre.  Greed is the theme of the film.  Even Dorothy Provine's character who is the only one it hasn't touched, gives in to it right after she finds the big W.To me the funniest shot of the film lasts less than a second.  It's the close-up of Spencer Tracy hanging on to the palm tree leaves, gliding through the air before being thrown through a glass window.  His expression is one of total bewilderment.  The look on his face seems to say, How could this happen?  All I wanted was to steal the money and retire in Mexico and here I am dangling three stories in the air and about to die. "},{"Title":"Great Flick--nuff said!","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yesss!! They came to their senses and finally released it on DVD!Someone (leftie61, I think) was asking about where Buster Keaton appeared in the movie. I believe he appeared in a scene about 10-15 minutes before the end of the flick. I'm almost certain he was the guy Ethel Merman was hitting with her purse as she admonished, don't you dare touch any of that money! Also, someone mentioned that Bob Hope did a cameo--if someone knows what scene, please share! "},{"Title":"a masterpiece for the time period","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i love this movie. i don't think this movie could be redone. a question i would like to ask, is i know buster keaton had a small cameo in this movie. everytime i watch the movie i can't seem to find him. would someone please comment on where jimmy the crook is in the movie. thank you.... "}{"Title":"this movie's got it all","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of the characteristics of a great film is its ability to  provide one great scene after another. It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World is no exception. Few comedies can keep up this sort of frenetic pace while never failing to provide solid entertainment from the first scene to the last (The Blues  Brothers is another great example). Dick Shawn, Jonathan  Winters, Phil Silvers, and Ethel Merman are arguably at  their all-time bests. The dozens of other cast members also give great performances, a feat that probably owes as  much to Kramer's direction as it does to the talents of the individual actors. This movie's got it all - yeah, at times it's  stupid, corny, and even a little too shticky, but that's what  comedy is all about anyway, isn't it? "},{"Title":"Plenty of humor to be had, but what else do you expect?","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  With a cast of virtually every comedian from vaudeville, TV, movies, etc. who was alive and in the buisiness at that time thrown together and all given a chance to show their stuff, however briefly, you're going to have plenty of funny moments.  And they're there in this film, which should be seen for that reason alone.  All the comics are pretty much in top form, with Milton Berle, Jonathan Winters, Phil Silvers, Buddy Hackett, Mickey Rooney, Sid Caesar, Jimmy Durante, and of course, Ethel Merman standing out, and Spencer Tracy in his penultimate film appearence as the police officer following them in their search for the dough buried under the big W is, as usual, the only person around with a brain in his head... until the end!  That may be possibly one of the best twists in film history. But the film itself does go on seemingly forever, and drags in more than a few spots.  After a while, you can only take so many more car chases, yelling and purse swinging, but amazingly enough, it's never completely boring.  And though it is amazing that Stanley Kramer, otherwise known for his serious, preachy dramas, directed this, I think a lot of the credit for the film turning out so well goes to the talent involved and, if the surviving actors are to be believed in a documentary I saw, the great script that largely kept them from adlibbing, and not unwillingly.  Kramer basically seems to just sit back and let everybody do their thing (without bothering to make them stop), and it works.  I'm comin' Mama, your baby's comin'! "},{"Title":"A professional comedy cast","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It has been said that great comedy is a matter of timing. The cast of this great movie are all consummate professionals, some graduating from classic vaudeville. I only wish I could have stood on the sidelines while this movie was being made. I'll bet what DIDN'T make it into the final film was just as funny as what did, or even more so. Look how funny some of these people are when turned loose on late night talk shows with no script! Buddy Hackett, for example. "},{"Title":"A comedy of hysterical proportions!","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have never seen anything like this bunch! I've seen all of the actors in different films-but not all together in one film!When you have a family like this A son-in-law who sells seaweed(I kid you not) A mother-in-law who gets more and more insane every minute and a son who is a full fledged fruit cake-who becomes obsessed with saving momma.This film never fails to produce laughs. What we have here is one of the best comedies ever made. It's all about a mad dash to dig up $350.000 under a big W(Oh how could we forget the big W?)First they have to get there!!!That's not so easy. There's two reasons for this A. It's more than 200 miles away B. They tear each other apart trying to be the first ones there!They resort to methods of transfertation that nearly kills them all.Speaking of tearing things apart-The scene where Jonathan Winters tears apart the gas station-by hand is a classic!!The best scene in this movie!!But wait, there's moreThe fire escape scene, then the ultimate outcome of this insanity!!I would be hard pressed to find any one who can sit through this hysteria with a straight face. "},{"Title":"A must see movie.","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is by far the best comedy of all time. I can watch this movie all day long & laugh every time. One of my favorite scenes is watching Mr. Pike tear apart the gas station or the airplane scene with Mickey & Buddy. Another very funny scene is the one with Phil Silvers & Mr.Pike & the bicycle. An all around funny movie.  "},{"Title":"Classic Treasure Buried Under The Big W","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of my all-time favorite movies. I remember seeing it as a 13-year old in 1963 and laughing so hard that the laughs turned to tears. The phrase Buried under the Big W always brings smiles. I'd always thought of it as a classic comedy, but after seeing it a year or two ago on the Encore cable network, I'm not sure that it has held up as well as I'd recalled it. Still, there are dozens of priceless moments from the time Smiler Grogan kicks the bucket to the destruction of the gas station until the final slip on the banana peel that make me nostalgic for the comedy of my youth.  I've always hoped for a sequel, but now realize that a sequel might only be destined for failure -- just like most of the '60s TV-sitcom movies that we've seen over the past 10-15 years.  And I wonder whether 36 years from now my children will still get the same laughs from Animal House, There's Something About Mary and Office Space that they get from those films today.  "},{"Title":"RUSSELL WAIT A MINUTE! I GOTTA ASK YOU SOMETHING ABOUT MOMMA!!","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Whether you are a first time novice viewer, or can instantly recognize the above line and are a hard-core line-by-line reciting lunatic, this movie is an absolute hoot from beginning to end.  I won't bore you with  meager descriptions of some of the antics. What I wanted to say is that all that unbelievable comedy by so many people was done without a single curse. I know it sounds puritan and old-fashioned, but regardless - it is amazing. Some have said this movie couldn't be made again because of budget. (Too many stars wanting too much money.) That might be true, however I believe it truly could never be made again because we don't have that abundance of talent around any more. --- See you at the Big W. "},{"Title":"The first film where I ever saw so many adults laughing!","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The original side-splitting, thigh-slapping, laugh riot with a dozen of 1963's best comedians, historic and hysteric use of outrageous stunt driving and flying, and Spencer Tracy to boot. Today, we're lucky to even have two comedians together in a movie. Back then, all the majors were paid $100,000 each, except for Buddy Hackett who insisted upon $150,000 and Stanley Kramer asked Why? Buddy replied because he liked those numbers. So, Kramer closed the deal at $105,000. See the restored version of Mad World. Not only are there 20 additional minutes of comedy, there's also untold character development, like what Jonathan Winters will do with his share of the money. Also, a half-hour documentary with interviews of the cast and such gems as the Buddy Hackett quote above. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest movies ever.  A true All Star Cast in that EVERYONE in this film is famous.  Word got around while casting this film and soon everyone wanted to be a part of it.  There are some wonderful cameos and some terrific comedy.It's perfect for all ages--in the true sense that everyone can enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"The greatest comedy of the sound era","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  MAD WORLD is the greatest comedy of the sound era and the favorite movie of my childhood.  I still remember seeing the roadshow version in downtown San Francisco in 1964, but it was probably the recut 162 minute print.  What a treat to have it restored on home video all the way to 182 minutes, including bookend music.  I only wish the remaining ten minutes of visual footage could be located, including Dick Shawn's car stealing scene, Spencer Tracy's phone conversation with Buster Keaton, and the beginning of Tracy phone scenes that reveal who Phil Silvers' character is and why he wants the money so badly.Still, what's here on video is grandly entertaining, sunny and airy, laugh-out-loud funny for over three hours, with the comedy cast of a lifetime under one roof and in rare form, and an immortal Ernest Gold score. Bravo to all connected with it! "}{"Title":"A Historical classic","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of the most funniest movies that I have ever seen.  It has a lot of great actors that act great in this movie.  Their expressions were great and that one reason this movie was so funny.  It was well directed also and had a creative plot to it.  I enjoyed this movie even though it is an older movie.  I would recommend this movie for anyone to go out and rent.  It is good for kids too.  It is a longer movie though, but I thought the longer the better.  Everybody should go out and see this classic movie. "},{"Title":"best of its type","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the best of the farcical, all-star movies, partly because of a collection of first-rate actors, such as Spencer Tracy, who seemed to have fun with their parts, and not simply walk through them as if they were an easy paycheque. Dick Shawn, while less well-known than most of the cast, is hilarious as the overwrought son of Ethel Merman. If you can enjoy a movie for what it is, and don't expect every movie to be Shakespeare, then kick back, and enjoy some inspired wackiness. This bears repeat viewing, if you can get in the right mood. "},{"Title":"Bigger isn't automatically better","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's A Mad ... World was made when cinema suffered under the impact of television, and was hard pressed to woo its audience back. Out came bigger-than-natural movies like this one, which is longer and has more famous comedians and outrageous stunts in it than anything before (or after). In its original run it was also shown in a supersized format that resembles modern-day IMAX. You get the picture. It is pretty spectacular. Unfortunately, especially on the small screen, it isn't all that great, either. I guess it just has to be seen as it was originally released.The best I can say for IAMMMMW is that it obviously was one of the inspirations for The Blues Brothers, a movie which equally tries to supersize at least some of its scenes (the car chase through the mall, or the final car chase), but also offers a great story, and depends on a few great actors rather than everyone in the Greater LA phone book. The problem with IAMMMMW, then, is that it relies too much on effects and size and doesn't offer enough in terms of plot and development. And I guess it just wasn't meant to be seen on a crusty TV set. As it is, the plot just doesn't holds less water than an old man on diuretics, and the comedy is too repetitive and stale (unless you're really into jokes about mothers-in-law, drunk pilots and slipping on banana peels).It's still worth checking out on a slow evening, but I didn't enjoy it all that much. "},{"Title":"Mad World ****Absolute Magnificent Mayhem","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Go know that Stanley Kramer, best known for his films regarding social issues, would make such comical masterpiece.Go know that Ethel Merman, who could belt out any song in her day, would give a phenomenal comic performance is this all-star classic of 1963.The picture begins with a great musical score which sets mood for what you are about to see.Jimmy Durante, plunges down a ditch and in his revealing words, tells of money hidden under the Big W at a California park. This sets off a wild and extremely memorable chase by those who have heard his words. Others will join in this mayhem.Kramer knew how to get every well known comedian into this hysterically funny film.Often used by Stanley Kramer in his other dramatic films, Spencer Tracy, as the frustrated police officer does an unusual comic performance and he was really good at it.Sid Caesar and Edie Adams are phenomenal as well as the dentist and his wife caught up in this chase for the money. Milton Berle goes through plenty with a mother-in-law such as Ethel Merman. The casting director deserves a lot of credit here for casting Ethel in the loud-mouth mother-in-law role. She really steals the films with her hysteria and antics. I would have thought of Connie Gilchrist for the part of Mrs. Marcus, but Merman is in fine form here. She gets great additional support from Dick Shawn, who portrays her crazy son and British comedian Terry-Thomas who meets up with the group and is drawn into the conspiracy.Phil Silvers is at his devilish best here. The way he orders around people reminds us of his presence as Sgt. Bilko in that classic television series. Jonathan Winters will just break you up here, especially when he goes berserk and destroys a gas station run by Marvin Kaplan and Arnold Stang, who were also made for their parts.The film may exaggerate what people would do for the mighty buck but it gives you the feel-good attitude and is certainly a classic to behold.The film also reunited Tracy with Mickey Rooney, 25 years after they made Tracy's Oscar-winning Boys Town.The film marked the end of Za-Su Pitts' career. Ailing during the film, she died of cancer the same year the film came out. Note that Paul Ford, Ben Blue and Carl Reiner, all had smaller roles in this film but would be used 4 years later in the equally hilarious The Russians Are Coming, The Russians Are Coming.A time honored classic. Better now to see it at home. When I viewed the film in the theater, people were laughing out so loud that you couldn't hear the words. "},{"Title":"From another time and place","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Today no one knows how to make a comic film which is FUNNY. This one should be the yardstick by which all comic movies are made-there's no sex,foul language or boring sections of propaganda. Instead it gets right to it from Jimmy Durante on the run from the police who crashes off the road right to the finale in the hospital where Spencer Tracey reflects on what he's actually lost because of his greed. Its one hilarious moment after another from Ethel Merman's yakety yak voice to the falling suitcase spilling out all the money. If ever a remake is done it will not be funny. The appearance of a taxi driver towards the end was an actor who graduated to becoming Colombo. The only problem of this on its video release was the Intermission which was about 6 minutes of SILENCE! "},{"Title":"This movie was great","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" All the stars worked together and they pulled it off, the last comment doesn't make sense he doesn't like the movie but give it a 9. Just don't say anything if you have nothing nice to say. I recently watched this movie with 3 12 year old kids and we laughed our heads off, so I don't think it held up it did, and I don't think i was still relevant because it was. This opinion was and is based on facts not what I think. rent this movie and you will see it is remarkable. It is also remarkable how much of the dialoq was improvised. Dick Shawn's dancing scene was crazy even watching it today. Estelle Wiliiams perfect. Johnathan Winters brilliant. and I haven't even mentioned Spencer Tracy, Milton Berle, or Jimmy Durante or Buddy Hacket and Mickey Rooney. I really loved this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films ever made.","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a massive movie in every sense of the word,an all-star cast (to put it mildly), and hilarious. The plot is very simple (as in all great comedy).Bank robber Smiler Grogan (Jimmy Durante) is released from prison and immediately races off to Southern California to retrieve his buried treasure. The police know what he's up to but they don't know where the loot is so they're tailing him. Smiler crashes his car and is fatally injured but before (literally) kicking the bucket he tells a group of passers-by who stop to help that $350,000 is theirs for the taking, buried under a big W in Santa Rosita Park. So begins the most hysterical chase in movie history as sheer greed turns a group of upstanding citizens into mindless villains. There are SO many fantastic performances in this film it's hard to pick the best. At least we now know what happened to Sgt Bilko once he left the army! ALL the cast were wonderful. This movie is like a cartoon come-to-life with characters walking away from plane crashes, car wrecks, explosions, electrocution and building collapses. Marvellous! The stunt players deserve particular recognition as they performed brilliant and exceptionally dangerous scenes. In fact, I wish the end-credits could have shown their faces; they were amazing. It's a shame so many of these genius' of comedy are no longer with us but they've left a lasting masterpiece here. It's a wonderful movie which builds up the pace to a frantic finale. 9 out of 10 in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Great for parents AND kids","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's so hard to find something on the DVD/video shelves that both parents AND kids enjoy... I was -2 years old when this came out in 1963 (born in '65), and never saw the entire movie.My 14-year-old started out by saying he didn't get the old-fashioned humor but was busting a gut before it was over... and kept yelling at Ethel Merman'scharacter to shut up! My 6-year-old was in stitches most of the time, too. And I have to say I rolled off the couch from the beginning. Of course, knowing who these big-league performers really made it more fun.I wish I'd known about all the bonus material on the DVD. I may even rent itagain this weekend just to take a second peek.As for the intermission, when I got up and left the room to take a pit stop, my eldest son looked at me rather confused... and then I realized, he's never been to a movie theater or drive-in when they had intermission! Oh the generationgap. But they did thoroughly enjoy it. Wish there were more movies like this for the family. "},{"Title":"Ultimate Comedy Ever!","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What if all American comedians start together in a big budget film directed by one of the best directors of the time? If that question were made on sixties, then It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World is the reply.Plot starts when Smiler Grogan (Jimmy Durante in a top 5 minutes performance) crash with his car on the road. Some other vehicles stop and go to help him. The Witnesses of the accident come in 4 different vehicles Russell Finch (Milton Berle in a outstanding performance), his wife (Dorothy Provine) and her mother (Ethel Merman, who steals the show) travel for a relaxing holidays. Benjy (Buddy Hackett) and Dingy (Mickey Rooney) go to Las Vegas. Melville (Sid Caesar) and Monica Crump (Edie Adams) wanted a second honeymoon. And finally Lennie Pike (Jonathan Winters) who works for removal services. Smiler's last sentences tells that in Santa Rosita there is a treasure hidden under a big W. So, the race starts and the first one of them will win it! However, they don't know that are being followed by Police Department's Captain Culpeper (Spencer Tracy making it the most human character of the whole movie)What makes the film a legendary feature is the amount of characters and cameos (such a Jerry Lewis one or a Buster Keaton). Phil Silvers delivers one of his best performance as the clever and selfish guy. Peter Falk before he was famous. And who can dislike Dick Shawn and Terry Thomas ones?Honorable mention should be made to the edit (with so many stories in one, is difficult enough) and the score by Ernest Gold. In fact, the score helps a lot to the whole movie. The theme (surely inspired in the Merry Go Round Broke Down) gives us the sense of a circus film. That is the idea, the whole movie is  an entertainment. I would say Ernest Gold's score also should be known as one of the best scores ever.It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World deserves to be at the top of the best comedic films of all times just because of the great casting and the interesting Kramer's direction. "},{"Title":"The Super Comedy","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This has to be one of the greatest comedies in the history of film.  Where else could you find such comedic talents as Milton Berle, Ethel Merman, Dick Shawn, Mickey Rooney, Phil Silvers, Buddy Hackett, Jonathan Winters, Terry Thomas and Sid Caesar (not to mention all the great cameos by other comedy legends).  However, the bravest performance had to be turned in by Edie Adams, who appeared in this film shortly after the tragic death of her husband Ernie Kovacs, who was scheduled to appear in the film.  Stanley Kramer once again proved that he is one of the greatest directors of all time by directing all these great comic geniuses in one colossal classic.  I doubt that today anyone could pull off what this film accomplished. "}{"Title":"To re-visit your childhood","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I first saw the film at age 15 in Pacific's Cinerama Dome (Hollywood) along with many others about my age, I'm sure. The film premiered there.  I had never seen anything like it but later when I recounted the experience to friends who did not have the opportunity of seeing it in that grand theater and the 70mm state-of-the-art presentation but rather in the local 35mm movie house (the best Orange County had to offer at the time), much of the impact was lost. I am sure my hapless storytelling ability didn't help. Anyway, this is definitely a film that needs the big screen presentation for the larger than life stars and storyline.  Now finally, IAMMMMW has been restored and so has the Cinerama Dome - better than ever, so they say - and the two are once again going to be brought together (this October), including the long missing yet infamous police-calls intermission.  Yes, the film is slapstick and corny and maybe some of the shtick won't quite work in today's truly Mad Mad world but I'm still betting audiences will once again roll in the aisle as they did for a brief time in Hollywood, 1963.  I will send in a report. "},{"Title":"An American classic","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If there is such a thing as an epic comedy, a sprawling lavish technocolor landscape of gargantuan humor, It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World is it.  It is truly an American comedy, a junket along the California coast replete with Vegas lounge bums, idle rich drunkards, an overworked and undermanned police department, midwestern goofs, cheesy salesmen and the ever-reliable mean mother-in-law, all swirling in an odd mix while achieving various pinnacles of greed.It all starts when an escaped thief named Smiler Grogan leads the California police on a screechy chase along winding highways only to crash his car off an embankment.  A handful of do-gooders go down into the canyon to try and save him, but it's too late.  His few last words are to reveal to the men a hidden stash of $350,000 buried under a 'Big W' in a park near the Mexican border.  And the chase is on.The principal funnymen (and woman) in the film, Milton Berle, Ethel Merman, Phil Silvers, Sid Caesar, Buddy Hackett, and the vastly underrated Dick Shawn are all extremely good.  But it's maybe Jonathan Winters that steals the movie playing his trademark bumpkin driving a load of furniture to Yuma. His single-handed destruction of the Ray & Irwin garage is one of the true priceless bits in the film. But there are so many great scenes that could be singled out.  Silvers hijacking Don Knotts' car while posing as a federal agent, Spencer Tracy as the harried chief of police feuding with his wife and daughter on the phone. Buddy Hackett and Mickey Rooney flying and landing Jim Backus' private plane in a restaurant, to name a few. And the people who say that there is no good dialogue in the film are dead wrong.  How about Berle's nervous repetition of the way he just went sailing out there, Rooney's and every woman for himself, Selma Diamond's nasal What the hell is the Smiler Grogan case? or when a girl is six-foot-ten, she's bound to have special problems, Shawn on the phone to his mother I was... I was...uh...working. or Silvers' Look me up, I'm in the book, Doctor Zillman!Admittedly, the movie is a bit too long and some things probably should have been cut (namely Silvers drowning in his car in the river and Sid Caesar blasting his way out of a locked-up hardware store), which leads to my only real complaint, which is the heavy-handedness of the slapstick. The final ten minutes of the movie, to me, anyway, is very uncomfortable to watch.  I really hate this kind of violent slapstick, with people getting smashed through windows, arms and legs broken. I just don't think it's very funny. Also, I had a relative that died doing some roof work when he got too close to a power line and was killed from the resulting shock, so I can tell you for sure that if you were to fall squarely on a high-tension power line, you would certainly not be bouncing up and down like a trampoline, getting little hand-buzzer-type shocks and going oo-oo-oo.  Just the same, I highly recommend this picture, for some great comedians and characterizations in the eternal American quest for loot.      3 1/2 *** out of 4  "},{"Title":"One of the best if not the best comedies ever made","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am old enough to remember the movie originally coming to theatres. I never tire of watching it on an annual basis. I think the music has been underrated and is among the best scores ever written, containing individual themes for most of the main characters as well as an ongoing general theme that ties the scenes together. It would be difficult to do this movie today; not enough talented comedic players around and the score would be near impossible to top.Love this movie!! "},{"Title":"Good clean humor, without sex, swearing, murder or violence","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What a cast of awesome comedians!  This was the first movie I ever saw in a theater as a teenager, and I don't think I had ever laughed so hard in a movie in my entire life &#150;I literally rolled in the isle!  Since then I have watched it at least ten times&#133; and I always enjoy it.  This is truly a classic!  It's full of great scenes &#150;like when Jimmy Durante literally kicks the bucket!  His dying words tell about hidden loot under the Big &#145;W' in a park.  In a mad, mad, mad, mad marathon race, the four groups who witnessed the dying man's money tip sacrifice everything to try to beat the others to the treasure.  The destruction of cars and property in the quest is quite phenomenal!  And the fight that leveled the service station was beyond belief! They don't make movies like this anymore&#133; good clean humor, without sex, swearing, murder or violence.  The one-liners never quit &#150;like, `I'll wager you anything you like, if American women stopped wearing brassieres, your whole national economy would collapse overnight!'  Now we know why the whole economy has gone to pot!  This is on my personal top 100 list.   "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not a huge fan of classic films, but this comedy is one that I've loved since I was a little kid and I first saw it.  Whether it be the sight gags, major stars, or cameo appearances, this is a movie that you pick something new up every time you watch it.  If you only watch one classic film, I highly recommend this movie.   "},{"Title":"THE KING OF COMEDIES","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie only gets better with repeated viewings.  I first got to see it during its network TV premiere in 1972 and have seen it several times since. From the opening credits to the very end there is hardly a wasted moment in this movie. All of the performers did a bang-up job (even the Three Stooges, who just stood there for all of ten seconds were a welcome addition to this comedy classic.) It starts out with a bang and the action never lets up. Contrast this with LEONARD, PART 6, which starts out with a whimper and goes downhill fast. I can't say enough good about this movie except BUY THIS VIDEO!!!!Rating ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Simply Amazing Classic","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  They don't make 'em like they used to, because they can't.  This film has so many big name stars, it almost seems like an impossible movie to make.  A crook's dying words give a clue to where he hid a fortune, and a crowd of people go off in search of it. If there's ever been a type of gag, it shows up in this movie.  It's good clean fun for all the family.  My own parents let me watch this a dozen times as a little kid.  Funny script and good direction, too.  Guaranteed hilarity! I love this utter gem of a movie. "},{"Title":"One of the craziest movies I've seen","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hey, It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World is pure genius.  Not only is the plot wild and crazy, but the actors are, too!!   Even Jimmy Durante's small role is sooooo funny!  The only flaw this movie has is that it is close to three hours and even though it's very enjoyable, c'mon the Big W should've been found a little bit faster.  Anyway, with the talents of Sid Caeser, Spencer Tracy, Buddy Hackett and other classics, how can a film go wrong?  Go and see it!! "},{"Title":"It's better every time you watch it...really!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A true delight!  Laughs from start to end with HYSTERICAL performances by some of the best comic talent of all-time.  Some of my favorites were Milton Berle, Jonathon Winters, Buddy Hackett, and Ethel Merman.  The timing is flawless, the photography is gorgeous, the acting is so professional and believable you will be sucked into the perfect storyline as though it were happening around you.  The infamous cameos are a time capsule of genius that will never be duplicated.  If you've seen it, you love it.Best scene?  So many, but it has to be the Sylvester (Dick Shawn) twist dance with his girlfriend!  If you are a Mad, Mad fan, email me your favorite scene!I figured to make this movie my first review as an IMDB member because it's one of my all time favorites.   "},{"Title":"What a great movie!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just watched this again last night after not seeing it for years--a wonderfully funny film.  For anyone interested in seeing a who's-who of comedy stars from the 30s-40s-50s, this is a great introduction.  The scene with Johnny Winters tearing apart the gas station is a gem of cinema--I was crying from laughing so hard (so too was my girlfriend, who generally dislikes old movies).  And Uncle Miltie is simply precious. "}{"Title":"No title was ever more apt.","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, it's silly, it's slapstick, it's definitely low comedy.  But it's so much fun, and done by some of the best pros in the business, that it's worth seeing again and again.  Ethel Merman's mother-in-law-from-hell turn is just plain hysterical, and Spencer Tracy makes a great straight man for all this insanity.  It's another of those movies which would be utterly ruined if anyone tried to remake it--it stands quite well on its own, thank you very much. "},{"Title":"Possibly the funniest movie ever made","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see Mad, Mad World in a theater in Cinemascope around 1970 and since then it's been one of my favorite movies.  It may be the funniest movie ever made but that's not surprising considering the comedic talents and the script they had to work with. One of the funniest scenes for me are the ones in the control tower.  Paul Ford is hilarious (What the hell's wrong with this wire?) in his brief part.  I had a friend who was suffering from chronic depression and I rented this movie which she'd never seen or heard of.  She felt better after this and laughed a lot.  It's a good movie to watch when you need a lift.     "},{"Title":"The Grand-Daddy of a Comedy Classic!","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When they say they don't make 'em like that anymore! it should be added; they CAN'T make 'em like that anymore!  Just five years after the film was made, many of the stars had already passed away.  What a great tribute to these comic immortals to have this film at the end of their careers! "},{"Title":"great  picture","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My brother and I were living in Long Beach, when the filming was there. The apt that we lived in can be seen across the street from the hardware store, The Jone's cafeteria where we worked after school is three doors down (I was a senior in Dewy high school ) My brother and I were standing in a small group of people in the alley as the chase scene of taxi's after Spencer Tracy's car whirled around a small parking area. One of the taxi's hit the back left fender and popped a tail light off, it rolled to us so we picked it up and kept it. My brother has since lost it. I watch the VCR copy about three times a year, and watch for that tail light to pop of in the pitcher. It brings back a lot of good memories of my younger days as i am in my 66th year. I love watching the movie because of all the great actors in it. It is one of a kind, because getting that kind of talent together will never happen again. A good portion of those in the picture have passed away i'm very sorry to say. There kind of talent is lost. "},{"Title":"The apex of slapstick comedy","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" All right, if you're looking for dry, cerebral comedy...give this one a whirl, anyway. Despite pratfalls providing 90% of the laughs, this film also chronicles how greed supersedes all other considerations in the lives of a group of motorists who attend the death of a long-incarcerated thief, whose final words indicate the hiding place of his spoils. Performances by such venerated comic talent as Milton Berle, Ethel Merman, Buddy Hackett...just read the cast list, re-numerating them here is redundant...keep the characters' escalating frustration and in-fighting both believable and hilarious. Auto enthusiasts and road picture fans will find additional thrills as scores of vintage cars and trucks are raced, mangled and destroyed across the two-lane blacktop that dominated southeastern California before the domination of the superhighway.Best of all, the laughs are for everyone. There is no objectionable language or adult situations of which to be wary, so this is a perfect alternative to contemporary animated fare, and a great way to introduce children to the idea that vintage entertainment can still be fun. I first saw this on television as a child in the 1970s, and laughed myself to tears. Thirty years later, I still need to keep the Kleenex handy. "},{"Title":"A comedic masterpiece","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well to enjoy this movie your have to start out WITH A SENSE OF HUMOR you frickin' idiot! I am so tired of morons who have no sense of humor criticizing films aimed at people with a sense of humor.It is a wonderful film, full of madness and every silly thing you can think of and more, as indeed the title suggests. These guys are completely NUTS! Wallow in it, dance around in it, sing songs and let liberty be because that is what Kramer and his gang of idiots did with this wonderful masterpiece of a film! I first saw it as a kid and nearly died laughing along with the rest of the audience, in London. I watch it now about once a year because of the wonderful slapstick from some of the greatest comedians of the 20th Century, including the great but underrated Terry Thomas.Warning, if you have no sense of humor do not watch this film! "},{"Title":"This is classic, classic, classic!","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Fantastic movie. Side-splitting almost all the way through. I have watched this every year for the past 25 years and I still laugh out loud. This is a great collage of the best comics of the time and of history. What other movie ever had a lineup like this? I don't know what these other reviewers are thinking! The acting is so real and the chemistry is so great it is unbelievable. The opening scene at the car accident is priceless as dying driver Jimmy Durante rambles about hidden dough to the five accident witnesses (Berle, Winters, Hackett, Rooney, Ceasar) that are standing by him. His thoughts become murky and calls Sid Ceasar his Aunt. Then Durante takes one last breath and kicks a bucket down the ravine. Jonathan Winters stands up and says, That guy's dead!. Detective (Norman Fell) comes onto the scene and asks if Durante had anything to say before he died. (Silence). Then Fell asks if Durante was dead when the others arrived on the scene. The five men can't come up with words because they don't want to let the secret out of the bag. Then Buddy Hackett answers his question and says, Practically. They team up a few miles later along the side of the road to figure out how to split the money up between them when they find it in Santa Rosita. Sid Ceasar proposes different ways to split the money up which are so hilariously unreasonable and ridiculous that it comes off like an Abbott & Costello routine. The others are completely confused and offended (especially Winters) and finally agree to Every man for himself!!!. There are many stories in this movie that are hilarious! Mickey Rooney and Buddy Hackett stuck up in the air not knowing how to fly a plane (after pilot Backus is knocked out cold while mixing a drink in the cabin) and not knowing how to use the radio! The punch lines are a scream! Rooney (hysterical on the radio) Hey, you on the ground! We're up here in the air! Benjy, say something..., Hackett Help! Ceasar and his wife trying to charter a plane at an airport in the desert and end up with a broken-down 1920's biplane which has a maximum speed of about 50 mph. Ceasar with a hesitant look (to his wife) They don't make 'em like this anymore! Tried and true! (The woman starting the prop ends up blessing the plane before takeoff). Ethel Merman, Milton Berle in Terry Thomas' truck Ethel Merman annoyed (to Terry Thomas) Where'd you get that funny accent? From Harvard? Thomas I'm from England. Merman Sounds so foreign. The auto garage scene is classic Jonathan Winters. Phil Silvers is great as a money-hungry con-artist who dupes Jonathan Winters but ends up getting duped himself as he tries to find a shortcut through the desert. He runs across an Indian who needs a lift to get some medication. Silvers eventually finds himself down some dirt road in the middle of nowhere and relies on a little boy who wants some money to get him back to the main road but he's led to a road which is buried by a river. Silvers portrays his frustration hilariously! Don Knotts puts in a small role as a nervous driver who picks up Phil Silvers on the side of the road. Sid Ceasar is in excellent form when he and his wife get locked in a hardware basement while they're looking for a pick and shovel. Then Ceasar destroys the hardware store with fireworks and a sledge hammer while trying to break out of the basement. Ethel Merman and Dick Shawn are great as a hysterical mother and son. Terry Thomas is hilarious. As for the sexist accusations all of this was tongue in cheek, harmless and was standard in the 1960-1970's. (Making fun of the country's preoccupation with busoms can hardly be called discriminatory.) This movie is good clean fun no matter how you slice it. The great thing about this is that the secondary actors are big names (Jerry Lewis, Jack Benny, Jim Backus, The Three Stooges, Buster Keaton, Peter Faulk) and put in big jokes as well, they're not just standbys. The producers pulled out all the stops in this movie, the writing is fantastic. This is a non-stop journey and non-stop entertainment (but the ending was always a little slow for me). Nonetheless, if you are bored or had a bad day at work watch this and you will bust your gut. I defy anyone to find a movie like this today. It is the best homage to Hollywood comedy that's ever been done. This movie will last a long, long time. "},{"Title":"Full of action and corn, but very enjoyable!","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" So many people have knocked this film, but I have to say I thoroughly enjoyed it, accepting that it is corny in parts, but it never stops moving at a great pace and there is action aplenty. Making it even more enjoyable are the vast number of stars in cameo roles, and this spot the actor adds to the fun - it also has a bit of pathos in that nearly all of those have left us, and Movies are the worse off for their departure. I feel the stand-out performance came from Ethel Merman who really enjoyed the romp. It was a far cry from the pictures one expects from this Director,(Stanley Kramer) as is the casting of Spencer Tracy as Culpepper - the slapstick scenes in the last 15 minutes must have been an anathema to Tracy who at least seemed to enter into the spirit of things. It was a trifle long, but nevertheless it was a couple of hours plus of really good fun. "},{"Title":"The biggest, the best, the longest . . . the funniest!","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This great film is also one of the last special effects projects created by master FX artist Willis O'Brien (King Kong, etc).  And the story is as wild and wooly and imaginative as any Sci-Fi film ever made.The central theme of the story (which is very well portrayed) is the mindless madness and greed which consumes human beings when faced with collosal monetary gain.  The beauty of this colossal story is that every character in it -- even the peerless Spencer Tracy as the loyal police chief -- is not immune to sin of human greed!Perhaps the most amazing thing of all is that this lofty moral message was presented to audiences in Cinarama!  If you've only seen this comic classic on video tape, you've watched a classic through a keyhole!But there's more to this remarkable story.  After the film's initial Cinemascope release, the studio cut 38 minutes out of the original 192 minute running time.  Years later, the prerecorded tapes were issued at the new (cut) 154 minute length.  Several years went be, and only the most ardent fans missed the cut scenes.Then a miracle happened.  A widescreen print of the film was discovered in a old warehouse which was scheduled for demolition.  And the print was -- amazingly -- the original 192 minute version!  The missing scenes were added to a new version of the video tape, and the public was treated to the complete film after years of the cut version!These missing scenes are not dull and unnecessary footage which the film is better off without.  They add both humor and depth to this remarkable story of human greed and mishap.  These scenes are identifiable by a slight difference in their color and contrast, but otherwise they fit in perfectly with an ambitious story which mixes comedy with sly comments on the human condition.Director Stanley Kramer loaded his mega-movie with treats for every type of viewer.  Fans of classic comedy are treated to frequent cameos by such giants as Jerry Lewis, Jack Benny, Don Knotts, Jim Backus, and the Three Stooges.  For male members of the audience he presents the abundant charms of Miss Edie Adams in a torn and tight-fitting dress that shows off more than a little of the beauty which made her fame as the symbol of a certain series of cigar commercials the 1960s.The editing of this three-hour-plus extravaganza a work of art unto itself. With a story packed with so many sub-plots, the story would have been a garbled mess if the editor had not skillfully alternate between each sub-plot. However, he did a masterful job of presenting each of the miriad stories in rapid succession, and this keeps the audience on the edge of their seats as they watch this mind-numbing story unfold.Stunt fans watched pop-eyed as speeding cars soar into the air, and airplanes crash right through billboards and fly through open hangers. The car stunts weren't even matched (must less surpassed) until Bullitt (1968). The farcical battle between Jonathan Winters and two service station attendants results in the complete destruction of the building!  This alone is a comic tour de force which no other film has duplicated.The film's wild climax is achieved only with the help of FX wizard Willard O'Brien, when the principal cast members cling to a weaving firetruck ladder while a crowd of horrified onlookers gasp in terror.The intermission at the film's halfway point is a rare gift to movie enthusiast; it allows the audience to stop during the film and talk over the parts they've already seen, and the parts that are still to come!  Imagine what it must have been like to hurry back into the theater after the intermission and sit down to wait for the entire second half of his amazing epic of comedy.Last but not least, there's this bit of film lore to consider according to film historians, the original director's cut of this film was five and a half hours long!  Before its release, the studio insisted that Kramer cut it down to three hours.  He did, and later it was cut even more.  But imagine seeing all of it -- the original epic comedy which last over five hours.Even at three hours, this is undoubtedly the ultimate comedy film, a megafilm which is chucked full of gags which range from the subtle to the outrageous.  This is a movie to be watched with your entire family.  If you don't have a family, borrow one!  "},{"Title":"The Comedy Film All Hollywood Wanted To Be Part Of","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film contains the greatest gathering of comedic talent in film history. Actors would beg Stanley Kramer for a walk on part. No matter what some critics have written, It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World is the acme of film comedy making. The plot may be cheesy but the remarkable talent and masterly direction pulls it off. The major actors were astounded when they came onto the picture to find two telephone book sized scripts, one for dialog and the other for the action, with a witty sound score and beautiful camera work, there will probably never be another film of this caliber. Spencer Tracy leads an all-star cast including Jimmy Durante, Jonathan Winters, Milton Berle, Mickey Rooney, Edie Adams, Terry Thomas, Ethel Merman, William Demarest, Arnold Stang and Jim Bakus just to name a few of the dozens of comedic talents that add so much to this picture. The ironic thing about it was that Kramer was better known in Hollywood for heavy dramatic films like Judgement at Nurenburg also with Tracy. But he managed to pull off one for the ages. If you have not seen it, you just don't know what your missing. Jesse White, the Three Stooges, Edward Everett Horton, and on and on. See it today. "}{"Title":"Epic scale comedy, intended as the comedy-to-end-all-comedies (which it isn't).","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Stanley Kramer - the producer and director of this colossal comedy epic - admitted afterwards that his objective when making this film was to serve up the comedy to end all comedies. It's a seriously over-ambitious goal, and in all honesty the film never comes within touching distance of achieving it. However, there's still a good deal to enjoy. Energetic performances from an all-star cast; splendid stunt work; occasional moments of comic ingenuity; destruction on a mind-boggling scale; and lots of guest appearances from major stars to keep you engaged during the periodic lulls. The reason the film loses some of its appeal is that, in my view, there are two noteworthy flaws. The first is that the film is much, much longer than it really ought to be; the second is that noise and destruction are substituted for wit at EVERY imaginable opportunity. Sometimes, a witty remark or an underplayed expression can be twice as funny as someone demolishing a building. As the saying states, less can be more, which seems an alien notion in Kramer's larger-than-life approach to things.A bunch of tourists driving along a Californian highway witness a dramatic accident. A car careers off the road and plunges down a mountain-side. The tourists go down to check out the wreckage, and discover the almost dead driver Smiler Grogan (Jimmy Durante) lying nearby. He tells them about a robbery he pulled many years earlier, and inform them that the $350,000 loot is buried in a park in the distant city of Santa Rosita, under a big W. After unsuccessfully trying to debate a way of evenly splitting the money, the tourists decide that there's no alternative but to challenge each other to a winner-takes-all race to the cash. Unbeknown to the participants, the entire race is being covertly observed by the police, led by Captain Culpepper (Spencer Tracy), who hope to let the treasure-seekers dig up the long lost stolen fortune for them.The whole cast are in pretty dynamic form, most notably Tracy as the honest but highly stressed cop with deception on his mind; Ethel Merman as the most intentionally annoying character in movie history; and Dick Shawn (in the film's best comic performance) as a psychotic life-guard whose love for his momma knows no bounds. Great scenes include Shawn's frenzied attempt to pursue by car his brother-in-law and an English fortune-hunter; the hardware store antics of the Crumps (Sid Caesar and Edie Adams) as they try to escape from a locked cellar; and Phil Silvers' hilarious humiliation at the hands of a young farm-boy. There are certainly a share of ineffective sequences, especially the final scene on the fireman's' ladder, which is ludicrously OTT and hindered by unforgivably obvious dummy shots. Also, as already hinted at, the film considerably outstays its welcome so that by the end one comes away feeling a sense of exhaustion rather than elation. It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World is a professionally assembled and entertaining slice of indulgence. If an hour shorter and a bit more restrained, it might have been a classic. "},{"Title":"Only for Hardcore Vaudville Fans Vaudville's Last Gasp is Almost Unwatchable -- More Like a Whimper than a Cry When is this going to be over?","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A few decades ago, this kind of over-the-top mad-cap comedy was very much in vogue, although the material tries to be funny sort of like a a bad Vaudeville act. Produced in the wake of The Caesar Hour and Your Show of Shows, Mad World spawns from a comedic style born on Vaudeville and lived on briefly through television and movies via Milton Berle, Mel Brooks, Bob Hope, Jonathan Winters, Harvey Corman, Tim Conway, Sid Caesar, Carol Burnett and many others. The comedy caper sub-genre enjoyed a brief stint from the 1960's into the 1980's, ending with the Cannon Ball Run movies. Today, however, contrived comedy of this sort wears thin and has not withstood very well. It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World was probably the beginning and end of comedy-caper with a Vaudveillian cast (and you can see why), and the comedy-variety TV show ended when the Carol Burnett Show aired for the last time in the 1970's.The formula is almost too contrived for its own good. A diverse group of misfit characters, usually played by Hollywood comedic name talent shown in little boxes on the poster, find out about some booty. They all go on a mad-cap chase and/or adventure to grab the booty before the others do. And this movie is brimming with so many recognizable names, it's starts sounding like a Who's Who of Trivial Pursuit Comedy Edition Milton Berle, Buddy Hackett, Ethel Merman, Sid Caesar, Jim Bachus, Jonathan Winters, Mickey Rooney, Phil Silvers, and scores of others. Even more have uncredited cameos like Jack Benny, Carl Reiner and Jerry Lewis. And of course the characters are little caricatures. Jonathan Winters plays a truck driver not playing with a full deck. Milton Berle is supposed to be a successful businessman who would rather be on his yacht. And Ethel Merman plays his never-ending nagging wife who gets the nickname old bag, and deservedly so. At one point I just started fast-forwarding her dialog! Spencer Tracy plays a cop who is tracking the party of misfits, and he often throws his hat out of the window, as if that's funny. It get's run over by Jerry Lewis, in probably his most outstanding screen performance since it's the only scene he's in.This merry band of idiots that would make the Adams Family look like Oxford Professors comes upon a dying man (Jimmy Durante) who just crashed over the side of the road. Why an 80-year-old man was going 150 miles an hour through mountainous terrain in an American car is almost as big a mystery as to why the acting is so bad. He reveals that there is $350,000 stashed underneath a W, which we assume is not the middle initial of a certain bad president. Of course, he doesn't ask them to give a message to any loved ones, or to get an ambulance. When he croaks, the cops come, and the group can't decide if Durante died immediately or if was a raving lunatic. It becomes clear that these marginal human beings, played by actors who probably made many times the amount of the booty, are out to get their share of the loot.The problem with this kind of caper comedy is that it tries to be funny, akin to a Vaudeville act where two dingbats try to outdo each other with top hat and cane all the while falling over one another to the accompaniment of cymbals crashing. I've seen 12-year-olds make up stuff that's far more amusing. If you like the rather silly Vaudevillan humor that adorned the stages of theaters back in the early 20th century, Mad Mad World is a throw-back to that era. However, for younger audiences who need comedy with more of a modern edge, like Lenny Bruce, George Carlin, Robin Williams, or Steve Martin, Mad Mad World seems like a mishmash of unintelligent ridiculousness. Sure, Mad World is designed as pure entertainment, but at 155 minutes, it gets to be torturous. I thought cruel and unusual punishment had been outlawed by the US Constitution. "},{"Title":"Gigantism gone mad","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is, truly, an awful picture, an almost total bore. Except it's very interesting to see that one performer (and one only!) can actually make comedy with no material, and that's Jonathan Winters. There's hardly a good line in it (amazing that the same William Rose wrote the wonderful, charming Genevieve) and the endless car chases become a crashing bore after the first -- well, soon. Ethel Merman, bless her heart, is fascinating to watch she gives it her all (as she always does), and her all is about ten times the size of anyone else's. Otherwise, what's most interesting, perhaps, is the time capsule quality, particularly if you happen to be interested in American musical theater, for, oddly enough, a huge number of the great (and so misused) comics in this picture happen to have been in musicals at about this time. So (to clarify my point) one can see just what these guys looked like at the time of their (generally only) musicals. Buddy Hackett was about to do I Had a Ball, Phil Silvers was coming off Do Re Mi, this is Merman just after Gypsy, Dick Shawn just about to go into Fade Out Fade In, and Sid Caesar at the time of Little Me. Otherwise what WAS the point? Amazingly, this wildly overlong comedy apparently originally clocked in at FIVE HOURS! -- which just goes to show that Stanley Kramer's sense of comedy is pretty much equal to his sense of drama. The one fairly amusing (if stomach-churning) scene is the final L.A. Plaza scene, a more elaborate (though nowhere near as funny -- is 10 men hanging from a building funnier than one? No.) version of the brilliant Harold Lloyd's Safety Last. Even Saul Bass's titles seem labored. Ernest Gold's score is pretty (and spectacularly played by no less than the L.A. Philharmonic), but can't do much to overcome the general leadenness. "},{"Title":"I just didn't like it","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The words of a dying thief (Jimmy Durante) sets off a cross country race from various parties to get a stash of money.I know this film has its audience but I never found it funny. I saw the uncut version on a big screen years ago and didn't laugh once. Seeing it on TV (letter boxed on TCM) didn't change things. I have some friends who find this hysterical but it really escapes me.I find the humor in this film labored and obvious with tons of unfunny slapstick. There's next to no characterization and the all star cast just seems intent on seeing who can scream the loudest (Ethel Merman wins hands down). Also it's embarrassing to see the great Spencer Tracy reduced to this--I find nothing funny about seeing him (actually a very obvious stunt double) running up and down flights of stairs again and again (a very strained running joke). The only fun in this film is seeing all the actors who pop up for small cameos (my favorite was Jack Benny). Still, they aren't enough to stop this film from being stupid, boring and (sometimes) quite violent. If you love violent slapstick you might enjoy this. I can honestly only give it a 4. "},{"Title":"What A Big Big Big Big Big Big Waste","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It took me years to finally see this movie, and now I know why. It is slow, ponderous, unfunny, traffics in stereotypes and mugging for laughs, and guilty of misusing the enormous comedic talent at its disposal. I like Stanley Kramer's work, which is why this movie was especially disheartening. He has absolutely no sense of pace or timing, the script is overlong by about 75 pages, and his leads are almost painstakingly kept from being funny the way they know how. There isn't one solid laugh in the whole thing. See it just to say that you've seen it, but that's about it. "},{"Title":"It makes me laugh.","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I first saw this movie as a child and it made me laugh. I saw this movie in my 20s and it made me laugh. Likewise my 40s. The last time I saw it I was 50 something, and it still made me laugh. It is a ridiculous movie with a single sentence where the plot should be. It is not fancy. It is dirty (no, not in That way), and I too have no business liking this movie but I do. And I'll watch it again, especially if it is a dismal day and all I have the energy to ask of a movie is that it make me laugh. Perhaps it is as simple as the fact the movie reminds me of my childhood. Whatever the reason, pop some corn. Pour a beer. Press play, and go on a bumpy little road trip with the magnificent cast. "},{"Title":"Awesome Comedy Romp","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie when I saw it as a child and recently watched it again as a 50 years old and found it to still be incredibly funny. Most movies that are 50 years old really show their age. If it were not for the classic cars and classic actors, this movie could have been made in 2014. It is an hilarious movie that features some of the best physical comedy ever. The cast is a literal Who's Who of comedic actors of the time. I have seen reviews that criticize the movie for a lack of character development and awful pacing and think that these people are completely missing the point. This movie is not meant to be deep or thought provoking but is rather a breakneck comedy romp that is pure fun. However, it does deliver a great message about the power of greed that is as relevant today, perhaps more so, as it was in 1963 But the message is obvious and not heavy. The movie is just meant to be fun and if you accept it in these terms it delivers in spades. As I watched the movie, I could just imagine my late mother howling with laughter at some of the crazy antics and physical zaniness. As for pacing, there is one speed; breakneck. The movie is 240 and actually features an intermission but I never found myself bored for a second as the movie never slows down and the action is constant. If you are looking for a crazy comedy that will make you laugh, this movie is a classic that delivers and features some of the greats of the time such as Jonathon Winters, Phil Silvers,Mickey Rooney, Milton Berle, Buddy Hackett and a very memorable performance by Ethel Merman as the mother-in-law from hell. If you want a heavy movie with a message and deep characters look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad Classic!","Date":"22 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Mad World is a prime example of how a movie can stand the test of time. In this case, fifty-plus years have passed since this seminal comedy film was in theaters, but the writing, acting, and overarching absurdity still feels fresh.For starters, the plot doesn't require one's brain to stretch to unearthly limits (a rule which, for comedies, typically shouldn't be deviated from) A group of normal passersby en route to different destinations witness the car accident of a robber on the lam and, upon attempting to help him, become privy to the location of buried moolah. Quite a lot of it, in fact. A failed attempt at reasonably figuring out a way to equally split the dead guy's cash prompts the group to embark on the obvious a frantic, no-holds-barred, outrageously funny odyssey towards the money and the Big W it supposedly rests beneath. It's mayhem of the highest caliber, and there are a number of things that bolster the unfolding of this story. To name a few 1) The cast is pure gold. For each role (starring and cameos alike), I couldn't imagine a more talented actor/actress suited for it. Much of what the comedy juggernauts from that era were known for shows up in the characters they portray. Phil Silvers' fast-talking, finger- snapping, larger-than-life ego (a la Sgt. Bilko) surfaces in the form of materialistic motorist Otto Meyer, who creates some brilliant chemistry with jumpsuited furniture mover Lennie Pike, played by none other than improv master Jonathan Winters; there's gap toothed, khaki-clad jalopy driver Hawthorne, played by Terry-Thomas, who provides comedy just by showing his quintessentially British self. And when you throw in the shrieking, henpecking mother-in-law played by Ethel Merman, you've only just begun to experience the bizarre melting pot of citizens populating this silly, sun-drenched road trip through the meandering deserts of the Golden State. And, vast as the number may be, the cameo appearances never bog down the story but only serve to enrich it. My only complaint with the celebrity roster here is the absence of Dick van Dyke and Lucille Ball. Fortunately, the movie doesn't suffer to any degree without them, although a vignette with either one would've likely been sidesplitting. 2) Some reviews here have attacked the movie's runtime, claiming it causes pieces of the film to generate boredom. I beg to differ. If anything, I wish it were longer! As it stands, there's enough time devoted to the various characters' escapades and the the pacing of their individual sequences is perfect. Even the moments in the Santa Rosita police station, where slapstick wasn't prevalent, didn't drag. The time was well utilized here to develop characters by means of witty dialogue, especially between William Demarest's Chief Aloysius and Spencer Tracy's Cpt. Culpepper. 3) I'd be remiss to forget the climax, which has to be one of the greatest in film. I won't say much because words can't really do it justice, but it's the type of scene that you have to view yourself. Maybe even more than once! I've laughed hard at this scene, to the point of tears, and there's always something new to pick up each time. I highly, highly recommend this farcical masterpiece for anyone who needs cheering up and I'd definitely show it to someone who's only ever seen contemporary comedies. Maybe their viewpoint on the comedy genre will change? Mad World definitely proves that you can fill a 3- hour slot with visual and verbal gags that don't need raunchiness or profanity to back them up or provide the basis of humor. As it's been said many times they don't make 'em like they used to! "},{"Title":"My Favorite Comedy So Far!","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World is probably my favorite comedy of all time. This is mostly because it has all my favorite types of comedy. It has the dry humor that Abbott and Costello use and slapstick humor that the Three Stooges (who make a cameo in this film) use and it utilizes it perfectly. The cast also employs many old comedy legends like Jonathan Winters, and Mickey Rooney just to name a couple. Most major comedy movies today are unfunny parodies or gross-out humor which I don't find funny.The premise is quite simple. Several people find a dead man on the side of the road. In his dying words he tells them of a big W and under it is a treasure of roughly $300,000 which at that time was the mother lode. It's still a lot of money today, but back then it was definitely a lot. Afterwards it becomes a frantic race of who gets there first. They also pick up new people along the way who also want a piece of the pie. You also have a police officer named Culpepper who is also after the money. He claims to be after it to turn it in by law but he really wants it for himself.There's not much to say. The premise good, the cast is great, the characters are all memorable in some way, and I just found it funny. The extreme situations these people get themselves into here is just fun to watch. I especially like the last act where they are all chasing Culpepper who has the money in a thrilling and hilarious chase scene. For those who are fans of classic comedies like Abbott and Costello or the Three Stooges then check this out if you haven't already. "},{"Title":"Great ensemble comedy.","Date":"20 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Based on everything I have heard about it,I bet this film was an awesome theater going experience,with it's announcements coming over loud speakers and at concession stands about the status of those in pursuit of the buried money.Makes me wish I could go back in time and experience it,but alas,it was 2 years before my time and my first viewing of it was on DVD.It was still awesome,but I do wish that could include those theater announcements in a special edition of the DVD.That would be a treat.Great ensemble comedy action here with a virtual who's who of the comedy world of the time doing what they do best.I do wish Stan Laurel would have accepted their offer to be a part of it,but I guess it wasn't meant to be.He wasn't going to work without his good friend Ollie Hardy.It's a laugh a minute great film. "}{"Title":"Every comic from practically every part of the world gets to take their lumps here.","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a classic comedy that some may find too stuffed with actors in cameo roles to be able to concentrate on with just one viewing and come out of it having seen everything. Having seen this in obviously edited T.V. showings while growing up, I got to see the full version in an L.A. revival house that restored so much chopped out for the network showings. This really has to be seen on a big screen to appreciate in its entirety, because even in letterbox versions, so much ends up being lost on a small screen, even a medium sized T.V.A group of strangers all band together to find the mysterious W which is the clue to the location of loot stashed by a bank robber (the fabulous schnozola himself, Jimmy Durante), and greed takes over as they try to out-do each other to get their first. There's trucker Jonathan Winters, bickering Sid Caesar and Edie Adams, pals Mickey Rooney and Buddy Hackett, and a traveling married couple (Milton Berle and Dorothy Provine), stuck with her battle-axe of a mother (Ethel Merman in one of the most delightfully obnoxious characterizations outside of Shelley Winters). They are joined by a variety of others whom they meet on the way, most notably the obviously self-centered Phil Silvers who literally licks his lips upon finding out about the treasure and Terry-Thomas as the very droll Englishman who picks up Berle, Provine and la Merm. Merman keeps trying without fruition to get ahold of her babied younger son (Dick Shawn), a poster child for fool if there ever was one who just happens to live in the same city as the location of the mysterious W, whatever that happens to be.These senseless people's moves are followed by local police chief Spencer Tracy who has been out to solve this case for decades, literally on the verge of retirement and set to take a vacation with his whiny wife (the voice of Selma Diamond, no less). But Tracy has his own agenda, proving that temptation is sometimes greater than common sense, something his boss William Demarest obviously has but didn't think his protégée lacked. Along the way there are cameos by such comical actors as Jim Backus, Don Knotts, Eddie Rochester Anderson, Peter Falk, Zasu Pitts, Charles Lane and Joe E. Brown, not to mention a few unbilled surprises here and there. There's adventure driving cross country, danger in the air, and a hysterical come-uppance for the greedy group on a rickety fire escape. There's also a title song, cut from T.V. prints that confused me when I got the film soundtrack, but was there plain as day on the video release and the big screen when I saw that.Stanley Kramer, a producer and director who could be called the David Selznick of his day, went all out for this. If you think he had stars for Judgment at Nuremberg, he's overloaded them here, evidenced in the credits where the cast list seems to go on forever. Tracy totally underplays his part while the comical actors he's surrounded by seem to be going out of their way to see who can give the biggest performance. To see Merman and Miltie playing mother and son-in-law (and being close together in age themselves) is comic enough, and to see her constantly assaulting him and Terry-Thomas with her purse, then getting tipped over several times to reveal her undergarments, will leave you gasping for air after laughing. I don't think they give Oscars for obnoxiousness, but Merman certainly deserved a nomination for her ability to get laughs for being so delightfully hateful. "},{"Title":"It's a fun fun fun movie!","Date":"9 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" An all star cast has them pursuit of a money chase by car or air. You can't help but laugh at this film. Stanley Kramer produced and directed Spencer Tracy, one of America's greatest actors, as a crooked police officer in Santa Rosita, California. When a dying man claims there is a fortune out there. There is no other time in film history where you have so many stars in one film. Broadway legend Ethel Merman is a scene stealer as the mother in law. Columbo's Peter Falk has a small role. Three's Company Norman Fell has a cameo. A lot of Hollywood's greatest comedic performers appear in this role like Jonathan Winters and Buddy Hackett. Even Mickey Rooney is in it. Everybody looks like they're having a blast in this film. It has a memorable theme song. Still you can't help but laugh at the absurdities. "},{"Title":"It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World (1963) ***1/2","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Often and arguably considered The Greatest Comedy Ever Made, this Stanley Kramer Epic is certainly the biggest. It's a wild and zany free-for-all which runs nearly three hours and boasts the talents of many of the funniest comic actors of the time. It all begins when elderly robber Jimmy Durante crashes his speeding car off the road, and several other motorists stop and reach out to help him. Just before dying, the old man tells them they're entitled to take the $350,000 loot he's stashed in a national park, buried for years underneath a Big W. At first the eight people at the crash site try to compromise, but ultimately all hell erupts in a greedy every man and woman for themselves frenzy. This sets the crazy pace for several different humorous vignettes, as the participants all race to the park to be the first to get the stolen money Jonathan Winters is a big lug of a truck driver who gets into a disastrous altercation with two nerdy gas station attendants (Arnold Stang & Marvin Kaplan). Milton Berle is a suffering dweeb of a husband who's controlled by his wife (Dorothy Provine) and his loud-mouthed mother in law (Ethel Merman, perfect here in a suitably irritating comic performance). Dick Shawn is Merman's dimwitted playboy bum of a son. Sid Caesar and Edie Adams are a couple who get locked in a hardware store but can't seem to get out. Mickey Rooney and Buddy Hackett are two pals forced to fly their own airplane when drunken pilot Jim Backus knocks himself out (Carl Reiner is the air traffic controller). Along the way, other opportunists worm themselves into the chase Phil Silvers is a gem as a real sleazy snake with eyeglasses and no scruples. Terry-Thomas is a proud Englishman in constant patriotic conflicts with American Milton Berle. Peter Falk and Eddie Anderson are two clueless cab drivers. And observing all of these clashing characters is straight man Spencer Tracy, in the role of the aging Police Captain Culpepper, who has been tracking this case of the stolen money for fifteen years, and is now looking to find a way to retire himself off to Mexico.On and on the mania goes, with some fun car chases and many gags, some of which work better than others. There are so many other comedians given tiny guest spots here and there, that it's hard to remember them all... but keep on the lookout for cameos by Don Knotts (as a nervous motorist), Jack Benny, Leo Gorcey, Jerry Lewis, Joe E. Brown, Buster Keaton, and even The Three Stooges. It's not a perfect film, nor in my opinion is it the most drop-dead funniest comedy ever, but I have to love its sheer sense of size, scope, and all-out craziness. The ending is perfect, and probably the best laugh of the show for anyone who's stuck with it through to the end. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Been laughing madly at this mad movie for decades","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a crazy insane cars gone wild movie, with true slap stick talent. Great talent. It is a very fast paced movie reflecting the madness of the mindset at the time of the Cuban Missile Crisis, the start of the Vietnam war, the start of the space race and the Kennedy years. People were edgy back then as history took a hard shift at the time. Comedy back then was open ended and rather nuts in reflection. Probably this was one of the times times for comedy of a generation gone mad. I watch this a lot. I laugh like mad each time. It shows mid-century Palm Springs as a historical record, and shows the Anza Grade as a fairly new scary road. Great mad driving scene on the then new road. This a good historical record on the Palm Springs area during the mid- century. I love this movie for that. It's also a good record on beatnik music and attitudes. "},{"Title":"Everything has been said, except I will add....","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" All the 10s given to this epic comedy say it all. I LOVE this film, the fun, the timing, the wacky situations, all come together to do what a good comedy is supposed to do...keep you laughing and in this film, it is able to sustain the laughs for three hours plus -- no small feat.The one thing I will add is that in the midst of this great fun comes one Dick Shawn, un-funny, annoying and totally out of place in an otherwise perfectly cast film. In fact, he does exactly the same thing in THE PRODUCERS as LSD. It is unbelievable that the audience in the film could be turned around from hating Springtime for Hitler and Germany, due to the comedic nonsense of Shawn to thinking he was hysterically funny. The reality is, in THE PRODUCERS and in this classic, you can't wait for him to get off the screen.Sorry if this offends any Shawn fans, but seems I am not the only one of this opinion -- none of my friends who are avid fans of IAMMMMMW find him remotely palatable.This epic certainly would, like it has for so many others, get my 10.... if it weren't for this no-talent Dick Shawn. "},{"Title":"The stunts!! Watch the stunts!","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I won't give a proper and extended review because there are already over 300 posted here at this time. I will say that any comedy that can get my wife to laugh at every point in the movie has to be great. What I would like to add is that the genius is in the fine details. Watch the actors/comedians. Do you ever get the feeling they are acting? I don't! Yea, the action is over the top, silly, crazy, ludicrous, outrageous, and unlikely but the cast sells it all. And, what I would really like to mention and give props to are the stunts. Next time you watch the movie pay attention to the countless stunts that had to be performed from the simple kick of the bucket (was a stuntman, not Durante's leg you see), to the complex and dangerous winding road chases. That no one was killed is probably one of the most astonishing things about the movie. I can't say enough about how well everything was obviously planned out and executed to a t to come up with action that helps sell this extraordinary comedy. Can you imagine the time it must have taken to plan on how to build the gas station in such a way that it falls apart how it should and when it should? I could name almost a page full of individual stunts that it took to make this movie. Kudos to the stunt director and his team of stunt men and women. "},{"Title":"Unequivocally one of the best films ever made!!! IMHO","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film was shot during my first year on the planet. The next 50 years told the tale rather well. We silly humans love gold, the pursuit of it, the hoarding of it, the killing for it and above all else, getting our hands on some else' and living the 'good life' upon getting the ill-gotten booty. I for one see that the second coming was already here in the hearts and minds of those who are imbued with an uncommon consciousness ... clarity Means you laugh when it's funny. This film allows you to escape into a world that's exactly as depicted ... easily and whimsically portrays a stellar ensemble cast that proves beyond a shadow of a doubt ... the aliens will never come here and make themselves visible to us knowingly, they'd get shot or robbed or thrown in the 'hoose gow'. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie for families - almost a live action cartoon.","Date":"30 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Great movie for all ages - truly with no foul language and the only even slightly adult situation just involves drinking ( spoiler the country club to airplane scene ).Definitely a great movie for all ages.You can watch it over and over and see other nuances which you hadn't picked up before...A true G movie for all ages.Has an actual intermission time.Have fun and count the number of vehicles which the cast uses. Even more fun if you can name the brands and makes of the vehicles...Two sons age 7 and 9 loved it the first time they watched. Now they yell out Sylvester!!! at odd times while sitting in the back seat of my car while we are driving around.Great movie for all of the actors in it both in the main roles and supporting roles and actors who went on to do cartoon character voices in 1960s, 1970s cartoons and holiday specials... "},{"Title":"The best film in many categories","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World, 1963, A chase and caper movie starting with the last words of a dying old thief sharing his secret about thousands of secretly buried money with six car's drivers and their passengers. Each of the six cars occupants spend the rest of the movie trying to outsmart the others and get to the buried money first. Comedy ensues with everyone involved. *Special Stars- Spencer Tracy, Milton Berle, William Demarest, Jimmy Durante, Sid Cesar, Phil Silvers, Mickey Rooney, Jonathan Winters, and a cast of 1000 comedians from stage, screen, and TV. *Theme- Big money can bring the worst or best out of people.*Trivia/location/goofs- Many location shots include Thousand Oaks, Malibu Canyon, Agoura Hills, Palos Verdes Estates near Marineland of the Pacific, downtown Long Beach and Santa Monica, and Cajon Pass mountain regions. The BIG W was on a private home in the 'Portugese Bend' area and most of the palm trees that made up the 'W' are now gone and not replaced. The police station was the YMCA in downtown LOng beach, CA. Many comedians took 'cameo' or small 'bit' parts just to be included in this landmark film by Stanley Kramer. This film was 'remade, unsuccessfully and it was called 'Rat Race'. It flopped. *Emotion- The best film in many categories comedy, car chase, editing, stunts, caper and 'best ensemble cast'. This kind of movie and cast cannot be made today. It it the kind of film that can be enjoyed over and over by a viewer since new comedy and stars turn up in this film no matter how many times you see this film. "},{"Title":"This is a Good, Good, Good, Good Movie","Date":"5 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last weekend, I saw a movie called It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. To be quite honest with you, this is an awesome, awesome, awesome, awesome movie! Why do I think this is a great, great, great, great movie? Let's take a look...After a suspect named Smiler Grogan(Jimmy Durante from Frosty the Snowman) dies in a car accident, he left $350,000 in a location with a Big W and chaos ensues when furniture mover Lennie Pike(Jonathon Winters from the Pound Puppies TV Special), dentist Melville Crump(Sid Caeser), his wife Monica(Edie Adams), Benjy Benjiman(Buddy Hackett from the Music Man) and his friend Dingy Bell(Mickey Rooney from Santa Claus is Coming to Town), entrepreneur J. Russel Finch(Milton Berle), his wife Emmeline(Dorothy Provine), Emmeline's stubborn mother Mrs. Marcus(Ethel Merman), Otto Meyer(Phil Silvers from A Funny Happened On the Wat to the Forum), Britist army Lt. Col. J. Algernon Hawthorne(Terry-Thomas), and Mrs. Marcus' lazy son Sylvester(Dick Shawn) go on a wild and wacky chase to see who will get the 350 grand while police captain T. G. Culpepper(Spencer Tracy from Fury) and his police department investigate the situation.Everybody in the entire movie has put in a lot of effort for their acting. Once I watched this movie, I laughed so hard my head fell off(not literally). Bottom Line The opening song for this movie is great, all the actors have performed their roles perfectly, the music is great, and this is, without a doubt, one of the funniest and greatest movies I have ever seen. Also starring Arnold Stang as Ray, Jim Backus(From the Famous Adventures of Mr. Magoo and Gilligan's Island) as Tyler Fitzgerald, William Demearest(From My Three Sons) as Aloysius, Jack Benny as the driver who was told off by Mrs. Marcus, and featuring a 5-second cameo appearance by the Three Stooges(Moe Howard, Larry Fine, and Curly Joe Derita) as the firemen. "}{"Title":"A bit long but contains plenty of laughs","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As four vehicles drive along a desert highway in California they are started when a fifth vehicle passes at speed; goes off the road and crashes. They are all sure the driver must be dead but when they get to him they find that he isn't quite gone; before dying he tells them how he has buried $350,000 under the 'Big W' in Santa Rosita State Park... and so begins a madcap chase as the drivers and their passengers do everything they can to make sure that they get there first. They include Dentist Melville Crump and his wife, Trucker Lenny Pike, a pair of comedy writers named Dingy and Benjy and Mr Finch, is wife and his battle-axe of a mother in law. Along the way they are joined by Lt. Col. J. Algernon Hawthorne, a British officer and the devious Otto Meyer. On the way they frequently fall out with each other, crash and have to find new vehicles and on one case even get locked in the basement of a hardware store! All the while they race towards the money they have no idea that the police led by Captain Culpepper of the Santa Rosita Police Department is watching every move they make. Most of the characters are just greedy and fairly unlikeable and that is what makes it so funny when yet another thing goes wrong for them. Even when it looks like it is all over and the money is found there is a twist that leads to somebody we hadn't even realised was in the race runs off with the cash with the others in pursuit! While the plot of this film is as simple as it gets it is a lot of fun watching the top quality cast get into a series of hilarious scrapes... it even manages to make the old cliché of slipping on a banana peel funny; largely because it couldn't have happened to a more deserving person! The greedy gang includes such comic talents as Phil Silvers, Terry Thomas, Ethel Merman, Mickey Rooney and Sid Caesar and playing it straight is Spencer Tracy as Capt. Culpepper; the man who has been waiting fifteen years to close the case of the stolen money. The action sequences look great as cars race recklessly along the mountainous desert roads; unfortunately when we see close-ups of the cars' occupants the back projection is fairly obvious although I don't know how that problem could have been avoided back then. At over two and a half hours in length, longer in some versions, the film is a bit on the long side however it does have enough laughs to sustain this length and only a few scenes drag a bit. Another thing in this film's favour compared to most modern comedies is the fact that it never relies on smut or bad language to get a laugh so is suitable for people of all ages. If you haven't seen it already check it out; it's a classic for a reason! "},{"Title":"Run, Run, Run, Run for the Money!","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Before he kicks the bucket, expiring criminal Jimmy Durante tells five comedians from four passing vehicles - alphabetically Milton Berle, Sid Caesar, Buddy Hackett, Mickey Rooney and Jonathan Winters - he's stashed $350,000 in loot under the Big W in a park. Then, they and some fellow travelers - notably Edie Adams, Ethel Merman, Dick Shawn, Phil Silvers and Terry-Thomas - race to claim the money. The greedy prospectors are monitored by police captain Spencer Tracy, who has a surprise motive. Nobody knows exactly where the money is, but it's buried under a Big W (and you'll see it). Director Stanley Kramer throws in a ton of cameos, which helps make the long running time bearable. The classic comics do their things, and do them well. Mr. Rooney is the funniest air traffic controller in the business. And, you'll surely appreciate seeing Ms. Merman's final slip.******** It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World (11/7/63) Stanley Kramer ~ Spencer Tracy, Milton Berle, Ethel Merman, Mickey Rooney "},{"Title":"It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad Movie!!","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If I could give this a million stars, I think I would. This movie makes me so speechless that, I don't know if I can mention all the reasons why I like this! It is so different from other films from its time period and even today! I hope Hollywood doesn't pee on this classic by making a remake with Jack Black or some other supposedly funny bozo! What makes this movie so memorable is probably all the different characters that get involved in it. Almost every famous actor or actress in Hollywood at the time starred in it. And for the other famous ones, they probably were one of the dozens of cameo appearances in this. It's a comedy, it's an action film, and above all it's a character film. The writers really had to be creative to think up all these diverse characters which you come to know through this film's incredible length.The movie follows a group of regular hard working people who are all driving along the same highway when this speeding car passes them up and goes shooting off a cliff crash landing on jagged rocks. From this point on, the movie just gets crazier and crazier! The people behind the crashed car all stop and go down to see if the driver is alright. He's still alive but hovering over the edge. So, then he goes on to tell this group of people that there is over million dollars in cash buried under a 'big W' in California (they are already in CA. I forget where he tells them the money exactly is.) So all these people set out on a quest to try and get this money before others do. This group of people trying to get the money are like a snowball rolling down a steep hill getting bigger, bigger, and bigger! I say this because they collect so many other people along the way!The characters are so unique, that I could probably just do a review talking about all the characters. But what made the characters even stand out even better was the handful of talented actors and actresses they had play them! There were so many unique and hilarious actors and actresses back then! And they never had to tell you a sex joke to make you laugh, or spew out profanity! Aside from it being a character film, it's also a great action films, containing some of the best stunt work and car chase sequences in the history of cinema....EVER!! What makes the action sequences so great is that they are so cartoon-like. That's what makes them memorable. And boys and girls.... no , I repeat , no special effects used once so ever for any of these action sequences (except the unavoidable occasional green screen.) This film is mandatory!! You're not going to be considered a human being if you don't watch this! So go to eBay, Amazon, Best Buy or wherever you buy your movies from and purchase this!! An absolute landmark in the history of film making!! I demand a re- release into theaters. "},{"Title":"A Consummate Classic Comedy","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jimmy Durante tells a group of people in the Southern California desert that a large sum of money is buried under a big W in a park south of San Diego. Mickey Rooney and Buddy Hackett are gag writers headed for Las Vegas. Milton Berle is headed for a vacation with wife Dorothy Provine and Ethel Herman as the mother-in-law to beat all mothers-in-law. Sid Caesar and Edie Adams are a dentist and his wife. And Jonathan Winters is driving a van of furniture. Monitoring all of them, as they race after the money, is Spencer Tracy as the police captain. So we have a slapstick chase movie to end all slapstick chase movies. Heading a golden age of television cast are Caesar and Adams, who get to fly in a makeshift plane, then get locked in a hardware store basement. In a career performance, Winters hilariously gets to completely demolish a desert gas station. Berle has a running battle with the mother-in-law from Hell, Merman, who in turn has been given some gloriously acidic dialog by superb screenwriter's William and Tania Rose. The Roses have never been given enough credit here. All of the sublime dialog is on the printed page. Along the way, Winters meets up with Phil Silvers, who in turn mixes up with miner Mike Mazurki. Silvers is staggeringly funny with a car at the bottom of a canyon, then later drowning in a river. Rooney and Hackett are in another plane that flies through a Coke billboard after pilot Jim Backus knocks himself unconscious. There is also Dick Shawn as Merman's lifeguard son at Silver Strand Beach. And a phone running battle in his inner police office with Tracy and his wife and daughter that escalates over a simple vacation. And this is only part one, before the film's intermission! Part two has some of the funniest dialog and greatest car chases in all of movie history for me. And the grand climax has never been topped for me--not even by silent era clowns. "},{"Title":"An epic comedy? Why not!","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Stanley Kramer's It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World was something of an attempt to create the ultimate comedy. It came at a time when Hollywood was trying to outdo television with ever larger 'epic' films. Accordingly, It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World is stuffed to the brim with more comedic actors than you can shake a stick at.The movie centres on a group of people who are privy to a dying thief's last words which concern the location of his stash of stolen money. When the folks involved can't settle on a means of splitting the cash (should they find it) they take an 'every man for himself' approach. From then on they set out frantically in search of treasure, unaware that the cops have them under close surveillance.The cast is chock full of comedic talent in lead, support & cameo roles. Making significant contributions are actors like Spencer Tracy, Milton Berle, Mickey Rooney, Jonathan Winters, Ethel Merman, Phil Silvers, Dick Shawn and others. I'm not nearly knowledgeable enough to have noted all of the cameo appearances but it was nice to see the likes of Jimmy Durante, Norman Fell, Jim Backus and Don Knotts.In technical terms, the film is well executed. Kramer's direction is capable and the Oscar-nominated cinematography is attractive. Even in the recut 154 minute general release version the editing is well done, keeping the film's various threads going at full speed. The Oscar-nominated score by Ernest Gold also deserves praise, as do the Saul Bass designed titles.Ultimately, though, the film falls short of its aim as the ultimate comedy. One of the story lines stagnates and the finale is ridiculously over the top, not to mention hurt by some less than convincing special effects. Even if the original 192 minute roadshow version still existed it would probably have the same problems (if not more). Don't get me wrong, though; there's enough to like about the film to make for a worthwhile viewing, just don't expect anything close to the greatest comedy of all time. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films ever produced","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is probably the greatest experiment in comedy ever produced. The director, Stanley Kramer, got pegged as a serious director. Therefore, he wanted to prove that he could make a comedy. With no experience in comedy, somehow Kramer managed to attract nearly every famous comedian in Hollywood. This movie, then, basically is a chance to see all the great talents of the early 60s in one film! That's what makes this movie so delightful. There is more comic genius going on then in any film I have ever seen. What also made this film work so wonderfully was the combination of a good story, excellent filming, and amazing stunts. The story starts out with an old man (Jimmy Durante) who crashes his car in the desert after being changed by the Santa Rosita police force. With several witnesses present, he tells them that he has buried $350,000 at a state park under the letter W.What makes this funny is the greed and calculation that is unleashed. The cast of characters - ranging from Rooney to Caesar - do the most hilarious things to out duel one another in getting to the money first. The other thing that makes this funny is Spencer Tracy. He is the straight laced, family man, police chief, who just wants to afford to retire from the Santa Rosita Police Department. He is all part of the insanity that greed unleashes, because he wants the money, too. Lastly, there was no other movie like this in the early 60s. You really get a sense of what life was like back then. "},{"Title":"Avoid - Watch The Great Race instead of this one","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Heard the name of the movie many times before, never watched it.Well, it's pretty lousy, to be honest. It's like The Great Race only without the imagination, the plot or the fun. I watched the Criterion restoration, which is 3 hours and 17 min, but I gave up after an hour or so. It's just not interesting, not funny and extremely long.The plot is extremely thin (even for a 90 min film) A few guys race each other in order to get to a treasure first. That's it, nothing more.The Great Race - which came only 2 years later and is also very long (2.5 hours, depends on the version you watch) and shot in a wide aspect ratio (2.351 compared to this movie which was shot in a 2.761 Ultra Panavision) - has developments, interesting characters, different situations happening in different places, it has arcs and new characters; This movie has almost none of those. It's just endless talking and driving in cars, with minor stuff happening here and there. It's just boring.It's not horrible. I've seen worse films, but I can't imagine sitting 3 hours watching something like that. It's ridiculous. If it was half the running time, perhaps it would have been bearable.Incidentally, Peter Falk has a (minor) role in this movie too.BTW, I just realized that this movie is rated HIGHER on IMDb than The Great Race. Can't believe it. "},{"Title":"Funny Talent in Madcap Comedy!","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This funny madcap comedy was released in 1963. It was a far departure and the first comedy directed by Stanley Kramer, known for serious academy award nominated films like Inherit the Wind, Judgement of Nurenberg, The Defiant Ones,  and Guess Who is coming to Dinner. The story begins in a huge traffic jam caused by careless driver Smiler Grogan played by Jimmy Durante. Before dying he confesses to motorists at the scene about the $350,000 he stole and buried under the Big W. And so begins the race to find the stolen loot before anyone else. It leads to some funny scenes and lots of madcap humor. It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World has just about every comedian (of the day) in speaking roles and bit parts throughout the film. The stars include Milton Berle, Jonathan Winters, Mickey Rooney, Sid Cesar, Ethel Merman, Phil Silvers, Dick Shawn, Edie Adams with guest appearances by Buster Keaton, and the Three Stooges. That's the kind of comedy slapstick film it is and for older viewers, it's pure nostalgic entertainment. The heavyweight star that brings a serious tone and balance is the talented Spencer Tracy. But this silly film doesn't pretend to be serious in any way. It is a joy ride. If you know that, you will enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"It's the Big W, I tell ya, it's the Big W!","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From the wonderful 3-Ring-Circus themed opening title tune to the final pratfall, this is one of my all time favorite flicks. I've revisited it many times, and it's always a great watch.It's one of those '60's movies where as many big stars as could be found were dealt into the melee of the film's running time. This was the film's principal claim to fame (and utilizes the formula better than any other) a battalion of comedic stars (including walk-on's and cameos), stellar names as diverse as Buster Keaton and Jerry Lewis. Not only was it a showcase to identify the faces sharing screen time, but it was also a high-aiming comedy embracing all that's classic in the realm of slapstick and parody. The film's title is fulfilled with characters going in pursuit of treasure, and winding up in a maze bizarre results. It's the classic mix of comedy and tragedy; and all the while, innocent bystanders turn out to be cleverly placed cameos.What drives everyone mad is greed. When a group of ordinary travelers learn about a bounty of buried treasure (hidden under a Big W), they resort to all manners of insanity to get their hands on it before anyone else does. What follows is a wild race with a talented cast that takes you on the ride with them. Look out; other drivers! Pick your favorite to get the dough. I rooted for the truck driver, Pike. By the way, who were those three firemen at the airport? Those guys sure looked familiar.... "},{"Title":"Stanley Kramer's Valentine To Comedians & Comedy","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you're looking for a all out,knock down,slapstick comedy to laugh yourself silly, you can't do much better than Stanley Kramer's love letter to screen comedy, 'It's A Mad,Mad,Mad,Mad World',from 1963. Kramer,normally known for his dramas,turns up the ha ha factor to a full 11. The screen is filled with every known comic (female & male) known in the comedy universe that was still performing (most of which have major roles,and others in walk on/cameos),and even the great Spencer Tracy,in a rare comedic role,for good measure. The plotwhen an elderly gangster's car runs off of the road,the witnesses find out about a parcel of stolen money buried somewhere in a park. What results is a glorified chase scene for the money,with enough twists & turns to please all. The film has countless slapstick/physical comedy scenes to render many laughs. The film was originally released in the updated Cinerama process (not the original three projected process that was used in demonstration films,such as 'This Is Cinerama' from 1951),where everything was shot on one 70mm strip of film,but was projected on the same concave screen that creates the illusion of deep perspective---especially a memorable scene on a fire ladder). A film that is well worth seeking out (even if it's only available on DVD/Blue Ray disc). Originally released unrated long before the MPAA was organized,but was eventually re-released in 1970 with the requisite 'G' rating,making it perfect for family viewing. "}{"Title":"Great Movie for the average comedy watcher like me )","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I bought this movie not knowing anything about it, except what was depicted on the front cover. Although somewhat over extended I thought it was a great find from the video store! The movie it self is quite long and some of the scenes seem to drag on a little too long, but the clever plot makes up for it. It's a great movie to watch as a family - no violence or sexual content, and overall the language is appropriate for children over the age of 8. It's a wholesome classic (I think). I recommend it to anyone who is looking to relax in front of a simple movie filled with lots of crazy, hilarious antics - the original rate race. "},{"Title":"Where is 1963 when we need it?","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hi, Everyone,I saw this movie when it first showed. I was a 25 year old Las Vegas deejay at the time. Did you know the theme song was a minor hit?I don't want to say this is the funniest movie ever made, but I cannot think of any that were funnier. The cast was possibly the best assembled for a comedy. Most of the actors had starred in their own vehicles and were very famous and in top form. Berle had been number one on TV. Ceasar had been the star of Your Show of Shows, one of the most respected early TV series. Ethel Merman was a Broadway star. Jimmy Durante was a star of radio, TV and movies. Jonathan Winters was big on TV. Mickey Rooney had been the top box office star just 22 years before this movie was made. Spencer Tracey was certainly a major Hollywood actor. Buddy Hackett was a regular star on Colgate Comedy Hour. My point is, these were big stars who were not just doing cameo bits. They were given major parts and they were working long hours without one guy getting top billing.The fist fight between Milton Berle and Terry Thomas would not have been so funny if they had been 15 years older. Each actor seemed to be at his peak. Maybe the smaller bit roles were done just as a bow to great talent (Buster Keaton, Ben Blue, Three Stooges, Eddie Rochchester Anderson), but they got their laughs. Berle and Phil Silvers had been in a fierce TV ratings battle about 7 years before this movie was made. That type of information was known to the audiences of that era and it made the movie even funnier. Everyone hated everyone in this film. Their only common interest was the hatred they developed for the Ethel Merman character. The attempts to be nice and come to an agreement offered by Sid Caesar and Jonathan Winters are quickly abandoned for small two man groups trying to get the treasure for themselves. Even Spencer Tracey shares their disgust.I would have welcomed a longer 3 Stooges routine. I would have liked to have seen Ernie Kovaks and Jackie Gleason and maybe Danny Kaye in this, but it is already filled with great talent doing wonderful scenes. The bicycle scene with Jonathan Winters, the airplane with Sid Ceasar, the airplane scene with Mickey Rooney, Jim Backus and Buddy Hackett, the hardware store basement with Sid Ceasar. Dick Shawn's phone call to his mom is a great look at the 60s sub culture. If the film were to be remade today, and I think it could be, I wonder who would be whom? Some of the original actors are still alive. Winters, Marvin Caplan, Caesar and a few others might do cameos. Maybe Mike Myers, Jim Carrey, Adam Sandler, Wil Farrell, Steve Martin, Chevy Chase and Dan Ackroyd as starters. It would be hard to make anything better than the original. Maybe Tina Turner for Ethel Merman?Tom Willett "},{"Title":"Crazy But Great! ) 10 Stars!","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Im 14 Years Old And I Must Say As A Big Fan Of Comedy Movies This One Is Very Very Crazy! I Have This Video And I Watch It Everytime It Comes On Tv It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World Is About Travelers Who Are On A Road Race For Alot Of Money Over A Big W! Featuring Thousands Of Comedy Greats Like Melton Berle, Sid Ceaser, The Three Stooges, Don Knotts, And Thousands More! Very Classic Movie! -Jeremy   "},{"Title":"It's A Fun Fun Fun Fun Movie!","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Killer cast- a virtual who's who of 60s comedians in a full frontal assault on the funny bone.Truly a comedy of epic proportions, if this doesn't make you laugh- check your pulse! After witnessing an accident, disparate types are off on a cross country chase to find the money they find out is buried under a big W in a California state park.They go by car, truck, plane, bike, cab and even foot to get there.Film is a fantastic combination of slapstick, farce and chase elements and it still works like a well oiled machine.Among the many hilarious highlights are Jonathan Winters- the trucker who single handedly destroys a gas station, Milton Berle and his wife along with his mother- in-law from hell Ethel Merman.Her way over the top performance as the classic bitchy mother-in -law is pure gold. We all love to hate her. Then there's Mickey Rooney and Buddy Hackett as the two nuts who manage to coax a drunk Jim Backus to fly them there in his private plane until he collapses in a stupor and they have to fly the plane themselves. Not to mention the classic hardware store sequence where Sid Ceaser and Edie Adams are trapped in the basement and have ti dynamite themselves out. Spencer Tracy is fine as the detective who monitors the group and then decides he wants the loot for himself. The ending with the fire truck is truly spectacular! I've only scratched the surface. There is a lot more. Phil Silvers, Peter Falk, Eddie Rochester Anderson, Don Knotts,that wacky Brit Terry Thomas, Jimmy Durante who sets it up at the beginning and the very manic Dick Shawn as Ethel Mermans brain dead beatnick son.The film is so fast paced that it hardly gives you a chance to catch your breath. There is no sex or foul language. The violence is of a cartoon nature and not as mean spirited as in todays movies. Just about the only thing that dates this film are the 50 and 60s vintage cars and some of the clothing. If you love movies with a big cast, insane driving, classic airplanes. classic cars and great dessert scenery,plus non stop laughs, this is for you. At almost three hours it is long, but since it is so much fun to watch, you will not care. Dare to be happy! See this movie. You'll LOVE it! It went on to inspire 2001s Rat Race which has the same basic premise and even though it is fun, it still can't compete with this. "},{"Title":"Love the hooknladder","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Although it was released two years before my birth, this movie is my alltimefavorite hands down. I was always intrigued by the hook and ladder sequence in the end. Eleven men altogether and the order they fall off and the objects they land on or in. I'm not sure what Johnathon Winters falls into. It looks like a big container of paint. The cabbie landing on the statue was a little lame. It would have been better if he crashed through a gazebo. You always see gazebos in parks. Or substitute Dick Shawn's picnic table landing for a gazebo crash. Although the whole ladder sequence is primitive for todays digital effects, for 1963 technology, it looks like it was pain stakingly done. Can't forget the old classic Chrysler automobiles. "},{"Title":"Classic Film that Holds Up","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie in its initial release at the Cinerama Dome in Hollywood, CA in 1963. Like another reviewer here, I was 13 years old. The Cinerama experience was remarkable in itself. But the film was wonderfully funny. An unbelievable cast, one of the best directors of our time, and one of the funniest scripts ever written. Some of the duologue is priceless. Selma Diamond's voice on the phone - the wife of Captain Culpepper (Spencer Tracy) was worth the price of admission.The original film was 3 1/2 hours long, including the intermission. It was complete with an overture, and entre'act, and exit music. During intermission there was more music and duologue playing in the lobby as if the action was continuing. When the movie went to wide distribution it was cut drastically to about 2 1/2 hours. Over the years the studio lost a lot of that footage. So when the wanted to restore it to its original release, they couldn't. The did find 22 minutes of the deleted scenes in an old warehouse that was slated for demolition. It was the original 70mm stock and was in pretty good shape.It first came back restored (as best it could be) to laser disc. I bought a laser disc player just for that. It was wide screen (a new concept at the time in home video) and looked tremendous. When the DVD was release, the quality was superb but they did not include those extra 22 minutes. I have never heard why.Once every couple of years the old Cinerama Dome (which has been completely remodeled and is now just a very large and a 35mm projector with an anamorphic lens) will run Mad World for a week. I usually go down and see it. I can't count the number of times I have watched it.All these years later, the duologue is still funny and not at all dated. Some of the comic routines these brilliant comedians did that long ago are not funny anymore just with the passage of time. But that is not true with this movie. I still laugh out loud at lines I have heard 100 times.It is just incredible to see all those people together. Many people don't like this film and criticize it any chance they get. But for me it will always be one of my all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"Good introduction to old-time comedy","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I just checked the DVD out from the local library. I found myself laughing out loud the whole time. Yes, it's somewhat dated but the dialogue and the pacing and the expressions just captivated me.If you are of the younger generation you really need to see this as an instruction manual for how to do good CLEAN comedy. These were some of the biggest, greatest stars of all-time - all together.The ending seemed a little corny, but not too much. It's supposed to be a movie where you sit back and have fun and let yourself laugh. You may have to look up some of the old-time references so you will understand (like why the 3 Stooges and Buster Keaton do what they do) - but to me that adds to the fun of the movie, knowing a little about that time period. "},{"Title":"The Mother of All Slapstick Comedies; Watch It with Your Kids!","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was a huge favorite of mine as a kid, and whenever I came across it on TV as a teen or young adult, I'd watch it again. Now my husband and two grade-school age sons have already sat through it twice and it was a wonderful experience, the four or us just laughing and laughing for well over two hours. It's incredibly broad, loud, long, fast, crude and filled with hilariously repulsive characters.The plot is thus at the scene of a car crash, a dying gangster reveals the location of his stolen fortune to a group of strangers standing by the road. This motley group of ordinary folks go absolutely nuts on a greed-driven slapstick pursuit of the loot.To me, Dick Shawn was the stand-out as a early 60s-style beach bum/hipster. (You're buggin' me, man!) I loved seeing the usually noble Spencer Tracy as a crooked cop and hen-pecked husband tangling with the unforgettably whiny phone persona of Selma Diamond. And it's great to see the comic talents of the era strut their stuff -- Milton Berle, Sid Ceasar, Buddy Hackett, Mickey Rooney, Ethel Merman, Phil Silvers, Jim Backus and more. Many of these guys were New York- Jewish-Catskill types and their type of sharp humor has virtually vanished today. Yet my kids who have absolutely no awareness of the nostalgia aspects of the movie enjoyed it as much as I did. The no-holds-barred physical comedy and the universal theme of greed should get laughs out of any generation. "},{"Title":"Put aside any serious nature you have and enjoy the ride","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Traditionally I am not (nor ever have been) a fan of slapstick comedy. This is an exception however. It's easy to lose focus on the plot Mad World actually has when you are bombarded with the film's hilarious and insane antics. Not to mention one of the biggest casts of some of the biggest names in the entertainment industry. This film is an absolute treasure trove of so many big name stars, and it's really difficult to determine who really carries the film. In my mind, not a SINGLE actor does, ALL the actors do. And along with what some may say is 2 1/2 hours of nonsensical nonsense (only a matter of opinion that I do not share), the film has a sense of adventure about it. I grew up with this movie. I have no idea how many times I have watched it. I can say I am no less tired of it each time I do. And I suspect I would probably love it as much if I saw it for the first time yesterday. Somehow, I think there will always be an audience for this film. Even generations not as familiar with the actors in this as I am. But I think this film should hold a special place in the hearts of those of us who grew up watching these people in various other films because they are all together here. In any case, this film was not meant to be taken seriously, not meant to take itself seriously, but only meant to take some of the seriousness out of the individual watching it for a while. And this film has a lot of special character to it that sadly is so rare these days. Sit back, relax, loosen up, and enjoy the ride. The film is just plain fun - PERIOD. "},{"Title":"it grows on you","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't know why I'm so fond of this film. It's not as if its flaws are hard to detect, the main one being that it clearly set out to be a knock-'em-dead comedy and it just isn't. It seems to me that Stanley Kramer didn't really know what he had with the William and Tania Rose script and story. William Rose created THE LADYKILLERS (the original, not the Coen Brothers rehash), and there's a dark tone to that earlier movie which is also in MAD WORLD; a kind of amazement at what people will do for money. It's in that look on Tracy's face as the money is being dug up, as he watches this zany bunch licking their lips in anticipation of the treasure...Kramer went for slapstick rather than darkness. I don't blame him. But he would have made a better movie if he'd followed Alex MacKendrick's example on LADYKILLERS, and made it crazy rather than zany.Having said all that - what this movie has got is its amazing cast. When I first saw it, I was 10 years old, in Cinerama at the London Coliseum. At that time I only really knew of Terry-Thomas (he was English, after all!), Phil Silvers (Bilko had been a big hit in the UK), Dorothy Provine (THE ROARING TWENTIES had also been a great hit) and Tracy (because he was a star much beloved by my parents). By its re-release in the 70s, I knew a little about most of the others - Berle, Rooney, Caesar, Falk - but I knew most about Merman. And it's a primary reason for my love of this movie that it captures Merman in all her glory - and it's the only movie that does, notwithstanding THERE'S NO BUSINESS LIKE SHOW BUSINESS and CALL ME MADAM. MAD WORLD gives Merman the cinematic space she needed for that gigantic theatrical energy.Another element I appreciate now is the juxtaposition of all these wonderful performers. Terry-Thomas and Milton Berle are such an unlikely double-act, but their scenes together are superb, especially their extremely funny patriotic row that precedes their equally funny fight. And then there's the pairing of Jonathan Winters and Phil Silvers - both completely different, both wonderful. Hackett and Rooney are a bit less successful, I think, because Rooney works too hard, but Hackett himself makes up for it. Berle and Merman, Shawn and Merman, Terry-Thomas and Merman, Caesar and Merman - she's brilliant with 'em all. Yeh, it's a one-note performance but what a note!!!!First I got the soundtrack CD (the music's a lot of fun) and now the DVD, and from time to time I listen and watch, and increasingly, like Tracy at the end, I change from smile to guffaw. It kind of grows on you. "}{"Title":"A deliberately 'silly' film with a glorious ending.","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of my favourite films, and though I have seen it countless times, it never fails to raise a smile on my face whenever I see it again. However, if this is not a contradiction, I am very aware of its flaws and I can actually understand that some people don't like it.If you have an interest in the history of how the popular film and TV entertainment business developed in the 1950s and 60s, you will appreciate the sheer scale of the array of stars that Kramer managed to bring together in this film. Almost everybody in the film - and there are lots of them - was famous to some degree as a comic performer in their own right.If such things mean nothing to you, then you will already be missing one of the central joys of the film, which is the unique sight of seeing these people in the same place at the same time, the way they play off each other, each trying to outdo each other and come off as the lead. It is a tribute to Kramer's skill that no one actor manages to emerge as such at the expense of the rest - apart from Spencer Tracy, who was clearly the biggest 'star' of all going in, and whose class does shine through, despite the fact that his physical decline is sadly apparent at times here.The rest of them bounce on to the screen playing variations of the characters that made them famous in the first place. So the Phil Slvers character is basically Sergeant Bilko in a suit; Peter Falk is a bad-tempered Columbo in a taxi; Mickey Rooney, as usual, is the street-smart wise guy on the make; Terry Thomas the eccentric Englishman and Ethel Merman the loudmouthed mother-in-law from hell. They play to type. But so what? To criticise the lack of originality in casting and scripting is to miss the point, I think. This is, and was always meant to be, a silly film, the central purpose of which was to ask what would happen if all your favourite TV characters and film clichés wound up together in the same plot. How would they react to each other? It may be that this - a strength at the time, when these characters were universally recognisable and well-loved - is a weakness today because 21st century audiences do not necessarily have this basis of understanding of these characters. But in fact I personally think it still works as a basic funny 'plot and gag' film anyway.There is a case for saying it is over-long, but for me it never drags, and as long as the context as explained here hasn't put you off, it is worth watching the whole way through, if only to enhance your enjoyment of the glorious last 15 minutes or so. "},{"Title":"What a ride!","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I first saw this movie at my grandparent's house in the mid 70s. I was about 8 years old, and everything about this movie made me laugh. Granted, I was too young to know any of the stars beyond the cameo appearance of the Three Stooges, but still...slapstick comedy done by the best Hollywood had to offer. Even my grandparents, Puritanical they may have been, laughed out loud at it. Even today, if it comes on TCM or another movie channel, I stop what I'm doing and clear my calendar for the rest of the day. If Hollywood could have kept making movies of this caliber instead of the dreck they sweat-shop produce today to turn a quick buck, we'd be better off. I mean, come on...when's the last time you saw major Hollywood players in a movie together that didn't suck? Jonathan Winters is a comic genius, and the way he stole the screen during his apocalyptic fight with Ray and Irwin...priceless. Totally priceless. Much better than anyone gracing the silver screen today. And Ethel Merman...come on! She was perfect as the harpy mother in law to Milton Berle. Buddy Hackett and Mickey Rooney as the two hapless boobs in the airplane with Jim Backus...all three irreplaceable gems of comedy. Don't even tell me that Rat Race even compares to IAMMMMW. Like Porsche, there is no substitute. "},{"Title":"Perfect Comedy","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The first time I saw this, circa 1975, my dad said you have to see this and we adjusted the rabbit ears on the TV and watched a very fuzzy version of it and laughed our butts off. I was 9 and I didn't know who Phil Silvers or Jonathan Winters or Ethyl Merman was. Since then, I have seen this movie about 20 times; various versions in many states of sobriety so I feel I can give a very biased opinion ).Let's look at the time it was made. They pretty much got all the comedians that were on TV from the previous 20 years. This rarely works in film without a good story. Not now, but back then, it was worth a shot.The storyline is actually about a dozen or so beings/stories happening at the same time that all come together in the end. Tarantino? No. Sienfeld..closer. Doesn't give the viewer a chance to lose attention. That's important.From a film-makers standpoint, it's perfect and it was in all aspects. Even the boo-boos worked. A producer/director's dream. You get lucky sometimes and that's what happened here.I've shown this film to my son and he cracked up at things that I didn't notice before. It truly is one of the best comedies of all time if you can watch it without criticism ). Span Time Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"The Comedy of all Comedies","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Now this movie was H-I-L-A-R-I-O-U-S! If you can think of a comedy with this many wonderful stars, then I'd like to see it. This has some of the funniest people who ever lived. Milton Berle. Sid Caeser. Buddy Hackett. Jonathan Winters. Carl Reiner. Jerry Lewis. Jack Benny. Though I would have liked to see Bob Hope, George Burns, Jackie Gleason, Lucille Ball, and maybe even Johnny Carson, this movie was still downright funny. I mean, when you see Milton Berle and Terry-Thomas doing a fist fight, it's so dang funny. When the biggest names in comedy fall from the building, that can't be beat. When Jonathan Winters tore down the gas station with his bare hands, I was chuckling with delight. And even though he was in it for only a minute, Jack Benny's scene was still hilarious. Let me tell you, you have to see this movie. "},{"Title":"a riot of old new and timeless comedy","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of the great American comedy movies of all time ripe with gut-wrenching physical laughs brought to us by some of the greatest comedic names to ever to come out of Hollywood in some of the best visual comedy you could hope to see. From Dick Shawn screaming over back California roads in his red dodge crying I'm comin' to get ya, momma, I'm comin to get ya!!! to Buddy Hackett rolling pilot Jim Backus' Beech 18 and knocking him senseless while he's mixing morning cocktails. Edie Adams is hot AND priceless. Sid Ceasar putting his foot through an insect on the bottom of Ben Blue's bi-plane that isn't matching the speed of traffic on the highway below. Ethel Merman and Terry Thomas as hilarious adversaries eventually destroying the Brits' Rover in the process. Phil Silvers tearing out the bottom of his car. Jonathan Winters systematically knocking down a gas station. Front to back start to finish What physical comedy in film is all about. Its road rage on the cement highways of California in 1963. Just forget the last ten minutes of the film. EVERYBODY is in this one. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Unrepeatable","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World (MW for short) is a movie that will never be repeated.Sure, the plot sags in places and the basic premise is rather simple, but remakes using the same script have not shown the spontaneity of the original.Some of this must be credited to the stellar cast, comprising almost every known comedian of the day, who all overcame their professional rivalries to combine to make MW - Sid Caesar and Milton Berle were rivals on TV, but made good counterfoils in this movie, while Spencer Tracy (better known for his character portrayals and subtle comedy roles) makes for the perfect straight man.A madcap music score supports the frenetic chases and adds to the overall mirth of the movie.The best thing about MW is that it could actually happen to anyone at any time - a recklessly driven car overtakes innocent leisure motorists and goes off the road in a dramatic style, prompting some of the occupants in the vehicles passed to go to assist, only to find that the driver is an ex-con escaping from his pursuers on his way to recover his massive, buried loot.His dying words come in the form of a cryptic clue as to where the loot is located, which he bequeaths to the Good Sams who come to his aid.The ensuing mêlée is hilarious as the parties privy to the info suppress it from the cops who eventually show up on the scene. As they just cannot agree on how best to divide it among themselves after considering various ways to split the fortune, it leads to an it's everyone for himself scenario, resulting in some of the greatest chases ever shot, and all this before car antics became the Hollywood norm! The various characters caught up in the frenzy display all the virtues - and vices - of human nature and it's hard not to spot yourself as one of the people types portrayed.And, just when you thought that everything is over with the ill-gotten gains leading to a mass feeding frenzy among the general public when the case in which the money is bundled into springs open to spill out several stories high; and the key players (and some support cast) getting their just deserts seeing them injured and hospitalised in the process, along comes an ending that sees humour bursting through to save an otherwise grim situation.MW may be over 40 years old, but it can and does still show Hollywood that it has not come a long way since so far as star-studded comedies are concerned. "},{"Title":"Great 1963 movie","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this film on TV the other night and it was great to see all the stars from my childhood in this movie. It was like going back in a time-machine to 1963. I especially loved seeing Jack Benny! It was also interesting to see how they treated women in those days (sexist was OK) and the blacks in the jalopy is prior to civil rights time! I was disappointed in the ending however. With Spencer Tracy just running away with the money--it looked like a lost cause. The ended needed to be more developed. I think I would have liked it better if one of the parties had succeeded in getting to the Big W first and uncovered money and the others chasing them. Or if the Police Chief had had a more carefully planned out plan--I was disappointed that the Police Chief did not have a plan!! He was just stumbling around with the money in the end and they all lost the money too. A downer after all the trouble they went through! But I loved it otherwise. Eydie "},{"Title":"A Monolith for Comedy in Motion Pictures","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Everything about this movie is funny. Even if you trail off and watch the expressions of the character's faces, you'll get a laugh. The whole movie is one big chase through early 60's California. Without even trying it captured In&Out Burger California. I wish I could come up with a better description, but I could watch this movie just to see the big classic cars smash into each other.You might find yourself guessing at the locations, a airplane park on US95 before Vegas, a windy desert 2-lane near the Boulder Dam or even piece of a Big W off the side of the road jetting through Santa Barbara. This may be one of the first films to use multiple cameras filming the same scene. There must've been 3 on Jimmy Durante's car flying off the cliff (with a zoom-out effect to boot). If one sets out to make the greatest comedy ever, they'll insult this film by making it a goal. The best plane-thru-a-Pepsi billboard scene, maybe even the first. Best car-sliding-down-a mountain-scene (3 times in this movie), stunt men did not play it safe. In this day of seatbelts and baby seats - that kid in Phil Silver's convertible was STANDING ON THE FRONT SEAT as it skidded down that cliff face. But then, that was the way we did things back then. "},{"Title":"My favorite comedy","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was 13 y.o in 1968 when I saw this movie for the first time. Of all places - in the former Soviet Union! Since then I got to see it many more times. I have it on video and last week bought a DVD version. What can I say? To me there is no better comedy. I think enough said before me - I will only join those who praise it. Some people call it a slapstick. I call it a masterpiece. The gallery of actors is a wonderful treat by itself. Probably I was spoiled by such a great comedy. Since you see it, very few films measure up. I regret very much, that Ethel Merman did not appear in more films, she is a terrific comedienne. By the way, only much later I learned that she also things(Ha-Ha). Anyway 10 out of 10 hands down. "},{"Title":"The All-Time Best Comedy!","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What more to say? More than 40 years have passed since its release, and this film still remains the most hilarious and funny I've ever seen, showing a situation in which anyone of us would do exactly the same those mad people did run to catch that money! And all of them are just ordinary persons, such as a dentist in his honeymoon, a family going on holidays, a truck driver, a strange brother-in-law (most of us have one), who suddenly go mad when they know about a big sum of money that was hidden somewhere, as told them by the man who had stolen it many years before, and that had just died in their arms, victim of a car accident. In short, it's a 3-hour fast road-movie, a great story, great director, great actors, simply 10!  "}{"Title":"an incomparable comedy classic","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Some critics give Mad,Mad,World begrudging approval for some reason. To me it is a marvelous epic comedy. There have been attempts to duplicate it such as Rat Race and those Burt Reynolds car race films, along with Spielberg's 1941...none have touched mad world. It moves at a brisk pace and holds your attention with every segment.Oddly,in any bios of the various actors who were the center of this film, they do not give it much attention,some didn't think highly of this movie. Perhaps their massive egos can't stand that this was a terrific ensemble piece & not just about them and them alone. There need not be any remakes either. You will not recapture this funny masterpiece. We have the original,let's leave it at that. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Saw this movie again a couple of days ago for the first time in probably 35 years and it still stands up as one of my all time favorites. The memories stirred up by watching this film prompted me to go out and buy a fresh copy on DVD.I was a teenager in Long Beach when they filmed there and was able to watch the filming of several sequences in the area. Most noteably the chase across the pontoon bridge and along Long Beach Blvd. Most of the landmarks in the film are long gone now (the pontoon bridge, rainbow pier, the pike and roller coaster, most all of the storefronts on Long Beach Blvd (The Ambassador Hotel is still there though - it's a retirement home now).  "},{"Title":"I LOVE this movie.","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was only 4 when it was first released, but my parents took me when it was re-released later. It has since become a family favorite. It was one of the first videos my parents bought when they got their VCR. No, there aren't a lot of women in it, but it should not be judged by today's customs/attitudes.  Regardless of the number of women, it's hysterically funny.  The actors' timing is PERFECT. The story is absurd, but so are the characters. Everyone/everything is over the top, but it works beautifully. $350,000 doesn't sound like a lot of money today, but if you consider that $10,000 a year was a good salary back then, you will understand the excitement these people felt at the thought of a shot at a share of this money. Truly one of the funniest movies ever made.  "},{"Title":"Hilariously funny movie.","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Watching this movie was the funniest three and half hours I have ever spent, each character portrayed his or her special blend of humour in their own inimitable way, some with dialogue, some in silence. A brilliant blend of English and American comedy greats. The cameo roles by such great artistes as Jerry lewis, Jack Benny, Buster Keaton, The three Stooges and many, many more, helped to add to the chaotic comedy of this wonderfull chase film. This is a film that I have in my collection and watch over and over again. If there is a funnier movie anywhere else, I have yet to see it. Loved it, Barrie Cordingley  "},{"Title":"The Best Comedy Movie Ever!!!!!","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is not one of your typical comedies. It is the funniest movie ever!!!!! It has some of the greatest comedians of the 60's(plus Spencer Tracy and Mickey Rooney), who will make you laugh in every scene. The first time I watched this I laughed my ass off! But when I kept on watching it over and over again, it was hard to laugh even though the scenes were still funny. The reason is because when a funny scene is coming up, I know what will happen next. Hey, it's hard to laugh when you know what's coming up next. Final comment This movie is funny as hell and anyone who watches this for the first time will laugh their ass off!10/10 "},{"Title":"The Comedy to End All Comedies","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Legendary farce about 4 carloads of kooky strangers in a madcap race for 350 grand buried somewhere in a park near the Mexican border. It escaped the editors knife and endures as this behemoth talent showcase that's short on story, but long on schmaltz, and is a priceless museum piece of vanished Americana. Its a Who's Who with a few notable exceptions, ie George Burns, The Marx Brothers... and while this film was billed the greatest assembly of comic talent ever, its really top heavy with television stars. However, the creme of the television biz, and just so doggone many familiar faces that you are in this constant Wheres Waldo delirium.  California never looked so alluring. This is what it was once like out there folks, and sadly it wasnt all that long ago. Hope you are old enough to have seen it in its glory, if not, watch this film for that reason alone.   "},{"Title":"Great comedy, with just one major flaw.","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't mean to find fault, as this is one of my favorite comedies. However, this film is often touted as a showcase for the all the greatest comedic talents. The greatest male comedic talents, that is. Ethel Merman, Dorothy Provine, and Edie Adams are all wonderful. One can only imagine how great it might have been with the addition of Lucille Ball, Eve Arden, Mildred Natwick, Elsa Lancaster, Joan Davis, Ann Southern, Rose Marie, etc.  "},{"Title":"One of the most nuttiest and exuberant screwball comedies ever!","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Taking a respite from the gritty, highly-charged dramas (The Defiant Ones, Inherit the Wind, Judgment at Nuremburg) he was known for, Stanley Kramer goes lighthearted with this expansive, multi-charactered laugh fest about a disperate group of people (from an addle-brained dentist to an outrageously candid mother-in-law) who witness a car accident in the Califonia desert, and its dying occupant (Jimmy Durante), who tells them of a great fortune buried under a big W in Santa Rosita State Park. From there, the money-driven spectators crawl, fly, ride and vie to grab the dough for themselves, all while being monitored by police Capt. T.G. Culpepper (Spencer Tracy). Throughout, the film is peppered with hilarious cameos by Jack Benny, The Three Stooges, Don Knotts, Jerry Lewis and many others. Every frame of this film is golden, and is filled with classic scenes (The keys in the cleavage, the two plane sequences, the basement explosion, the destruction of the filling station, the search for the Big W, the taxi chase and the fire engine scenes are just a small part of this completely entertaining romp about greed and materialism. Co-starring Sid Caesar, Edie Adams, Mickey Rooney, Buddy Hackett, Terry-Thomas, Milton Berle, Johnathan Winters, Dorothy Provine, Peter Falk, Eddie Rochester Anderson, Phil Silvers, Dick Shawn, and in an unjustly un-nominated performance, Ethel Merman as Mrs. Marcus, THE definitive meddling mother-in-law. Great fun! ***1/2 "},{"Title":"sore sides and teary eyes","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ....filled the theater when I first saw this film in it's theatrical release. The crowd was too exhausted from roaring with laughter to leave their seats. It is The Epic Comedy and was shown on the same screen reserved for David Lean's spectaculars ('Kwai, Lawrence) and deservedly so. It is not my favorite comedy (Strangelove is) and repitition has dulled my response but without doubt the film stands alone for cast and scope. Now, the film has become a Whitman's Sampler of delicious cameos of comics past. No, the film can not be remade. The original script plainly holds no humor for the Beavis and Butthead generation and if Sandler and Carey could be compelled to share the screen it would hold no interest for mine. "},{"Title":"A flat out laugh riot!","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Just got this on DVD and I enjoy every minute of this mad, mad, mad, mad, comedy! I don't have to explain what my thoughts are, all I know is if you never saw this flick then hurry and pick it up because you're in for a wide open mouth tear jerker. Some people didn't find this classic funny, I don't know why, I guess they must be snobs. Another classic that is also blast is What's Up Doc? which I can't wait another second to come out on DVD. I give It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World *** 1/2 out of ****.  "}{"Title":"It was a pleasure..","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well the film was on TV in England over the May Day Holiday - lets face it, it's a great schedule filler. This time I managed to video it and watched it twice through (OK I did fast forward the rather drawn out ending the second time). Phil Silvers is his rogueish self but doesn't have it all his own way, Sid Caesar at first trying to be restrained and reasonable, then joining in the race just like the others, J Winters riding that little kids bike with murder in his heart, Terry-Thomas and his cacti, and as for Ray and Irwins' garage...So many classy scenes and a triumph that so many talented people all got a chance to shine. Oh yes, and the tiny cameo from Jack Benny was a gem. It's 20 minutes too long, but after 40 years still one of the best films I've seen.      "},{"Title":"A primer for what good comedy was in 1963","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film has always been a favorite and always worth seeing some of the great comedians of the 1950's and 60's in a big screen feature. The brilliance of Stanley Kramer's direction was having so many strong personalities in one film but keeping it balanced so all the comics could shine in special moments.Phil Silvers and Jonathan Winters steal scenes throughout the movie.The cameos are fun whether just a few seconds long like The Three Stooges or a few minutes like Don Knotts. A good documentary about the making of this film was added to the vhs and Dvd releases. It includes interviews with many of the surviving performers. The Big W for this movie- Wonderful. Watch this while eating Walnuts..in bed! "},{"Title":"funny,funny,funny","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Way back in 1963, as a little kid, I remember the roaring laughter at the Cinerama on Long Island, and why, because the film was just down right hilarious! and it still is today. I only wish I hadn't seen it hundreds of times, I'd love to experience it for the first time. I think where the negative reviewers are coming from is that they were not raised on pure slapstick comedy. And yes, I do have a few friends who just don't get the humor of the pratfall, but of course they don't appreciate the likes of Laurel & Hardy. I wonder if those who are negative about Mad Mad Mad World would have appreciated it if they were around during it's original release? There have been only a few rare times I've ever experienced the movie theater rumbling from a packed house of laughter, Mad Mad Mad World, Pink Panther (1964), A Shot In The Dark (1964). Boy do I miss that kind of a movie going experience!!! I just don't think we get a chance to experience that anymore. Too bad. And to think that Rat Race is a far better comedy, well.....that's another story, because there's no way..... ) "},{"Title":"Where should I put this?!","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The all-star ensemble comedy is a dying genre and few have been executed as well as this one- just for sheer plot and showmanship alone. (It must've been daunting for Stanley Kramer to assemble this roster back in the early 60's and concoct a plausible story- with writers William & Tania Rose- which would assemble so many stars together for nearly 3 hours.) There had been a VHS release of this back in the 80's which partially restored a lot of cut footage, but the DVD has reverted back to the pared-down theatrical release which, depending on your opinion of film purity, you may or may not like. (The DVD does, however, include the missing scenes in a separate link.) I like the DVD mainly because it puts the film back in its 'Ultra-Panavision' wide screen format, which is the only way to see something of this scope. Also nice is a 'making of' documentary which takes interviews from various cast and crew members (although, sadly, some have since passed away, including director Stanley Kramer). I never liked the end of the movie (and actually preferred the spin done on its unacknowledged remake, RAT RACE). Ironically, the scene which I regard as the best in the film comes immediately before the conclusion, and that is the arrival of the entire cast in the park, where the 'big W' is finally revealed- several cleverly placed times, if you look carefully. (We, the viewers, become part of the treasure hunt, and it's fantastic.) When I was able to finally see this in a theater for its 30th anniversary in 1993, this scene got spontaneous applause from the audience when it was over. "},{"Title":"Rollicking good fun","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this crazy thing, sorry to say not in Cinerama, a year or two after release when I was still in my 'teens. It was great! I have never sought out comedy in motion picture, television, or stage, but this had me laughing/ guffawing in the mid-'60s and probably would to-day. My mother saw it with me the first time, saying it reminded her of Mack Sennett (which I did not understand), but she was right. MAD, MAD was in the best spirit of that goofy tradition. "},{"Title":"May the best man win--except you, lady may you just...DROP DEAD!","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of those movies which I absolutely love (I rated it a 10), but which I could well understand someone else hating. It is certainly not for everyone. It is the wackiest of slapstick comedies everything--plot, character, and certainly any hint of plausibility--is sacrificed for the jokes, and the jokes are not what you'd call subtle or intellectual. On the other hand, if that's what you were expecting from this cast, then you deserve to be disappointed. If you like physical comedy, Phil Silvers, and screwball car chases, check it out.If possible, watch it in widescreen aspect ratio (it's coming up on March 18, 2003 on TCM). The pan-and-scan TV version is awful.(Also note that the DVD version is the version cut for general release, with the cut scenes as an extra feature. The version shown on TCM also, apparently, the VHS version is the restored roadshow version.) "},{"Title":"I wish I could have gone on the road trip to Santa Rosita Park too","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"    A car plunges into the valley below and a group of witnesses come forward to hear the last words of the unfortunate victim behind the wheel.  This sets the tone for the greatest slapstick epic ever invented and watching a new kind of role for the late-great Spencer Tracy is just one of the benefits you reap in renting this film.  I was merely a 10 year old child at a slumber party when I first viewed this laugh-a-minute comedy and it remains a nice weekend rental today.    Who would have ever thought that a trip to Santa Rosita Park to retrieve some money hidden under a big W could cause so many problems and so many disputes among normally civilized people?  The premise of taking a road trip is by the books fare but what sets the film apart is the whole idea of the Big W, very unique indeed.    Not enough words can be spoken about the Gene Hackman or Tom Hanks of his time Spencer Tracy.  The role he undertakes here is actually quite unique.  He is suddenly the bad guy who wants just as much as anybody to get over to Santa Rosita and get a shot at the money.  The three-way phone conversation between he and his wife and daughter Billy Sue is ingenious.  The role is just so different from the roles he typically played opposite real-life love Katharine Hepburn in Adam's Rib and Desk Set.  The role of the ultimate bitch on wheels mother-in-law is portrayed effortlessly by the gifted Ethel Merman.  And the way her mama's boy of a son Sylvester played by Dick Shawn cries because he's afraid of what's happening to his mama is the most hilarious thing you'll ever see.  Is the film too long?  If it was up to me it would have gone on for at least a half-hour more.  Just being given the chance to see so many great comedians on the screen at one time is enough to wish for a sequel for this one, something I normally despise.  For those that truly hate the length and cannot appreciate the talent of the comedians in this film that is truly a shame.  Imagine if we gathered Adam Sandler, Steve Martin, John Candy, Chevy Chase, Kevin Nealon and the list goes on for a comedy.  Try to appreciate this movie as people who saw it back when it was released did.   "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever made.","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is outstandingly hilarious. Yes, it is long and, therefore, should be watched when you have plenty of time on your hands and can sit back and enjoy it. Enjoy its leisurely pace; if you try to hurry it, you won't like it. Everyone probably knows the plot already, so I'll just say that this movie is hilarious for one BIG reason the performers. The screenplay is somewhat funny, but it takes the excellent performances of the extremely talented cast to make this film the ton of laughs that it is. Dick Shawn's performance as the looney protective son Sylvester, who will stand up to anything or person, except his mother, is pure comedic genius. Everyone in the cast (including the extras) gives it everything they got, most notably Jonathon Winters as the dim-witted truck driver, the late great Milton Berle as the wimpy son-in-law of the hilariously evil Ethel Merman, Phil Silvers as the greedy, heartless jerk, and Sid Caeser as the pompous dentist. Even supporting player Jim Backus, as the drunk pilot, shines among the all-star cast. There are lots of excellently choreographed car chases, and the finale where nearly the entire main cast hangs from a fire truck ladder is a classic. Don't miss it!     "},{"Title":"Without a doubt, the funniest film ever made!","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A film unlike any other. Originally running 5 1/2 hours, director Stanley Kramer was was ordered by the powers that be to trim this comedic masterpiece to 3 hours or under. Running time is now 3hours, i minute. It would be great to see a director's cut of this film.    "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Comedies Of All Time","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   If you take all the top comics and comedians at one time and put them together, you'll probably have a riot, although a very funny one. This is one of the greatest movies of all time because it takes some of the most understandable human concepts of greed, selfishness and avarice, and makes us look at ourselves. A fleeing bank robber tells four strangers about some money from a heist he buried just before he dies. Those strangers tell their friends, loved ones, relatives and a few more strangers and before you know it, it's a mad race of lunacy to get to the money first. The movie has a great time finding believable characters to fit its comics, and creating numerous scenes of slapstick humor as we see cameo upon cameo of comedians piling upon one another. It's also not that hard to find parallel characters between one's self and the roles in the movie. I think I would have been a lot like the logical dentist Sid Caeser plays while one of my buddies would have been the Johnathan Winters role. The comparison between the movie and reality just draws you into it that much more until you feel like you're in this progenitor to the Cannonball Run movies. This is the Holy Grail of comedies and there is nothing else that quite comes close to it in sheer lunacy or creativity. The only thing that could possibly come close would be a remake with today's top stars.  "}{"Title":"The Ultimate Screwball Slapstick Comedy of the last 50 years","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The word comedy does not do this movie proper justice. This movie brilliantly showcases some of the finest comedy actors of the era.  Adding the class of Spencer Tracy gives the movie more creditability.  The classic gas station scene is one of the funniest scenes in history.  Jonathan Winters is a great foil for the likes of Arnold Stang and Marvin Kaplan. I saw this movie in a theater when I was a kid and wanted to see it again and again.  This movie will give your laugh muscles a workout. A great video to see on a rainy day to get lost in. This movie is one for the ages. "},{"Title":"Greatest epic comedy of all time","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A great big funny movie, Jonathan Winters destroying the gas station to Joe E. Brown's Heyyyy! to Sid Caesar's destruction of the hardware store to Ben Blue's and Jim Backus airplane rides, this movie is good clean comedy at it's best. Amazing, it's never made any of these top 100 lists, I mean they'll never be another comedy epic like this one, the cameos, so many funny scenes and sequences. Three hours of laughter. "},{"Title":"They don't make em' like this anymore!!!","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This classic comedy stands the test of time since it was produced for the widescreen in 1963. Essentially, Stanley Kramer, who was widely known for dramatic films, delivers a big-budget slapstick farce with undoubtedly one of the greatest comedy cast ever assembled. Watching the film to spot all of these stars and cameos makes viewing more enjoyable. Practically every big name vaudeville and TV comedy star at the time is in this clamoring for screen time and all involved in an epic chase for $350,000. The amount of the money is the only item that dates the film because the visual zaniness is timeless and still exciting to watch. I don't see how an updated version of this movie can be produced today with stars' salaries being what they are. Try to watch the widescreen version which recently restored lost footage bringing this film to a incredible length of 188 minutes. They don't make comedies like this anymore. "},{"Title":"This Side Of Sane","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" At the risk of being called corny, I have to assert my complete love of this zany movie. As a writer and teacher, I find it's a rare film (or any work) which can hold the same impact and resonance viewing after viewing. By that I mean to say that I immediately find myself in tears of laughter with every replay - which makes me out to be someone who would derive pleasure from just looking at shiny objects for hours on end; but that is not the case, at least not most of the time.I think today's comedies have taken on a meaner spirit. Although slapstick is as mean as you can get in the genre of comedy - I mean that this particular style of comedy seems kinder in a weird kind of way. I don't hate or even pity these poor souls who have given into their baser selves and are completely overwhelmed by avarice. And I don't particularly take joy in their suffering through what may be considered some of the most brilliant pratfalls ever to be filmed. I relish the idea that any of us could succumb to lunacy if the price were right. Maybe not to the level in the movie, but something this side of sane. So the comedy is as sharp and full of wit and relevant today as it was in 1963 - adjusted for inflation of course. "},{"Title":"best film ever","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I first see mad mad world in 1964, I was fourteen at the time. I have since watched it around twice a year. I have a strange affinity with this movie and find it warm and innocent in this truly mad world we live in. A trend setting movie for films like the great race and cannonball run movies but none can come close to this heart warming epic. A lot of comments state that the movie is too long but with the characters all making their own route and method of getting to the big doubleyou it is more like six movies running side by side. A mixed bag of famous actors and some not so famous work well together they perform like one big happy family, I would find it hard to pick a favourite. It is a pity that Stanley Kramer did not make another movie with the same cast, who knows it may have taken off like Britons Carryon series of movies. The movie proves that you don't have to have violence and bad language to make a great movie. "},{"Title":"A must see, again and again.","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have to watch this movie every few years, and I never tire of it. I was about 8 years in 1963 old when I first saw this movie with my family at the big Cinerama, with its giant curved screen and an actual intermission (the DVD contains the intermission). It really left an impression on me. The cast is what really makes IAMMMMW great. Even the bit parts are are played by will-known comedians, such as Don Knotts as a bumbling motorist. This movie has it all... Suspense, drama, slapstick (sorry, no nudity, bad language, or adult situations). There is some violence, but it's all in fun. I can't think of a movie made since, or before, which has the star quality of IAMMMMW. It's difficult to say whether viewers younger than about 40 can really understand the importance of this epic, since they don't see the cast as giants of their time. This movie was originally filmed on 70mm Cinerama film, and it shows. This movie needs to be in the top 5 of best movies. If you haven't seen this movie, do it. If you have seen it, enjoy it again. "},{"Title":"Things to be aware of about the DVD version","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The DVD package contains some great extra material, including a number of deleted scenes, alternate take of the equal shares roadside discussion, and a making of presentation. Some peeves though1. The DVD is 2-sided. I hate these cheapskates. You have to be very careful handling these.2. The Ultra Panavision is still missing the very right and left edges of the screen on the DVD. I saw this movie in the original Cinerama Dome in Hollywood during a special anniversary showing a few years ago. The scene in the Beech 18 aircraft with Mickey Rooney, Buddy Hackett and Jim Backus is actually much funnier in the theater. This is because you can see the airport BEHIND them beyond the edges of the plane. They are still in the takeoff climb and Backus is already asking them to make him a drink! You don't quite pick this up on the DVD, even though they've done a great effort to present as much as they did.These reasons are not enough to skip buying this, however. Go for it and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Funniets movie ever","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK, all you whiners out there, who don't like this movie; I guess you just don't have a god sense of humor. The movie was funny all the way through. From Jimmy Durante kicking the bucket, to Jerry Lewis running over Spencer Tracy's hat, to all the chase scenes, and race scenes, blowing up a store basement, a plane crashing through a billboard, a gas station getting destroyed, Jonathan Winters riding that girlie bicycle, with the loose handlebars, Don Knotts having his car stolen by Phil Silvers, the Three Stooges as firemen, and right to the end where Ethel Merman slips on a banana peel in the hospital!!!! So many stars, so many laughs, and so much fun!!!! Hilarious through and through!!!!! "},{"Title":"The Best Slapstick Farce Ever Filmed","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I absolutely love this movie! It is hands-down the best slapstick farce ever caught on film. It is truly a wonder to behold. I have seen Mad World at least a dozen times, and every time I roar out loud with laughter, waiting with baited breath for the next scene.The assemblage of this film is absolutely brilliant. In so many ways it's just a wonder to behold.It has a terrific, legendary cast Milton Berle, Sid Caeser, Mickey Rooney, Buddy Hackett, Ethel Merman, Phil Silvers and surprise roles like Dick Shawn as a tough-guy hipster and, of course, Spencer Tracy! Spencer Tracy in a comedic farce, just sit and dwell on THAT for a moment or two! Throw on the dozens of cameos from other icons like Don Knotts, Jim Backus, Carl Reiner, the Three Stooges and Jimmy Durante, and you have a complete miracle of a cast. There isn't a casting director in all of Hollywood that could complete THAT feat again! The pacing of the film is incredible. There is hardly a slow period in the film, it is a non-stop, laugh-a-minute production. Stanley Kubrick (another point one should dwell on Stanley Kubrick directed this film!) is an absolute master of comedic pacing on film. The scenes just flow one into another into another forming a strong chain of laughs from one end to the next. And all the little details just add to the panache! Dorothy Provine losing a shoe as they're chasing Spencer Tracy; Jim Backus rolling around in the background as Rooney & Hackett fiddle around in the cockpit; the little boy waving at Phil Silvers as he sinks in the river. It takes a genius to realize that comedies have huge moments (like Jonathan Winters riding the little girl's bike) and tiny moments (Buster Keaton's little dance at the docks) and together these moments make a great film.It's outstanding how this storyline and sequence of events was concocted, and apparently it was all created by a single pair of writers! I can't imagine the fun that these two must have had assembling a true comic epic such as this! This thing is three hours long! Yet it just zooms on by, you're laughing the entire time! It's such a great combination of many facets of comedy slapstick, one-liners, long setups, sound gimmicks, even political satire in the duel between Milton Berle and Terry Thomas. The writers realized they had a huge bag of tricks to draw on, and draw on it they did. There's stuff from every comedic genre here, and it knits together amazingly well.The stunt work is completely amazing as well. This film has it all high falls, car chases, explosions, brawls, plane crashes, and a finale that has yet to be beat in ANY comedy flick to date. Sure some parts are hokey, like the breakaway gas station, but that scene is such a side-splitter (with great cameos by Arnold Stang and Marvin Kaplan as the hapless mechanics) the balsa wood is forgivable. The twin-engine plane pilot STILL sets the bar high for aerial stunts, the crash through the billboard is legendary. All the explosions in the basement of the hardware store are great fun to watch. The car chases still make you grip your armrests with excitement. And it has dogs ... what good comedy doesn't include dogs! The beauty of this film is it takes ever possible bit that can ever be used in a film (or radio for that matter), throws them in a big pot and makes a terrific stew. It was an incredibly bold move for the filmmakers to do what they did, but they pulled it off. As funny as movies made since (like Airplane, There's Something About Merry, all the Mel Brooks films, all the teen comedies) have been, there has never been another film that contains as many elements, brilliantly executed, as It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World 10 out of 10. One of my all-time favorites.Barky "},{"Title":"a good way to pass three hours with a beer and snacks","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Growing up in the UK, the BBC would show this movie once a year around the holiday period. How can you not like this movie. Jim Backus and Mickey Rooney,  I can't see. He can't see. Dick Shawn coming to save his mama, because that's why she made him. Phil Silvers, going more crazy than Sgt. Bilko. If you don't get a laugh from this film, then you must be dead.I believe i would like a chocolate chip sundae with whipped cream and a cherry on top. Spencer Tracy's line as he thinks about making a getaway with the money.The whole scene in the park, looking for the big W where the money is buried is a classic, the hot sun beating down, the flowers, the green grass, and the 14 people looking for the money.The nineties film Rat Race tried to copy this film, but they did not come close, in that film you did not care if they won the money or not. But, IAMMMMW, you began to like all the people.I recommend you see it a few times "}{"Title":"Good movie with a lot of great talent","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World is a great comedy for you to sit back and watch in the need for some old school comedy with old school actors from Sid Ceaser all the way to Phil Silvers. The film has a basic plot, a motor accident leaves a man dieing to tell the strangers around him that there's a lot of money beneath the Big W. When the man kicks the bucket, literally, the race is on. It's from car chases, to airplane riding, and basement cracking. My all time favorite actor in this film was Phil Silvers who plays the mean hearted Otto who hears about the race and goes for the money on his own. I laughed a lot when he drove his car through a river and it sank! But the best scene out of this three hour film has to be the infamous gas station destruction with Johnathon Winters which starts out with him tied to a station beam and ended with the whole building down in rubble! This film will make you all laugh with family issues with Ethal Merman to trying to fly an airplane with Micky Rooney and Buddy Hacket. And if the main cast isn't enough, wait till you see the cameos we have. Jerry Lewis, The Three stooges, Don Knots, they're all here! I give this comedy classic the big 7 out of 10. It's a bit dated but still good, enjoy! "},{"Title":"Blast from the Past","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Having lived and grown up in the SoCali coastal area, it was a real treat to see so many recognizable sites in this movie. Malibu, Santa Barbara, Ventura, etc. Some of the buildings shown in the movie are still there today. I was 4 when this movie was made. My mother was an extra in the street scene towards the last where everyone is on the fire escape. She belonged to the PTA at the time and they somehow got notice of extras being needed for the film, so she went down and spent three days filming in the street. This is the first time I've watched the movie all the way thru... 40 years later. HA HA!! What an odd film, strangely funny, very nostalgic. I do like it better than a lot of the dark comedy we've been fed by Hollyweird for several years. If it weren't for the nostalgia, I might not have rated this film as high because it does tend to drag from being a bit too funny for too long. The Ghost and Mr. Chicken or Who's Minding The Mint might be a better bet for slapstick comedy from days past. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie of all time","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Gee, what can I say about It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World? It's a laugh riot from start to finish. Whether it's Jonathan Winters demolishing a garage and making mincemeat of the owners, Buddy Hackett and Mickey Rooney having a horrific time flying an airplane, Sid Caesar and Edie Adams experiencing a miniature Fourth of July while locked in a hardware store basement, Milton Berle and Terry-Thomas beating the stuffings out of each other to settle their nationalistic quarrel, Ethel Merman obnoxiously ordering everyone around while Dorothy Provine gets increasingly embarrassed, Phil Silvers sinking into a supposedly shallow stream, Dick Shawn getting angry about people bugging him, or Spencer Tracy at the center of the big chase at the end, any person with even the smallest sense of humor will easily get a kick out of this movie.Usually, IAMMMMW has been classified as a silly comedy, but I believe that it was actually all about greed upon learning of the $350,000 buried under a big W, the characters proceed to do quite literally anything to get there. By anything, I mean they double-cross each other quite a bit.As for the many cameos and bit parts, everyone contributes their fair share Eddie Anderson and Peter Falk play cabbies who keep wondering about the picks and shovels, Jim Backus plays a pilot who has alcoholic drinks while in flight (uh-oh!), Jesse White and Carl Reiner play air traffic controllers who have a hard time helping a plane land, and Jimmy Durante, Jack Benny, Don Knotts and Jerry Lewis also appear.So, It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World is, in my opinion, the funniest movie ever made. It is truly a pleasure watching this plethora of people get their comeuppance just because they were so greedy. Absolutely perfect. "},{"Title":"It grows on you","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Not only do I have the regular version on VHS, I have the extra footage version with 20 minutes never before released. My only complaint about the movie is I can't find an extra footage version on DVD, only the regular length one. Classic genius, with all the 50s and early 60s comedians, male and female, doing their thing. Hilarious. Stupid slapstick that still holds up to this day. Even my teen aged daughter likes to watch it with her friends, and she likes nothing from the 50s! You really have to watch carefully in case you miss a famous actor making a brief appearance. Like the 3 Stooges running up to the scene of a fire, they are on screen for only a few seconds. Or Jerry Lewis, running over Spencer Tracy's hat. It adds to the movie that so many comics worked together, large parts and small, to create this masterpiece. I had forgotten about the drive-in movie inspired intermission which was shown when the movie was first released. It is also a throwback to an earlier time when this kind of movie could entertain for a full evening. I hope the studio digitally remasters and re-releases the full-length director's cut on DVD. "},{"Title":"A world of comics gather for the biggest comedy ever attempted...","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The cast of this HUGE comedy chase film is awe-inspiring to say the least. Director Kramer managed to bring in a virtual who's who of film and TV comic personalities of the day. This doesn't mean it is always hysterical or even the funniest film ever made, but it's scope and cast and budget earn it a place in cinematic comedy history. Durante, on the lam from police, drives his car off a cliff in the desert and is attended to by a handful of drivers who witnessed the accident. His dying words tell of a fortune buried under a huge W two-hundred miles away. The folks then bicker about how to handle the money, first determining how to split it, but soon deteriorating into an every man for himself trek to the location. Countless crazy escapades ensue as the group splits up, re-teams, adds in fellow money-hungry participants and practically kill themselves (and anyone in the way!) in an all-out effort to reach the loot. Meanwhile, retiring detective Tracy monitors all from his police station, eventually joining them at the locale to give them the surprise of their lives. Berle plays a doubly hen-pecked man with a pouty wife (Provine) and a shrewy mother-in-law (Merman.) Winters is a hapless truck driver. Rooney and Hackett are dim-witted pals. Caesar and Adams are a couple on their second honeymoon. These core characters are eventually joined by stuffy Englishman Thomas, deceptive Silvers, beatnik lifeguard Shawn and a couple of bemused cab drivers. Legendary comic performers such as Keaton, The Three Stooges and others make blink and you'll miss 'em cameo appearances. As all-inclusive as the cast seems, there are some notable absences such as Bob Hope, Lucille Ball, Red Skelton, Carol Burnett, Danny Kaye, to name a few. It was just a tad too early for Paul Lynde to have been included, which is a shame because he would have been a stupendous addition to the ensemble. As it is, though, the performers all get a chance to strut their stuff and do the types of comedy that made them famous. Merman is highly memorable as the loud-mouthed harpy and, happily, makes no effort whatsoever to be dignified as she's knocked around and up-ended repeatedly. Winters is very strong in a somewhat understated performance. Hackett starts off well, but loses some steam as it goes on. Adams was in the unenviable position of filming a movie about car chases just months after her husband Ernie Kovacs died in an auto accident (with Caesar playing the role meant for him!) but she does an admirable job, her curves adding an extra dose of visual appeal. The weak links include Rooney, who just isn't charismatic enough to hold the attention (nor is his character interesting or particularly likable) and Provine, who is basically a mannequin throughout. Tracy runs hot and cold and can, at times, be seen looking off set for cue cards. His relationship with the director is the only explanation for his presence here as broad comedy was not a forte of his. The film is clearly overlong, but it only occasionally feels like it with so many amusing, eye-popping, or jaw-dropping events unfolding one after another. It's certainly wonderful to have a cinematic record of all these comedy greats working together. "},{"Title":"Fun movie from start to finish","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I vaguely remembered seeing this movie once as a kid, but could only recall the Jerry Lewis hat scene, and the Big W. So when I noticed it showing on TV one afternoon I recorded it. I'm glad I did.Mad World is FUN. It's enjoyable throughout, and, not coincidentally, has some realistic observations on human nature. The situations and events are OTT, and never intended to be taken seriously, but, like all the best comedy, the commentary on people is right there in front of you.The cast list is amazing. It includes a vast number of stars from the time (1963). All the main characters are stars in their own right, and many others appear throughout the movie in cameo roles. If, like the intended audience, you recognise the stars, this will undoubtedly add to your enjoyment. However, I suspect many people today will recognise only a very few actors (as did I, I am ashamed to admit). But that's OK &#150; this movie shines on its own merits.The plot line is simple, and the fun comes from watching the characters chasing their dream. It's a wild ride, and every moment is immensely enjoyable. The acting is perfect, as is the comedic timing. Every scene has meaning (in the context of a fun film) and moves the story along - with a single exception. Whilst watching, I was puzzled by one scene which focused on three firemen for a few seconds. It was only later that I discovered that these were the Three Stooges, who I have only heard of and never seen. No doubt this scene will be amusing to those familiar with the Stooges, but for anyone who doesn't know them &#150; this is the reason for the scene's existence!Some people find Mad World hilarious throughout. I am not one of them, but that's no bad thing. One can only laugh so long, and a production that strives for constant hysterical hilarity quickly becomes tedious and dull. For me, this movie represents the perfect blend for a comedic movie. It gave me some laugh-out-loud moments, evenly distributed throughout its run, frequent smiles and chuckles, and constant amusement. I can give no higher acclaim than to say that when I saw the film I was suffering from an extremely bad cold, but forgot this completely and enjoyed the film thoroughly.I approached Mad World with a neutral mind. Frankly, I was quite prepared to read a newspaper whilst it was on if it didn't hold my attention &#150; or even to stop playback and press the Erase button. However, it more than held my attention; it proved an immensely enjoyable experience. I hadn't looked at the runtime prior to viewing, so had no idea that it was such a long movie. In fact, I didn't realise how long it was until it was over. I started watching in the afternoon, and was astonished to find that it was evening at the end. I hadn't glanced at the clock once, and if I had thought about it I would have guessed the movie lasted ninety minutes or so. For me, there really can't be a greater testament to how good this movie is.In summary, this is a fun film throughout. It is peopled with likable characters played to perfection. The viewer wants them all to succeed. There are some nice, pretty girls to admire (I love the fashions on show &#150; very feminine, and very flattering), and the enjoyment never stops. Mad World is very different to so much of the comedy being produced at present, and is all the better for it. There is no cynicism, sarcasm, ridicule, sex, swearing or nastiness - and no politically correct message. It's just a fun movie that encapsulates much that is real by placing normal people in an extraordinary situation and having them behave in an extraordinary manner.Highly enjoyable, and highly recommended.9/10 "},{"Title":"Comedy great","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A madcap star studded romp of a film, that while a tad on the long side (at more then 2 and a half hours) is still highly enjoyable. Some parts do drag, but on a hit or miss ratio, it's still much more hit than miss. A well done family comedy. It's a veritable Who's who of comic greats!! On a parting note, it's so tragic that one generation gets this brilliant flick and my generation gets Rat Race. There's no justice in the world.My Grade ADVD extras Documentary Something a Little Less Serious; Extended scenes "},{"Title":"One of the funniest ever!","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Pretty much everyone who was anyone in 1963 (the year of my birth) is in this movie. It really is comic genius!It's laughs from beginning to end with this wacky cast. I can't recall any other movie from this time period that is so funny.A big production from the early 60's and near the top of my collection of DVD's! "},{"Title":"Comic cornucopia of epic proportions!","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD, MAD WORLD (1963) **** Spencer Tracy, Milton Berle, Edie Adams, Sid Caesar, Jonathan Winters, Mickey Rooney, Buddy Hackett, Ethel Merman, Dick Shawn, Phil Silvers, Dorothy Provine, Peter Falk, Eddie Rochester Anderson, Terry-Thomas, William Demarest, Norman Fell, Andy Devine, Jim Backus, (Cameos Jack Benny, Jerry Lewis, Don Knotts, Ben Blue, Carl Reiner, Joe E. Lewis, Buster Keaton, The Three Stooges, Marvin Kaplan, Arnold Stang) Stanley Kramer's classic slapstick comedy that begins a race and chaos ensuing when Jimmy Durante kicks the bucket (literally) after an auto accident. But before he does he tells a group of strangers where he buried a cache of stolen loot (under a BIG W). Inspired showcase of possibly every big named comedian at the time with some very frenetic moments. Great climactic chase reaching its peak in a condemned building "},{"Title":"Laughter is the best medicine","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How anyone can honestly say that this movie is not funny is beyond me. Yes, there are scenes that strain credibility but this is an escapist comedy movie ,not reality TV! Many of the funniest comedians of the middle twentieth century assemble together to treat us to a laugh riot. Jonathan Winters, in my opinion, is the funniest and wittiest comedian of all time and Phil Silvers was a very under-appreciated talent. Sid Caesar, Milton Berle, Mickey Rooney, Buddy Hackett, Dick Shawn, Arnold Stang, etc...what a cast! The interplay between them is masterful.   No, this movie is not edgy or crass or crude or filled with special effects. It's just fun fun fun fun!  "}{"Title":"They Simply Don't Make Movies Like This Anymore","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I first saw It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World when I was a kid, but I still never tire of it. The movie is full of action and the stars never seem to stop appearing on screen. The movie holds up well, and remains funny and fresh after all these years. Many stars that I would never bother to watch in another movie, like Milton Bearle, Ethel Merman, and Terry Thomas, I enjoy in this movie. The chemistry and dialogue is great, and I have been waiting for them to do a re-make of this movie. I doubt any production could capture the essence that Mad World brings. Jonathan Winters is hilarious, and his fight scene at the gas station is a true classic. I could drop names all day on this movie, and not do it justice. It must be seen to be appreciated. "},{"Title":"The Definitive Epic... Comedy!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This has to be the most incredible comedy ever created! Everywhere you turn, you will see a great comedian or actor! Half of the fun is looking for all the cameos! From silent legend Buster Keaton to then modern-day greats Jonathan Winters and Milton Berle, to Spencer Tracy and the Ultimate mother-in-law Ethel Merman. This movie doesn't stop! Just as you start to recover from one scene, BAM! the next one hits. Action, Laughter, this movie has it all!Sadly, it's been edited to pieces!The DVD and standard Video release are cut by over 20 minutes. Great cameos are lost by this. There is only one release (and it's OOP) that's complete... over 3 hours of side-splitting humor and action.Most people who are critical of this movie do so mainly over length. Consider that these people are the MTV generation, where anything longer than 2 or 3 minutes are too long. If it's too long, watch it 30 minutes at a time, like a 6 part tv series. it's just too good to pass up. I have always said this movie was in my top 10. Honestly, I think this has to be part of my toss-up for #1. "},{"Title":"Greatest Comedy Ever Filmed","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  On this week that Stanley Kramer passed away I think it fitting to pay tribute to It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World. Thank you Mr. Kramer for the Greatest Comedy Ever Filmed. I recently met Sid Caesar and told him that this timeless comedy was my all time favorite, Mr. Caesar smiled back at me and said, Mine too Thanks also to the Turner Network for giving an all new version of the film for television with many new scenes. Thanks once again Mr. Kramer for giving all of us the gift of laughing at ourselves.   "},{"Title":"The Greatest Comedy Flick Ever!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have this movie on home video and I love to show it to friends because they, too, become fans of this great movie.  Every great comedian of the day was in this film, from Milton Berle to Jack Benny.  It is one of the most entertaining films, and one of the few 3 hour epics, I can sit through.  If there was ever a comedy masterpiece this is it.  The stand out is Ethel Merman as the domineering mother-in-law to Milton Berle.  What a comedienne! If you haven't seen this movie - PLEASE DO! "},{"Title":"Comedy classic","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Get some popcorn, sit down and relax for three hours, and get ready to laugh steadily. This is a comedy classic. It's the story of a group of people who witness a car accident. As the man lays dying he tells them all of the money he has hidden. Then it is off to the races as they all go looking for it. All of the greatest comedians appear (though most in cameos). Half the fun is picking them all out. Spencer Tracy has the lead as the disgruntled police detective who takes more than a passing interest in the money as well. All the performances are top notch with Jonathan Winters, Dick Shawn, Buddy Hackett, and Phil Silvers as the standouts. The scene where Winters single handedly destroys a gas station is worth the price alone. "},{"Title":"One of the few movies that I can replay and laugh out loud.","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has a lot of physical comedy in it which really works.  However it is the exaggerated human qualities - mainly weaknesses of greed, anger, frustration, and revenge, which are played very comically by the various actors.  Funny, funny, funny. "},{"Title":"Uneven But Often Hilarious Epic Slapstick Comedy","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When an ex-con crashes his car, he reveals a clue to the location of stolen money to bystanders before he dies, and thereby touches off an increasingly competitive race between--are you ready for this?--Milton Berle, Sid Ceasar, Buddy Hackett, Ethel Merman, Mickey Rooney, Dick Shawn, Phil Silvers, Terry-Thomas, Jonathan Winters, Edie Adams, and Dorothy Provine.Within minutes the competition becomes downright nasty, and before too long our cast of neurotic comics are hurtling toward the money by car, bicycle, biplane, luxury aircraft, and virtually every other form of transportation imaginable, trying to wreck the others' chances and be the first to arrive. Along the way they encounter a host of stellar cameo players ranging from the Three Stooges to Buster Keaton, many of whom--Carl Reiner in particular comes to mind--contribute to the fun.There is a great deal to enjoy in this film, but regrettably the film as a whole never quite seems to know what do with its over abundance of talent. The action inevitably breaks down into comic vignettes, and some work better than others, too often leaving the viewer to wade through leaden moments in search of the memorably funny ones. A particularly weak link in the film is, sadly, the usually marvelous Spenser Tracy in the pivotal role of a detective who tracks the race in hope of recovering the stolen money; visibly frail, his very off-the-cuff performance lacks the power to hold the strands of the story together. Similarly, too often marvelous cameo performers such as Zasu Pitts are reduced to mere faces in the crowd, their only appeal in the flicker of recognition they may elicit from the viewer. And the film's conclusion is, frankly, a bust.Still, Berle, Ceasar, and especially Winters are consistently at the top of their game in this sprawling film, and Ethel Merman at her abrasive best makes one regret Hollywood's underuse of her talents. If you like slapstick (and even if you don't) you're bound to find SOMETHING you like here--and for most viewers the parts you like will be sufficient reason to stay with the film. Just go make some popcorn during the spots that don't appeal to you! Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Stanley Kramer's Epic Comedy Still Shines!","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD, MAD WORLD is certainly a product of the time it was made, with it's style and pacing more in tune with early 60s audience expectations than the logic-bending, dumbed-down comedies churned out today. But to call the film 'dated' is a disservice to the innovator who created it, Stanley Kramer. He envisioned an epic comedy, with multiple subplots around a central theme, that would bring together nearly all of America's brightest comedy talents. To critics who warned him that no one would watch a comedy over two and a half hours long, he said, simply, that if a film is entertaining enough, audiences would come, no matter the length...and the film's blockbuster success proved him correct!The story is a comic tale of greed gone rampant, as a group of innocents-turned-fortune hunters get themselves into a variety of disasters while racing to recover over $300,000 in stolen money. From the moment dying hood Jimmy Durante passes along an ambiguous message where it is hidden (beneath a 'Big W' at Santa Rosita State Park), the bystanders fight among themselves over whether to do the 'right' thing, and report it (that option is quickly discarded, when the police arrive on scene), to split the money between them (trying to find an equitable way of accomplishing THAT is a running joke through the film), or to just split up and race like hell to be the first to get to the cash. Of course, this is what happens, and thus hangs the tale...Each carload of passengers suffers through a unique series of comic disasters en route to Santa Rosita. Milton Berle, as a small businessman recovering from a nervous breakdown, traveling with wife Dorothy Provine and mother-in-law Ethel Merman (who could drive ANYONE to a breakdown!), go through three vehicles in a series of disasters, recruiting first British botanist Terry-Thomas (his exchanges about American culture with Berle are still timely and funny), and later, Merman's whacked-out beach bum son Dick Shawn (I gotta save my MAMA!) into the group. Dentist Sid Caesar (in a role originally to be played by Ernie Kovacs, who died before production began), with wife Edie Adams (Kovacs' real-life wife), buys a ride in a broken-down bi-plane, then after landing, ends up locked in a hardware store basement, which they systematically and hilariously destroy, attempting to escape. Las Vegas hustlers Mickey Rooney and Buddy Hackett hitch a ride in a private plane with soused pilot Jim Backus, who promptly gets knocked out, leading to one of the WILDEST rides in screen history. Trucker Jonathan Winters makes the mistake of trusting motorist Phil Silvers, who strands him in the desert with a girl's bike, and a growing fury, which finally vents itself against poor Arnold Stang and Marvin Kaplan's gas station. Gradually, everyone finds their way to Santa Rosita Park, picking up two more 'gold diggers', as cab drivers Peter Falk and Eddie ('Rochester') Anderson join in the hunt.Meanwhile, veteran policeman Spencer Tracy (looking frail in his next-to-last film), having guessed that Durante had passed the location along, waits to spring, and close the long-standing case. But the nagging, persistent phone calls of his wife and daughter are driving him crazy...the city fathers are cutting his retirement pension to the bone...Durante's money DOES look attractive...and Mexico is just a few miles away...While the film does have faults (the pacing occasionally falters, Tracy's station scenes are flat, due, perhaps, to his ill health, and the Cinerama format of the film doesn't really transfer well to television, even in widescreen), it offers many scenes that are classic (Rooney and Hackett, 'flying' their plane through a billboard while firemen The Three Stooges wait for them to crash is a personal favorite), and the fire escape/fire ladder grand finale is a comic masterpiece, with Tracy and the comedians all flung through the air in a variety of wildly funny 'retributions' (watch, in particular, for Dick Shawn's; that's GOTTA hurt!)IT'S A MAD...WORLD was the first film I ever shelled out money for, as a kid. I left the theater totally enthralled, and it STILL has that effect on me, forty years later! Will kids today feel the same way about the current comedies, in forty years?Stanley Kramer did it right! My only regret about the film is that Bob Hope, Red Skelton, and Jackie Gleason don't appear; I think every other comedian in Hollywood shows up, somewhere, in this gem!  "},{"Title":"A comedy classic","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love Spencer Tracy in a lot of other films, but his maudlin sub-plot, as a detective under-appreciated at home and at work, is the only thing wrong with this hilarious film. I saw it as a kid during its first run at Hollywood's Cinerama Dome, and I've seen it many times since. It's difficult to pick a favorite bit, Phil Silvers conning Don Knotts into thinking he's a secret agent, Jonathan Winters demolishing a gas station, Ethel Merman taking her loud-mouth persona over the top, they're all great! But I have to give the nod to Dick Shawn as a mentally-challenged beach bum who goes crazy when he thinks someone's messing with his Momma. All this, and the DVD has a bunch of entertaining interviews with cast members and cameos (e.g., Jerry Lewis). You've got to see it if you love physical humor. "},{"Title":"Just get fed up of seeing inexperienced movie watchers criticise where they shouldn't go","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Alright, we all know one of IMDb's golden rules is that you shouldn't be critical of the other person's comments - this time I want to be outspoken (please ?)Thanks. Just wading through some of the previous write-ups nauseated me, because I have both fond memories of this film AND understand the where, when and why's of it's filming.You just can't impose your late 1990's standards / later on a film like this. It is a product of it's own time frame and should be viewed as such. Would you criticise the 1933 Invisible Man on poor special effects ? The 1954 Dambusters on the bouncing bomb scenes and ultimately the dam destruction scenes ? What about the original Terminator ? Looking a bit crap now isn't it but nevertheless people still watch it in their droves. The point is that The Mad +3 World tried to make a point that ultimately stranded it in 1963 - and that is exactly the era in which you should judge it ! Do you really think all those stars were in it for the money ? Hum...... This is Hollywood after all, ok let's just say that there was a GENERAL feeling that they were trying their real best and believed the end product would further their careers or cap an already successful one. There are just too many big names in this for all to have been idiots.A further line of critique seems to be the running time. Well if you think it too long then just switch off ! Is that too hard ? If you went out for a meal with coffee and the coffee was too hot would you continue to drink it ? Let it and yourself cool off. I just cannot believe a line of moaning that includes something like 3 hours of my life wasted.If you enjoy stand up comedy on a variety show then watch this film. That is a broad analogy. If you want the latest blockbuster - that is always better than the previous blockbuster - then don't bother watching. This film now has it's own little niche as a historical document and doesn't need the mobile phone generation to put it down.  I give this no less than 9/10  "}{"Title":"What happened to the Stooges?","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just watched this classic film again on TCM,which I taped last year,and although it is as wonderful as everyone states,what happened to the shot of The 3 Stooges? Their name still appears in the opening credits but the shot of them near the end of the film,as firemen on the scene to 'help' is,for me,noticably missing! I don't know if this is just TCM's print,but I'm afraid to buy the DVD if this brief but 'must have' shot is missing!! No one in my area rents this,including Netflix. Can anyone out there clue me in? "},{"Title":"Over the top comedy tries to do TOO MUCH...GRADE C","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Pros Jonathan Winters, Dick Shawn, some gags, some special effectsCons WAY TOO LONG, screenplayIt's all about finding a cache full of $350,000 under the BIG W. A group of motorists find out about the money from a dying criminal escapee (Jimmy Durante, who literally kicks the bucket). They try to reason about how to divide the money, but it becomes every man/woman for himself/herself. They depart their separate ways and attempt to selfishly find the missing loot. It is at this point when the film lags in great length. Winters and Shawn steal the movie from veteran comic actors/actresses. Barrie Chase as the hot babe in a bikini has a cameo, but I kept saying when is she gonna do a table dance? This type of comedy is in the style of The Naked Gun flicks with Leslie Nielsen. GRADE C "},{"Title":"I don't recall ever liking this movie...","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie in the late seventies when I was 6 and was mildly amused. I saw it again in the late eighties when I was 16 and was aghast that his had ever been considered a comedic masterpiece. I saw it again about a year ago on television and even though I can forgive a few of it's quirks because it serves as such a good time capsule of 1963 I still can't consider it funny or amusing. I realize that by it's very nature comedy changes, what was daring thirty years ago is tame today. However, that isn't the case here. I can watch the 3 stooges shorts from 1935 and laugh myself to tears, I can watch most Jerry Lewis and Peter Sellers films and giggle hysterically. Mad World is nothing like those; in fact I doubt it was ever really funny. What happened was that it had the honor of being one of the first films with in all star cast which, more than anything, helped cement it as a classic. Despite the fawning and praise, however, the entire film's humor boils down to basically a much older version of the rake hidden in the grass that pops up and hits the guy in the privates gag told over and over again; no more, no less. It's lazy, loud, obnoxious comedy that thinks people screaming and running is funny. This is NOT funny, jokes are funny; jokes have pacing, timing and a punchline. This movie has none of that, people just yell out lines as loudly and shrilly as they can until they run out of energy, then someone else takes over. In a 15 minute bit this may be humorous, over the course of an almost 3 hour film it's exhausting. Watch it for the historical value but don't expect to really laugh. "},{"Title":"WOW and WOW","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Finally! Everything we have always wanted to know AND see about this Kubrick gem. Thank you Criterion for preserving this priceless slapstick comedy for all to see and treasure. In Blu-Ray and regular DVD it just makes sense to add this to your collection and let your children see what Hollywood was up to in 1963 and the fact that almost every actor in Hollywood wanted to be in this movie. How often does that happen now-a-days? ENJOY! From the very beginning on the twisting turning highway where Jimmy Durante is escaping the fuzz to the kick the bucket scene. I remember when I first saw this at movie I couldn't believe what I was watching and ALL the famous actors in the movie from Ben Blue to Spencer Tracy to Mickey Rooney and even a short cameo by Jack Benny and Jerry Lewis. I remember I couldn't wait to see it again. When it finally came out on VHS many years later it was edited down to about 2 hours 20 minutes. Then MGM commissioned a special edition with all (at least up to then) the missing scenes to make it over 3 hours. Then DVD's came out and to my surprise and...NO..the edited version was it! Now we get to see everything and I feel so lucky to watch history. For a serious director, Stanley Kramer sure made a wonderful comedy for a director known for dramas..God bless all the actors and crew that made this movie possible...WOW and WOW "},{"Title":"A Comedy about Greed and Stupidity","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Watching this movie I remembered another screwball comedy Airplane. In both movies the format is the same to have as many gags in as little time as possible. Although Airplane will always be my favourite nonsense comedy, It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World has won a special place in my heart for its ability to entertain and delight in every minute of this movie. And it's a long movie. The version I saw has 154 minutes, but I know other versions run many minutes longer. So the screenwriters, the director and the actors deserve a round of applause for never letting the movie become dull for a moment.This movie is like a compendium of comedy fast-paced talking, slapstick, silent film-like visual gags a la Chaplin or Keaton, fun one-liners, well-timed sequences with punch-lines, this movie has every form of humor ever invented. It also has an amazing cast of characters, ranging from Spencer Tray to Buddy Hackett to Mick Rooney.But in spite of all the nonsense going on, this is not a brainless movie. In fact the premise is quite ingenious and goes deep into human nature. An old robber lies dying in a car accident and tells several witnesses that there is $350,000 hidden in a place. A race of wits ensues between the several witnesses to see who gets there first and claims the money. Throughout the race rivalries come up, alliances are forget and destroyed, people double-cross each other, and everyone will be capable of doing anything to do triumph. In other words, it's one of the most brutal portrayals of human greed and stupidity in cinema. The movie makes it very clear under the spell of money, people will become ruthless morons capable of anything. Some noir movies, which specialise in this type of story, had never been as unflattering about humanity as this movie is. Because in noir, there's always someone who retains a semblance of morality, as crooked as they may be. But here everyone's corrupted, even the police.Stanley Kramer and screenwriters William and Tanie Rose made a real masterpiece. After 40 years it's still funny, arguably funnier than any modern comedy. "},{"Title":"Robert Ronson's Review","Date":"30 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Are you out for a good laugh? Then it's a must to see It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World uncut in it's original form of 3 hours 12 minutes. There's a wide range of comedians in a hilarious feature film originally in Cinerama. From the opening scene, shortly after Jimmy Durante kicks a bucket, until the last moment when Ethel Merman slips on a banana peel, the characters, action (some of which was cut in the shorter versions), plot, and background (especially in Cinerama) all come together in an entertaining motion picture which is sure to hold your attention if you're interested in watching a movie without any interruptions. What and where is the Big W? And why are there so many characters running around with a shovel? The plot eventually has these wacky individuals ending up at the same location only to wind up with some slapstick comedy. The situations that occur with the characters illustrates the title of the movie which is why it's my favorite. "},{"Title":"While very, very long, it still manages to be one of the funniest and most quotable comedies ever","Date":"2 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time when I was like 11 and I remember crying with laughter. This is also one of the few movies where I remember my mum rolling about on the floor with laughter. Watching it again, as I noticed its flaws, it doesn't quite wow me as much. It is very very long, and I did feel as though the film could have been trimmed a bit as there are some scenes when little happens. The flaws aside it is still one of the funniest and most quotable comedies I have ever seen. The scenery is breathtaking, and the stunts are constantly constructed at a breakneck pace and directed with unusual care and precision. The music is good too, but I have to say the quality of the script is simply genius. There are many lines that are comedy gold and ever quotable, such as Dingy don't let this worry you-*we're gonna get killed*! though my favourite is What do you mean who's flying the plane? No one's flying the plane! There are many priceless scenes, the aeroplane flying scene especially was hilarious. The performances from the entire cast are outstanding, including Spencer Tracy in his penultimate film and while he is visibly ailing he still shows he is going strong. Ethel Merman, Mickey Rooney, Dorothy Provine and Jonathan Winters also give brilliant performances, but it is Buddy Hacket and Terry-Thomas who steal the film and with panache I must say. All in all, a long but fun and worthwhile comedy. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A very long comedy adventure, but one with many comic highlights","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Over two years ago, I saw Rat Race, from 2001, which was how I first heard of It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World, when I learned that the more recent film of the two was loosely a remake of this 1963 comedy adventure. I thought the 2001 movie was pretty funny, but then learned that it was generally considered inferior to this original film, so I figured I'd better check this one out. It's been a while since then, but just the other day, I finally managed to rent this first film of the two. Beforehand, I didn't know how long it was, and was a little surprised when I learned about the runtime before watching it. However, despite the fact that it's about three hours long (or just a little less), and I can't give it a 10 like many other viewers, I found myself laughing so many times! In the California desert, a car speeds along the road, and soon falls off a cliff! This accident is witnessed by people in four other vehicles nearby, and five men (Dingy Bell Benjy Benjamin, J. Russell Finch, Lennie Pike, and Melville Crump) all go down to help the driver, Smiler Grogan. As he lies dying on the ground, Grogan tells them about the $350,000 he has hidden in Santa Rosita State Park, under a giant W! The drivers and passengers of the four vehicles try to reach an agreement on how the fortune should be shared, but do not succeed, and their greed sends them on a race to their destination. Along the way, each party is headed for a crazy adventure, filled with conflict and mayhem! They encounter other people on their journey, which only leads to more trouble! Meanwhile, Capt. C. G. Culpepper of the Santa Rosita Police Department knows this all started with criminal Smiler Grogan, so he has the racers tracked! Much of the humour in this film is very verbal, with a lot of arguing, and this definitely made me laugh. Later in the film, we get into more physical humour, and this is also funny for the most part. Mrs. Marcus, played by Ethel Merman, is the harridan mother-in-law of J. Russell Finch. Some viewers may find her annoying, but I definitely found her funny. There are so many other comic highlights in the film, involving the feud between Lennie Pike and Otto Meyer (a goof-ball he meets on the road), which leads to a lot of comical mayhem, two of the other racers stuck above the ground in a plane which they don't know how to fly, Mrs. Marcus trying to communicate with her beatnik son, two of the racers trapped in a hardware store basement and trying to escape, Culpepper talking to his wife and daughter on the phone, etc. The characters get into so many bizarre situations in the film, which is a major reason why it's so funny! Even though I laughed a lot, I do have some minor complaints about this 1963 film. It's perhaps a little TOO long for a movie like this, some scenes end too soon (I saw the DVD version, which is apparently an edited version, so I don't know if this was the case on the big screen back in 1963, over two decades before I was born), and comedian Jerry Lewis makes a cheesy cameo appearance as the man who runs over the hat on the road. If Lewis had played a major part in this movie, he could have really brought it down, but fortunately, it IS only a cameo appearance, so it's nothing to get worked up over. Apart from those flaws, there really isn't much to complain about. I can't jump on the best comedy of all time bandwagon, but overall, It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World is a memorably funny comedy adventure with a steady ensemble cast. "},{"Title":"So long ago...","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...that I can't recall if we ever did see this film in the theater in late 1963 or early 1964 - come to think of it, we may have seen Mad World when it became widely released, but, that may have been the shortened version (in those days, it wasn't unusual to still have double features, which meant both movies couldn't be too long).I have seen this film many times, however, over the past few years (guess I need a laugh, as they did in late '63, since the movie at that time opened just before JFK passed away), but, sometimes find that the crazy humor is almost too much to sit through even in it's shortened version (I can't imagine sitting through the original 3 hours-plus film), but, it is fun to watch all of the classic comedians (including those funny cameos by Jerry Lewis, Jack Benny and Don Knotts) doing what they do (or did) so well, though some of the humor (Jack Benny's Well! for example) may make a bit more sense to someone who's old enough to have remembered the individual acts of each comedian seen in the film.As for that Captain Culpepper - it's hard not to feel sorry for him, but...FrankP.S. I still think that 5 shares for the 5 guys who went down and heard Smiler's final words would have been the best idea (of course telling the detective at the accident would have been the best solution)... "},{"Title":"this is ,,,,,,   the best","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" agree with the majority, is not my style .....i consider my self a cynical person....but i have been watching this film for the past two weeks everyday .. the acting, the dialog.(scrip) the plot .. fantastic. why,why,why,why, cant we make comedy like this, AGAIN ...IMDd should prod .producers...to come up with another retake ..is it lack of talent or money...WHAT? i guess we have to agree with the last word spoken in the end of this priceless comedy...listen up you fellas...slip on banana .....ha! ha! ha!.....do a remake. i know this is a classic, i just am overwhelmed at the number of comedians ,phil silvers, Milton Berle, Jonathan winters, Micky Rooney, buddy Hackett .cid Cesar,jack Benny...Spencer Tracey,jimmy Durante.....female comedians....common guys do a retake .....this is good , family fun "}{"Title":"What kind of taxi cabs at the end?","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" With regard to It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World - - - - - I believe this movie is one of the top ten of all time, although I agree with other posters that it is not necessarily side splitting funny.What was the model and year of those two funky yellow taxi cabs with the huge fins, near the ending sequences of the film?I have never seen such a car in any other movie nor in real life.And, I would KILL to own one, today! They are reminiscent of the 1957Chevy with the tail fins, but much shorter and compact than the 57 Chevy.Any light anyone can shed on this would be appreciated.I don't even think that COLOR exists in nature. "},{"Title":"It Was A Wonderful World Then","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When IT'S A MAD WORLD opened in December, 1963, it was a completely different comedy universe than it is today and this must be taken into account when seeing this film. The movie-going public couldn't wait to see all of the era's comedians (as well as some of comedy's stars of yesteryear) under the umbrella of one epic production. Under the direction of Stanley Kramer, MAD WORLD was not only marketed as the greatest comedy ever put on film, it was a mini-marathon requiring an intermission in the middle as Sid Caesar and Edie Adams are about to blow themselves out of the basement of a hardware store.There is no question that much of the humor in MAD WORLD is dated. Physical comedy in 1963 was still pretty much dependent upon the sort of vaudeville slapstick that ruled in the 1940's and 1950's. The careers of the giants--Milton Berle, Phil Silvers, Sid Caesar, and Mickey Rooney--were built upon this trademark humor when a pie in the face or a caravan wild goose chase could still command belly laughs. For that is exactly what MAD WORLD is---a wild goose chase in the grand Keystone Kops tradition--except that in MAD WORLD the mayhem winds through southern California environs.Watching MAD WORLD recently, I found the service station destruction scene still hilarious and possibly the movie's highlight. Jonathan Winters, who always stood apart from the rest of the comedy world as something very special, unleashes a grand mal as he goes after Phil Silvers for duping him. Arnold Stang and Marvin Kaplan are a riot as the wimp station attendants who try to stop him. The resulting mayhem is the complete annihilation of the building piece by piece. I think the entire segment still holds up.Would you believe Ethel Merman as Milton Berle's mother-in-law? Merman succeeds in being the movie's stereo-typical shrew and number one annoyance. Except for Merman, though, the women in the movie are pretty much props to hold up their men. Edie Adams, Dorothy Provine, Madeline Rhue, and even luscious Barry Chase, Dick Shawn's bikini-clad girlfriend, are little more than sexy figurines. Other than Merman's character and a very funny moment in which Carol Burnette crosses herself as Ben Blue takes off in a crop duster, the females are not really central to the film's comedy. This is undoubtedly due to the secondary role women played in the comedy world in 1963. Lucille Ball, the 1950's and 1960's comedy queen, ruled the empire and other performing women comedians were scarce. Mary Tyler Moore was just launching in the DICK VAN DYKE SHOW in 1963 and other females were too new and usually relegated to stand up Phyllis Diller, Totie Fields, Joan Rivers, and Ann Mira. Spencer Tracy was a great choice as the police captain dreaming of the Mexican border and harboring plans to take the money himself and throw everyone, including his nagging wife and superiors, overboard. There is one very funny, subtle moment, just before the Big W is discovered, when Phil Silvers bumps into Tracy amongst the mayhem at the park. Both legends come face to face and stare at one another oddly for a prolonged moment of silence. As for the effect of so many stars appearing at various points throughout the movie just for the sake of a cameo the device may fall a bit flat at times, but it's part of the movie's fun. Jerry Lewis, Jack Benny, Ben Blue, Carol Burnett, Carl Reiner, and even Buster Keaton and the Three Stooges appear in MAD WORLD for a just a few moments. Usually, the effect is often an annoying contrivance, but audiences in 1963 simply viewed it as an on-going surprise package and part of the charm of getting so much talent into one production.The movie's climax--all the stars hanging on for life on an out-of-control fire engine ladder--may not be as back-slapping funny as it was in 1963, but it is still wonderfully entertaining. And the very last scene in the hospital room when Ethel Merman gets her comeuppance is a tip of the cap to the oldest comedy gag in movie history.MAD WORLD is recommended today if for no other reason than to witness an era's great comedians all coming together like never before and seeing them as they looked in their prime...Trivia How well I remember my excitement attending the premiere of IT'S A MAD WORLD in San Francisco the week of December, 1963. The opening chase scene in which the police are speeding after Jimmy Durante who plunges off a cliff in a '58 Ford seemed spectacular and exciting...You almost wanted to applaud as all of the great comedians appeared one by one including Jonathan Winters, my personal favorite...There should have been a film all it's own titled THE FILMING OF IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD, MAD WORLD. I have heard that the off-camera antics of all these great talents could fill a book....Who among the lead characters is still living? Unofficially, as of this writing, Jonathan Winters, Mickey Rooney, Sid Caesar, Dorothy Provine, and Edie Adams come immediately to mind....In minor roles, Jerry Lewis, Barrie Chase, Carl Reiner, Peter Falk, Carol Burnett, Don Knotts, Madeline Rhue...I'm sure there are others...Dennis Caracciolo "},{"Title":"Funny, funny film","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember seeing this film more than once in a theater when I was a kid.Grabbed on both laser disc & DVD.So great to have it wide screen/letter box. The way it should be see.But.....you need the big screen to really enjoy a film this large.Excellent cast.The stand out. Jonathan Winters.The scene where he goes nuts at the gas station. Can play that over & over again.All the cameo's were a plus to the film.Wish the DVD had updated extras. The same Making of section is on the laser disc.That was a disappointed, I wanted to see something new.As long as the film is, back then, you needed that break in it.Even at it's age, it is still funny.The Big W!! "},{"Title":"Ethel Ethel Ethel","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Never ever in my life have I ever seen anything funnier than Ethel Merman's horrible behaviour in this film. I show bits to anyone I can just to see their reaction. Belting everyone with that handbag, prefacing every sentence with Now listen, YOU or just plain 'Shaddup...fantastic........fall down funny. I saw it aged 10 in 1964 in Cinerama on the 100 ft wide screen in Sydney's glorious lost Plaza Theatre. I was appalled then, especially that everything was demolished in every scene and that everyone fell over or was pushed over. Today, of course I just howl with horrified laughter at everything......and almost lose complete control when Ethel appears. The speech Terry Thomas makes about the economy of the US being dependent on bosoms is priceless.....and referring to Ethel as 'that strumpet of a mother-in-law....well, it's perfect. "},{"Title":"The Classic that can't be redone!","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This Classic Comedy is truly one of a kind.  There will never be another that could even come close.  The quantity and quality of first rate actors and comedians is astounding!  From Milton Berle to Jonathan Winters, Sid Caesar to Spencer Tracy!  There are even cameos by Jerry Lewis and a rare color cameo by The 3 Stooges!! (posing as firemen with no spoken lines) Sure Hollywood has tried to capture that same feel and chemistry with later productions.  The Cannonball Run tried and pretty much succeeded. Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise were perfect for each other, but other than them and Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr, the other groups in the race really had nothing going for them.  They were all 2-bit actors with no chemistry. Although very enjoyable, this film didn't even come close. Don't even get me started with Rat Race.  Are you kidding me!? Whoopi Goldberg and Seth Green is the best this generation can do?!  What a joke! Just goes to show, not only are the quality of comedic actors diminishing over the years, but there is no way that the best of the best would even consider getting together to make a good film.  Not unless they were getting paid considerably.  As it turns out, there were more actors interested in Mad World then the writers had room for.  They all took notice that this film was going to be something special.  Jerry Lewis really wanted to have a bigger role, but he was too late and he, and many other actors had to settle for cameos or bit parts. (The film is over two and a half hours long as it is!) Today's Hollywood just doesn't care about making something as groundbreaking as It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.  But then again, today's Hollywood wouldn't even stand a chance against this CLASSIC. "},{"Title":"Funniest ever","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is simply the funniest race movie of all times.Even if you don't know many actors from the 60's, you'll recognize many of these names. Great actors. Perfect comedic timing.Heck, even Jerry Lewis is funny in this movie. "},{"Title":"Still a classic!","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  About the only thing I have ever been able to say against this classic (and this isn't even a reflection on the film, itself), is that I have always liked The Great Race just a tad better. That said, I have to salute Mad4 World as one of the greatest of the classic chase/race films and one of the best family films ever made. Of course it is also a Hollywood `time capsule,' as others have noted.Maybe it's a generational thing, but I am baffled by people who complain about movie length. The longer a film is, the more enjoyment one is getting for the money! LOL Seriously, I guess it came from growing up in front of the TV, playing with toy cars & later baseball cards, etc. A nice, long movie was somehow comforting. I had three hours to relax & enjoy the movie. It doesn't seem at all long to me today; in fact, I believe my # 1 choice in the sub-genre (TGR) is even longer!This film is fun and successful on at least two levels. One, of course, is the `time capsule.' We get to see Jack Benny do his `Well!', Jerry Lewis make a screwy face and Don Knotts look scared. We get to see the Three Stooges (albeit, one must be vigilant to catch them and others), see Joe E. Brown air out his legendarily huge mouth and hear Jim Backus crow `It's the OONLY way to fly!' We get longer tastes of such pros as Eddie `Rochester' Anderson, Peter Falk, Phil Silvers, William Demerest, etc. These may not mean as much to an uninitiated youngster today, but to those of us who saw the film in the 1970s (or you REALLY old coots who saw it when it came out! Hehehe), this was a virtual roll call of familiar talents and faces. Even recognizable but unknown Charles Lane, the nonchalant waiting room father when Little Ricky was born on I Love Lucy and Old Man Potter's bookkeeper in It's A Wonderful Life, has a cameo.It is three hours of rambling, rambunctious fun. Of course the main cast is brilliant. I won't go into details here, other than to note that the late Terry-Thomas was one of my all-time favorites. The man could make the most simple sentence hilarious, just with his exaggerated Britishness. That he and Milton Berle, whose styles of comedy were so different, played off each other so well is a testament to both men's professionalism. Of course Silvers and Jonathan Winters largely steal the show. While Winters' wanton destruction of the two nerds' brand new gas station may bother some, it was still hilarious.anyway, the nerds would get revenge in their own series of movies! ;o)Overall, this is a great old film. I love Rat Race, too, but I don't know that I'd want to show it at my minister's house. With M4 W, it would be no problem. Make sure you see this film before you `kick the bucket,' like Ol' Smiler!  "},{"Title":"REMAKE FINISHED A MUST SEE !","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  They've Done it ! they've gone and remade another classic ! A new Remake of the Classic has been made, the new movie is called Rat Race (2001), which features not as many big stars as the original, but great to watch! A Crazy Madcap Chase for the money movie! this time the money is worth $2 Million not under a big W but a Train Station Locker, THIS MOVIE IS A MUST, JUST TO COMPARE STOLEN SCENES,or recognised scenes used in the original 1963 version, A must see !!! Rat Race (2001). "},{"Title":"The end all, beat all comedy movies!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not many movies stand the test of time, this one is absolutly timeless! The all star cast is a who's who of the classic comedy actors, and actress of the day.    The plot has been re-used in movies such as 'Million Dollar Mystery', and 'Scavenger Hunt', but if you want to see the real thing (and have about three hours to spare) you'll see this one is the best of the best comedy films of all times! And bring your kids, they'll love it too! "},{"Title":"The meaning of classic comedy.","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD MAD WORLD starts from the beginning as a hysterical comedy that uses the best of verbal, physical, ironic and grand-scale mirth.  It is also a priceless study in greed.  We know the plot- four carloads of bickering motorists come across a dying gangster (Jimmy Durante kicking the bucket!) confessing to the location of massive amounts of hidden cash.  The four carloads split up to include more carloads, including obnoxious cabbies, a hippie mamma's boy (Dick Shawn at his crazy best) and a crooked, browbeaten cop (Spencer Tracy showing he can be very funny) The chases and confrontations that spring up in the flight for the cash have a combined screaming nightmare/goofy clown act feel to them.The strangest bit about the film are the bizarre male/female relations. The neurotic, spineless Mr. Finch (Milton Merle) has a pretty wife (Dorothy Provine) half his age.  Melvin, the foul tempered, sappy dentist (Sid Caeser) has a sexy wife (Edie Adams as the perfect foil) and Dick Shawn's character, a whiny, do-nothing, dangerously hyperactive loser has a bikini broad (Barrie Chase) hanging around. It makes you go huh?  But, all in all, a great comedy.     "}{"Title":"Great. Hillarious","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was HILLARIOUS! The plot surrounds a man, Smiler Grogan (Jimmy Durante) who dies in a car accident in the begining of the movie, 8 people stop to help him (Sid Caeser, Milton Berle, Mickey Rooney, Buddy Hacket, Jonathan Winters, Edie Adams, Ethel Merman, Dorothy Provine) Who find out about this mass-money value involved. On the way, Jonathan Winters bumps into one Phil Silvers (Otto Meyer) a sleezy, greedy, and selfish. A happy-go lucky englishman Terry-Thomas (Algernon Hawethorne), and Dick Shawn (Silvester Marcus). Some other actors who get a share in the money Peter Falk and Eddie Rochester Anderson (2 Cab Drivers) who get a little nosey and find out about the money. This movie also stars Selma Diamond, Andy Devine, Ben Blue, Jim Backus, Mike Mazurki, Edward Everett Norton Keaton, Arnold Stang, Marvin Kaplan, Joe E. Brown, Charles McGraw, Carl Reiner, Norman Fell, Paul Ford, Jesse White, Zazu Pitts, Don Knotts and a special appearence by The Three Stooges. "},{"Title":"See how the new movie Rat Race was made!!!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I hope more people will experience this great flick now that Hollywood has shown they lack new ideas once again, by releasing the movie, Rat Race in 2001. RR is just a cheap remake of MMMMW, and it doesn't even give credit where credit is due. This is a great classic comedy. If you havent seen it yet, see it now. If you've already seen it, view it again, perhaps with someone that was disappointed with RR. "},{"Title":"The best 3 hours you can spend in front of the TV!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Make one huge bowl of pop-corn, get comfy in your favorite chair and get ready for one wild ride!  This movie is a classic.  The number of big name stars is unimaginable.  There will never be another one like it of this quality and just plain entertaining.  You owe it to yourself to see this movie on tape so as not to be ruined with constant commercial interruptions and TV editing.  Get your friends together on a cold winter evening and just have fun.  See who can name the most stars as they appear.  Many of them in cameos! "},{"Title":"funny funny funny funny movie.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was actually a pretty funny movie. I did enjoy the flight sequence with Jim Backus (aka, My Magoo, Mr. Howell). Don't have a lot to say other than that.Here's to all that gorgeous sn@#ch in FLAWhoops, wrong movie. "},{"Title":"Repeated viewing","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have seen this movie about 360 billion times, and I will see it another 360 billion times.  Need I say more.  There will never be another one like it.  A sequel or a remake is absolutely impossible. The cast would be impossible to replace or duplicate. This film is a sheer delight and a tribute to great actors and comedians of the fifties and sixties. "},{"Title":"It's a Mad World makes me Happy!","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Few movies ever portray such comedy from start to finish as this does! A legend in it's own time, this movie features an All-Star cast that is unmatched in today's Big Budget propaganda's they call Motion Pictures. Superb acting, wonderfully written, and many cameo roles from legends like Bob Hope and Don Knotts. I can never tire from watching this movie. There would be times where I would not watch it for months just so I can keep myself in suspense waiting for the next time to see it! A definate must see!  "},{"Title":"Too restrained","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The funniest thing about this movie - other than Spencer Tracy running up twelve flights of stairs with a suitcase full of money, to what catch a helicopter, that will take him, where to Xanadu? - is the sheer restraint of this farce. It is so subdued one wonders whether it could possibly be aiming at verisimilitude!There are painful moments too Ethel Merman is repeatedly called a dumb broad, and has to stand there and take it. She was quite a lady and deserved better treatment. The best part is seeing Tracy stand on an easily identifiable Santa Monica landmark. You can go there and say to yourself I stood where Tracy stood.  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully over-the-top","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World has been one of my favourite comedies since I first saw it on TV at Christmas many years ago. Then, I loved the slapstick and mayhem. Now, I'm amazed at just how witty and perceptive about human nature the film is.Five people have the chance to share out $350,000 between them. A nice tidy sum of $70,000 is theirs for the taking. But is that enough? Oh, no. They have to have it ALL and they have to have it NOW. Sid Caesar sums it up for me I wanted to be reasonable, fair shares for all, but they wouldn't have it. Now they're going to see who they're up against. Our own motives are pure and the rest of the world is out to get us.There are so many gems like this that the whole 'big W' thing is like a huge Maguffin. Think of Milton Berle and Terry-Thomas trading national insults, a hilarious scene without a hint of slapstick. "},{"Title":"If ever there was a film that brought all the great comics of the past together","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not the best comedy ever made -- not even close, but if you're a fan of the great comedians of the past, this film is a must-see.  Overblown, exaggerated, vicious and mean yet, still very funny because the cast is made up of real pros, the kind they just don't make anymore.  "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the funniest movie ever made!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Appearances and cameos by everybody who was anybody back in 1963!  I've seen this movie easily 20 times over the years and I laugh as hard as the first time I saw it...every time -)  Spencer Tracy is brilliant in on of the last films before he died & Johnny Winters gives one of his funniest performances.  A real must see movie!!! "}{"Title":"The Gone With The Wind of comedies.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  No matter how many times this film is seen it's impossible to get tired of it. Much has been made recently about lost footage. It would be great if this lost footage could be reinserted and the film re-released.  It would make it like seeing it for the first time all over again.  "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie Ever Made!","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I saw this at the movies, I can't believe that I laughed, along with the audience, for three hours!  There have been few movies I have attended where the place was all laughter for the whole picture.  A one-of-a-kind cast doing all their specialities, with Stanley Kramer refereeing the whole thing.  It's the one video I waited for in widescreen and now I'm waiting for it in DVD.  FUNNY! "},{"Title":"Still Mad About Mad","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Quick correction regarding another reviewer--it was Buster Keaton, not Jerry Lewis, in a micro-cameo involving the parking (if even that) of Tracy's fleeing car. Too bad that reviewer's memory was not a happy one--I saw the film on its first release too (at age seven) and the sound of the audience rockin' the theatre with screams and laughter made a tremendous impression. I don't actually recall being really amused by the film until its re-release when I was thirteen. By then I was even more appreciative of the nonstop slapstick and wit that I defy any would-be 3-hour comedy to attempt today. What made it work was a real backbone of a plot and good characterizations, not just zany stuff. And best of all, nothing that went the cheap route with gratuitous vulgarity as a substitute for humor.  "},{"Title":"Widescreen Deluxe Version","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It sure is nice to see a wide-screen representation of this film.  I only wish they'd left well enough alone by not including the unfunny tail-ends of scenes that were deleted in the first place because they made the film drag. They should have at least color-corrected them so they matched the existing film.  It's really noticeable when the color goes from bright and colorful to dishwater dull.  It really ruins this version.   "},{"Title":"The History of Comedy 101","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Paramount used to make comedies like Variety Girl and Star Spangled Rhythm which included almost every actor under contract mostly playing themselves as one big happy family at home on the backlot.  Now imagine having the pick of ALL the studios and actually casting the actors in character roles involved in a story that examines how good and wholesome people can be influenced by greed and an easy buck.  And for supporting roles, every comedic actor in Hollywood.  What makes the story work is that it shows that few can escape the lure of thousands of dollars, and we look stupid chasing it.  Comedic editing cuts between sub-plots and introduces new ones too fast to catch your breath.  Some of the surprise guest cameos last just seconds, others minutes, and others stick around to the end of the picture caught up in the search for the money, depending on the need of the character to move the story.  Plus a twist of an ending!  Funniest extended scene  Mickey Rooney and Buddy Hackett trying to fly a small plane when it's pilot (Jim Backus) is knocked out.  Yes, that's Carl Reiner in the tower ducking.  (P.S.  Who's Minding the Mint is a similar paced, smaller scale type movie boasting large comedy cast that you will also enjoy. Both star Dorothy Provine and Milton Berle).  "},{"Title":"Really enjoyed this movie, but....","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" sadly found performance by Spencer Tracy to be disappointing. Am guessing the producer wanted a really big name (I noticed Tracy's was above the title! and far above any of the other actors) and he was available. Thing is, he looked like he is ready to die (which I believe he did, either during the filming or within days after). And he looks it. Yes, very sorry for him, but listen I am an old man too and not long for this world. Does that mean I have the right to spoil a really funny comedy movie? Anyway, I think anybody but him would have been better. I read too (on the back of the DVD package we bought) that Tracy told them he would not rehearse, and they either got the shot once or never. Very kind of him. "},{"Title":"Brilliant classic comedy","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is absolutely hilarious. I saw it first when I was about 5 and only liked it because of its fantastic car chases but when I actually got it on video and watched it again I just couldn't stop laughing. The cast is excellent with plenty of famous legends in there and plenty of brilliant cameos as well. The plot is so simple and it seems so easy A dying gangster who literally kicks the bucket, tells 8 motorists that there's $350,000 200 miles away buried under a big W. He's giving it to them. So basically the motorists try to come to an agreement on how they will split the money between them, but in the end it becomes every man for himself and whoever gets there first gets it all. Thats preety much it. And yet, basically everything that could go wrong does. All the characters have countless numbers of problems along their way there. Its an all out war and they won't let anything stand in their way, but to be fair who would when there's 350,000 on offer! Anyway, many people said this film was too long but if you ask me the length didn't bother me at all and in fact I found it better as they were able to fit more gags and celebrities in. The last 30 minutes is my favourite and the ending is my favourite of all time. I won't spoil it for you but I can tell you that when you're watching it, it really does make you think more about the title of the film.The Script and Direction is brilliant but the best is the Score which should have won an Oscar. It is one of the greatest in film history. Enough said. I was also very impressed with the spectacular car chases and crashes which are done superbly for a film that was made 40 years ago and with such a tiny budget. When you compare the re-make Rat Race to this film it doesn't even come close and as far as I'm concerned even though Rat Race is a very funny film the ending is terrible compared to this one.Anyway thats enough of me I give this film 10/10 Get up and go and rent or buy it now! "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Comedy That Is Unfairly Slammed by Critics","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World rates as my favorite movie of all time.  It boasts an incredibly funny and well-written story, and features many of the greatest comics who were living at the time of filming (1963).  It is a tale of greed, and how that deadly sin will drive otherwise decent individuals to almost any degree of wrongdoing.  I have watched It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World at least a dozen times in the past thirty years.  Every time I have seen it, the film remains laugh-out-loud funny, and I constantly discover new laughs.Sadly, many critics do not view It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World so favorably. In most movie ratings books, it averages two-and-a-half stars, and is usually slammed for it's fast-paced and neurotic brand of humor and excessive length.I have also learned that It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World had the unfortunate timing of being released the week of John F. Kennedy's assassination. Critics, mortified by the senseless death of a popular president, were not in the mood for madcap comedy.  It seems that these scribes vented their emotions on this film, and unfairly panned its virtues as faults.The only criticism that I will agree with is length.  At three hours, It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World can be a test of any movie goer's endurance. While all of the bizarre plot twists justify a lengthy movie, I am convinced that this film could have been shortened by 30 to 60 minutes, and would have lost none of the story nor the laughs.  The problem seems to be with the editing. There is entirely too much repetition in the car chase scenes, and many lines of dialog are redundant.  To me, it appears that many scenes were padded and dragged out for the sake of unnecessarily building suspense.  I would love to see an edited version of this movie re-released, removing most of this repetition and redundancy.  I wonder if the critical reception would be any more favorable. "},{"Title":"Greatest Comedy of All Time","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's madcap.  It's slapstick.  It's over the top entertainment.  It's simply the funniest movie I have ever seen in my life.  It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.  Attempts to duplicate it have failed.  Milton Berle, Sid Caesar, Ethel Merman, Jonathan Winters, Phil Silvers; all pros, all giving A level performances.  I don't know how they managed to keep it under 4 hours.  A hundred years from now it will be as funny as the day it was made.  It's a classic!  "},{"Title":"Human greed is a terrible thing","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched this film with the intention of seeing who was the funniest comic in it and came up with the name Phil Silvers. I always did appreciate his brand of humor anyway, but he had me in the floor with his zany impatience and surprised stupidity. All the players were funny though; I consider this to be one of the finest comedies ever. 5 stars. "}{"Title":"True Madness...","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The greatest ensemble comedy all of time. Every performer excels beautifully in their character. Dick Shawn is especially superb as Ethel Merman's hip, but cry baby son. A wonderful story, exquisite direction from Kramer and a very pleasing conclusion.  "},{"Title":"I don't know what to make of it","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Its a really, really, really...well... to be honest I don't know what to make of it! I wouldn't say it was dire but equally I wouldn't call it brilliant. I saw it again the other day and I still can't make up my mind. Hiring some of the best known US comics of the time, Kramer tried to pull out a masterpiece but length doesn't equate to quality, it is far too long. I'm surprised Spencer Tracy bought this venture but he did seem to be satisfied with Kramer as Kramer did with him. Terry-Thomas appearing in the film was a surprise, I think if this was produced a couple of years later, Peter Sellers would have won the English role. The other odd cast member is Mickey Rooney. Rooney is not really a comedian or even a comic actor so I can't quite understand why he was in it. It would have been great to have seen Harold Lloyd in it. "},{"Title":"Tedious and not funny at all","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film is not funny. You may say you enjoy it, you may sy you love it, it may even make you happy, but it is most certainly not funny. I enjoy comedy of all kinds. From Buster Keaton, Charlie Chaplin and The Marx Brothers to Woody Allen, Niel Simon and The Farrelly Brothers. I like Monty Python and I like Martin & Lewis. I LOVE comedy. There is nothing about this film I did not get. There is nothing to get. This film is simply not funny. I am not stupid, a snob, a stick in the mud, jaded, too modern, too old fashioned, crude, juvenile or have no sense of humor. It is not my problem, it is the film's. It is not funny. Trust me. If you have not seen this film you are not missing anything. It plays like a 3 hour version of Mama's Family with massive stunt casting.I am not here to disrespect anyone or ruffle the feathers of those who say they like this film, I just want to warn anyone who thinks they are going to see a comedy. This is not a comedy. Rent The Dish or The God's Must Be Crazy if you are looking for a new comedy to add to your list. Stay away from this film unless you enjoy not laughing. If you have a rib injury and need to avoid laughing, this is the film for you. If you are looking to laugh, you will feel like a tourist in Times Square playing 3 card monty. As Foghorn Leghorn would say You'll, I say You'll get robbed, son.I remember seeing a TV movie when I was young that I thought was hilarious, and then seeing the same movie when I was an adult. I was shocked at how unfunny the film was. Perhaps that is the phenomenon with this film, people saw it when they were young and remember it as a film they liked, but have not seen it since. I suppose it is possible to actually think this film IS funny, but that would only shed light on the infantile sense of humor that some people have. I can imagine showing this film to an audience of people that have never seen it and watching it illicit an uproar of cat calls and boo's.To all who tell me not to judge what is funny and what is not, I sentence you to watch It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World. "},{"Title":"enjoyable but not hilarious","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I always enjoy watching this movie but always come away with the feeling this could have been so much more. The magnitude of comedic stars in this movie is great but it seems they weren't given much to work with.Unfortunately this movie started the annoying trend of  a bunch of big stars automatically equals big laughs kind of filmmaking, most recently done in the stunningly unfunny, unclever, unbearable Mars Attacks!. "},{"Title":"I want my 3 hours back!!!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can sum this movie up in 1 word ... SUCK!  The plot is slow and agonizing. The dialog is imbecilic.  The actors don't.It seems as if every single one of the characters were given the same part... mass hysteria.  Hour after hour after hour of crap that the 3 Stooges would be ashamed of.  I can prove it ... they only showed up once for 1 or 2 seconds (smart move guys).As for the ending ... was there one?Unfortunately this is 3 hours of my life that I cannot get back.  I will tell ALL of my friends never to see this movie.  At least that way my experience won't have been entirely in vain. "},{"Title":"It's an Awful Awful Awful Awful Movie","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I read about the upcoming release of this film in 1963, I was 15 years old.  I practically salivated in anticipation when I read that virtually every comedic actor in Hollywood was to have a part.  What a cast! Everybody from Jimmy Durante to the Three Stooges would appear.  Stanley Kramer was the producer/director.  Even Spencer Tracey had a major part. Golly, this was going to be good!  As a 15-year-old boy in 1963 I looked forward to this movie, I suppose, about like 15-year-old boys in 1997 looked forward to Men in Black.  So when it opened in my home town, I dragged the family to see it, promising everybody they'd love it.  I'll never forget my puzzlement and disappointment as we drove home.  Nobody had liked it.  Not even me.  Sure, there were some funny scenes Jimmy Durante literally kicking the bucket; Jerry Lewis helping to park a car; and um, and um, well, I can't think of any other funny scenes in the movie.  (Here's a film-lover's test question  If a Jerry Lewis moment is one of the funniest moments, in a film, what does that tell you about the rest of the film?) This movie is a long, drawn out, depressing tale of greed gone mad, bringing the ruination of good and bad people alike.  If you laughed at Treasure of the Sierra Madre, you might think this film is amusing.  Otherwise, like me, you will come away appalled and depressed by the film's bleak outlook on human nature.  This one was a major disappointment, and I still haven't forgiven Stanley Kramer for inflicting it on me.  "},{"Title":"A Tribute to a Kinder Gentler Time of Life","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I rarely get to see the TCM'S version of the movie which contains the musical score in its entirety. The overture with its lyrics haunts me whenever I hear it. It haunts me because this film released a mere 2 weeks before JFK's assassination is a true testament to the human condition as well as rejoicing in a kinder gentler time of life. If JFK's death was the turning point in life for those of us over 50 then this movie is also a turning point. It was perhaps the last movie that gave us real slapstick schtick comedy and no PC worries. The cast is classic because every actor in it remains well thought of in our memory. Great movie stars who either continued their careers on the silver screen or made the Golden Age of TV what it became. It is a nostalgic piece a throwback to that by gone movie called the screwball comedy I first saw it as a 9 year old kid. My dad never took us to the movies so I saw it with my friend and his dad at a local theater. By then it had been out for about 3 months but my friend told me toraid my Piggy Bank as this is a movie you will remember for you entire life. Little did I know that because of historical events his words would be prophetic "},{"Title":"Overall good, but strictly for certain ages.","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are some movies that are ageless, and those movies are perhaps some of the best. This is very rare. Then there are those that wouldn't make sense or be funny to most if it's not in that particular period of time. This, sadly, is the latter.This was released, obviously, at the perfect time, in the 60's. But some of the younger generation probably won't appreciate it for what it is. It can even be tedious at times.I'm sorry if it appears that I don't like it...I do. It's no Rat Race (my generation), but it's better viewed for the elder generations.Grade 8/10 ******** "},{"Title":"Comedy Pioneers Unite and Don't Dissappoint !","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Long story short, we will never, ever see such an ensemble of comedic talent in one movie like this again. This cast were the pioneers of comedy going back to the days of Vaudeville. Do yourselves a favor and see this film! The premise of Mad World is a group of motorists, en route to various locations, stop to help a man who sails his car over a cliff. Once they arrive to assist the poor man, the motorists are informed by him that there is a fortune in cash buried at a park some 200 miles away. The man then literally kicks the bucket. After the police show up and ask questions, the race is on for the loot, with the number of participants and shtick increasing along the way.Again, this is a comedy classic which should be seen by all ages! "},{"Title":"Very funny movie after all these years","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  **SPOILERS BELOW!  You were warned!!**I watched this last night after my girlfriend suggested I see it.  This was a very funny movie.  My experience was a bit spoiled from seeing the 2001 remake, 'Rat Race' months before without knowing it was a remake.  Come to think of it, now that I've seen the original, Rat Race was a REALLY BAD remake!  Anyway back to the original.....the majority of the characters in 'It's A Mad....Mad World' were hilarious.  Never before have I seen such an ensemble of comedians at the top of their game giving such great performances.  My gripes with the film the 'mother-in-law' was so ANNOYING!  I understand her 'ways' were intended to be funny, but it got way past that.  I didn't laugh but cringe every time she opened her mouth.  Another gripe was the ending, I just got a bad taste in my mouth seeing that NO ONE won the money.  That I had to sit there for 2 1/2 hours being totally caught up in this big adventure, just to find out that no one wins the money....I felt robbed.  I would've rather had everyone get a share.  Okay okay, I get the point with the morals of the story, but it still rubbed me the wrong way.  I also thought the ending was a little too over the top.  The level of slapstick comedy was just fine with me until this point.  The whole deal with 15-20 people on the fire escape/ladder, and the ladder turning into an amusement park ride throwing people every which way was a little too much IMO....I felt the line was finally crossed between slapstick and complete lack of logic/reason.  Aside from that this film is a classic comedy and I really enjoyed it.  I definitely recommend it; even 40 years later it still seems fresh....better than the so-called 'comedies' being released today.  My favorite characters - the truck driver, and the two guys trying to land the plane near the end.  They were great.*** out of **** stars. "}{"Title":"One of my First Favorites","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this as a small child when it was first released and it became one of my favorites.  Forty years later, it still is madcap fun and pleasant nostalgia.  A cavalcade of character actors and comedians star and cameo in this rousing, frenetic comedy.  This movie is a treasure under the big W.  W is for wonderful. "},{"Title":"Another totally funny movie","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you don't find this movie funny even the slightest bit,then there is no hope for you ever having a sense of humor.Maybe it was just a different time in Hollywood,but they cranked out one of the funny ones of all time with this one.Don't look at it for any message or symbolism--just pure comedy and enjoy it.A fine example for those who appreciate funny movies from time to time. "},{"Title":"MUST SEE !!!","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of the best films ever.  Incredible casting of the most professional comedians in the world.  Light hearted, laugh a minute comedy/adventure.... No nudity, no murder, no debauchery, no underworld, no evil worship, no drug cultures, no profanity, no blood'n guts, no ... you get the idea. ... wish more movies like this would be made.  10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Epic. Don't miss it.","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was fortunate to see IAMMMMW last week in a THEATRE! The place was packed. Either you love this movie or you hate it. I love it and would do anything to see it again. Somebody needs to release this on DVD! Next to Spinal Tap, this is my favorite comedy. "},{"Title":"An escapade of comedic proportions.","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"    This is one hilarious movie!  It's one of those movies you never get tired of seeing no matter how many times you've seen it!  Even if you're in a not-too-laughable mood!  You have an all-star cast, a lot of funny dialogue and catchphrases, sight gags, chases, and tons of funny stunts.  If you like any of that stuff, this is the movie for you to see.  Every actor and actress in this movie all played their parts to a T!  Phil Silvers and Buddy Hackett were the funniest in this movie, in my opinion.   This movie should've won an Oscar, or I think it was nomintated for one, I'm not sure.     It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World is another one of my favorite movies.  So, please don't see this flick if you're in the mood for a drama, because if you do, you might end up laughing anyway!  It's that good a movie, awesome enough to put and keep a smile on your face!  And no, you can't find it under a Big 'W'!  Go to your local video store instead.  ;)    "},{"Title":"It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Anyone who watches this movie for its continuity, cohesion, and steady comedic stream will be disappointed. But anyone with a love of the comic stars of the 50's and 60's, who watches this movie as an homage to the comedy greats who came before them, and who understands that, like the lineup in a comedy club, sooner or later the guy (or girl) you came to see is going to get a chance to strut his or her stuff, the movie will delight you.Unfortunately, even at 3 hours, there isn't enough time to get them all in. Some of the early giants (The Three Stooges, Jack Benny, Jimmy Durante, Eddie Rochester Anderson, Stepin Fetchit, and even the immortal Stone Face, Buster Keaton) are mere blink and they are gone extras, rather than performers with meat. They each get to do a tiny riff; a signature line, behavior, or expression, and they'r Eugene, your attention given back to the madness enfolding in front of you. (And if you should wonder about possible homage to the Marx brothers--the whole movie, with its chaos and sly take on social mores, pays that price in full.)However, if the viewer takes each scene as a stand-alone vignette in which at least two great comedians will square off and assault your funnybone, you have discovered the delight of this movie. Buddy Hackett, Mickey Rooney and Jim Backus in an out-of-control airplane? An airplane that is going to try to land at an airport after being talked down by Carl Reiner and Paul Ford? No wonder it's the Three Stooges standing by for the crash...Terry-Thomas, Milton Berle and the magnificently, demonically obnoxious Ethel Merman cooped up in a car wobbling down a highway? (Dorothy Provine is also in the scene, but she is smart enough to curl up in a corner and let the sparks fly.) On his way to rescue his Momma (Merman) is psycho-beach-bum-Momma's boy Dick Shawn. Sid Ceasar left alone with the devastatingly gorgeous (and beautifully understated) Edie Adams would do what? Blow up and burn down the store, of course.Keeping a steady hand on all of these threads of insanity is the inimitable Spencer Tracy. All is well. Tracy as an actor was known for his integrity, his dignity, and his absolute lack of insanity. He plays the straight man to the collective bedlam descending upon his city right up until the very end...or nearly the end. So, rent or buy the movie. You won't laugh all the way through, but then, you couldn't; there are just too many funny people in it. Instead, watch each scene for the classic character that has come to be the signature of the actor who created it. Also look for the priceless mixes and matches of different comedic talents. But above all, don't take the movie seriously. "},{"Title":"Its a mad, mad, mad, mad, world","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the great allstar casts for movies of its kind. A original movie where just being in a cameo role had a tremendous amount of big time actors. From Jerry Lewis to Jack Benny, to Buster Keaton, this was a movie that had a who's who list of A list actors. The plot was one of the first to really play on words, where kicking the bucket really meant just that! Literally as Jimmy Durante so well does when he has his auto accident. Spencer Tracey is wonderful as the aging police detective, with a wonderful supporting cast of actors in his office. A very young Julie London (wow)! The main characters well what can one say, Johnathan Winters is just himself, zany as always, love his scene where he tears up the garage! Best part of the movie! Buddy Hackett and Mickey Rooney in the airplane with Jim Backus, again wonderful, Milton Berle, Dorothy Provine, and Ethel Merman, what can I say, talk about opposites. Then add in Sid Caesar and Edie Adams. And that section of them in the basement of the hardware store, what can go wrong will go wrong. A little old for this time and day in 2004 but still at times very funny. Add the ending to this movie and it rates as one of the great comedies of all time, on a par with Spaceballs, or Young Frankenstein! Mel Brooks I am sure took from its a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad, World when he conceived his wonderful movies. All three rank up their as really outstanding movies of their time! It would really be neat though to see Hollywood recreate its a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad, World, change the story line to update it to todays world, but oh the actors I think that we could have reprising all of the original rolls. A who's who 2005 style of todays stars. Imagine Catherine Zeta Jones doing the roll of Edie Adams. How about Sean Connery in a cameo roll as Jack Benny, or Harrison Ford reprising the roll of Spencer Tracy. "},{"Title":"The best comedy of all time!","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The classic set-up a dying ex-con leaves information about some stolen, hidden loot to a group of strangers. What ensues is the classic It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. Great cast, great story, all the imitators that have followed pale in comparison to the chase-comedy champ (Rat Race, Scavenger Hunt, etc). Highlights include a couple of airplane rides, a new gas station & the wackiest use of a fire truck ever seen. A fabulous cast that includes Spencer Tracy, Milton Berle, Jonathan Winters, Mickey Rooney, Buddy Hackett, et al. race through this movie, tearing up anything in sight. This movie has such a storied history that half the fun is trying to figure out who the actors are that romped through this spectacle.I could point out numerous reasons why this is a classic but the most important reason is this they don't make movies like this anymore. So, check it out- you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Widescreen, Panascopic, Sexist, Slapstick, pre-Sixties Comedy","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Every man in the book is in this film - but the only woman is Ethel Merman playing the stereotypical mother-in-law. Well, there are other women but they're 1950s eye-candy. Sexist? There's even a curious discussion between Terry-Thomas and Milton Berle about bosoms and the place of women in American society.I hate to be a spoil-sport for a film with such good, pre-CGI production values.  It is one slapstick car-crash, house-collapse after another. Spoiler ahead! The film ends with a banana peel.Should you rent?  You get a long, formal comedy with once-famous actors (whom you won't know) who deigned to accept less screen time because the script at the time seemed so OTT.  But you'll also understand why George Carlin or Lenny Bruce were part of a radical change in western society. It would require major character surgery to re-make this film. "},{"Title":"Every Man For Himself!","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS        One morning in Arizona, a motorist named Smiler Grogin, was driving awful fast. He zoomed by several other motorists before driving his car right off the cliff in an awful crash. Several motorists stopped. They were Russel Finch, his wife Emiline and her mother Mrs. Marcus in a convertible; in a station wagon Dr. Melville Crump D.D.S and his wife Monica; in a VW were pals Ding Bell and Benji Benjamin; and in a furniture van was Lennie Pike. The men went down to see the wreck. Smiler told them of money (350 Gees) buried in Santa Rosita state park under a big W. A big W. Then he died. So the motorists returned to their cars pondering what he had said. Finally, they decided to get together and discuss it. Melville figured it out so everybody would get a fair share, but Pike didn't like that because he didn't get as much as the rest. They tried to figure it more ways but nobody liked it. Finally, Benji proclaimed there was only one clear way to figure it every man, including the old bag, for himself! So they rush to their cars and rush off.       What they didn't know was that the police were after Smiler Grogin and now that he was dead, Captain T.G. Culpepper would take a vacation with the wife, but first he get's word of the people who talked to Grogin and ordered them to be monitored without them knowing it. So the chase was on! Melville and Monica got an airplane; Pike and the Marcuses had an auto accident so while Pike rode a little girl's bike to the gas station, they got a lift from J. Algernon Hawthorne; A motorist, Otto Meyer, stopped for Pike, who told him what was up then drove off, leaving him in the dust. Pike was furious so when he caught up with Meyer at the gas station, he beat him up, but one attendant knocked him out and tied him up, which was a bad idea because Pike broke free and proceeded to destroy the gas station; Mrs. Marcus suddenly thought of her son Sylvester in Rosita Beach. All they had to do was call him and he could go and get the money before anyone else but each time they tried to call him, he wouldn't answer because he played music too loud; Bell and Benji see Tyler Fitzgerald to get a lift to Santa Rosita in his airplane and the trip goes great until Tyler has one too many old fashions and get's knocked unconscious so now Benji and Bell were stuck with no knowledge of how to fly a plane; Melville and Monica arrive in Santa Rosita in their 1916 plane and stop at a hardware store to buy a pick and a shovel, but get locked in the basement. Melville tries desparately to get out.          Meyer gives a miner a lift down a mountain to see his sick wife but then couldn't get back up the mountain. The miner's son showed him another way out but it involved a deep river so Meyer's car sunk; Mrs. Marcus and Emiline abandoned Hawthorne and Russel after some unpleasantness and got a ride with Pike. Mrs. Marcus had finally gotten through to Sylvester who rushed out to find them. He chased Russel and Hawthorne. Soon, they all got together and headed to the park together; Melville and Monica, after surviving many misfortunes finally blow their way out of the basement with dynamite and head for the park; the airport talks Bell and Benji to the ground then they head for the park; Meyer heads there too, so does Captain Culpeper. Once at the park, they try looking for a big W and for a while find nothing, but eventually they find it and dig up the money. Yes, $350,000! Unfortunately, Captain Culpeper had to confiscate the money and allowed the people to turn themselves in. But Culpeper had secret plans for the money and when the people found out, the chased him to the roof of a highrise. They get tangled in a fire escape and the money spills out over the people. Well, when the firemen come to rescue these guys, they each go flying off the ladder and end up in the hospital.          The moral of our story crime pays but it depends if you can collect. This is a pretty good movie! Got an all-star cast Spencer Tracy, Milton Berle, Sid Caesar, Buddy Hackett, Ethel Merman, Mickey Rooney, Phil Silvers, Terry-Thomas, Jonathan Winters, Jerry Lewis, Don Knotts, Jack Benny, Jimmy Durante, Jim Backus, Peter Falk, Eddie Rochester Anderson, Buster Keaton, Sterling Holloway, the Three Stooges and many more! So if you haven't already seen this film, see it! It will be celebrating it's 40th anniversary next year!- "}{"Title":"What can you say ......","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've just read most of the comments on this film and I think most aspects have already been covered . I don´t remember when I first saw it but it´s stayed with me throughout all my life . It´s a classic . When I was in the states in 95 I bought the US VHS double video version and I´ve got the DVD on pre-order and hopefully all the deleted scenes and interviews will be included as they add an extra insight to the making of the movie . I´m a big Phil Silvers fan so the humour is right up my street . There are too many stand out scenes in this film to pick just one , but if I had to it´d be the look on Jonathan Winters face as Phil Silvers drives off in the car without him . Maybe one more when Dick Shawn's in his car going to get his mum (Ether Merman) and he´s crying saying Don´t worry mama , your baby's coming to get you , that's why you had me mama , to save you  or words to that effect . Actually just thinking about that scene is making me laugh so I think that says enough .  If you haven´t seen it you must have been on a desert island for the last 40 years .  "},{"Title":"Long...Long...Movie with little snippets of fun","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Way....Way...TOO LONG of a movie but great snippets. Best take...plane about to crash at airport and the emergency crew arrives on the scene.  As we go for the tight shot, it slowly pans across the crowd and the rescue crew is THE THREE STOOGES. Just Hillarious. "},{"Title":"I can't imagine how people can think this is funny","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"22 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the most strained, overblown, misguided attempt at farce I've ever seen.  The superstar cast of hacks, has-beens, and never-weres, plus Spencer Tracy (what the heck did he think he was doing accepting this part?)plow their way through hundreds of unfunny gags.  I had the idea watching this that if the filmmakers had not tried so hard to make the Great American Comedy they might have made a better movie.  Casting is the major problem  not only are there too many stars fighting over the audience's attention, they have widely divergent styles which end up creating a mess.  This film proves that most people believe whatever hype they're fed, because there are more laughs in the average episode of Full House (the unfunniest sitcom in history) than in this classic comedy film. "},{"Title":"Didn't laugh once at this unfunny movie","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"23 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I bought this movie on DVD because it was cheap in a sale. I like old movies and I've seen most of the actors before. So, I thought I couldn't go wrong. Especially after reading the positive comments below. Man, was I disappointed! This movie was unbelievably bad. The whole movie I was waiting for something funny to happen, and it didn't. I didn't laugh or even smile once. No, it's not that I don't understand humor from decades ago. I love it! Love it even better than todays comedies. But this movie lacked funny lines, situations and it had the worst slapstick I have ever seen. Maybe that's why Jack Benny is uncredited. He had a lot more screentime than the Three Stooges, he even had lines. It could be that Benny was disappointed too after seeing this movie and had his name removed. I can't blame him! I'm amazed that this movie isn't in the IMDb Bottom 100 Films. Even the Police Academy sequels that are listed there are a lot funnier than this movie. At least they DO have some funny elements in the movie. I'm glad I didn't watch the 188 minute version of this movie! Okay, I'm done now. I'm off to throw this piece of junk into the trash can. "},{"Title":"All-Star Lunacy","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Perhaps no other movie in history has as many well-known actors as this elaborate comedy, including cameos by the likes of Jack Benny and The Three Stooges. It is an entertaining film, but everything about this movie is excessive. Some of the scenes (such as the fight between Winters and the two guys at the service station) just go on so long that they lose their comic edge. Much of the comedy is rather predictable and cartoony but there's nothing wrong with that. This is an anomaly in the career of Kramer, who was known for directing heavy-handed social dramas, but he manages to keep it enjoyable despite the enormous length. "},{"Title":"A well made, funny movie!!","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World is well made because it featured so many comedians who were big at the time,it was done with no profanity yet it was still hilarious, and it wasn't an over-budgeted, over-hyped piece of crap that everyone forgot about, or wanted to forget about, before it would have reached cable television--sheer genius. Please release this gem of a film on DVD as soon as possible !!! "},{"Title":"It's a Funny,Funny,Funny,Funny Movie!","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw this I was 11 years-old. My brother and I saw it with my dad at a small mom and pop theater. We laughed our butts off! It was truly great to see all of these great actors and comedians working together. This was the Longest Day of of comedies with an all-star cast of some of the all-time funniest people in hollywood. You had great cameos along with the great t.v. comedians of Sid Caesar and Milton Berle, not to mention the likes of others like William Demarest, Don Knotts, Phil Silvers, Buddy Hackett and Jonathon Winters. This is a family comedy that everybody will enjoy. If they ever do re-make this movie I hope todays top comedians will all take part in it plus some of the still living cast that appeared in this movie. Break out the popcorn and the kleenex because you need it. You'll laugh until you cry. This is a classic. "},{"Title":"I Love It","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I remember seeing this film a loooong time ago and it`s one of those films that, once seen, you never forget. My interest was recently reawakened when an advert on the TV was using the theme tune for the film and brought back pleasant memories. The slapstick/knock-about humour is timeless and the interaction of the, most unlikliest of, traveling companions never fails to trigger the laughter muscle. This is comedy at it`s finest and features some of the greatest comedic actors of all time. It`s a film that has a great feel good factor. In the same way as there will never be a comedy duo like Laurel and Hardy - It`s A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World is a film that can never be duplicated but maybe admiringly paid tribute too. "},{"Title":"Cameo's Galore! The best screwball comedy of the year! (and millennium)","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This thrilling movie is full of chases, falling into fountains, and all around laughs. With actors such as Spencer Tracy, Ethel Merman, and -----, it's guaranteed to have you laying in stitches.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  From Sylvester to the brawl at the gas station to the Three Stooges cameo, this movie is so off the hinges, its the illest, its blazin...COMEDY FANS and anyone with a sense of humor will love this movie!  This is one of the funniest movies ever made! "}{"Title":"A brilliant time capsule","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If it was a colossal failure when released, it can now be looked upon as a time capsule of the bulk of working comedians of the first half of the twentieth century.  The plot is thin, the writing strains for laughs, but it is a complete joy to see even cameos by Keaton, The 3 Stooges and so many others.  If it was made in the 80's it would've been an epic with the likes of Andrew Dice Clay and Sam Kinison running amuck, but instead, it was a chase picture that would later inspire other dreck like the Cannonball Run series.  On its own, its not such a great movie, but as a who's who of this past century's great film and radio comedians, there is no equal. "},{"Title":"The greatest of all","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the grand-daddy of all comedies.  No matter how you feel about the studio system then or now, it worked here.I watch this every year, at least, and it keeps getting better each time I see it.But my favorite thing about this movie is the title MAD Magazine gave in its satire It's a World, World, World, World Mad!  "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time.. I have watched it since I was 5 years old and never gotten sick of it.. It is truly funny and they couldn't ever make a movie like this again.. There was always a special magic when Spencer Tracy acted in Stanley Kramer films and this is definitely their greatest achievement "},{"Title":"This movie is perfect in every way.","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Now, before I say anything, I want to say that I've grown up watching this movie all my life, so I know it pretty darn well. And you may think I'm exaggerating, but I'm not in any way. I'm going to start by talking about the cast. The cast is made up of hilarious popular comedians that all performed wonderfully in this movie, and they are all very likable. They act great and every person keeps you laughing every moment they're on screen. Plus, Tons of cameos are made by other celebrities through the film, so you'll always be pleasantly surprised.Next is the plot. The writing for this movie is high quality, with lots of laughs. The plot is interesting and worked out, and simple, so you wont be distracted trying to figure out whats going on. Overall this a fantastic movie. It is funny, witty, and fun. It definitely one of my all time favorite moviesPlease watch it. (if you haven't already) Its Perfect.Truly Perfect.It should have won more awards. "},{"Title":"The greatest comedy motion picture of all time","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Yes, different people find different things amusing and there are some perpetually glum Gusses who can't stand amusement of any kind as it might make some people happier than THEY are. To me, though, there is no greater feeling than knowing that you have done something that makes others smile and feel better. That's why I have spent my entire career in entertainment -- as a comedy writer, actor, filmmaker and producer. That said, I can tell you this It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World is nothing less than the greatest comedy motion picture of all time. Once the film begins -- and its magic has me within the first three notes of the opening theme --you are swept into the STORY and the delightful mix of idiosyncratic characters whose dateless blend of human foibles bring it so vividly to life. It's the perfect combination of comic characters, a brilliantly concocted and unfolded plot and ACTION that's both funny AND exciting. I think my all-time fondest wish would have been to be involved in making IAMMMMW -- but unfortunately they didn't cast too many 12 year olds from Armonk, New York. It did inspire me to make my first slapstick comedy short, however, using my Dad's 8mm movie camera. There'll never be another IAMMMW; too many of today's comics rely on crudity and foul-mouthed insults -- and, of course, with few exceptions, have little grounding in physical comedy. Yes, it would have been great if Ernie Kovacs had lived to participate and if some of the stars given but parts had expanded roles (Buster Keaton, Stan Freberg, etc.). Stan Laurel would have been an exceptionally welcome addition (had he not turned down the chance). But at least we get to see Milton Berle, Sid Caesar, Jonathan Winters and others at their absolute best. Others have tried to duplicate the IAMMMMW formula and all have come up short. Let me tell ya -- it ain't easy to top perfection. "},{"Title":"Talking about very funny family comedy, scenes.","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World is a very funny family comedy! No one should ever resist this movie! This movie was so good because there were mostly greedy men trying to get $350,000 under this big W. In the beginning of the movie, about five people were told about the $350,000 under the big W. Then, later, a few other people were involved in the race to find the money. There were also car chases in this movie. Even the captain of the police department in Santa Rosita was involved in this. Two of the ladies were involved in this. The main lady's mom, a character named Melville, his wife was involved. But the main lady just wanted to take the money and live in a convent. At least that's what she said. But this movie was pretty much car chases, plane flying, driving, etc. It was a disaster. And one couple got stuck in a store basement when the manager thought no one was in there and locked the door on them. They finally broke out after destroying 3 quarters of the basement for about an hour! Everyone finally gets to Santa Rosita Park and after they dig the money up, they were fooled by the Captain Culpepper because he told them to turn themselves in to jail because they did many bad things like steal cars to try to get to the money because their cars broke down, etc. He fooled them because he had the money in his car and drove the opposite way they were driving in a cab. He wanted to go somewhere far away with the money but they start chasing Captain Culpepper until they get to a building. This building had a fire escape and everyone is trying to chase the Captain Culpepper because he has the money in his hands. The unfortunate thing is the fire escape sort of collapses and everyone is dangling until a fire truck comes and saves them. Yet it really didn't save them because too many people were on the ladder of the truck trying to go down to be safe instead everyone gets injured.... The next thing you know it, they're all in the hospital. Then here come the three women involved. Yet, before the mom of one character gets close enough to the men, she starts screaming and yelling and slips on a banana peel and everyone starts to laugh even Captain Culpepper. "},{"Title":"Where do I start?","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   Maybe saying this is one of the best comedies ever? Or how about the many famous veteran actors? I'm not sure. I do know though that It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World is one of the most cherished films of all time, and its comedic talent alone makes it worth seeing. 4/5 starsJOHN ULMER  insert popcorn to go with the film here! - "},{"Title":"It's an OK, OK, OK, OK movie...","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD, MAD WORLD is one of those movies you see as a kid and think is a masterpiece only to revisit as an adult and realize that a good deal of it is an overblown mess. That said, there's a lot to enjoy, either as a kid or as an adult Ethel Merman's Oscar-worthy turn as Milton Berle's shrew of a mother-in-law; Peter Falk's hyperactive cabdriver; the Jonathan Winters-Arnold Stang-Marvin Kaplan gas station fight; any scene with the inimitable Dick Shawn! The director, Stanley Kramer, wisely handles the whole film -- in which a group of seemingly normal people are turned into greedy maniacs as they hunt through southern California for $300,000 in stolen loot --- as if he's making one of his socially conscious epics. The widescreen is well-used. What isn't so well-handled is the gaggle of guest stars...some, like Jerry Lewis, Jack Benny and Don Knotts are fun, while others such as The Three Stooges, Edward Everett Horton and Stan Freberg barely register, and why Kramer would recruit Buster Keaton for such a brief scene is a mystery. The principals, including Spencer Tracy as the one seemingly sane character are all in top form and comics like Berle, Shawn, Winters, Sid Caesar, Phil Silvers and Buddy Hackett -- none of whom had sustainable movie careers --- are well showcased. Terry-Thomas, Edie Adams, Dorothy Provine, Eddie Rochester Anderson and William Demarest are in it too. NOTE the 2014 CRITERION COLLECTION release features a stunning reconstruction of the original road show version, bringing together film, audio, and stills for a fully fleshed out epic! "},{"Title":"Sort  of  Entertaining  in Some  Aspects  But  Not  Funny","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember being a youngster and looking forward to this film's premier so many top comedians in the cast (Phil Silvers, Jonathan Winters, Milton Berle, Buddy Hackett, Sid Caesar, Jimmy Durante, Dick Shawn, Terry Thomas), the great Spencer Tracy, a good director, big budget, Cinerama, three hours run and so on. But boy! was I disappointed! In fact, I don't recall laughing at all; just a couple of smiles when Ethel Merman was in the screen and with the cameo appearances of Jerry Lewis and The Three Stooges.The script and dialogues lack imagination and the pretended funny situations come just from pure visual sequences with the guys destroying a hardware store, a gas station, an airport and some other stuff.Really weak as a comedy and sort of interesting as a special effects product for the 60's, It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World is a waste of money, cast, director and time for those of us that thought we were going to see the ultimate comedy film. "},{"Title":"it's a bad bad bad bad movie","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"17 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  the only scenes of slight interest were the ones with jerry lewis' and buster keaton's short cameos, and the airplane pilot saying 'it's the only way to fly'. obviously big money has been spent on the special effects and wrecked stuff, and some of the chase scenes were actually rather impressive.other than that, this movie was just repulsive. i've never liked 'crazy-comedy' and i wont most certainly start today. 'it's a mad mad mad mad world' is 2½ hours of zero-brainer yelling forcing you to grab some aspirin in the intermission if you intend to watch it all the way. 'great cast' is truly irritating, everybody except for tracy is horribly overacting...oh my poor head is still hurting, i can't write much longer.the plot is extremely simple, so simple and predictable it's just...aargh! it's just stupid, stupid, stupid, stupid.2/10 "}{"Title":"grating, annoying, boring, totally not funny","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"21 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is very disappointing. Every slightly funny idea (none more than slightly funny) is drawn out and repeated over and over. There is no subtlety, no comic timing, no funny quips. It lacks everything that ``One, Two, Three'' by Billy Wilder has got. The characters are largely grating and badly developed. And so on... Avoid at all costs.  "},{"Title":"comic genius","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This madcap adventure race/road story is a refreshing emalgamation of some of the best comic talent from the time. Boating a brilliant cast of people throughout major and minor roles, this film has you in stitches from start to finish.When the dying thief kicks the bucket, literally and physically, it sparks off a group of people racing around the countryside in order to find the money he told them he had left behind. Cue lots of others joining in along the way, and plenty of humourous obstacles in their way.Most definitely one for everyone "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Mad World is one of the funniest movies ever made, I feel.  All star great cast.  I don't think there ever could be a re-make. "},{"Title":"stupendously awful","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Am I on the same planet as all the posters who say this is hilarious, funniest ever, etc.? This is a horrible, horrible movie. NOT FUNNY! The only good things about this overlong, bombastic, tedious, obvious, cartoonish, loud, annoying movie are the photography and desert scenery. Land O' Goshen I hate this movie. For the record, here are some movies I think are FUNNY Animal House, Dr. Strangelove, Caddyshack, Young Frankenstein, and any Mystery Science Theater episode. This is like 1920's funny. This is like Uncle Miltie funny- i.e., not funny past 1952. I just watched 45 minutes of it on TCM while on my Nordic Track. I was admiring the desert scenery at the beginning of the movie and trying (yet again) to find one simple glimmer of humor in this trainwreck. One giggle, one huh- that's mildly amusing, one friggin' ANYTHING that resembled humor. I'm 45 years old, btw. Good Day. EOM. "},{"Title":"MUST SEE (terrible movie, but a must see)...","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"11 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You simply cannot watch this movie without having a tremendous appreciation for the cast. Some of the all-time Hollywood greats are here Spenser Tracy, Jack Benny, Phil Silvers, Sid Caesar, Mickey Rooney, Buddy Hackett, Milton Berle, Jonathan Winters, Peter Falk, Buster Keaton, Jerry Lewis, Don Knotts, Carl Reiner, The Three Stooges (Joe Version), Jimmy Durante, Sterling Holloway, Jim Backus (Thurston Howell III), and more. Unbelievable!Unfortunately the movie is Horrible. Yes, capital 'H' Horrible. Worst of all, it is just *not* funny. At all.The comedy is obnoxious and immature (how can anyone possibly find the grating Ethel Merman entertaining?). If these three hours of Ethel nagging and screaming and bitching and yelling don't drive you to a migraine, then I don't know what will.Then there is the repetitive, unfunny physical comedy car crashes, wobbly knees, crossed eyes, women swinging purses, Sylvester wants to fight, more car crashes, airplane stunts, men falling down, more with the crossed eyes, people flying through the air, people landing in trees, Sylvester wants to fight again, women slipping on banana peels, more projectile people (into water fountains, through windows), men making silly faces, even more car crashes and still more crossed eyes. The childish silliness reaches an 'enough already!' level very early in the movie - but then it just keeps going and going.You can wait all 188 minutes for the punch line. You can wait for the big payoff you just know must be coming. and. well. uh. sorry, but no. There is no such thing. In fact, if not for most of the cast ending up in the hospital in traction, there is no reason the movie simply just doesn't pick up steam again and keep going for another 3 hours.I will admit, however, that watching Mad World does make me smile. There are no moments of sidesplitting guffaws or even light-hearted chuckles. But there are smiles. These smiles are smiles of genuine appreciation for this incredible collection of past Hollywood greats. There has probably never been nor will there ever again be such a collection of big-time stars in a single film. Smart money says that the outtakes, if they exist, are far superior to the project that brought these people together in the first place.If only to offer others the chance to see this grand cast, I do recommend the film. But please take my advice keep the aspirin handy. Despite what you may have heard or read, this is truly a very bad movie. "},{"Title":"It's an awful, awful, awful, awful movie, except for one performer...","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"17 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I saw this movie at the time it first appeared, I thought it was riotously funny. But then I grew up. I saw it again recently and found it astoundingly bad. Astoundingly! It is full of good comedians, but the timing is awful, and I no longer find it funny to watch a service station being trashed in endless detail, nor to be subjected to an endless mother-in-law shtick. Good God, why didn't they just give her six minutes screen time and pay her off? If they had cut all the extraneous, overdone trash, it could have made a good 75 minute movie. HOWEVER, HOWever, however, there were a couple of uncredited performers who combined to lift it all the way to a 2-star level in my estimation. Their performance and timing were perfect! And she set my hormones flowing the first time they turned the camera on her! I'm referring, of course, to the twin-Beech, Model 18, and her pilot, Frank Tallman. Regrettably, I could never read her number, so I couldn't send a fan letter, and Tallman died shortly after, so there won't be a performance to match this one, ever. I did not appreciate, the first time through, how good the flying was, but I've flown enough since to appreciate their performance. Skip the first half of this tedious piece of rubbish, and after they get that sweet Beechcraft down, hit rewind and put on something else. Well, there was one other redeeming feature. I always thought Dorothy Provine was cute. "},{"Title":"It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was the film that inspired Jerry Zucker's Rat Race, with an all-star cast, all racing to the same place to get to the fortune first, from director Stanley Kramer (Guess Who's Coming to Dinner). Basically somewhere in the desert, a car speeds along the roads, and the driver (Jack Benny) loses control sailing off the cliff. Four other vehicles are near, they stop to help, and the driver tells them in his dying moments that he has $350,000 below a giant W in Santa Rosita, some 200 miles away, and then he dies. For a few minutes they question his claim, then a few seconds later they start the race. They do stop a few minutes to try and come to an agreement if it is true and they do have to divide the cash, but they can't work it out, so they are all against each other trying to get to it first. The only other person that knew about the fortune before they did is Capt. C. G. Culpepper (Spencer Tracy, in his penultimate film, before Guess Who's Coming to Dinner) who is keeping track of them all, until eventually he gives in to his greed as well. To be honest, not that many moments stick out in my mind, besides some explosions, chaos in a plane, and of course the all-star cast. I thought it only got interesting when they reached the destination, they are looking for the giant W, which turns out to be some palm trees, they do find it, but Culpepper persuades them to hand themselves in (to jail), this is how he nicks it from them. In the end, they are all hanging on fire escape ladders, the money falls into the large crowd below, and all characters go to hospital after falling in various ways. Starring Milton Berle as J. Russell Finch, Sid Caesar as Melville Crump, DDS; Buddy Hackett as Benjy Benjamin, Ethel Merman as the irritatingly loud and talkative Mrs. Marcus, Mickey Rooney as Ding 'Dingy' Bell, Dick Shawn as Sylvester Marcus, Phil Silvers as Otto Meyer, Terry-Thomas as Lt.Col. J. Algernon Hawthorne, Golden Globe nominated Jonathan Winters as Lennie Pike, Edie Adams as Monica Crump, Dorothy Provine as Emeline Marcus-Finch, Peter Falk as Third cab driver, Jimmy Durante as Smiler Grogan, Buster Keaton as Jimmy the Crook, Carl Reiner as Tower controller at Rancho Conejo, Jim Backus as Tyler Fitzgerald, Jerry Lewis as Man who runs over hat, Leo Gorcey as First cab driver and Eddie 'Rochester' Anderson as Second cab driver. Maybe if this was a little shorter, with more memorable gags this could have been a favourite of mine, like Rat Race (which I prefer to this), but plenty of famous faces to keep you interested. It won the Oscar for Best Sound Effects, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing, Best Song for the title song, Best Music for Ernest Gold and Best Sound, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy. Okay! "},{"Title":"Big bloated and somewhat funny","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Talk about over done....Every comedian in the world, or so it seems, criss-crosses through this story of greed and unpleasant people.The plot is simple - when a man dies in an auto accident he tells of a buried fortune which those that stopped to help him go off and try to find. Its broad comedy of the slapstick kind that you will either find funny or painfully overdone.I find it over done and over long. There is no need to have this unspool as long as it does, especially when whole sections of it fall flat.Still if the mood strikes you you may be one of the legion of fans who think this is the funniest movie ever made.I don't and try to avoid it when I can. "},{"Title":"if you like the three stooges you will probably like this","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" They don't make movies like this any more and it is a good thing. For as Molly used to say, tain't funny Mcgee. How can you take a brilliant cast and a talented director and come up with a long, dull, repetitive, completely unfunny film. IMHO there is not one funny scene or line in the entire film. The scenes in the movie make scenarios from the Three Stooges look like sophisticated drawing room comedies and the script makes the Stooges seem Shakesperean. I love slapstick when it is original and funny neither of which describes the action here. Repeated car crashes, really hilarious. What was Spencer Tracy thinking when he signed up for this? "},{"Title":"A good movie to fall asleep to.","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The most dragged out, most boring movie I've ever watched. Almost three hours of watching a bunch of people in their cars driving aimlessly in search of a Hidden Treasure.And to top it off,What a dumb ending. "}{"Title":"Unbelievably bad!","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"19 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love comedy, and each of the many stars of this movie gave me many joyful moments over the years  --Phil Silvers!  --Sid Caesar!  How dreadful to watch them all in a completely unfunny, tedious, inane movie!  One keeps waiting for the funny part to start, and it never does.  Buddy Hackett and Sid Caesar and Jerry Lewis cross their eyes, repeatedly.  That's about it, in 188 minutes! "},{"Title":"Fun, but loses points for thankless female roles.","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Of course it's hard to go wrong when you have this many legendarily funny men. But why must Ethel Merman be the butt of all the jokes? Sure she's obnoxious, but she is called old bag many times when there are CLEARLY many male characters in the film much older than she. If I were her, I would not have accepted such a role. The other women in the film are merely 'eye candy' and get few actually funny lines. If you accept this going into watching it, then you can enjoy it. The humor is a little quaint and dated, but the delivery is still sharp. The music is finely suited to this film, and the action sequences well shot. FYI-This film has both of the male landlords from Three's Company in it--Norman Fell and Don Knotts. I think it could have used the late great Audra Lindley (Mrs. Roper) as well. "},{"Title":"pretty damned awful","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"16 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I was a kid I was intoxicated by this movies recipe for comedy which is 10 parts cast, 25 parts shtick, 70 parts annoyance, 100 parts volume, 200 parts length, 1000 parts Murphy's law and 10,000 parts human idiocy. Mmmm delicious! As an adult it's a noxious, unpalatable brew. I'd be fully prepared to give it some credit if it coaxed even a titter out of me. I guess you could show it to your kids, with a stern warning that if they still enjoy it past the age of 20, you'll disown them.You like this movie? Congratulations you have the life Voltaire warned us against. And this is coming from somebody who likes Caddyshack. Perhaps you misjudged it as a quality effort due to the all star cast. I would rather drink the water in Mexico than sit through this again. This movie is wholly without merit. "},{"Title":"Vastly overrated","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"19 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Seems like all anyone can talk about with this movie is the cameos. For good reason - there isn't much else to it. Not very funny, way too long for what little content it has.A great example of why throwing a bunch of names into a movie together doesn't automatically lead to a good movie.  "}]