[{"Title":"Totally, tenderly, tragically.","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"48 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" *Contempt* is a case study in Making The Most Of It. In 1963, Jean-Luc Godard was permitted a big budget financed by an international production, the use of a CinemaScope camera, Technicolor, a pair of icons (Brigitte Bardot and Fritz Lang as himself) to star in the film, and almost total creative autonomy. No auteur -- with the possible exception of Coppola in the Seventies -- was granted this power again. Godard doubtless realized that this would be a one-shot affair, and thus he directs every inch of *Contempt*. He may permit the actors to improvise, but their improvisations are constrained within a tight circle of elaborate choreography. And he denies himself his usual for-the-fun-of-it non-sequiturs any New Wave mannerisms (and there are few, especially when compared to something like *Band of Outsiders*) are made to serve the various lines of meta-fictive commentary, philosophical inquiry, and more traditional narrative and character development within the film. One wishes that Godard had been forced to do commercial work like *Contempt* throughout his career. Big money appears to have disciplined him; to have honed his vision. This New Wave epic clocks in at a mere 104 minutes, making that other 1963 film about film-making, *8 1/2*, seem almost sloppy and bloated by comparison.What's it about, anyway? Fritz Lang, as Fritz Lang, is directing an adaptation of The Odyssey at Cinecitta Studios. Hovering over him is the fascistic American producer Prokosch (played with manic bewilderment by Jack Palance). Prokosch is unhappy, because Lang has deviated from the script that has turned Odysseus into a modern neurotic-type who is no longer loved by his wife Penelope. The famous director insists on the traditional view of the epic, and then irritates the producer even more by filming it in an over-stylized manner. Prokosch, realizing that this sort of thing will not put butts in the seats, hires a modern neurotic-type (Michel Piccoli as Paul) to rewrite the screenplay. Paul, meanwhile, is having problems with his own wife, Camille (Bardot).It's hard to pin down exactly why Camille has taken a contemptuous attitude towards her husband, though the most likely reason is that he has harbored no small measure of contempt for her all along. I can't believe I married a typist! is one of his typical exclamations. Or perhaps she despises him because he sells out to Prokosch and then whines about it. This bourgeois screenwriter, who says he needs the *Odyssey* money to pay off their flat in Rome, is also a card-carrying member of the Italian Communist Party. (And he's contemptuous of her typist job?!) He's the sort of poseur that would drive any woman batty the perfect modern anti-hero, in other words. Prokosch's ideal Odysseus.The centerpiece of the movie is the 30-minute scene in the married couple's flat. It's the most sustained, minutely choreographed, rigorously blocked and written stretch in Godard's career. A similar, though much lighter, scene with Belmondo and Seberg in *Breathless* served as a mere warm-up for the display of petty acrimony in *Contempt*. A marriage dissolves before our eyes. Meanwhile, DP Raoul Coutard, doing some of the most brilliant work of his career, pokes unobtrusively around the couple, getting cozy with them in the bathroom while one of them sits on a toilet, shooting them from far across the room, catching Bardot and Piccoli at the extreme edges of the CinemaScope frame, slowly tracking the space between them as they murmur their little hatreds. But never getting too close if Bardot slams the door on Piccoli, we're left stranded with Piccoli, and from a distance, too. It's intimacy without melodrama.*Contempt* is chock-full of the multiplicity of ideas -- seamlessly reinforced by imagery and dialog -- that make cinephiles love Godard. I've barely scratched the surface and have already run out of space. But I do want to commend Godard on his courage for daring to acknowledge head-on his admiration of Michelangelo Antonioni's *L'Avventura*. Of course, it goes without saying that Godard can't help mocking Antonioni just a bit; but mocking and paying homage are inextricable within the Godard canon. In any case, today's audience may appreciate the economy with which the French director makes his points (*Contempt* is almost an hour shorter than *L'Avventura*), as well as the arguable pictorial superiority of this film to the other one. The scenes on Capri, at the famous Malaparte villa with its wedge-shaped stairs that lead to a barren deck, surrounded by crags that rise like jewels from the calm sea, are some of the most beautiful ever shot. If this was indeed Raoul Coutard's first work with the CinemaScope lens, one can only marvel at his precocious genius.10 stars out of 10 -- one of the great art-works of the 20th century. "},{"Title":"A finely crafted masterpiece","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"67 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bardot's magnificent performance as Camille Javal she was so good that her character's name was later believed to be her real name!, wife of the aspiring screenwriter Paul (nicely played by a young Michel Piccoli) merely confirmed what Clouzot's La Verite (1960) had already established, viz., that B.B. was a highly talented actress and not merely a lovely sex kitten pimped by ex-husband Vadim to titillate the fantasies of horny international audiences. le Mepris (Contempt) is a jewel cut by France's leading Nouvelle Vague director Jean-Luc Godard, and intended (says his outstanding cinematographer Raoul Coutard) as an apologetic testimonial to Godard's estranged wife Anna Karina. This is a film about film-making in the 1960's, and about the stresses on personal relationships provoked by the pursuit of cinema's world of illusion.the presence of the great Fritz Lang playing himself authenticates the theme. Paul Javal (his constant wearing of a hat is the clue to his partial representation of Godard) is a man whose artistic sensibility and individuality have yet to be shaped, and who uses Camille as an instrument to achieve self-identity. But Camille is a goddess, a force of nature, and her total love for Paul slowly disintegrates in the course of the creative mind games he selfishly makes her endure. (One such is the marvelously erotic opening scene with the softly voices enumerations of her physical assets by a nude Camille that this is a game is shown by her query to director Paul whether she should rise on her knees to continue...There are many such indicators throughout the film. See for instance Camille's fleeting smile ar Paul in Prokosch's garden at minute 2628.)As the story unfolds, pretended reality is remorselessly transformed into real reality, and Camille's staged contempt into an actual rejection of a husband who is revealed to be a spineless wimp (You are not a man at minute 13519). The accompanying change of Camille's initial dislike of the energetic and crassly domineering producer Jeremy Prokosch (Jack Palance)into a recognition that this equally potent god and force of nature is perhaps worthier of her attention than her hapless husband is also delicately presented by Godard (There is a fascinating scene near the very end where Prokosch shows how his personality is being positively changed by his attraction to Camille, and how he yearns to acquire a gentler image to please her.) But the film is a tragedy on more than one level, and a fatal accident in which both Prokosch and Camille lose their lives prevents any resolution or even development. This is a profound film which needs to be viewed many times, with increasing understanding and appreciation of its complexities. The photography is stunning (esp. the Capri shots), and the wonderfully haunting score by Georges Delerue only increases our viewing pleasure.  "},{"Title":"With Le Mépris, Godard succeeded where Malle had failed&#133;","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"52 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Strangely enough, director Jean-Luc Godard understood Bardot's capabilities best, and with Le Mépris, he succeeded where Malle had failed&#133; Because the movie reflected Bardot's new life, the viewer was shown the woman, the actress, the public image, and the private life&#133; B.B. was dead; Brigitte Bardot was alive and well&#133; Of all the movies about movies Le Mépris may be the most penetrating, the most alienated and least entertaining... Not many people have seen Le Mépris, but of those who have many despise it greatly&#133;Le Mépris is one of the few films that actually encourages its audiences to walk out&#133; Aside from the fact that it has something important to say and says it interestingly, Le Mépris is a nadir of entertainment, and for this reason, and because it is one of the most alienated and alienating films ever made, one can choose to call it great too&#133;In his film debut, Michel Piccoli (Paul Juval) is a failed playwright who wants to write for the stage, but his sexy wife, Camille (Brigitte Bardot), requests a middle-class style of life... Paul has used his savings to buy her an apartment in a stylish building in Rome and is now financially enslaved... The American film producer and tycoon, Jeremy Prokosch (Jack Palance), has offered him a job as screenwriter of 'The Odyssey,' to be directed by then veteran German-American filmmaker Fritz Lang (played by Fritz Lang!).Paul sells out, signs the contract with Prokosch and earns the never ending contempt of his wife, who drifts into a liaison with Jerry&#151;not so clear anyway...Obviously, Prokosch is the Great Vulgarian Producer&#133; He wants Lang to direct 'The Odyssey' because a German, Schliemann, discovered Troy. Prokosch buys and sells mens' souls... He rushes around the film studio in a flashy red sports car, and reads stupid and pretentious maxims from a red book he carries in his breast pocket&#133;The story of the dissolution of the Javals' marriage and Camille's contempt for Paul is entwined with the legend of Ulysses, and also with a sort of documentary look at what it's like to make a movie the compromises, the idiocy, the boredom, and the fatigue&#133; There are references to film and film-making throughout the motion picture posters on walls for Howard Hawks' Hatari and Hitchcock's Psycho, brief looks at the inside of a movie studio, and the goings-on in a screening room&#133; But perhaps the most interesting and mystical element in this film are its first and final shots&#133; On Godard's instructions we are compelled to point inwards, to submit, to think, and to contemplate... Godard seems to suggest that the provocative statement of Le Mépris which is sombre, beautiful and rich, is in reality a short interesting anecdote about us all... "},{"Title":"A difficult film.","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"41 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul (Picoli) is hired by vulgarian US producer Jerry Prokosh (Palance) to rewrite a screenplay for his adaptation, which Fritz Lang (himself) insists on shooting in a hyper-stylized, mythological fashion. Paul's relationship with his trophy wife Camille disintegrates as she feels abandoned by him to Prokosh's advances, and sees him subdue himself to these great men.It is about film-making - of course! - it is about the plight of the artist, but where it succeeds most is in the carefully examined slow destruction of Camille and Paul's marriage. Raoul Coutard's cinemascope photography, filled with lush colors, only serves to highlight how little Paul is and how out of his depth he is. He and his wife hide it in different manners Paul by trying to assert intellectual superiority over his wiser-than-she-appears wife, therefor earning her contempt. She hides by relying on her sensuality.Godard typically references his love for film in a way that many will find pedantic, and the lush score isn't always wisely used, overwhelming and sometimes even obtrusive. But thankfully, Godard's message and cast survive the director's pseudo-intellectual short-comings. Bardot is perfectly cast as the ignorant innocent who strives to appear and be smarter than she is (even sporting a brunette whig at some point, in what is really a sad moment of self-loathing), but fails. Camille never convinces when she speaks, but the pain in those eyes is intensely real. Picoli's Paul is easier to sympathize with, as the reasonable whose every move to please anyone dooms him further. It is a cruel lesson and warning about relationships.The film also serves a more sarcastic and amusing (and far more conscious) duel between Palance's Prokosh, superbly vulgar and dramatic, and Lang, who becomes a wise and immensely charismatic figure that stands against compromise. It is sad that this was the German master's only performance in front of the camera.Le Mépris is slow, and if you get caught too much in Goddard's referencing and hyper-stylization, it will bore you. But if you really follow these characters, you're in for a unique, edifying and sometimes unnervingly uncomfortable ride.Must be seen several times under different angles to be fully appreciated. "},{"Title":"Arguably Godard's Best Film, Undoubtedly One of the Best Works in Cinema","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"71 out of 112 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Here are what Contempt, by French director Jean-Luc Godard, made in 1963, is about--an examination on a relationship in jeopardy, which has been one of the most universal themes in cinema, and which is probably inspired by Michelangelo Antonioni's trilogy; a struggle in film-making as a side-theme, which may be Godard's self-reflective expression; the international star cast including Brigitte Bardot, Michel Piccoli, and Jack Palance, along with the cameo appearance of legendary German filmmaker Fritz Lang; well-choreographed long takes, which are sometimes several minutes in length, and which could be also influenced by Antonioni; inclusion of three montage sequences that comprise sliced flashback and flashforward clips, which create a remarkable contrast to the long takes; beautifully photographed sceneries, especially of the sea; and the memorable orchestral score with sentimental arpeggio by Georges Delerue.Being both unique and universal, and being perfectly executed, Contempt is arguably Godard's best film, and undoubtedly one of the best works in cinema. "},{"Title":"Film within a film within a film (infinity)","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"41 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With Le Mepris (1963), French filmmaker Jean Luc Godard strings together at least three different narrative strands, each of which are in some way connected to the central story of a couple falling out of love, and all further set against an additional thematic backdrop of film-making and ancient Greek mythology. With this technique, Godard is clearly attempting to not only present us with a vicious satire on the business of movie-making, but also attempting to deconstruct the very notion of film-making by contrasting the soulless and mechanical approach to studio production, with the trials and tribulations of a torturous love affair.As with the vast majority of Godard's work - particularly of this era - Le Mepris is very much a work in the meta-film tradition; in the sense that it is a film about film-making that is constantly reminding the audience of its own artificiality and manufactured design. This ideology is evident right from the start, as Godard begins the film with a lengthy tracking shot, which finds the camera following in front of a camera actually within the film and also in the middle of a similarly complicated tracking shot. To add further ideas of self-reflexivity to the proceedings, Godard appears himself as the film's assistant director, with his cinematographer Raoul Coutard manning the equipment. As the shot progresses, a cold and emotionless voice-over beings narrating the opening credits - though no text appears on screen - whilst the camera continues tracking towards us, edging closer to us until both camera and audience are starring directly into one other and the endless abyss that they represent.It's pure Brechtian deconstruction, years before Godard would refine the influence of Brecht with the difficult masterpiece Week End (1967), which shares some elements familiar from Le Mepris, in particular the use of the couple as a metaphorical reference point for some kind of greater ideology and a natural continuation of many of the film-making techniques that Godard had been developing since A Woman Is A Woman (1961). This brings us to the story at hand, with Le Mepris focusing on a jaded scriptwriter (Michel Piccoli) setting out to polish the screenplay for Fritz Lang's big budget adaptation of Homer's epic, The Odyssey. From this set up we are introduced to the writer's beautiful and enchanting girlfriend (Brigitte Bardot), the arrogant U.S. film producer (Jack Palance), and the great man himself, Fritz Lang.Each of these four characters will be involved in their own separate strand of the narrative that will run concurrently alongside the other characters, whilst in turn, laying reference points to the likes of Ulysses, The Odyssey, Fellini and The Rite of Spring, to create the overall foundation of the film itself. This is only the first quarter of the film and already Godard is churning out exciting idea after exciting idea to smash apart the worn clichés and generally accepted limitations of film in a way that is as startling, boring, joyous and confusing as anything else he has directed. The visual design is just splendid, with Godard and Coutard moving further away from the Nouvelle Vague/Cinéma-vérité influences of their earliest work and incorporating beautifully vivid primary colours, the use of cinema-scope, complex and seemingly random tracking shots and camera movements and sporadic bursts of music to disarm the viewer during moments of dialog.The centrepiece here is the near-infamous twenty-minute long sequence that takes place between the writer and his girlfriend in their vast, open-plan apartment, in which jealousies, bitterness and petty arguments blow up and cool off amidst a series of seemingly mundane, everyday-like activities. What makes the scene work is Godard's far from invisible directorial intent, as he attempts to excite, bore and eventually move the audience into becoming interested in these complicated and far from conventional characters whilst simultaneously using the set up to offer a skillful deconstruction of his own film's narrative, the narrative of Homer's Odyssey, and the film that Lang is making. This ties into the further film-within-a-film-within-a-film (infinity) abstractions, with Godard continually making allusions to the idea that the film we are watching could easily be a film being made.The film also works in a circular sense, opening with that aforementioned scene in which Godard points the barrel of the lens directly into the audience whilst narrating his own credits, whilst the final shots shows the camera drifting off towards the sunset as Godard yells cut. With Le Mepris, Godard clearly struck the right balance of cinematic invention; beautiful photography, use of colour, costumes and music, a recreation of Cinecittà as a pastoral ghost town (a comment on film-making in itself), etc, whilst achieving a subtle symbiosis between his characters, his narrative and his philosophical subtext. For me, this is perhaps the strongest 'narrative' film the director ever made before abandoning generic storytelling and instead striving for greater artistic substance.I suppose in this day and age it is easy to look back on Godard's once radical use of cinematic experimentation - and his genuine desire to challenge the medium of film far beyond the usual presentation of conventions like character and narrative - and see it as something that is hollow and dated; a pseudo-intellectual exercise in cinematic deconstruction that is there to be endured, as opposed to enjoyed. Though this may still be true for some viewers - particularly those at odds with Godard's personal style and the very 60's idea that art could be entertainment and that anything was possible - there will be other viewers who are far more in tune with the notion of cinema for cinema's sake, and can better appreciate the film for what it truly is. "},{"Title":"Godard's Contempt","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"50 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The whole movie can be captured in one moment. That one fleeting second when the absurd irony and futility of 'everything' will dawn upon you. Either that or you will merely take it for what it is. A masterpiece. So obviously chained by the wrath of Gods, the movie on the whole has too much to offer. Whether it is the parallels between the existing world and the world of homer, the constant struggle with commercialism or the perusal of a writer's integrity... you will keep on jumping between realism and.... romanticism? Throughout the movie, a haunting melancholic theme continues to play magic on nerves. Amongst countless striking scenes lies a splendidly performed sequence made on a shoestring budget in the apartment that captures the unsettling confessions of the pair. Definitely worth seeing/experiencing!As much as you will fall under the spell of Godard and feel for the likes of Lang, you can't help being amused by the almost comical character of Palance. Very comical, Very contemptuous.But at the end its Lang that captures attention on the whole. A lone figure standing amidst harmonious chaos, staring silently at everyone and no one, while life effortlessly moves around him. He makes perfect sense. Contempt. The whole thing takes place within a system that seems to be contemptuous of itself. So much so that it even ends up holding a mocking mirror, capturing an ultimate contempt for the audience. "},{"Title":"Ulysses, Guernica, The Rite Of Spring, LE MEPRIS...","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"34 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the great masterpieces of the 20th century, a supreme synthesis of form, content and performance.  Arguably the most beautiful too, with its found locations, sets, colour, lighting, music, decor and costume.  The straightforward elegance of Godard's shooting masks a story of great complexity and formal rupture, but underneath the philosophy, semiotics and allusion is a portrait of marriage and its decline.  The tension between icy irony and resigned emotion results in Godard's most perversely moving film. It is also very funny, which is too little remembered. "},{"Title":"The language of Godard","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Most cinephiles, faced with a choice between an original language, subtitled film, and a dubbed version, will choose the former. But what if it is a multilingual film, released in different versions? Would you be tempted to choose the version of your own language? Such a choice with Le Mépris (Contempt) yields a radically different experience, well beyond the mere question of subtitles.The story tells of the making of a movie in Italy with an American producer, an Austrian director, plus a script doctor and his beautiful wife. The French version is multilingual. Whereas the English-American and Italian versions are entirely dubbed. Crucially, in the English-American version, the producer seems to be followed about by a quirky assistant who paraphrases the somewhat vainglorious proclamations of her boss for the benefit of other mere mortals. Only in the French version, is it apparent she is an interpreter.This is important, as one of the themes of Le Mépris is the breakdown of communication. Not only are the producer and director at odds with each other, but the marital breakdown of the script doctor and his wife (played by Michel Piccoli and the glamorous Brigitte Bardot) is placed under the microscope. Three further parallels are neatly woven into our story. One is the tale of Ulysses separated from his wife Penelope, in which he is protected by Minerva but threatened by Neptune (Homer's Odyssey is the subject of the film-within-a-film). Second is an examination of the gap between cinema-for-profit and cinema-as-art, partly mirrored in the Le Mépris' actual production as well as in its subject matter. And third are autobiographical references to Godard's personal life &#x96; both his love life and his life as a filmmaker. Whereas the French version of the movie raises serious questions about the film industry, about the relationship between man and the gods, and even explores some of the more challenging questions about love, life and Homer's work; in the English-American version these things become like added confectionery, arty flourishes for more passive audiences. Or for whom the challenge of discovering cinematic jokes within references to Rio Bravo and works by Fritz Lang (who plays himself as a director) become an intellectual conceit.Brigitte Bardot here finds at once both a self-consciously iconic and a substantial acting role. On the one hand, her acting talents are utilised to greater effect than in many of her films. On the other, long (soft-core) nude scenes are both complicit in, and critical of, her sex-goddess status. The opening scene, where she teasingly asks her husband which part of her body he finds most attractive, was added at the insistence of the film's American co-producers. Yet its mocking style is almost a lampoon of the use of sex to sell big budget U.S. films. The film-within-a-film's American producer, Jeremy Prokosch (played by Jack Palance), is visibly more enthusiastic about scenes involving nakedness than any faithfulness to the spirit of Homer. Director Fritz Lang, in contrast, goes to great length to examine the essence of the Odyssey, using Dante's Inferno and a poem by Friedrich Holderlin. The gods are created by men, not vice versa, and create the challenges Odysseus is forced to face. It is an easy step to observe how the American producer, throwing his weight around in 'godlike' fashion, both misses this point and actually identifies with the lesser 'gods' of sex and wealth. These gods &#x96; in the form of a much-needed cheque for Piccoli's character and the dangling of Bardot's allures before Prokosch, threaten both the marriage and the integrity of the film-within-a-film. Contempt breeds among the characters and begets tragedy.Piccoli also has a great line about exploitation Usually, when you see women, they're dressed. But put them in a movie, and you see their backsides. As if to underline the point, Prokosch casually has his assistant bend over so he can use her (clothed) backside as a table to sign a cheque. His imperious and lecherous attitude dovetails the 'Americanised' scenes that show naked women's backsides without explicitness. They contrast strongly against the clothed Bardot who is portrayed as an intelligent woman able to hold her own.This film is one of the most rounded of any of Godard's work and can easily be viewed as 'mainstream' &#x96; the more philosophical riddles being purely optional. And if Godard is displaying contempt for the prostituting of cinematic art to big business &#x96; principally American big studios &#x96; the style is still reverential towards his American heroes Le Mépris has been accurately described as, Hawks and Hitchcock shot in the manner of Antonioni. Godard, like Ulysses and Piccoli's character, has both engaged with the enemy - American producer Joseph E Levine (Neptune, Prokosch) and prevailed. He has not 'sold-out' to big finance but, like Ulysses on coming home, merely disguised himself as a beggar to better elicit the truth. 'Minerval' wisdom shines through (especially from the mouth of his hero-in-exile, Fritz Lang, with lines that reflect Godard's philosophy). When Bardot's character Camille wears a black wig, she resembles Godard's wife Anna Karina. Her story, subjected to unwanted attentions while her husband is absent, parallels Penelope.By many sleights of hand, Godard continues to 'explore the uninhabited world' and simultaneously produce a film for many different audiences. Le Mépris is very clever and enjoyable to watch, but does it have anything new to say? Or is it an exquisite exercise in admiring its own limitations? The films strengths are less obvious than the overtly cinematic and revolutionary Breathless, or the philosophically challenging 2 or 3 Things I Know About Her. It has as much depth as you wish to find in it, and is more convincing than his disjointed political diatribes. But, unlike all those films, it can also be overlooked as little more than a pleasant experience. Especially by anyone who thinks it would be simpler if we all spoke the same language. Subtitles or not. "},{"Title":"The Director, The Producer, Their Writer & His Wife","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fritz Lang, playing himself, is set to direct a more commercial adaptation of Homer's Odyssey. Jeremy Prokosch (Jack Palance), the producer, despises art films and hires screenwriter Paul Javal (Michel Piccoli) to help Lang commercialize the movie. Javal 'offers' his young wife, Camille (Brigitte Bardot, sexier than ever, in one of her few serious roles), to Prokosch, thinking he'll get a better payment. But he didn't know that would sparkle Camille's contempt and ruin their marriage.Le Mépris aka Contempt is Godard's existentialist, provocative essay of the relationships between artistic and commercial cinema, man and woman/husband and wife (he was married to his then-muse Anna Karina, with whom he made some of his best films; after their divorce in 1967, he married Anne Wiazemsky, with whom he made La Chinoise, Week End and others). Gorgeously photographed by Raoul Coutard and scored by the master Georges Delerue, and with some influences of Antonioni's trilogy (L'Avventura, La Notte and L'Eclisse), Le Mépris is not my favourite Godard, but it's certainly a vigorous film. 9/10. "}{"Title":"Godard's masterpiece is still captivating","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"29 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  French cult-director Jean-Luc Godard made this masterpiece way in 1963 but it is still as captivating as it was then.Featuring then superstar Brigitte Bardot and Michel Piccoli as her husband- screenwriter who is hired to write a screenplay based on the ancient Greek myth `The Oddysey'. The story deals with the creative process of filmmaking as viewed by Godard, but also focuses on  the breakdown of a mariage  by the growing contempt of Bardot for her husband , whom she feels  is selling out to greedy US producer Jack Palance.This is a superb movie, not only for the  frequent nude shots of Bardot (don't miss the beginning) but also  for the beautiful  sundrenched photography by  Raoul Coutard, appearing as himself during the spoken(!) opening credits,  the brilliant lyrical soundtrack by Georges Delerue and the inclusion of legendary german director Fritz Lang (wearing a monocle!) as an almost godlike figure.  It all contributes to the poetic and spellbounding atmosphere.Godard, who briefly appears as the assistant-director to Lang, made this when he was at the peak of his craft and it is among one  of his biggest commercial and artistic successes.  He was one of the most prolific 'auteurs' of the Nouvelle-Vague ( others being Francois Truffaut and Jacques Rivette) but his career petered out by the end of the sixties.He still is active though, occasionally turning out mildly interesting movies. By the way, in the Vittorio de Sica comedy `After the Fox' (1966),  Peter Sellers delivers a great parody number based on the Godard figure.Brigitte Bardot was then also at the height of her popularity, reaching sometimes hysterical proportions.  The filming was frequently interrupted and even delayed considerably  by the intrusions of the Italian paparazzi. Incidentally, in the same year when Contempt was released  she also appeared as herself in the US comedy `Dear Brigitte', where a schoolboy is completely smitten with her  and desperately tries to get a date.  His dad is played by James Stewart !Try to see it in letterbox format, which gives full credit to the excellent use of the Cinemascope format.10/10 "},{"Title":"Perhaps it's great because of its ambiguity.","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Contempt is the type of film that can create that feeling between itself and the audience watching. It is a strange mix of cinematic magic and unrealistic psychobabble. Jean-Luc Godard is one of the greatest of all directors and perhaps the most successful of the French New Wave, one of the most important occurrences in film history. He had already hit success with his ground-breaking Breathless and his personal My Life to Live. Here, he is at his most experimental, even more so than in The Little Soldier. From the opening shot of a camera tracking an actor down towards where the narrative camera is, there is no doubt this is a unique picture.We then get multiple scenes involving the strangest nude scenes ever recorded. This film stars Bridgette Bardot, one of the most beautiful and captivating women ever to be in a movie, and Godard intentionally films her almost completely without a sense of eroticism or sexiness. She, like everything else here, is objectified, pushed away and gives us a chance to consider other films we have seen.This is a rare gift to film lovers, a story that cannot be judged on standard grounds because it is not a standard film. Godard, I believe, is showing the absolute boundaries of the cinema, daring to go farther than nearly anyone before or after him. For most, it will totally polarize them and perhaps turn them off to Godard or even foreign films completely. But, that should not be the case. True, this is a head-scratcher, but you cannot expect normalcy from a director like Godard. Here, along with most of his other work, he proved that the director, if given freedom, can change the look and feel of a film to an unlimited amount of options and opportunities. Roger Ebert said that Godard never made another movie like this because he realized he couldn't. I think he didn't because he realized cinema hasn't reached those limits yet; and perhaps never will. "},{"Title":"Possibly the most boring movie ever made.","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"45 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Don't let the hype frighten you into thinking this flick is over your head. I know it's supposed to be multi-layered and beautifully complex, but it's really just a big fat bore.  Godard's arrogant, meandering story is repetitive, static and brimming with stupid dialogue.  Take, for example, the famous thirty minute conversation between Bardot and her screenwriter hubbie, an exercise in tedium that is hard to rival in French cinema (and that's saying a lot). Devoid of human warmth or genuine characterizations, Godard's movie is peopled with cardboard stand-ins for archetypes.  His story, cribbed in part from Homer's much more entertaining THE ODYSSEY, is so slow as to be unnoticeable and is peppered with annoying references to classic Hollywood cinema that only serve to illustrate how superficial Godard's skills are compared with the directors he admires. It is a telling fact that the sole entertaining moments in the movie come from Jack Palance's portrayel of a gauche, lowbrow movie producer in search of a fresh approach to his stalled ODYSSEY project.  The rest of the film is held at bay by poker-faced Frenchmen and ad nauseum appearances of Bridget Bardot's ass. This is a great one for faux intellectuals and classics professors, but if you're looking for a real movie--one that tugs the emotions instead of the cerebellum--you should turn elsewhere.  "},{"Title":"Intriguing illustration of the filmmaking process...","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jean-Luc Godard's 6th feature film tells the story of American film producer Jeremy Prokosch, highly regarded Austrian-American filmmaker Fritz Lang and novelist and screenwriter Paval Javal who are collaborating on a film adaption of Homer's Oddysey, which causes critical disagreements. The process estranges the screenwriter from his wife Giorgia Moll, and the rising conflict between the three men results in her becoming the fourth member of the production.French-Swiss film critic and director Jean-Luc Godard's adaption of an Italian novel written by Albert Moravia in 1954 called II disprezzo, is an Italian-French co-production shot exclusively in Italy, which centres on the marital challenges a young couple faces during a pretentious film production. This vigorous drama from La Nouvelle Vague's most prominent and outspoken representative is an intriguing illustration of the filmmaking process constructed through a linear narrative which is accompanied by French composer Georges Delerue's melodic and instrumental theme song.Jean-Luc Godard's directing in this film within a film is striking. The way he uses repetitions of previous scenes to create subtle transitions, the long takes where the pace is progressed by the dialog, the fast tracking shots, his attenuate camera movements, his structured perspectives and the tension he manages to maintain while depicting rich character portrayals of the two protagonists embodied by Michel Piccoli and Brigitte Bardot, is impressive. The ravishing cinematography by Raoul Coutard, especially of the alluring landscapes on the Capri Island and the luminous milieu depictions creates evident contrasts to the main characters' contradictory relationship. Le Mépris has a throughout uncanny atmosphere and the memorable scenes with Michel Piccoli and Brigitte Bardot are finely acted in a film that possesses the distinctions of a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Godard, Bardot and Lang... what a combo!","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I hadn't seen Contempt since film school in the early 1970s, and at that time it didn't make much of an impression. Now maybe age had something to do with it, but this time I was entranced. Contempt is really about movie making, while simultaneously showing the collapse of a marriage. The plot concerns a writer who brings his wife with him to Cinecitta in Rome to meet with the producer and director of a new version of Homer's The Odyssey to determine how the script should be rewritten. The writer isn't big on the idea of doing a screenplay, fighting with himself that maybe he is selling out. He and his wife end up on the island of Capri with the film crew for the rest of the film. The casting is interesting. The writer is played by Michel Piccoli, his wife by Brigitte Bardot, the producer by Jack Palance and the director by real life director Fritz Lang. This was the last thing Lang ever did that appeared on film, and it was a performance that he should be proud of. The angst he displays in his dealings with tyrannical producer Palance is palpable. Lang, having lived the same experience he portrays here with tyrannical producers in his own career was more than a blueprint for truth in body language and vocal expression. Other members of the cast include Godard himself as an assistant to the director (are we trying to say something here?), and the beautiful Giorgia Moll as assistant to the producer. Moll I was familiar with from one of my childhood favorites, the Steve Reeves 1961 version of Thief of Bagdad (only two years before Contempt). She apparently is still living, but hasn't been on screen since 1985. I haven' seen many Bardot films, but she was exciting in ...And God Created Woman. I also liked her okay in the Louis Malle short, William Wilson, part of the the Edgar Allen Poe compilation Spirits of the Dead. Bardot in Contempt is a different story. She is fiery and fascinating. Piccoli as her husband has the right balance of intellect and vibe of loser. Jack Palance as the producer is about as hateful a character as I've seen him play. Only he could have done it so well. Godard apparently hated dealing with the actual producers of the film, Carlo Ponti and Joseph E. Levine, and combined both elements of their personality as he saw them into the character Palance plays.According to the commentary on the Criterion edition, Ponti and Levine demanded that Godard have major a nude scene with Bardot. The director obliged, but he did so in his own way, sticking it right at the start of the film to get it over with, and lit strangely so the focus is on the color and less on Bardot's behind. He also sucked all the romance out of the scene by having the dialog be read without passion and having it suggest the seeds of a marriage about to fail. The film is moderately paced with many languid camera moves, but it was so stunning to look at and the character interrelationships so compelling that I found myself completely drawn in. This may be Godard's best direction of actors, and it's due in no small part by the effective casting. Piccoli and Bardot work so well together to show the disintegration of their relationship, it was unnerving. The scene in their flat where they walk from room to room as their relationship disintegrates is a stunning piece of acting, and as conceptually brilliant as it gets visually. Bardot's character is also a real mystery. We never really know why she wants to end the marriage, but she wants to with such intense passion, and with little or no explanation to her husband, that it only makes her character all the more compelling. The other star of the film is the amazing isle of Capri, shot under absolutely ideal weather conditions. This is one of the most beautiful films from the 60s. Even the interiors take your breath away. Godard found this rich villa in Capri with a giant window in the living room that looks out onto the aqua blue water and jagged rocks that bite into the sea. What a place to live! The bold color sense really struck me though out. The use of primary colors, primarily red, blue and white (the couches, as an example) add a stark vibrancy. French New Wave cinema eye candy. I know Godard is not a filmmaker for everyone, and I've found some of his films completely worthless (Sympathy for the Devil), but he was always willing to take chances, experimenting in different genres and doing things no one else was even conceiving of. Contempt is a very successful realization of Godard at the peak of his skills.There's a beautiful score by Georges Delerue. Strangely, the Italian release of the film removed Delerue's music and replaced it with a vastly different one by Piero Piccioni, one of my favorite composers, but not someone I would think would be a fit for this. Contempt might be a good Godard film to check out as an introduction to this director. Like Citizen Kane, Vertigo, Children of Paradise, Grand Illusion, Fellini's 8 1/2 and Ford's The Searchers, Godard's Contempt frequently makes the list of international film critic's Top Ten Films of All Time. "},{"Title":"Difficult, challenging yet ultimately transfixing and penetrating big-budget Godard master work.","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No one dares makes films like this today. Casting alone would be a hazardous chore for the mind. I'll attempt toElisha Cuthbert David Marciano(The Shield) Pierce Brosnan Wim Wenders(in the Fritz Lang role.Deconstructionism is rarely successful or easy for mass audiences to enjoy or comprehend. Most would say that it's mental masturbation. I don't believe that. It does challenge and doesn't allow the audience an easy way out as seen in the film there's a performance by a female singer in auditorium. The audio of the song is manipulated in a way that lessens the singer's impact but draws attention to the idea of incidental music in all films. The concept of enhancing the context of the narrative either matching the mood or ironically going against the grain is not certain. It's just there. Visually, it is a spectacular moving canvas. Even long static scenes are incredibly gorgeous. When the story moves back out to Capri we treated to very long distant shots of the sunny and idyllic terrain and flora. The big set piece of the disintegration of the relationship is poignant even though Godard is working feverishly to avoid sentimentalism and mawkish performances. Steven Soderberg's FULL FRONTAL is the only film I can think of that contemporary audiences could relate to this film and it's not a great comparison. "},{"Title":"This is how people build relationships.","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Herein be mild spoilers.A wonderful film that should really be required curriculum for the shy and indecisive ones. It shows, in a nutshell, the difference between an attractive man and a polite man.The movie could be deemed sexist, if only it was not so funny. Women in this movie, the two main leads and the one minor role, are shown as (1) object of visual please, (2) objects of sexual pleasure, (3) possessions and (4) furniture. The last one is my favourite and has a particular touch of the French New Wave to it. Now, the synopsis Prokosch (Jack Palance) plays the role of the alpha-male, the wrong-doer but also the relentless pursuer of his goals. Everyone around him--co-workers and acquaintances alike--find themselves annoyed & disturbed by him, yet pulled in by his irresistible charisma and forced to comply with the rules that only he makes.The young and beautiful Camille (Brigitte Bardot), the wife of a timid but polite Paul Javal (Michel Piccoli), finds herself in a dilemma on the one hand she's got her husband, on the other, Prokosch. She loves her husband and thinks Prokosch is a jerk, yet later on her attitude is reversed and it is to her husband that she feels contempt, and admiration for Prokosch. This is explained at length in the course of the movie, intercut at times with various quotations and nonsensual fables, yet Mr. Javal fails to grasp it. Poor Camille. She can only hate him. How did they manage to marry in the first place.The ending is particularly suiting. Because it points out an important flaw in Prokosch's character, therefore suggesting that he too is not a paragon of perfection. Although proponents of Prokosch's attitude may disregard the accident as a coincidental and an untrue invention in the scriptwriter's, it should be noted to them that recklessness, like any trait of character, positive and negative alike, should not be taken to such an extreme as to cause death. Relentlessness, as prudence, should also be used only in appropriate context and not for what Prokosch was using it. In Contempt no one is a winner, and Camille especially falls on the wrong side of the fence. "},{"Title":"Deeply Thematic","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" French New Wave Director Jean-Luc Godard's apparent intent here is to portray film-making as a grubby, degrading commercial enterprise that taints everything it touches. Given this contemptuous premise, film producers are pimps; film directors are prostitutes. Thus, film-making is essentially artistic prostitution.That's the major theme among a maze of interlocking themes, most of which are so subtle that trying to figure them out requires multiple viewings and/or college coursework.The plot is undeniably slow. There are many single-shot sequences, and the entire film contains only about 150 shots. The result is that scenes are very lengthy. Further, the story is amazing in its almost total absence of melodrama. The result of slow pace and lack of melodrama, for many viewers, is abject boredom.But I think that effect was intentional. My impression is that Godard expects viewers to work, to be part of the film process. In one scene Fritz Lang, the director character, says One must suffer, in the context of film-making, of which the viewer is included.Contempt has only five main characters. Prokosch (Jack Palance) is the archetype Hollywood producer crass, stupid, money hungry, uninterested in culture or poetry. He's domineering and dictatorial. In one scene, he mutters When I hear the word culture, I grab my checkbook. Fritz Lang, as the film's moral center, counters by saying that in Nazi Germany, the word checkbook equated to revolver, a veiled reference to an edict of Joseph Goebbels, Nazi propaganda czar under Hitler. Equating a Hollywood film producer (Prokosch) to Goebbels is about as contemptuous as one can be toward Hollywood.But the plot in Contempt also features a writer named Paul (Michel Piccoli) and his pouty, sultry, rarely smiling wife, Camille (Brigitte Bardot). Prokosch wants Paul to write the script for The Odyssey, the film within Contempt. The Odyssey is supposed to be a story about ancient Greek gods. And the main characters in Contempt mirror to some extent the characters in The Odyssey.The plot of Contempt is segmented into three main parts. The first and third parts focus explicitly on film production, relative to The Odyssey. The middle section focuses on the discordant relationship between Paul and Camille. Here, most of the plot takes place inside their apartment. The critique of film-making continues, but in a more subtle form, via mis en scene staging and framing. And it's presented almost in real time, the effect of which is to amplify boredom for viewers.Contempt is shot in color and in French Cinema-Scope. I did not care for the widescreen projection. Godard uses lots of point-of-view shots. And the entire film is saturated with tracking shots. The use of camera filters symbolizes technical devices that filter reality, the implication being that films can never be like real life. Red, white, and blue are the film's main colors, a cinematographic reference to American film-making. Outdoor scenes, especially on the Mediterranean, are beautiful. Georges Delerue's haunting score sets the tone for the whole film, and can be described as tragic, mournful, and majestic, in keeping with epic Greek tragedy.Acting is acceptable, if unremarkable. Jack Palance, however, is not terribly convincing as a corporate suit. The film's budget was roughly 5 million-franc. And interestingly, almost half of that went to pay the salary of actress Brigitte Bardot, whose presence in this film reeks of personal vanity.Clearly lacking in entertainment value, the story in Contempt will be a pain for many viewers, as it was for me. However, the beautiful score and the gorgeous scenery at Capri help offset the film's script. Taken as a whole this film is important, historically. And what I most admire is that its thematic contempt for Hollywood film-making was courageous in 1963. Unfortunately, that theme is still valid, 46 years later. "},{"Title":"Godard's mesmerizing take on mainstream Hollywood and the loss of love; interesting stuff; brilliantly presented!","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This lush, stylish story of a disintegrating couple's interactions with a grotesque Hollywood producer give Godard a chance to examine and present his views on the internationalization of Hollywood in the sixties, broken relationships and the state of the filmmaker's art.  It's all beautifully evoked in CinemaScope by cinematographer Raoul Coutard, with a dream cast (Bardot, Jack Palance, Michel Piccoli and legendary director Fritz Lang) and solemn music by Georges Auric.  Among the most interesting aspects of the movie is how much of a Godard film this production eventually turns out to be in spite of the director's attempt to go for a more mainstream product.  Visually arresting, intellectually stimulating and one of the great mid-century, art-house classics.  It's great to see this picture given the Criterion treatment on DVD! "},{"Title":"Goddard at his best.","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Must see for fans of either Bardot or Goddard. Criterion edition packed full of useful extras. The film first appears to be very dull and boring but has to be watched a second or third time to be fully appreciated. One of Bardot's finest works next to Le'Verite. A special treat is to watch the master Fritz Lang at work. The whole idea that Goddard was able to convince him to get involved with this film is a testament to the fact that quality film making does not fade over time. Also filming on location in these exotic locations was an added bonus to see along with Bardot who at this point in her career was seriously considering retiring. Awesome film and a pleasure to watch. "}{"Title":"When Godard was able to tell stories","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In 1963 Jean-Luc Godard directs this dramatic movie, which is one of  the his most mainstream works.At this time Godard is still able to tell stories, without loosing himself in intellectual games and political messages -the films he makes from 1966 are more and more hermetic. From 1968-69 they're incomprehensibles...In Contempt a screenwriter is going to realize with Fritz Lang an adaptation of Ulysses. There are tensions with the American producer, on the other hand there are tensions with his wife -who feels alone and treated more like an object by him. She despises him for that and for his being so coward. She thinks to find a revenge in flirting with the producer...This films talks about coldness in human relationships and failures in communications. Colours, Italian atmospheres and Mediterranean locations increase this world of silence and frustration.We can remember Contempt for many reasons first the presence of a young Michel Piccoli and of a wonderful Brigitte Bardot (although she was delicious in every movie she made, here she's special -more sad, frailer ... a real actress). We can't help to appreciate, by the way, her body... this wonderful naked body (we're only in '63!!!). We can also remember the presence of a giant like Fritz Lang, who acts himself. And we can't forget this is a film about movie's world, a film which talks about films... That shows love Godard has for this art. "},{"Title":"The Emperor Has No Clothes","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"20 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I found this movie immeasurably boring, awkward, stilted, pretentious, self-involved...did I say boring--despite the fact that Bardot is naked fro at least 20 percent of the film? This in itself is an achievement! I like some of Godard's other films, especially Alphaville, but I really don't think this movie deserves the acclaim it has received on its own merits. I tend to like challenging cinema so it wasn't for lack of effort on my part, I've watched it through twice and still found little to hold my interest, just lots of posing and an unaccountably messed up relationship. What was the problem with those two? There was no emotional depth plumbed at all, can Bardot even really act? It was as if just putting her in the film and setting her in pretty poses would be enough. What's the word I'm looking for here...narcissistic? Yes, this movie is utterly narcissistic and therefore uninteresting, at least to me. Perhaps some find style-and-no-substance worthwhile. Not my cuppa tea is all I'm saying. "},{"Title":"Contempt","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Before watching this film, its notable fame has overcame me already (considered as one of Godard's best work), plus it is Bardot's peak of perfection (unfortunately this has been my first time to see Bardot's film, so no comparison available). With a prostrate attitude, I thought it would be difficult not to love this film. Now, time passes and I have just finished the film, my feeling is beyond expression, but I will try to make my effort. Firstly I haven't read Odyssey (though I know the story), nevertheless it won't hurt too much to understand the story as there never request a pass check before watching a film (for example, you don't have to read the novel before watching REVOLUTIONARY ROAD 2008). A great film should impress audience with different backgrounds, it should be considered as an inner attribute. However from this level, the film suffers from being a little bit over-bourgeois, because the Chinese subtitles I watched are not so accurate to match its original meaning, and one cannot blame them as we all know it's French (the same reason I cannot fully enjoy RIDICULE 1996), which allures me to consider it as my next foreign language after Italian. Interestingly the misinterpretation is also a picturesque part in the film itself.It is more like a theatrical work, for a play maybe as only 5 characters in total including the honorable FRITZ LANG himself. There seems no doubt that the story is a modern-style Odyssey, the tension between a candied couple is so vulnerable, one single behavior could bring out the extinguishment all in a sudden. Maybe man is stupid while woman is moody (plus stupid maybe), after watching the film I intrepidly assume that maybe contempt actually is the catalyst between to keep these two incompatible creatures altogether. Again I assume that subconsciously most couples in the world accept his or her contempt towards his or her other half, which does help to make oneself feel better, functions like a placebo, as sometimes it is difficult to survive in this mundane world. In the film on the contrary the contempt separates the couple forever with a ridiculous ending as they fail to accommodate the intermingled contempt, the ambiguity implies that the perhaps unpredictability is the most interesting part of being a human.The cinematography is as wonderful as Bardot's body, not to mention the stupendously beautiful view of Capri Island, as I am in Italy now, it would be a great idea to visit there with my significant other.http//xingshizuomeng.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Godard hits the mark","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Everyone knows JLG is a great talent. He has been important for cinema. However, after watching an interview with Godard's cinematographer Raoul Coutard it would be best to describe JLG's films as such 'Jean Luc has made many boring films, very long films, but what makes them worthwhile is his talent to create a moment that is pure artistry that you can never forget despite the rest of his nonsense'. Amen.JLG has made many films that show much congenial and ingenious creativity, yet then pale away into repetitive, biting, boring and arrogant monologues and conversations. 'Weekend' appalled me for its persistent use of Brechtian devices, and its complete deconstruction of narrative - interesting at first, just plain stupid and irritating after 2 hours of nothing but the same point reiterated. 'Vivre Sa Vie' was exactly the same, parts of pure brilliance outweighed by far too many meaningless and pretentious sequences trying to come across as deep political statements. Sometimes I thought the only person who enjoyed JLG's films was Godard himself. Then I watched 'Le Mepris'.At first I had heard a lot of criticism about this film. Many dubbed it the same old Godard rubbish, boring, slow, without any real purpose. I stumbled across a trailer in an art cinema in London and without further adue immediately bought a copy.The story is not that complex. A marriage in slow, yet inexorable dissolution. Yet this time it worked for me. JLG symbolism of the Greek antiquity, Brigitte Bardot looking magnificent, Georges Delerue's haunting score, the beautiful Mediterranean backdrop. It all came together. Yes, its slow. Yes, its full of long conversations. Yes, its not easy to understand. However, this time I can forgive JLG because the beauty of the pictures, the creative sparks that flourish throughout this film made it all worthwhile. There are many layers of meaning; love, marriage, compromise, existence, honesty. Its what I was always waiting for when seeing other Godardian films. Has he ever made a better film? I sincerely doubt it. Though I'm sure many other film directors will produce something ever as strong as this. Its one thing to have talent, but its another thing to utilise it. One needs attitude, application, common sense and above all modesty - something that Godard's other films definitely lacked.Its depressing stuff. Yet its Godard's most humane, most encaptivating, most charming and above all his best film. Just watch the trailer, then you'll understand what I mean. "},{"Title":"Excellent, but not easy","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an imaginative work about filmmaking, art, tradition, and the Odyssey. I have assigned this film for my courses in Classical Mythology for 3 years and I find that it repays repeated viewings. My students are initially stunned and hostile it's not an easy view for hollywood-trained minds.  But when given guidance and encouraged to think about film and about meanings beneath the surface, many of them come to appreciate it. At the end of the semester, several of my students write that they are particularly grateful that they got the chance to see this film (as opposed to the others shown in the class). "},{"Title":"Excellent, but not easy","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an imaginative work about filmmaking, art, tradition, and the Odyssey. I have assigned this film for my courses in Classical Mythology for 3 years and I find that it repays repeated viewings. My students are initially stunned and hostile it's not an easy view for hollywood-trained minds.  But when given guidance and encouraged to think about film and about meanings beneath the surface, many of them come to appreciate it. At the end of the semester, several of my students write that they are particularly grateful that they got the chance to see this film (as opposed to the others shown in the class). "},{"Title":"Spoiled History","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Mathematical ideas have an amazing property in their discovery. A good idea can be something truly nourishing if introduced in the right way. Almost never is that the way the idea made its original appearance into the world. Naturally, that is the way mathematical ideas are taught. If you are unlucky enough to have learned a key mathematical idea by tracing its history and reproducing the thought paths of its originator (most would say discoverer), then you are given a curse of sorts. You may never escape this history and be able to appreciate the idea unfettered by an alien context.Film ideas are similar - both deal with abstractions and (usually) visual imagination. Here we have a cinematic idea that is rich, even to the point of changing everything that happens afterward, mixed in with two rather lesser and unoriginal ideas about verity. The problem is that by modern standards, the expression of that rich idea bleaches it. Its very invention and presentation is its own undoing.Folding in film, reflexive anticipatory imagination and myth. An incredibly rich notion that flavors about a third of all films today, with dozens a year more clever and enlightening than this was even in its day.If you are looking for it, it is here of course. But better to watch Kar-Wai, or Greenaway. Unless of course for some reason (I can imagine none) you really need to know the _history_ of cinematic ideas instead the ideas themselves.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Probably my all-time favorite film","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is probably my all-time favorite film, at least of all the films I have seen so far in my life.  Godard is also my favorite director.  No other director has taken so many chances and experimented so much with so many films, creating multilple levels of storyline, and all the while remembering that it is just a film, but also that what is in the film is all real. The first Godard film I saw was Le Mépris.  It forever changed the way I viewed film, and from that point on I became enamored with cinema. Buffalo 66 had been the first film I really connected with, and it showed me how artistic, emotional, and powerful film could be.  But after seeing Le Mépris for the first time, I realized to what extent. If I had only viewed the first and final shots of this film, it still might be my favorite.  A camera is seen doing a tracking shot of a woman walking toward the real camera.  Eventually the camera meets with the real one, and turns to face it.  This one shot says a lot.  Not only is the audience a part of the film, for they are watching it and have now been shot into the film, but also the real camera and whatever crew might have been behind it.  To summarize what I am attempting to explain, I will quote, as best I can, a statement made by Godard When you see yourself in a photo, do you say you are a fake? Incidentally, the great German director Fritz Lang plays himself in the film. The film ends with a shot which is the complete opposite of the first one. Now the film camera and the real one point out to sea, and thereal one focuses on a blue sky and sea that are almost one, in silence, as if representing the emptiness of one person alone. The film is about film, and, more specifically, about Hollywood's corruption of film.  To further emphasize Godard's knowledge of how all film is real, to some extent, he cast Jack Palance as the evil Hollywood producer, as he was as a leading bad guy in American films, as well as Brigitte Bardot, who had become a sex symbol in America.  After making the film Palance briefly mentioned it on a television talk show, or something of that nature, stating more or less he had done some film with some French director, and how stupid it was.  Well, guess who was stupid?  Godard exploited a Hollywood by-product to an even greater extent then he may have hoped, thus really driving his point home. On another level Le Mépris is a love story, or, rather, a post-love story. The film can be viewed on two different levels and still be enjoyed, although anyone that watches foreign films would probably notice both levels anyway, as they are not part of the average force-fed movie-going public. This movie would not be complete without the use of Georges Delerues score, who also composed for Truffaut, amongst others.  For the most part one theme song is used through the film, and Godard plays with this, too.  The music will seemingly just cut off, unlike the average fade out.  Whether this was the idea of Delerue or Godard, it is still a highly influential technique. In Alfonso Cuarón's recent Y tu mamá también (for the record, I believe that Mexican cinema is the next nouvelle vague), the music and sound will cut out for a few beats before the narrator begins to speak, and no doubt this is an influence from Godard's films or French cinema in general, as foreign films are much more popular and well-known in countries such as Mexico then in the United States of America, or, to paraphrase a line from Godard's Éloge de l'amour, which United States of America?  I suppose, then, I mean the nameless country. Le Mépris is just an example of Godard's original approaches to cinema. He experiments with shots and angles, he insists on natural lighting to keep the realness, and he uses or adapts ideas in a unique fashion.  He utilizes color, but will seek out buildings or other objects with the colors he wants, rather than repaint or tamper with ones that could be suitable except for the color.  To list all his visionary concepts is almost impossible. In the end, Le Mépris and Godard's other films break all the rules of filmmaking, then put them back together in their own way.  Somehow, even if they are confusing, they always make sense in the context of his artistry. As with 2001's Éloge de l'amour, Godard will most likely continue this trend, being one of the few directors to maintain a freshness throughout his career and his life, without compromise. "},{"Title":"The Point is...","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is it, the finest example of the moody genre of film there is! In every way, this film is intense, and the underlying tension never stops, despite a sometimes very misleading surface calm, that allows for a constant shifting of tempo that twist and turns yet is cohesive in a melancholy way. Yet the glimmers of passion and hope tease and lull us into a sense of well being that then is shattered by an eruption of emotion.From the bland appearance to the heights and depths of the fury of humanity, this film truly explores all that is human, and in a way that is a truth, a unique truth, that is only Godard, and can be performed only by Bardot.BTW, this is Bardot's BEST.	10 stars all around! "},{"Title":"One of the least entertaining films of the 1960s.  A real turkey.","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In this film, a hairy-chested card-carrying communist French screenwriter interacts with his wife, an American movie producer and the director Fritz Lang (who plays himself). What are my two stars for? The scenery is beautiful as is his younger wife Brigitte Bardot, but that's about all as far as what's worth watching in this pallid filmic exercise.There is some scattered philosophizing about the art of film and a long, dull marital-blues scene taking place in the couple's apartment. The main characters are oddly detached and remote from one another and the only one shown doing anything remotely resembling film work is Fritz Lang.It offers little insight into the film-making art, negating it's odd reputation as a film about said subject. Even as a satire it flops because the characters are weak and the story never advances beyond where it started. Dramatic music is cued in two scenes wherein the discomforted, discontented Brigitte Bardot character says I'm taking a walk. You'll feel like doing same less than half an hour in to this turkey. "}{"Title":"some interesting, some boring","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director Fritz Lang (himself) is filming the Odyssey. Sleazy American producer Jeremy Prokosch (Jack Palance) is angry at Lang's overly artistic vision and hires writer Paul Javal (Michel Piccoli) to rework the script. The playboy Prokosch takes Paul's wife Camille (Brigitte Bardot) on a ride. Paul and Camille struggle with their troubled relationship.Jack Palance plays the most interesting character. I like the first act as he gets in between the couple and even the constant translation. I'm less interested in the fighting couple. It's a stylized breakdown of a marriage and not really my taste. It might be all kinds of hidden artistic fun being had but all I got is Bardot's bare bottom. The style keeps the couple at a distance. I never really got involved in their troubles. "},{"Title":"A tribute of Godard to cinema and the breakup of a relationship in his masterpiece","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is quite strange to see Jean-Luc Godard making a movie about the deconstruction of a couple, but Le Mépris is with no doubt his best film and one of the best ever made. A screenwriter called Paul Javal receives a proposal to make new scenes for the cinematic adaptation of the book The Odyssey, however, his wife Camille begins to despise the little things he does, then the couple start to breakup. In addition to being visually beautiful and having one of the best movie soundtracks, the performances do not fall short, especially Brigitte Bardot, the film has a cameo from legendary director Fritz Lang (Metropolis and M), was also the first big budget film by Jean-Luc Godard, but that is little noticed in the film. The film creates an analogy between the story of the protagonist of the book The Odyssey with Camille and Paul are going through, the beauty of the images, well, almost everything works on this masterpiece. Cinema should be like life, and Le Mépris or Contempt is a tragic but visually beautiful depiction of it. "},{"Title":"My favourite Godard movie","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the central figures of the French new wave movement, Jean-Luc Godard revolutionized cinema in the late 1950's and early 1960's with films which mixed film-historical pastiche, pop art surfaces, and Marxist-existentialist philosophy in a fresh and innovative way. Released in 1963, Contempt arrived after a string of art-house successes and was at the time Godard's most expensive project, a widescreen story of a faltering marriage featuring big-name stars like Brigitte Bardot and Jack Palance. Though some will argue for Breathless and others A Woman is a Woman, to me Contempt represents the apex of Godard's art, an indictment of capitalism dressed up as big budget Hollywood-style entertainment.Contempt follows Paul Jeval (Michel Piccoli), a struggling playwright who artistically prostitutes himself as the screenwriter for a film adaptation of The Odyssey to support him and his wife Camille (Brigitte Bardot). Paul's decision to write for money makes the couple's marriage an unhappy one, Camille dissatisfied with him for his inability to do something which is both spiritually fulfilling for him and financially lucrative for them. The film ends with Camille leaving Paul to run off with his producer boss Jeremy Prokosch (Jack Palance), the artist ultimately losing out to the larger mechanisms of capital.The performances are all well-done, from Piccoli as the withdrawn Paul to Bardot as the coquettish Camille to Palance as the square-jawed money man. The cinematography of Raoul Coutard should be noted, having a pictorial beauty in its colour and composition which recalls the work of the artist Edward Hopper. Like Godard's other movies, Contempt has a playful and freewheeling approach in its structure and editing, at times randomly dipping into a montage sequence or tongue-in-cheek film homage. The story being told, as well as the film's more arty and experimental formal elements, make clear Contempt's status as a radically leftist work - a bomb to be tossed at a movie establishment which pumps out films conveyor belt-style for maximal profit.In conclusion, one would be wrong to make accusations of sell out at Godard when looking at Contempt's original poster which exploits the sexuality of star Brigitte Bardot, because the film is just as radical as any of the director's other work. It's necessary viewing for anyone interested in the French new wave, time capsuling the period when the movement - building off the momentum of its critical hits -reached its commercial apex. That Godard used his most commercial moment to craft a statement that was radically anti-commercial is a testament to both his cleverness and intellect. "},{"Title":"One of Godard's Finest","Date":"17 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1963's Le Mépris (Contempt) does little to hide what Director/Screenwriter Jean-Luc Godard thinks of Hollywood. On the surface Le Mépris presents an imploding marriage, but beneath the surface it is a contemptuous allegory of the commercialization and destruction of cinema as an art form.Michel Piccoli plays Paul Javal, a novelist turned screenwriter who is offered the job of rewriting an adaptation of Homer's The Odyssey for lecherous Hollywood producer Jeremiah Prokosch (Jack Palance). Once an autonomous, self respecting and fulfilled artist, Paul has given in to the pressures of both his ambition and the lifestyle associated with Hollywood productions. Having done so, Paul has stepped onto a slippery slope where selling his soul has not only eroded his morality, it has put irreparable strains on his marriage to Camille (Brigitte Bardot).Godard is famous for making movies concerned with big ideas and Le Mépris is no exception. In many of his films main characters and their story are vessels Godard uses to get across ideological, philosophical and intellectual arguments. As a result, many of Godard's films fail to engage their audiences in the typical ways movies do. Since the characters represent something more grandiose than individual people, these characters often come across as being inhuman. The result is, audiences can't identify with, or find an emotional attachment to the characters or stories in many Godard's films. Instead, the audiences either develop an intellectual relationship to the films, or they simply tune out. While the latter may lead to some scoffing at Godard's work as being pretentious, the work should still be respected for defying convention and forcing its audience to ask important questions.Life imitates art and while making Le Mépris, Godard was at odds with his producers (most notably, the legendary Carlo Ponti). Like Paul, Godard was conflicted by the restraints of working on a large scale, big budget production. Unlike Paul, Godard's vision remained untainted, if not emboldened, yet...not altogether unaffected. When pushed to exploit the star power of Bardot, Godard made the choice of opening the film with Bardot sprawled nude across a bed. Instead of making it a nude scene for the sake of wanton sexuality, Camille expresses insecurity about her body, commenting on the psychologically damaging effects sexual exploitation has on women. Again, Godard makes us question why we want what we want and, like it or not, he affects the way we see things and, most importantly, movies. Love him or hate him, I don't think we have a choice but to respect him.http//eattheblinds.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Just as relevant today as it was when it was first released.","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is perhaps one of Godard's more accessible films and yet it's certainly not for everybody. The fact most people wouldn't get this film is further proof that what the film warned about in the first place has come true. That film as an art form is pretty much dead and has become saturated with commercialism. It's all about box office numbers now. Jack Palance plays an American producer Prokosch, who exemplifies all the worst qualities of how Hollywood worked back then and works especially today.To make a film adaptation of the Odyssey more commercial, Prokosch hires screenwriter Paul Javal. (played by Michel Piccoli) Javal becomes greatly conflicted throughout the film about what to do with his writing career and feels conflicted knowing he's writing just for the money.There's also the conflict of Javal and his wife Camille (played by Brigette Bardot). There's a really amazing sequence in their apartment that almost feels like real-time and goes on for around 25 minutes. I really can't think of any other films that so illustrate the breaking down of a marriage, except for perhaps Ingmar Bergman's Scenes From A Marriage and a few others.Interestingly, there's also Fritz Lang (who directed the great M) playing the director of the Odyssey adaptation in this film. He acts as a commentator to what's going around him and his comments often go over the head of the dumb, uncultured producer Palance.Godard makes a really nice use of CinemaScope along with his cinematographer Raoul Coutard. There's an interesting use of the colors red, white, and blue, drawing parallels between the French flag and the American flags. (Keep an eye out for Godard's cameo towards the end of the film telling everyone to be quiet on a film set) Overall, one of Godard's best works I've seen. Highly recommended to anyone who liked his previous work, but not so to those who despise Godard. "},{"Title":"Good story Excellent direction","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A film which is about film making usually falls into one of two categories good or bad.  This is a good one. I was never a fan of Bardot but her stunning beauty adds the necessary element to make this story so poignant. I loved you yesterday, but I no longer love you today. sound so trite but within the context of the film, one can understand its power. "},{"Title":"Wrong.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wrong.  This film is a masterpiece, and you're being ignorant if you think there was one frame in this film that Godard didn't intend to be there.  The dubbing - supposed to be there.  The garrish color - supposed to be there.  This is what you might call technique or style.  This is a film about film.  It's not just about the personalities, but the tools of the trade and how they are used.Garrish technicolor falls under this, so does poorly executed ADR.  These are things that remind us we're watching a film, and Godard made sure to remind us of his presence at all times (ever seen the 10 minute tracking shot in Weekend?).  Stop.  Look. Listen.  This film is a masterpiece and giving it a 3 out of ten is not just an insult to this fine piece of material, but also to every poor sap who almost saw this movie, but after reading your review, decided not to. "},{"Title":"the peak","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Open your eyes!I think, the cinema will never get beyond this film.If there is anything to say about the nature of movies and the movie business, it is said here. "},{"Title":"ignore those other reviews","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ignore those other reviews; this is a brilliant film.  do not read reviews about this film which go beyond  if you like films see this. any reviews which flimsily attempt to describe the plot miss the point. instead look forward to benefiting from an exclusive insight into how films of this genre - independent, arty, french/italian/german and pretentious - are made rather 'ordinary' and flat. enjoy performances from michel piccoli, fritz lang and an utterly confident jack palance playing a king of arrogant sleaze. and bridget bardot at her best is fabulous. i cannot believe the other reviewers' comments, and apologize for them. they must have seen a dubbed version in a language that wasn't in their first 2.  30% of voters gave it 10/10. 0.1% gave it 1/10. So, enjoy the cinematography in a 60s 'apartement'. enjoy the use of greek statues.  enjoy fritz lang enjoying himself.  enjoy everyone else's insecurity and be frustrated at the people not saying what they should say to save themselves from themselves. it's italy, france and germany vs. the commercial u.s. of a. the atlantic is a big ocean. then watch some kaurismaki films.     "},{"Title":"Man's tragic, circuitous odyssey","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jeremy is such an alpha-male, big-time movie producer that he'll poach another man's wife right from under him. Camille is pretty, and has a great body, and likes the attention. Her passive husband Paul is a writer but seems clueless about human nature. These three dim souls are our focus in this film, which is beautiful to watch, but intensely self-serious and nihilistic. The scenes of Capri are stunning. Against this dazzling backdrop, self-involved humans play out their dramas as they have since the days of Homer...Maybe what Godard was trying to tell us is that life is vanity. Despite all the sturm und drang amidst husbands, wives, and their lovers, it's all just a lot of blather in the end -- then everyone dies. Goddard also seems to be saying that he really likes Bardot's impeccably shaped derrière. So much for high art! "}{"Title":"Beautiful film","Date":"28 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are some films that can't really be contained into a simple paragraph and mere words can't express what they're really all about. In a word, I thought Contempt was marvelous. In several words, it was also beautiful and heartbreaking. This is a film that I really wanted to like and usually when I want to like something, I don't. This time I more than liked what I wanted to like, but rather, I loved it! Let's cover the basics and then we'll get into some of the more symbolic elements and some of my interpretations. The acting is fine, with Palance being a surprisingly good fit and a really great pair of finds in Michel Piccoli and Brigitte Bardot. They had great chemistry together, even though their characters, for the most part, lacked chemistry. And what about that music? It was almost tear inducing. There were times throughout the picture when it would strike up and I'd wonder if I was supposed to be feeling something at that moment. It was such a powerful score and it was played throughout A LOT of the movie. Played too much, perhaps? Well, it was just so good, that I can't bring myself to say that, but it's possible I guess.So, anyway, Camille is mad at Paul for not protesting when Jerry offered to take her alone in the car. Jerry was obviously hot for Camille and his reasoning for wanting to be alone with her was absolute poppycock, Oh Paul, you surely won't be comfortable stuffed into the backseat, why don't you take a cab, to which Paul replied, Oh sure Jerry, I'll just take a cab. Come on dude, you're wife is a gorgeous blonde and this arrogant, confident, good-looking man, whom you can't understand, is going to take her alone and all you can say is, sure, why not. Now, on the other hand, does Camille's eventual backlash due to Paul's decision warrant such drastic measures? I mean, it's later revealed, when Paul recounts his interpretation of Homer's Odyssey, that he really did it because he had faith in his wife. He knew she wouldn't cheat on him, so he didn't have any problem allowing her to go alone with Jerry. It's a situation that I can see both points of view on, so therefore, the film works for me, because their arguments always seem genuine. I can see both sides, so all of the questions from Paul and all of the actions from Camille make, at least, some sense.I have to say I was pretty proud of myself for picking up on the correlation between Paul, Camille & Jerry and Ulysses, Penelope & Poseidon. Of course, it's all laid out for you, so it's not as if you've had to have read The Odyssey. I also (and I'm not lying) picked up on Bardot's resemblance to Anna Karina (Godard's real life wife) when she donned the black wig. In fact, even from there I made the assumption that Camille dying in the end was Godard's way of saying, Take that bitch!. I can already tell that Godard didn't have a very high opinion of women and that, for the most, part he thought them to act very childish and stubborn and possibly had great disdain for them or maybe just one in particular. Obviously here, Godard takes the side of Paul, playing down his actions and heightening the complaints and absurd behavior of Camille and then killing her for being so bull-headed. You can also look at the camera shots, specifically those from the entire scene in the apartment, when the two are at the height of their argument. Godard isn't constantly forcing us into the situation, but, for the most part, allowing us to peer through doorways, as if we're peering in on a real-life disagreement - possibly his way of saying, it's more than a movie folks, it's my life - take a look.Godard also seemed to be trying to say something, in the fact that you had Paul, a playwright who could form interpretations of Homer's writings and understand quotes about Dante, but couldn't interpret his own wife's emotions. Perhaps he's trying to say that women are impossible to understand?I had a deep desire to understand every facet of this film. While I'm sure I didn't understand EVERY FACET, I think I swallowed it very well and understood the majority of it. This blow's Breathless and My Life to Live out of the water. I just finished and I can say, I honestly can't wait to see it again and try to fit more of the puzzle pieces into place. "},{"Title":"New wave French realism - with lots of 'French emotions'!","Date":"12 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Directed by Jean-Luc Godard, Contempt is a 'new wave' French film full of 'French emotions' and rather a lot of unhappy and/or weird people. It stars Brigitte Bardot and Michel Piccoli as Camille and Paul Javal, a young couple ravaged by marital and emotional difficulties and in the case of Camille either low self esteem or mental illness and an anger management problem. Paul (a screen writer) has his demons too and it's hard to figure out if he's a nice guy with a crazy wife or a sly and manipulative guy who has driven his wife crazy - and that's the crux of this movie. Contempt. The contempt that Camille feels for her spouse, the contempt her spouse feels for the crass American film Producer, Jeremy Prochosh (played by Jack Palance) who wants to commercialize Fritz Lang's Ulysses. The difficulty with this movie is that it's unclear whether the problems Camille and Paul had in their relationship existed prior to Paul's involvement with Prochosh and co. However, Camille's insecurities are showcased in the opening scene. What 'Contempt' does best is realism, and one of the most striking scenes involves Camille and Paul arguing (for what seems like hours) as they go about their business in their apartment; walking past each other, getting dressed, preparing dinner etc. The ending is unexpected but then again perhaps not if one takes Paul's interpretation of the Odyssey to heart? 'Contempt' certainly lives up to its title and is well acted, entertaining (in a voyeuristic way), and makes you uncomfortable because the acting is so 'real'. "},{"Title":"Much cry and little wool","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Definitively I go on affirming that I don't understand why Godard is reckoned by critics in general one of the greatest movie directors ever and particularly this movie as one of the best ever made. This film is the usual old story with supposedly deep and almost meaningless dialogues and hollow meaningless scenes almost totally unprovided with the dramatic vibration which should be suited to the story that is (or seems to be) behind. Everything is around a film that is being made based on Homer's Odyssey without a clear explanation about what it has to do with the rest I mean the real life of the characters, their tendencies and conflicts. The dialogue scenes between husband and wife (Piccoli and Bardot) are particularly long, dull and psychologically confusing. And as usual in Godard's movies it ends abruptly without any significative outcome despite the tragic happening at the end. In this movie things happen one after another, characters go on talking here and there and that's all. But as I have said many times before concerning Godard's movies,the fault must be mine. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After reading the trivia notes for this film, I get the impression that the director and others involved with the film did not think too highly of it themselves. Regardless, I found it a great disappointment.I don't mind that a director is self-indulgent if his film has quality content. Because of the disjointed exposition of this film, I think we can label it experimental. The camera movement (or lack of it) is a conscious choice which sometimes creates boring action (or inaction). The exaggerated use of colors seems to have little point beyond color effect. The opening scene--with a nude Bardot--supposedly was added at the insistence of a producer. I don't mind subtitles or voice-overs, but this film--which utilizes English, French, and even some German--is awkward in the extreme, using both subtitles and translations provided by characters. The sound has some bad spots where it is difficult to hear the voices over the ambient outdoor sounds. This distracts from the experience, as does the intrusive musical score which sometimes seems arbitrarily placed.The actors are fine within their roles, but the script does them no favors. The primary focus is the relationship between Camille (Bardot) and Paul (Michel Piccoli), a married couple. The dialogue obscures their intentions. And in my opinion, the relationship is rather boring, exploring little that is new or interesting.Attempts to elevate the film with intrusive Greek mythological iconography only serve to make the film feel pretentious.The bottom line is that the themes of this film have been explored with more skill many times before and after. "},{"Title":"Godard, once again, when he's angry and criticizing","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jean-Luc Godard's Contempt is a beautiful film visually and an ugly film thematically, depicting the disintegration of a marriage. One wonders how Godard, who had just married the ravishing Anna Karina the same year Contempt was released, managed to write a film so pessimistic about the union of marriage and how it corrupts both parties mentally.The eye-popping color scheme of Contempt, thanks to Raoul Coutard's predictably wonderful cinematography as well as CinemaScope, a specific kind of anamorphic lens for widescreen shooting, is one of the defining reasons for this film's greatness. The process of CinemaScope enhances the color extraordinarily, adding a new layer of vivid texture to the film and a spot-on visual scheme throughout the film. Ordinary things like walking along the beach, admiring the ocean, or just simple conversations staged inside unremarkable buildings become a feast for the eyes simply because Godard uses this delightful method of shooting.But what a way to use the film's visual scheme to contrast it with its overall bleak tone. The film revolves around an American film producer Jeremy Prokosch (Jack Palance) who decides to adapt Homer's renowned and iconic piece Odyssey for the big screen. He hires famed director Fritz Lang, who treats the film as if it were an artistic indie film and not the epic he had envisioned. Prokosch decides to hire Paul Javal (Michel Piccoli), a writer and playwright, trusting him to handle Homer's work with the respect he knows it deserves.Paul, however, begins to feel increased pressure with adapting this work, as well as opposition in line of his own personal artistic expression as well as studio interest. To add to his already filling plate, Paul's marriage to the incredibly beautiful Camille (Brigitte Bardot) is on the rockiest of waters with persistent fights occurring between the two as well as Camille's hot and cold attitude towards him and their marriage.Godard's Contempt is a multilayered piece of work to say the least. The film can be taken as a surface examination of a marriage in total jeopardy, and perhaps a depiction of the death of a practical union between two impractical people, or simply seen as an on-screen showcase for the issues and opposition Godard faced when he began making films on his own in the 1960's. I've already established that Godard is a rebel filmmaker in every regard; he consciously set out to fight against typical French filmmaking conventions and, in turn, pushed French cinema through an unthinkable New Wave movement, redefining cinematic aesthetics, tampering with narrative convention, and even adding deeper morals and themes provided with new visionary techniques and darker tones to films.He puts his talents and his desire to destroy and construct to use with Contempt and, in turn, makes a fascinating film. Rotten Tomatoes' consensus on the film states that it is essential cinema and blends the ideas of meta and physique, a statement I couldn't agree more with. Godard has always been big on abstraction with film to, at times, treading the line of being inaccessible in what he's trying to say. The best way that I've heard his work put, by a colleague, is that his films are like having an intellectual conversation. So many ideas are getting tossed around, most of his films lack central ideas (one thing I've been known to critique with his films), and some I find to be next to impossible in trying to extract even some meaning out.Contempt is definitely abstract and lives up the description of meta; various scenes leave a viewer confused and questioning what they were supposed to take away from a certain part. However, the overarching theme of the decline of marriage and artistic creativity remains accessible and digestible through the abstraction. Just by the inclusion of Fritz Lang, one of Godard's biggest cinematic influences, we can evidently see that Godard is commenting about how warped studios become in money, profits, and the meticulous Hollywood/film accounting process that they forget about the visionaries, the film stylists, and those who have original ideas that desperately need to find ways out in the public. Cinema had to inherently be discovered by rebels, illusionists, and subversive artists, and these are the same people that are finding the film industry a harder and harder place to break out, let alone work. Through Paul Javal, Godard details this struggle beautifully.As stated, the film's style - or physique - is dashing in every regard. When one sees stills from the film taken out of context, one can easily infer Contempt to be a film masquerading in a more positive light than it actually is. However, make no mistake, as Contempt deals with the disintegration of a marriage in its darkest form. If capturing how difficult it was to make a film when you're barricaded by philistines wasn't subversive enough, Godard dares enter the realm of showing how marriage itself is a practical union between two people but people themselves aren't always practical. Look at the character of Camille, who seems to play psychological mind-games with her husband, never really solving anything and just getting him to dance around a whirlwind of mixed singles and unidentified irritations she seems to form overnight.After watching what I deem Godard's happiest film so far, his sophomore effort A Woman is a Woman, entering into Contempt's world was a rough wakeup call. Godard is one of the moodiest filmmakers I have yet to discover. I'd love to catch him on a good day, but he's so much more thought-provoking, alive, and blustering when he's angry.Starring Michel Piccoli, Brigitte Bardot, Jack Palance, and Fritz Lang. Directed by Jean-Luc Godard. "},{"Title":"Afflictions of affection","Date":"21 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jean-Luc Godard's Contempt opens with a low-angle shot from a stationary camera. From this vantage point we watch as another camera tilts downward and gazes back at us. Cinema substitutes for the real world one that accords more closely with our desires, Godard states. The relationship of the moving camera to the stationary camera is significant; it occupies a position of power and authority. We kneel before it.Contempt's second sequence finds Camille (Brigitte Bardot) and Paul (Michel Piccoli) in bed. They're lovers. He's a playwright. She informs him that she will visit her mother tomorrow, a detail which will later become significant. Throughout the scene, Camille is nude, but her anatomical listing of parts, which she asks Paul to look at in the mirror, neutralises all eroticism. Godard uses red, blue and white filters throughout the scene &#x96; the colours of the French national flag &#x96; and has Cameille ask Paul if he would like her to keel before him. He says no. He loves her totally, not her reflection, not just as individual fetishized parts, but totally. She frowns, wanting Paul to love something that cannot be located in any part of the body, something which resists and exists beyond his image of her.Next scene the Italian film industry is in ruins and finds itself prey to wealthy Hollywood producers, one of whom is Prokosch (Jack Palance), a man busy producing movies and turning Italian studios into shopping malls. Prokosch hires Fritz Lang (playing himself) to direct a film adaptation of Homer's Odyssey and wants Paul to write a commercial screenplay. Paul agrees.Throughout the film, Godard presents language and economics as forces which prevent the articulation and actualisation of human desire. Everyone seems to be speaking a different language, and everyone struggles with translation and interpretation. Epitoimizing these differences are Lang, Prokosch and Paul. One speaks German, one French, one English. Each interprets Homer's Odyssey differently and each wishes to turn their subjective interpretations of artifacts/objects into private fantasy. Prokosch, a misogynist who believes Penelope (who epitomises fidelity) was unfaithful to Odysseus, wins. Alligned with Gods, and possibly named after the Prokosch family of linguists, he's able to force his will, his language, upon others. Lang, meanwhile, represents the old guard an artist with integrity and values on the cusp of being replaced. Paul's the modern artist, a whore bent by market demands; his fate is still being written.If Paul is a future prostitute, Camille already is. We find her standing between film posters (Vivre sa Vie, Psycho, Hatari, Betrayer) which feature hunters, psychos and sex workers, the latter her symbolic role. Prokosch wants her, may have already had her when she visited her mother, but Paul seems oblivious. He repeatedly offers her to Prokosch, whilst also selling his soul for money. Paul is aligned to Vincente Minnelli's Some Came Running, a melodrama about a writer who struggles to hold on to his integrity. Lang's character is in a similar trap. He quotes a Bertolt Brecht line (Every morning to earn my bread...) which likens scriptwriting to prostitution, but symbolically attributes the line to BB, the nickname of Brigitte Bardot. Prokosch, meanwhile, quotes Joseph Goebbels (When I hear the word culture...), Godard likening producers to Nazis.Like mice lost in a maze, Paul and Camille navigate their apartment. He thinks she's been abused by Prokosch, she thinks he slept with Prokosch's assistant. Both are unsure of the other's fidelity. More importantly, neither has a sense of what the other really wants, and both are unable to bring desire into tangible existence through language. This is the crux of the film one can never fully articulate desire with language as there is always what Lacan called surplus desire, that which exists beyond both articulation and satiation. And as Contempt shows, it is the attempt to fill the emptiness of one's desire with an actual object that destroys romance, though this is precisely what cinema typically offers its spectators. What Godard proposes in a number of his films is to resist resolving desire, embrace the troubled position of the desiring subject &#x96; and in so doing sustain some semblance of freedom - and recognise the inability of the filmic image to deliver this object.Early in the film, Camille tells a story about control. The moral? Gods used to control man's fate, now money reigns supreme; Smith's Invisible Hand has replaced God's (I know how God's feel! Prokosch remarks). Money itself results in Paul being trapped in an interesting double-bind. Paul succumbs to Prokosch's offers - compromising his artistic integrity and also his beliefs in communism - so that he has enough cash to pay for an apartment for he and Camille. But it is precisely Paul's betraying of his values to be with Camille which fills her with further contempt for him. In other words, he wanting to be with her pushes her away from him; he shatters his ideals and so her idealisations of him. Conversely, Camille tears herself away from Paul and embarks on a romance with Prokosch, not solely out of contempt, but also out of love for Paul. In leaving him, she saves him from debasement, allowing him to escape Prokosch.Contempt ends with a reversal of its first shot. Here a camera tracks Ulysses as he looks for Ithaca, an island which Godard symbolically leaves invisible. The film is powerfully scored by Georges Delerue (lifted by Scorsese for Casino), and resembles late Antonioni, Resnais and early Rossellini.Incidentally, Lynch's Mulholland Drive is a big homage to Contempt. Lynch has Godard make a cameo as a director in Mulholland, ends with Contempt's final panning shot and command (Silenzio!), has a character called Camilla (whose portfolio is Contempt's poster), and his film features the same wigs (now blonde), red towels, sleazy producers, car crashes and fights against gods. Elsewhere Lynch's Club Silencio resembles a casting-call in Contempt, both with lip-syncing.8.9/10 - Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Mr. Palance","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jack Palance never received his just credit for his performance in Contempt. This is one of his most interesting characterizations and not all due to his line reading. It is his body language and physical movements throughout the film that give Contempt its edginess. He is able to project a coiled, restless, seething force of energy and great physical strength. Pacing, cat-like and hyperactive yet controlled, stolid, crisp. stentorian and precise in his movements. No energy or bodily action is wasted. Every piece of behavior has a purpose. He seems ready to commit an act of physical violence at any second, in which he would be unstoppable. Irritably knocking film cans out of an assistant's arms, flinging a film can like a discus...then later gently kissing Bardot. One of the cinema's great physical acting jobs. "},{"Title":"Although there's not a great deal going on its got something going on!","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The first Brigitte Bardot movie I have ever seen. There did not seem to be a great deal to say about this movie during its first 20-30 minutes although and to be honest it seemed a tad slow. Having watched the whole movie now I honestly can say it's not a bad movie. This is quite an intelligent movie based predominantly around an upset between a husband and wife.I would not call it an art movie however it was incredibly pleasing on the eye, obviously helped by B Bardot and her On-screen husband looking rather cool (especially whilst smoking cigars in the bath with his Dean Martin hat on) What made it incredibly easy to watch is the nostalgic but highly fashionable styles of the day captured in cinematic splendour by the director The scene between the married couple been argumentative, evasive and non-committal around the bathroom was well directed/written - had it followed the path of most movies it would have been at least half its length. With hindsight it was for me the best part of the filmThe musical score was very nice and really added to this sleek presentationNice to have a shocking ending which will probably make me view the movie with a whole different perception upon a second viewing "},{"Title":"Contempt as an adaptation","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What readers should keep in mind is that this film is Godard's adaptation of Alberto Moravia's novel, Contempt. Some of the comments on this site such as, ... a struggle in film-making as a side-theme, which may be Godard's self-reflective expression; may be ignorant of this fact. There is a vast gap in adaptation between Paul Javal's novel character (Ricardo Molteni) and the screen equivalent, which is rendered to a much lesser degree. The novel is essentially an introspective into Molteni's inner struggle with the ever-widening gap between him and Camille, a theme that takes an almost secondary role in the adaptation. "},{"Title":"TCM version is a pan & scan horror, beware","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have not seen the Criterion DVD of this film, but after reading many positive reviews I was looking forward to seeing the film on Turner Classic Movies' Sunday night import series. I've seen a few of Godard's early movies, but CONTEMPT was new to me. On TCM every movie always looks so pristine, but I was shocked by the horrible quality of the print. Another user posted here claiming the screwy colors and poor dubbing was some sort of arty inside joke by Godard, but other reviews indicate otherwise. Let me tell you what I saw that made me give up seven minutes into the film.Pan and scan. CONTEMPT is constantly referred to as an excellent widescreen movie with great cinematography, but this was the worst pan and scan job I've ever seen. The opening credits sequence was stretched vertically to fit the screen, causing that tall skinny effect. If the whole film had been this way, I could have corrected it by switching the TV to 16x9 enhanced mode. But the following scene--of Bardot's butt--switches from stretched to cropped. And poorly cropped at that. The next scene is worse. As the characters move across the widescreen, instead of the usual panning effect, we get a splice every time someone steps out of the frame--then bang! they're back in the frame. If a cropped-off character speaks, we suddenly get a clumsy splice to fit them in the frame. Surely Godard didn't intend to have his film edited this way.The picture. People keep describing the rich colors and picturesque camera work. All I got was washed-out images, grainy, suddenly switching to bright and clear, then going dark and murky. The picture is full of holes and scratches.Poor dubbing. This film should be subtitled. The dubbing of foreign characters is nearly incomprehensible. Also, it's clear that while Jack Palance speaks English the other characters are supposed to be speaking French. The dubbing makes everything English and destroys the whole point of the language barrier.All of these aspects made the film uniquely unwatchable. It looked like the work of a disreputable distributor, the kind that makes those DVDs you see for three dollars at K-mart. I know that poor film-to-video transfers have survived the switch from VHS to DVD, but I didn't expect to see such a mess on TCM. Be warned. "}{"Title":"The illogicality and frustration of love.","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To appreciate this film, which was made in the early 1960's, it helps to have some knowledge of film history. The director, Jean-Luc Godard, was a prime force in the French cinema's New Wave movement. Many of his techniques were imitated to such an extent that they have been standards for a number of decades. Today, the film does not seem at all radical, but when it was released in 1963 it was very different from contemporary work.At that time Bridge Bardot was a major international star, admired for her beauty as well as her scandalous on screen behavior. Her appearance in a film, especially one co-produced by Hollywood, generated a lot of excitement. Wide screen techniques, with features like Cinemascope, were still being perfected. Its development is successfully displayed in the vivid look of LeMepris, particularly the bright colors. The noted German director, Fritz Lang, portrays a director in the film and Godard, in an act of homage, portrays his assistant. It is an expression of the new acknowledging, using, and overtaking the old.All these factors contribute to Les Mepris. The one major element not yet mentioned is the story. It deals with the complex, deep emotions individuals can develop. On the surface it is a simple story about a husband and wife. However, the turmoil of their emotions is a destructive, angry force.This is the only film Godard made with Hollywood co-partners. Their heavy hands are obvious. Yet, his individual talent comes through stylistically and literally in the brightly lit scenes that coyly disguise the darkness in the character's souls.The story is sometimes overwhelmed by the physical aspects off the film the enormous horizons, the violently bright colors, the naked light. The generally good performances and the interesting, sometimes unexpected activities help to keep the story focused.The Criterion Collection DVD release includes a number of interesting interviews. Especially good is the interview with famed cinematographer Raoul Coutard. "},{"Title":"Compelling and controversial  a sure shot recipe for success.","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jean Luc Godard described his film as a story of a misunderstanding between a man and a woman.Le Mepris shows succinctly how true love can vanish when one lover becomes contemptible.Paul Javal is in a fix as to how he should assure his wife that he loves her a lot.Camile has no basis for her contempt which she directs against her innocent husband.The creative process has become an obstacle to their relationship.It is precisely due to this involvement that Camille is showing contempt for her husband.Le Mepris is the most revealing film about the edifying influence the cinema has on its creators.The film brilliantly captures the moods and emotions that go in making a film. Fritz Lang,in his role as a director brings the film closer to reality.He makes the film look more authentic.This has been Godard's tribute to the great master.Le Mepris audaciously discusses genuine European aesthetics v/s crass commercialization à la Hollywood.Prokosh is more interested in his wealth than art.Everyone knows that the conflict between Paul and Prokosh is inevitable.Prokosh's death symbolizes the zero in life. Le Mepris was constantly dogged by controversies and on one occasion even Godard was held in contempt by the film's producer George de Baroncelli. "},{"Title":"Elegance..","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jean-Luc Godard directs with austere elegance a decaying relationship between writer Paul Javal and his wife Camille.The plot goes Fritz Lang directs an adaptation of Homer's Odyssey, staying true to the spirit of the original. Producer Jeremy Prokosch, unhappy with the result, hires Javal to rewrite the script. Javal compromises the original's world of ideals with modern-day sensibilities. In essence, he parallels his own life to Ulysses'. Ulysses fights in the Trojan war because he is estranged from his wife Penelope, he delays coming back because of that. Penelope (estranged from him because of his behavior) is being unfaithful.Simply put, the film is beautifully shot and features an excellent score by George Delerue. Three sequences in particular stand out the epic fight between Paul and Camille in the couple's flat, Camille kissing Prokosch on purpose while Paul watches them, and Paul watching Lang directing the ending scene of Odyssey - Ulysses gazing his final destination (his country Ithake), but actually there's nothing but endless sea. "},{"Title":"The high point of Godard's Nouvelle Vague","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The high point of Godard's Nouvelle Vague. His idiosyncrasy of rupture with American Classicism, how to capture a woman and to cinema talking about cinema it's all in here. This rupture is right from the beginning on the generic with audio presentation of the craft while a makeover of a traveling shot is slowly captured. Talking about cinema in the theaters, with Fritz Lang Performing Himself and shooting in the falling cinecitta is just Brilliant. The eternal Godard quest of how to shoot a woman her complex behavior and expression is in Le Méprís brilliantly achieved with Brigitte Bardot making his job easier. The script is full of under text, out of field and characters metaphors, creating an unusual emphatic moment with the viewer thru all the film. A must see for all the movie lovers. "},{"Title":"Blatant melodrama with a postmodern twist","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jack Palance oscillates on an anonymous, uncovered veranda somewhere on the Cinecitta lot all the while lamenting the passing and fading of gods and kings &#150; his contemporaries that have left him to his unchecked designs. The mortals &#150; us &#150; can only look in bewilderment.Modernized Greek myth or just another feat by the insurmountable Jean-Luc Godard? Almost everyone reading will choose the latter, of course, except for the self-condemning master himself. This meta-romance movie can be simultaneously ridiculed and gawked at in wonder.Awash in primary colors are we taken along the gliding camera movements as we watch a sublimated implosion of a marriage take place. Paul and Camille seem to have embarked on their frustrating relationship while their ship was already on the rocks &#150; the gentle current of matrimonial bliss is kept a league's length away. Why don't you love me anymore? says he. Because you're an ass, says she. As vulgar as this exchange seems it only gets worse &#150; soon there are forbidden kisses, indecent proposals and, gulp, declarations of principles (whatever).The prurient exposition is thankfully offset by the frequent appearances of a certain septuagenarian known as Fritz Lang. But, can this essentially exploitative showman bring a degree of respectability to the film? Well, even a sex worker is dignified due to technicality once old enough &#150; so, sure. "},{"Title":"A few keys?","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Like many people (I guess), after seeing this film for the first time, I was baffled. I felt I had missed the point. Why this title? Was there a message, and if yes which one(s)?Since then, I've read a fair bit on cinema and when I saw Le Mépris again I really enjoyed it. So here are some keys to understanding, which I didn't have the first time and found useful the second. Of course, I don't pretend to give any definitive interpretation. I hope that the film-theory experts will forgive my ill-informed wittering and that at least some people will find it useful - especially those who, like me were first disconcerted - people to whom I can only recommend to go and watch it again.In many ways, there is no simple interpretation to Godard's films and he probably self-consciously tries to make it hard for the audience to come up with any clear-cut message. If he advocates for anything at all, it's more a kind of plurality of views. To support this statement, I would just mention an interview of Godard where C. MacCabe asked him whether he didn't like watching Dallas and soaps from time to time to which G. replied yes of course I like that too. Godard's stand on Hollywood cinema is not so much that it's really bad and it shouldn't exist. Rather, throughout his films, he intends to show that Hollywood is one way of making films but there are many other possible cinematic expressions all too often smothered by Hollywood studios commercial aggressiveness and the ubiquity of their output. One important point is that for Godard, this broadening of cinematic possibilities must first go through a negative phase aimed at making the viewer self-consciously aware of the current cinematic techniques. The weak plot for instance is such a device. Unlike mainstream cinema, he uses the concept of plot in a completely accessory way. What matters more for G is what he can do around it. The reason is partly to get cinema away from the 19th century realistic novelistic/story-telling cage in which it's been trapped since the beginning. Another reason is probably the brechtian idea that plots induce an easy emotional involvement of the spectator with the show (identification with the characters, fear, suspense...), which tends to inhibit any reflexive/contemplative attitude from the audience. So, in Le Mépris, the plot is weak and one feels very little for the characters... and it is meant like that. In some ways, the fact that Le Mépris is more accessible makes it more difficult because one tends to watch it as a conventional film (there is a plot after all, the dialogues are plausible...) whereas most other Godard films have to be taken for what they are - some kind of cinematic exploration - because there is no way to take them otherwise.The music is also used against current practice. The baroque-malherian mix does not support the action; instead it is used as a kind of leitmotiv/refrain throughout the film to punctuate and induce pondering on the action rather than emotional involvement. The use of the meant-to-be beautiful score echoes his use of the equally meant-to-be beautiful scenery pictures at one level they are nice, but the feeling that they are somehow out-of-place hinders their complete enjoyment.What remains is a feeling of pervasive nostalgia, itself echoing Lang's reading of the Odyssey the story of a lost holistic/mythological/cosmological Greek vision of the world - vision replaced nowadays by a rationalist/mercantile consciousness (embodied by Prockosh). Greek Gods now appear as human artifacts (painted statutes...) Following that line, there is probably the idea that Art (including artistic cinema) is today the only way to live a holistic experience, which is completely incompatible with Hollywood's way of making films. The incompatibility of the different views on what cinema ought to be, manifests itself by the impossibility of communication between the various protagonists who all speak different languages. This inability to communicate is also apparent in Javal's inability to understand his wife's behaviour as well as her persistent refusal to tell him.The title...  At one level - central to the plot - it is the contempt of BB for her husband for compromising his work/views to please Prockosh. But contempt is also rampant between almost each character in the film Lang considers Prockosh as the unsubtle money maker, Prockosh sees Lang as the lost-in-space intellectual, Prockosh treats the woman translator like a dog, Javal at various points looks down on BB as the bimbo secretary... Then at a higher level, there is the patronising/contemptuous attitude of Prockosh towards the future audience of the film, and maybe Godard's contempt for Prockosh's attitude to cinema and there are probably many more levels...For the anecdote, G also thought of taking Dreyer instead of Lang - two directors whom he admires (I think). Maybe Godard sees Lang a Greek God of Cinema?  "},{"Title":"Now seems a bit less than its reputation","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie now seems a bit less than its reputation -  - not so much a thrilling intellectual work as a great instinctive composition in which the individual elements hold enormous, almost mythic  fascination. Chief among these are the	aphorisms about cinema, the use of Greek mythology to signify a kind of classic culture which then bounces off the tensions in the making of the movie (Lang's shots consist mainly of static tableau of statues etc., with the notable exception of a swimming nude); the classically statuesque Bardot; the constant splashes of color (the red couch and chairs; the red towel in which she surrounds herself; the red car in which she's killed; the frosty blue of Palance's	house). The long domestic scenes have a complex yet compellingly raw, intuitively messy emotional trajectory - she turns against Piccoli perhaps because she thought he was calculatedly pushing her toward Palance, trying to use her as a medium of exchange; this antipathy comes despite her own overtures toward Palance - presumably  signifying the confused headstrong nature of female sexuality and its potentially disastrous consequences. "},{"Title":"Another masterpiece from Jean-Luc Goddard, one of the most vicious attacks on the commercialization of art","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While he became far too self-indulgent later on in his career, from Breathless through Week End, I am fascinated by Jean-Luc Goddard. No other filmmaker of the time managed to toy with the medium as well as he did. When it comes to meta-fiction, self reference, or breaking the forth wall, nobody can quite match Godard. In many ways, Contempt is one of his more restrained films, possibly since it was produced by a major studio with renowned film stars and a bigger budget. It isn't nearly as insane or shocking as Band of Outsiders or Week End. However, this forced Godard to be a bit more subtle, as this contains some of his most vicious and biting attacks on the commercialization of art. Godard recognized that the major studio would attempt to bowdlerize his work, so he created a film for them about an artist being forced to compromise for profit.Past the always interesting self reference, another reason this film works so well is that its possibly the most human of Godard's works. More than ever, his characters don't appear as revolutionary mouthpieces but actual people. Maybe its because he saw a lot of himself in the main character played by Michael Piccoli, but both him and the gorgeous Bridgette Bardot play well-rounded and sympathetic characters. This is just another layer to a complex film, one which poses questions and forces you to devise answers by watching it repeatedly. This isn't my personal favorite by Godard (that is, again, Week End), but its another constantly fascinating film from the cinema's most restless experimenter. (9/10) "},{"Title":"Godard at his most mature","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is probably my favourite Godard that I've seen thus far. It's not just because of the luscious colour and expansive CinemaScope that it's filmed in, not because of the largely naked appearance of Brigitte Bardot, and not because of the hilariously manic performance by Jack Palance - though all of those things certainly play a role in my base enjoyment of the film. No, my appreciation of the film comes from somewhere else, somewhere deeper, more powerful. This is probably the most mature that Godard's been, at least in my eyes.My love for this film comes largely because of its blatant acknowledgment of, fascination with, and admiration for the power of cinema. It's like all Godard films in this sense, as everything from Breathless to Pierrot le Fou has been largely concerned with reminding the audience that they are, in fact, watching a film, but this one is wholly different. It seems to want to do so on another level entirely, separate from formalistic or even artistic measures. From the beginning, with the narrated opening credits and the slowly approaching camera that eventually turns to shoot the audience, it's all about the psychological nature of film. Though this is expressed explicitly through the debates between Jerry, Paul, and Fritz Lang, Godard's direction and artistic choices make this quite clear as well.One of the most interesting things, for me, about the film is its exploration of translation. Not just language translation &#150; although that is an integral part, with Francesca's frequent mistranslations providing some interesting psychological aspects &#150; but also the nature of book-to-film translations. The main story is about a cinematic adaptation of The Odyssey, and the many problems inherent within that. All three sides of the film-making triangle &#150; producer, director, writer &#150; have differing opinions as to what the true meaning of Homer's epic is, and this is the cause for much fighting between them. This kind of translation is echoed in the film itself, as it is actually based on a novel by Alberto Moravia. However, it is not a very faithful adaptation, and the changes that Godard makes to the novel to suit his artistic means seem to solve the aforementioned problems that Fritz as with adapting The Odyssey. Indeed, Godard himself can be seen to be reflected in the characters of both Fritz and Paul (the former articulating Godard's ideas about cinema, and the latter representing his fear of selling out to commercialism); along these lines, Jerry would stand for his much-loathed producers and Camille would symbolize Anna Karina, Godard's wife and frequent leading lady. This is perhaps his most personal film, and that makes it his most interesting.Though I don't find it to be a perfect film &#150; the long sequence in the apartment goes on a bit too long for my tastes, though I understand its need &#150; it's definitely an impressive one and one that's not likely to leave me soon. And, at the very least, it has a lot of naked Brigitte Bardot. Like, a lot. "},{"Title":"production Within a Film","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When you're married to beautiful, glamorous women as our director extraordinaire, Jean-Luc-Godard, you have your moments of doubt. You are an ordinary physical specimen and she is well, Anna Karina, or in the case of Godard's alter ego, screenwriter, Paul Javal, you have many moments of self-doubt from bedroom to sound stage with the nubile Brigitte Bardot. If I give you $30,000 in 1963 money, may I sleep with your wife? Godard invents yet another, now standard film idea, the moral curmudgeon is my significant other a commodity.Jack Palance leers over Brigitte and certainly, he has enough Hollywood bucks to install her in his bedroom. In fact, he has enough bucks to turn a work of art into a mass produced cliché. Skin sells in Peoria. Palance is printing dollars as he screens films for rubes, but what of true artists as say, Fritz Lang, the director that made the silent classic M. Lang works around Palance's interference. He must finish what he begins. He will not work for the Third Reich, but will work for Louis Mayer.Godard works his camera interiors for lengthy, banal conversation between husband and naked wife. Bardot is beautiful and Godard takes every opportunity to look at her, sharing with the voyeurs. The star seems quite comfortable clothed or not. She also looks fine on a Riviera mansion of the Bauhaus architecture overlooking the Mediterranean. This is the sea of the Odyssey, which is the film within a film. Alternatively, should I say there is a production within a film. "}{"Title":"A good film? A bad film? Really can't tell!","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If I think of Le mepris, I cannot think of even a simple judgement of mine (I like it, I dislike it, I loathe it?). I simply cannot set my mind on this.Partly, I reckon, it's because I can't think of the film as a whole. All the scenes, the dialogues, the issues around the film making of The Odissey, seem to be boring and amateurish. I really could do without. But, on the other hand, the rapport between the husband and the wife are enchantingly involving, realistic, and dramatically real.Partly, too, it's because She is wonderful. And I just cannot (cannot!) say it's a lousy movie because, after all, she's in it. I mean what's the use of a plot, a characters development, if she is in the film? And finally, because I needed the subtitles to watch it and, whilst this is not usually a problem, in this case I simply couldn't keep my eyes on the titles ;-) So, I rate this film 8 out of 10, but honestly could be much less, or much more. I really can't say. "},{"Title":"Bardot stars.","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `Contempt' was a Brigitte Bardot film.  Yes there is a deeper story of the breakup of a relationship because of the contempt Camille feels for Paul, or was it because of the contempt Paul has for Camille, but really you become mesmerized by the beauty of Bardot.  I thought the movie slow at times but gazing at Bardot passed the time.  (SPOILER lurking ahead).  I think Paul treated Camille poorly, almost giving her to Jeremy, to win favor.  Paul had contempt for Camille.  Camille resented this.  She wanted Paul to be jealous, to want and defend her but Paul was prostituting her and his talent for the American producer.  Fritz Lang played the metaphor of perfect movie making, the art of film, whereas Jack Palance was the Hollywood pimp destroying the art and reducing it to a peep show.  He had contempt towards the art form.  (SPOILER warning defunct).   All played their roles well.  The Ulysses/Penelope parallel was obvious but the ending was not.  The movie is at times maddening with its seemingly contradictory dialogue, back and forth, between Camille and Paul.  Brigitte Bardot was a babe though. An aside  There may have been some quick flashes of something superimposed over Bardot's face during the taxi ride.  It could have been a skull.  Even with DVD slowness it was tough to tell what went on.  Watch for it when the lighting changes.  "},{"Title":"One of the most beautiful films of all times","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The beautiful music by Georges Delerue. Possibly the most beautiful music ever written for a film.The beautiful cast Brigitte Bardot, Michel Piccoli, Jack Palance. Watching how European cult actress Brigitte Bardot interacts with Piccoli and Palance is simply fascinating.The beautiful supporting actor the legendary Fritz Lang. Listen to the original and his Viennese French.The beautiful photography by Raoul Coutard. Widescreen at its best. One of the greatest widescreen movies of all times. Truly fascinating.The beautiful Casa Malaparte in Capri.Beauty. That is what this stunning film by Jean-Luc Godard deals with. If you want to experience what beauty is about watch this movie. And then you will know. "},{"Title":"Abstract, analytic, and full of the contempt that gives the film it's title, it's a consistently interesting entry in the Goddard file","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jean-Luc Godard's Contempt examines a lead character in a bit of a sense like how Fellini examined a lead in 8 1/2, except that while in that he toyed and illuminated his fantasies about his struggles in film-making process, Godard slums in it, though with a carefully tuned attitude and style. He knows he's making an art film as much as he's making a commercial film, and that adds to its appeal. Like a good number of his films it's off putting at times, but the way the characters look into the film within the film, in this case the Odyssey, as well as they essentially do for this one, Godard has made a fascinating hybrid on the workings of Hollywood. His lead is played by Michael Piccoli, who like Fellini's Mastorianni is the torn screenwriter, torn in this case in three directions- one by a commercial producer (Jack Palance) who wants the production to be epic but has many reservations about the craft; another by a legendary director (all the more so since Lang is playing himself) who is only interested in the art of it, like when he views slides and shots of old Greek statues and such, and Palance chucks the film around the room; the last by his wife, who has as many or more inner demons as her husband. Like an Odyssey of sorts the film becomes, lending itself to Godard's focus on the aspect of the idea of characters breaking down, and how the atmosphere he creates is one that can understandably make anyone crack. Contempt isn't a milestone for the filmmaker, but it's watchable as a second or third film to introduce the common viewer to Godard, and for film buffs it provides a wide, captivating glimpse of the film world for film buffs. A- "},{"Title":"It's Godard, After All","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Though it's a film about making movies, there very little actual movie-making in Jean-Luc Godard's melodrama about a writer (Michel Piccoli) hired to rewrite the script of a troubled international production of `The Odyssey'; this, in turn, causes his marriage to veer off in a catastrophic direction. That Piccoli happens to be married to Brigitte Bardot would suggest a more salacious approach but this is Godard, after all, and the result is anything but. In fact, it's pretty melancholy Godard's disillusionment is not with the act of making movies but the reasons why people make movies and his conclusion--ultimately it's done for the money, it's a job undertaken to provide creature comforts for family and can only be repudiated when a cataclysmic event disrupts the family--is contrary to the world he wants to inhabit; but even that fits in perfectly with his theme, articulated in the beginning with a quote from Andre Bazin (`The cinema substitutes for our gaze a world more in harmony with our desires.'). There's quite a bit of circular talk (the centerpiece of the film is a thirty minute argument between Piccoli and Bardot in which they debate endlessly whether or not there's still love in their marriage) and philosophical discussions about Homer but, unlike, say, Tarkovsky, where the dialectic obscures--and ultimately negates--the cinematic aspects of the work, Godard is passionately in love with film whether structuring some lovely tracking shots on the famous Cinecitta lot or framing the strategic placement of specific movie posters on walls or capturing some stunning long shots of the Mediterranean filmed in Capri, you never for a second forget that he's a born auteur perfectly aligned with his chosen media. As abstract, testy and foreign as `Contempt' may be, it fits our notions of cinema as comfortably as a pair of old loafers. With Jack Palance, startling as the American producer who plays Zeus to Piccoli's Ulysses and Fritz Lang, playing the director `Fritz Lang'.  "},{"Title":"The 15th (or 22nd) greatest movie ever made","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Occasionally, I like to tick off the movies I haven't yet seen from the Sight and Sound and Cahier Du Cinema lists of greatest films of all time (yes, I am that sad &#x96; what's it to you?).Le Mepris is in 22nd and 15th place respectively. It is really deep.Firstly it tells you that you are watching a movie, not real life.Then we meet Michel Picolli, who is pretending to be a writer named Paul Javal and Brigitte Bardot, who is pretending to be his wife, Camille. Please note these are characters in a movie, not real people.Camille gets Paul to identify all the parts of her he likes. She asksDo you prefer my breasts or my nipples?Faced with a question like that, most men would just get their coats and quietly leave. Here, it is the audience that should have taken the hint.We learn that Paul has been hired to re-write Fritz Lang's picture of the Odyssey. Camille then gets into a pet because she thinks he has deliberately thrown her at the crass producer Prokosch (Jack Palance). She may be right, but since Paul has already got the job it is not clear what his motive might have been.The middle stretch of the movie consists of a single thirty-minute scene (in long takes and frequently in long shot) in which the couple engage in one of those endless, circular, bickering arguments that are calculated to drive everybody mad.What's wrong?NothingYes, there isYou know what's wrongHow could I, if you won't say?Well, if you don't know, I can't tell you Finally it emerges that she no longer loves him and feels nothing but contempt (probably because of the Prokosch incident). They can't leave it at thatWhy do you despise me?You know whyNo I don'tGive me strength!Eventually they go to Capri to make the Odyssey movie, where they continue to bicker until Camille decides to leave Paul and is killed in a car crash.I nearly forgot, everybody talks about Nicholas Ray and Howard Hawks movies and they all swop quotations from Dante and Bertolt Brecht. Paul and Camille tell each other revealing fables about Ramakrishna and asses buying flying carpets.Also, the music sometimes swells up so much that it almost drowns out the dialogue. Where was that swelling music during the argument scene when we needed it?Finally, this masterpiece stops. At this point you realise you are 103 minutes nearer your own death which, curiously, seems to have lost some of its sting.PS Fritz Lang is both real and not real. I told you it was deep. "},{"Title":"Nice visuals, ghastly otherwise.","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film has some interesting compositions and color in the very wide format rectangle of the screen, that's why I didn't walk out.Mythology, real life, conflict, blah blah... heard it all. No! It is just an absolutely nothing plot that goes nowhere with a ridiculous and unsatisfying ending.The weak character development fizzles out during the way too long apartment scene, after which (finally) I couldn't care less about them and just kept my eyes open by looking for the frequent nicely composed shots.I never wish to see it again, and would not have seen it in the first place if I'd known how bad it would be, zzzzzz. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly unengaging rubbish","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm relieved to see from some of the comments here that I'm not the only one who found this movie to be really basically very bad. I thought perhaps I was just being too hyper-critical or very stupid or something. I got the movie out from our local library with high hopes of it being something very special, because I was aware it was largely very highly regarded, but I quickly found myself struggling to keep from reaching for the off switch.I found it to be awkward, shallow, pretentious and dreadfully tedious. Script, characterisation, directing, story, all of it, dreadful. A movie that never gets beneath the surface of anything, has no substantial characterisation to even begin development of, and makes no inroads whatsoever into any subject raised.But the acting was okay, for the little the roles demanded of any of the cast, and although I thought most of the film was visually quite bland, there was some nice camera work here and there; and I have to say the score, surprisingly, was marvellous. I can say I'm glad I saw the movie just for the score; I thought it really was that good; but I had to endure a lot of nauseas claptrap to be able to enjoy it.So be warned, just because some might acclaim this film doesn't mean you're in for a treat. "},{"Title":"Fritz Lang... as Fritz Lang","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Screenwriter Paul Javal's marriage to his wife Camille disintegrates during movie production as she spends time with the producer. Layered conflicts between art and business ensue.The first thing that really grabbed me about this was Fritz Lang. Not only acting (which is unusual) but appearing as himself, or at least a fictional version of himself. Lang was greatly in decline by the 1960s, having arguably done his best work in the 20s and 30s. Who knew he was even still around? But beyond that, there is an interesting story here of jealousy and show business. Even contempt, though that must be at the absolute extreme. It would be hard to live in a world where your spouse is constantly paired romantically with beautiful people. "},{"Title":"Le Mépris (Contempt)","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From director Jean-Luc Godard (À Bout De Soufflé (Breathless), Alphaville, Pierrot Le Fou), featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die this French/Italian film had an average rating by critics, but the cast certainly appealed to me, I was going to watch no matter what anyway. Basically respected Austrian director Fritz Lang (Dr. Mabuse The Gambler, Metropolis) has been hired by American film producer Jeremy Prokosch (Jack Palance) to direct a film adaptation of Homer's Odyssey, but the script needs a lot of work, so novelist and playwright Paul Javal (Michel Piccoli) is hired to rework the script, as Prokosch is not satisfied with Lang's treatment of the material as an art film. With the conflicts of artistic expression and commercial opportunity are going on Paul is becoming estranged from his wife Camille Javal (Brigitte Bardot), and after being left alone with millionaire playboy Prokosch they may be developing intimate feelings for each other. The story seems to parallel with aspects of director Godard's own life, but the main point as far as I can tell is that there are dodgy or greedy dealings of money during the film production, and it eventually ends with contempt and the marriage of Camille and Paul destroyed. Also starring Giorgia Moll as Francesca Vanini. I will be absolutely honest and say that this film is rather hard to follow, I understand it works well as an insight into the events you get on a film set with some mockery thrown in, and I found Bardot, clothed and unclothed, fascinating to watch, but the little story is confusing, the switch between spoken languages adds to the confusion, what I could keep up with though was relatively interesting, so I suppose it's not a completely wasted satire. Worth watching! "}{"Title":"pretty decent","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I hate Godard. I think that he's cold and pretentious and relies too often on technique and shock value to see his films through. Sometimes this works out well. Sometimes it doesn't. I am probably the only cinephile on the planet to think that Breathless was a steaming pile of crap, although I found both Alphaville and Masculin Feminin satisfyingly artistic and absurd. This one isn't bad either, and, apparently, unlike Godard's contemporaries, I found that Cinemascope suits his style very well. If this is selling out, I'm all for it.I was quite pleased to see Brigitte Bardot as I've always enjoyed her work. Other points of interest include the long panoramic shots of the Capri landscape and that really lovely string movement which kicks in about the same time. I'm not much of a fan of Jack Palance, but I was impressed that he was able to portray such a thoroughly unlikeable character so well. Fritz Lang was mildly annoying as the put-upon film director, and his character seem to exist solely of advancing the entirely wrongheaded notion that the director is the true and only auteur, and producers and writers and script-girls and cinematographers are all roadblocks between the director and his Art.One reviewer mentioned that this film is difficult. It is not difficult. Good films shouldn't be difficult, they should be enjoyable. Symbolism, and imagery in particular, should exist to facilitate understanding of the themes, not to merely propel the work into highbrow territory. I found the symbolism in this film to be both clear and effective, and was therefore never confused. This is art film done right. "},{"Title":"Nearly fell in love with it.","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No, I'm really not a person that likes everything that is French and 'old'. As a matter of fact, I'm not too big on Jean-Luc Godard and really don't like all of his movies. This movie however was one I nearly fell in love with.In all truth and honesty, I was absolutely taken by its movie its style and approach. It's visuals were splendid and its subject manner was truly an unique and great one as well. It's a sort of a shame that the movie somewhat lost me in its middle part and its end also definitely wasn't as great as the beginning but overall this remains a movie I really admire and can be positive about.Of course it's being an artistic movie but what I like about it is that its being quiet and subtle art. It doesn't ever goes over-the-top with any kind of weirdness and instead really takes its time to subtly show and tell you what this movie is all about.The movie does truly feel like a moving painting. It's also because of the compositions and camera-work that the movie uses. It's filled with long shots, in which the camera is also occasionally slowly moving but never toward its subjects. It's being a very subjective, observing movie that views everything from a distance and doesn't use close-ups or any other movie tricks to bring out or emphasize certain emotions. I absolutely loved the cinematography and not just because of its use of vibrant colors.It makes the movie almost an hypnotic one and completely sucks you in. Because of the movie its approach and overall style of storytelling, you are forced to constantly keep paying attention, which will suck you all the more into the movie itself. Even when there is very little happening or being said, it still feels like there is plenty going on in this movie and I also most certainly won't call this a boring one.The movie is already a very special one for the fact that is stars the legendary director Fritz Lang in it, who is playing himself. He probably did it as a favor and out of respect for director Jean-Luc Godard, since Lang never starred in anything. It's basically good and fun to watch all actors in this, who each speak their own language. French, English, German and Italian gets constantly spoken throughout the entire movie, no doubt to also emphasize the differences and contrasts in the characters, who all have their own ideas about finishing a particular Fritz Lang directed movie. Besided the name of Lang, also the names of Brigitte Bardot and Jack Palance should arouse certain people's curiosity.But the movie does not only tickle the brain and is a feast for the eyes, it's easily great to the ears, due to the wonderful classical musical score by Georges Delerue.A true mesmerizing viewing experience!8/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"directing a film is like composing a relationship ???","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Godard's device 'form = content' is not MY favourite basis for a complete movie, but cinematographer Raoul Coutard (À bout de souffle, Alphaville, Week End, Z, Jules et Jim) is one of the greatest d.p.'s in cinema-land and this is his (color) masterpiece.  Why isn't this guy in the documentary 'Visions of light' (1992)?  'Long good friday' (MacKenzie, 1978) uses the primary colors also distinctively throughout the entire movie are constantly blue, red, yellow and green in the frame.  Here are red, yellow, blue and white everywhere 2 b recognized (as well as four different languages).  Le Mépris is one of those films in which the cinematography is superior to everything else.  The many exceptionally long takes (that tend to show the actors' weaknesses) are poetic and should be seen in the widest screen possible, for Coutard uses the entire screen for the brilliant compositions and lighting.  Michel Piccoli (in the story a mediocre writer who has to rewrite the script that Fritz Lang is directing for Jack Palance) definitely performs best here.  Bardot plays the pouting factor with verve as always -(Le Mépris is a film ABOUT making a film out of Homerus' Odyssey we see a lot of Greek statues and hear pretentious philosophies of which Godard probably didn't even understand the meaning himself.  The actors have to read them from a paper (like in the terrible 'Week-end') because they have no idea what they're talking about.  Still it is my favourite Godard-film. It is totally different than his masterpiece À bout de souffle.  These are the only two films by Godard I can really appreciate, although most of his movies have at least one interesting gadget e.g. Alphaville created a strange film-noir feel, Week-end was very experimental.  Le Mépris unfortunately killed some beautiful (tragic) music by constantly starting it over and over again, without making the story really ask for it.  The emotions we are supposed to feel aren't there because the story is not even close to The Odyssey and the pretentious messages start to irritate after a while.  Why is Fritz Lang in the film?  Why does Godard think he can equal the masters of cinema (Lang, Griffith, Chaplin etc.)?  Why do we have to see the text 'il cinema e un invenzione senza avvenire' by the Louis Lumiere? Tell us, Godard, tell us!  What's even more doubtful is that Godard praised Lang's two movies about a Tiger von Eschnapur, while those were obviously not great.  I guess Godard REALLY wanted Lang to work with him or something opportunistic like that.Finally, '8 1/2' (Fellini, 1963, also concerned with the creative process of making films) is a lot better and more fun to watch.  Godard does not approach the icons of cinema (i'm glad he didn't dare mention Kubrick, Eisenstein, Buñuel, or Kurosawa), but after all 'le Mépris' is a beautiful film with very poetic imagery and still nice music.9/10 "},{"Title":"A visually intriguing tragedy of language","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Forget the traditional goal-oriented protagonist follows linear cause-and-effect plot to logical denouement approach. Godard's having none of it! Instead he gives us a film about making a film, tells a story through a number of different stories (the fable of the fakir, The Odyssey, etc) and invites us to look at the illusion behind the reality of cinema. The film is beautifully shot in supersaturated primary colours, giving everything an 'unreal' look. Decentred frames and tricks of perspective lead us to visual conclusions before pulling back and revealing something quite different. Characters of different nationalities attempt to communicate over a text they only know in translation through an opinionated interpreter - hilarious! But the biggest obstacle to communication of all proves to be gender, so that ultimately Le Mepris is a tragedy of language. Sad, funny, thought-provoking and beautiful. "},{"Title":"A strong film of its time","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Brigitte Bardot is nothing but beauty in this film. Pure sunlight. Godard believes in a counter cinema. Traditional constant interrupting of the way film use to be made. A nonconventional view of film making. Also......Godard loved to do crazy stuff! Contempt is one example of this. The entire film is an experiment of irony, sexuality, and rough conversation. It was also nice to see Fritz Lang in front of the camera as an actor. Godard proves once again to his audience that he is a genius. "},{"Title":"Near Perfect","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Contempt (1963) *** 1/2 (out of 4) I was a little weary going into a Jean Luc Godard film again but needless to say this turned out to be my favorite from the director so far. A film producer (Jack Palance) hires a screenwriter (Michael Piccoli) to help fix a production of The Oddysey from director Fritz Lang (playing himself). The screenwriter has to worry about this new story but he's also having troubles with his wife (Brigitte Bardot). The early stuff with Palance and Lang was very interesting but once we hit the family drama inside the flat, I really started to get worried that the film would wonder off in countless directions like many of the previous Godard films I had seen. The film does wonder off but for some reason I was glued to the film. I think there are many reasons for this but the main one is the terrific cast who gives wonderful performances. Piccoli and Bardot are wonderful as the troubled couple and Palance is in good for as the manic producer. Even Lang manages to give a very good performance playing himself. The cinematography is also wonderful as is the use of colors. During the flat scene with the husband and wife, the colors of the towel mixing with the couch is just one thing that really caught my eye (not to mention Bardot's behind). Then, of course, there's the terrific music score, which is one of the greatest ever created for a film. "},{"Title":"Best movie of all times? Hardly!","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Certainly, Le Mépris has many merits. It is beautifully filmed and many images may haunt viewers later on. But the script is rather weak and often boring, people definitely talk too much without saying a great deal. The cast has one big flaw, Brigitte Bardot. This pivotal character is, so I expect, supposed to turn from a loving wife into a woman full of contempt. Instead she is a pouting babe, insecure, immature and in a bad mood throughout, there was no character development I could see. The whole, long dispute in a modern flat between the Bardot character and her husband therefore is somewhat wasted and pointless, although it is really beautifully filmed. Difficult to imagine BB ever being happy and content. But, well, I guess that is the way people expected her to be and her contribution to movie history. Her greatest moment is a little pantomime with which she tries to explain an ignorant Amercian (played by Jack Palance with the charm of a Zombie) what a dactylo is and does. Yeah, right, dactylo, DACTYLO! It would have been interesting to see how Monica Vitti or Jeanne Moreau would have played that part.Friends of architecture will like this movie. The apartment house with the couple's flat in Rome looks fresh and modern even today, the final scenes are filmed in and around the spectacular Casa Malaparte on the island of Capri, a masterwork of Italian architect Adalberto Libera. "},{"Title":"Godard's Brechtian 'distancing' can't save slow-moving agitprop critique of Hollywood producers","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For those who were utterly bored by Jean Luc Godard's 'Contempt', I urge you to watch the Criterion Collection's version, with the DVD commentary by Professor Robert Stam turned on. Stam's commentary actually explains what Godard was trying to do in the film and is not only a fascinating analysis of the plot but a wholly worthwhile digression as to the history of the film's production. In no way, however, do I agree with Professor Stam's unqualified praise of its director, Mr. Godard, as well as his implied conclusion that 'Contempt' is an important part of cinematic history.As Stam points out, 'Contempt' was relatively a big budget production in relation to Godard's other 'New Wave' films during his heyday. The film wouldn't have been made without the presence of Brigitte Bardot who at that time was considered a sex symbol. The producers made it clear to Godard that there had to be at least three scenes where Bardot appeared in the nude. The anti-establishment Godard agreed to a 'compromise' and inserted Bardot nude scenes at the beginning,middle and end of the picture. Working under those restrictions, Godard turned the tables on his chiefly American backers ('Contempt' was a joint Italian/American production) by ensuring that there was nothing 'lurid' about the nude scenes. Quite the contrary, Godard mocks Hollywood's obsession with sex by having Bardot intellectualize her sexual endowments in a bland bedtime conversation between the principal characters, Camille (Bardot) and Paul (Michel Piccoli). Later, Camille is seen as an ordinary housewife in the bathtub, reading a biography of Fritz Lang.The 'Contempt' plot is rather simple. Paul, a novelist/playwright is hired by an American producer, Jeremy Prokosch (played by Jack Palance) to re-write the script of a film based on Homer's The Odyssey'. The film within a film is directed by real-life director Fritz Lang who plays himself. Godard creates a straw man in the character of Prokosch who he depicts as a boorish American, obsessed with money and sex. In a twist on Nazi Propaganda Minster Goebbel's famous utterance, Prokosch proclaims, Whenever I hear the word culture, I pull out my checkbook. His one-dimensional villainy is further illustrated when he's seen leering during one of the film-within-a-film dailies of a nude, mermaid-like woman, swimming in the ocean. It's no accident that Godard cast Palance as the repulsive producer, as Palance was known for his tough guy roles at the time.If Prokosch is your one-dimensional villain, Godard's 'hero' is director Lang. In real-life, Lang was known for his 'tough love' approach in directing actors but none of his irascible personality is on display here. Rather, he's placed on a pedestal and merely acts as a platform for Godard's views on art and culture. Lang's 'all-knowing' interpretation of Ulysses as organically linked to nature is contrasted with Paul's relationship with Camille, which is doomed to failure.Most of 'Act 2' of 'Contempt' involves the 'quarrel' scene between Paul and Camille. Paul is depicted as an imperfect, if not failed, Ulysses. As usual, Godard seeks to subvert typical Hollywood conventions by deemphasizing the dramatic conflicts between the two principals. At the height of their quarrel, Godard employs a slow tracking shot, which symbolizes the distance between Paul and Camille. Godard deflates the audience's expectations further when Paul puts a gun inside his jacket but never uses it. Finally, Camille keeps telling Paul that he despises him but never provides a decent explanation. The audience is left hanging and one can imagine Godard smiling behind the camera murmuring to himself, 'aha, you were expecting another typical Hollywood resolution, but you will not get it from me'!In the end, Godard's agitprop cinema is all style over substance. His film is filled with 'gimmicks' that many well-known critics and filmmakers hail as hallmarks of bold experimentation. So in the 'audition scene', where the sound is continually turned on and off, that's an example, according to Professor Stam, of Brechtian distancing. In order to avoid the tendency toward voyeurism, art should display the principles of its own construction. Even the 'grand' climax of 'Contempt' ends with an intentional deflation. Prokopsch and Camille are killed in a car accident but we never see the crash. Instead, we're treated to a glimpse of Camille's farewell letter to Paul, stock audio of a car crash and then a final shot of the victims unnaturally facing in opposite directions with their convertible slightly mangled between the tires of a tractor trailer.Despite his love of film noir, Godard's anti-American bent was evident way back when he was the film critics' darling. Godard reserves his greatest contempt for the Hollywood studio system. In contrast, in the idealized figure of Lang, European culture emerges triumphant. Now in his later days, Godard's anti-Americanism seems to have become more pronounced (see NY Times and Roger Ebert's review of Godard's 2001 film Eloge de l'amour) as well as displaying marked tendencies of anti-Semitism (see the article, Jean-Luc Godard, Robert Brasillach, and Anti-Semitism Some observations by Glenn Kenny).'Contempt' is worth seeing just so one can note the lengths Godard went to promote his rather simplistic view of so-called Hollywood 'corruption'. Godard's put down of film convention is effected without the necessary good-natured ribbing and all his 'gimmicks' can't hide the fact that his contemptuous world view is fraught with half-truths and an adolescent piety. "},{"Title":"The Tragic End of a Relationship","Date":"17 July 2008","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Italy, the writer Paul Javal (Michel Piccoli) is hired for US$ 10,000.00 by the arrogant American producer Jeremy Prokosch (Jack Palance) to rewrite the screenplay of a commercial version of Ulysses and his Odyssey to be directed by Fritz Lang. Paul intends to use the money to quit the payments of the modern apartment where he lives with his wife and former typist Camille Javal (Brigitte Bardot). When Jeremy invites Camille and Paul to have a drink with him in his cottage, Paul asks Camille to go alone with Jeremy in his red Alfa Romeo, while he would go by taxi. He arrives later and finds Camille upset; his ambitious act destroys their marriage.Le Mépris is the story of the end of a relationship through the amoral act of a husband leaving his gorgeous and sexy wife with his boss probably to take advantages in the contract. There is an indication in the previous night that their marriage had troubles since Camille questions her husband in bed whether she is still beautiful and attractive. There are nice moments in the story like the nudity of Brigitte Bardot; the cameo participation of Fritz Lang playing himself; and the posters of many classics or Roberto Rossellini's Viaggio in Italia in the movie theater. There is an analogy between Ulysses and Penelope and Paul and Camille along the plot. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Desprezo (The Scorn) "},{"Title":"Dull, Dull, Dull.","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"19 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm going to stand out like a sore thumb here, although I take a crumb of comfort by finding at least one similar comment here. As I say above, it's deathly dull. A couple of hours of pretentious idiots complaining and arguing. Quite frankly I would have preferred them to have shot two hours of themselves lying on the nearby beach sunbathing. I'm possibly missing something, heck, I make no assumptions I'm the most intelligent chap here, but I'm lost completely to what people see in this film. 'A Bout De Soufflé', now thats a Godard film. Seemingly nothing much happens in that film either, but the sheer joy, romance and ability to put a smile on my face like a great pop record, that comes out of it, make it a pleasure not a chore. Oh how 'Le Mepris' cries out for a girl and a gun.... "}{"Title":"Monotonous&#x96;Reviews are Misleading","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Before I begin, I feel I should give some of my background I only studied a little bit movies in school (not that I think that should matter) and I have seen relatively few classics, but I still enjoyed some of them. I also watched the movie with subtitles (I don't know French, German, or Italian). I feel the need to provide others with an opinion that differs from the high rating it has received so far.The movie starts off promising with a few interesting characters, such as Prokosch and Lang, along with the gorgeous Camille and the interesting movie-in-a-movie premise (which is less consequential as the movie continues). Without any explanation, Camille takes on the character she will be the remainder of the movie; an enigmatic and flippant wife who misinterprets a transportation hiccup (or correctly interprets her husband's conniving) and inexplicably stops loving him. In fact, the synopsis ought to have a spoiler alert because he only figures that out at the end. Her husband tirelessly (to me, it's past any realistic level tirelessness) tries to get any response out of her. This continues for the whole movie and only slightly differentiates as the movie continues.Lang and Prokosch are not developed much more and become static elements to the story, which I find lazy. The soundtrack is maniacally repetitive and is applied almost disjointedly from the action in the film. To me, it feels like they had only two or three melodies composed and recorded and decided to use them over and over again regularly without much regard for plot. The ending gave me no emotion except for the relief that was over.I'm not sure if this movie is considered good (7.8 rating at the time of my writing) because of some social or historical importance or the allegorical references regarding Homer's Odyssey, but those pluses are far too subtle to me. While I find Hollywood movies typically too explanatory, this is same magnitude on the other end of the spectrum. The characters are irrational and one dimensional, which eliminated my empathy for them and the movie became annoying.If annoyance is the point of the movie, then the director succeeded. I think the director, producers, and crew wanted to make this movie their vacation so they could go to some villa by the seaside, drive around in a nice Alfa Romeo, film Bridgitte Barot and other women naked, and flex their cinematography muscles in that conveniently planned apartment. If you look at it that way, this movie may be more enjoyable. This movie could make more sense and be more enjoyable if it were shorter and had a couple more lines in it. "},{"Title":"Godard's best?","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Of the films I've seen so far of French New Wave director Jean-Luc Godard, his best is 1963's Contempt (Les Mépris), adapted by Godard from Alberto Moravia's novel Il Disprezzo, published in English as The Ghost At Noon. That statement should not be taken as an acknowledgment of greatness, for although this is his best film, it is not close to being a great film for, despite a gorgeous aping of the Michelangelo Antonioni style of shooting widescreen landscapes and affinity for formal structures, the film lacks any of the metaphysical heft and narrative thrust that propel the best of Antonioni's work, such as La Notte or Blowup. If Antonioni were more pretentious and less a wellspring of ideas, he would have made Contempt. That said, it's not a bad film, and it does exert an odd power over the viewer, above and beyond the nude ogling of a sexy, young, and ineffably feline Brigitte Bardot&#133;. While clearly influenced by Antonioni's L'Avventura- although shot in color, especially in the scenes at Capri, at the famous Malaparte Villa, replete with wedge shaped brick and stone stairs and crags that rise from the sea, cinematographer Raoul Coutard displays that he actually had talent, unlike some of the earlier, visually sloppier films of Godard. The red, yellow, white, and blue palette Technicolor scheme also is effectively evoked to give the film a look that is more modern than many contemporary films, as well as being more modern and mature in the screenplay and attitudes- despite its flaws. Coutard also makes great use of the Cinemascope wide shots- called Francescope in this production, as characters are constantly and interestingly framed at the edged of the screen. Another plus is the use of flashbacks and flashforwards as voiceovers rove, for this effectively demonstrates the faronzaled attitudes of the characters. A big negative, however, is the Georges Delerue score. The main theme herks and jerks into inappropriate scenes, and often adds a melodramatic touch that is almost laughable. It also rises up and cuts off without warning, or any relation to the on screen goings on, and each instance of its use progressively weakens its impact. In the commentary, Stam claims that the music is used as punctuation on dramatic and/or important moments, but this is simply not so. It is undisciplined and poorly applied. To say the least, Godard was no Werner Herzog with soundtracks.This sort of artistic anomy- along with that in other aspects of the film, may make many vapid critics masturbate, but great art is not the child that such bears. Too much is left open ended in the film, and that which is resolved simply is not that fascinating, since the viewer is never given enough to care about the characters. In this sense, Godard shares as much 'contempt' for his viewers as many of the bad Hollywood films, and the material machinations that produce them, this film seems to criticize. Still, it is his most successful film at connecting with an audience, more so than that other reflexive 1963 opus on film-making, Federico Fellini's 8½; although Contempt is not as good a film. Nor is it as nearly as cogent a comment on marriage as either Antonioni's La Notte nor Ingmar Bergman's Scenes From A Marriage. The thirty minute interlude, especially, pales in comparison to Bergman's crackling and realistic, if intelligentsia-laden, repartee.One wonders what might have occurred had Godard done more big budget films, for the rigor of having to meet some others' expectations disciplined him, and toned down his most masturbatory tendencies. Unfortunately, he never again went so mainstream, a thing which is often a pox on an artist- think about all the Hollywood films of the last thirty years, or that Chick Lit that you are reading, but which occasionally can help a 'fringe' artist, with delusions of grandeur and an empty philosophy, mediate into excellence. Without it, Godard is simply Godard, and Contempt a beautiful film that is lifeless and flaccid, where nothing happens. It is populated by mannekins which have no lives of their own. This makes for a pretty window display, but gets old quickly after you've taken it all in. "},{"Title":"Astonishingly tedious","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Le mépris (Jean-Luc Godard, 1963) sounds intriguing, but staggers under the weight of its own pretensions. The plot, according to almost anyone you ask, is this screenwriter Michel Piccoli is torn between an artistic director (Fritz Lang, good fun playing himself) and a commercially-minded producer (Jack Palance), his artistic problems coinciding with home life troubles. Really, though, this is a 90-minute lovers' quarrel, with a soupcon about art and compromise occasionally nudged into the narrative. If that sounds fun, then go ahead. The film is at its best in the first hour, with fine use of the central musical theme (later borrowed by Scorsese for Casino), some spectacular Cinemascope photography and snippets of fairly involving characterisation, but the final third is almost unbearably tedious, dominated by marital squabbling that becomes hopelessly mannered and repetitive. It's interesting to see Bardot as the director's muse, but while she's really rather good, she's scuppered by the infuriatingly shallow scripting. In the Region 2 disc's accompanying documentary, Bardot et Godard, the narrator says All Godard's films are portraits of the modern woman illogical, disarming, capricious, exasperating, regal ... mysterious. Try All Godard's films are artificial, unilluminating portraits of the two women he seems to have met illogical, capricious, naked and really, REALLY annoying. Likewise, though Lang has some interesting - if rigidly Godardian - things to say about man's relationship with God and with film, the movie too often lapses into self-indulgent rubbish. Godard is clearly delighted at the points he's making, but they tend to be either obvious or confused. The dearth of insight is typified by including the character of an interpreter, who takes up about a fifth of the running time saying something someone else has just said, making a pretty crude point about the incompatibility of the archetypes in a very long-winded, tiresome manner. While the key cinematic homage in Godard's first film, À bout de soufflé, was stylised and clever (Ah, Bogie!), here the namechecking of Rio Bravo and Bigger Than Life comes across as pointless and laboured. Lang's contention that Cinemascope is good for snakes and coffins rather than people is a nice moment, while the unsurprising revelation that he prefers his 1931 film M to the bloody dreadful Rancho Notorious has a clear implication one is a clear; artistic statement, the other Hollywood studio product. But I'd still rather watch Lang's Fury, or The Big Heat, to Le mépris, which is self-satisfied, overly familiar and ultimately dull. "},{"Title":"Contemptuous Anti-Film","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One can almost see the self-satisfied smirk on Godard's face as he watched the critics of the day fall over themselves to praise this stultifying exercise in pretentious self-indulgence. Like a child who wishes to destroy his toys &#x96; but with infinitely more style and grace &#x96; he methodically set about disassembling every accepted notion of modern cinema then giggled behind his hand as the establishment gazed in admiration at the pretty patterns of the pieces before patting him on the head.Michel Piccoli plays a writer drafted by brash American movie producer Jack Palance to re-write his version of Odyssey, which is currently being filmed by veteran German director Fritz Lang (playing himself). As he struggles to decide whether to accompany Palance on a location trip to Capri, Piccoli is disturbed by the sudden unexplained moodiness of his beautiful young wife (the luscious Brigitte Bardot).Contempt is ostensibly a reference to Bardot's opinion of Piccoli. In the opening scene she is in full sex-kitten mode, lying naked on a bed, ticking off her various body parts and asking her adoring husband whether he likes them, and it is clear she loves him as much as he loves her. The next time we meet her, one seemingly insignificant incident triggers a shockingly abrupt turnaround in her feelings, and her relationship with Piccoli rapidly begins to unravel (although, paradoxically it feels as though it takes Bardot and Godard an absolute age to finally get there).The disintegration of the unhappy couple's relationship is frequently mirrored in the story of the Odyssey, and direct comparisons are often drawn between the two. Their story drifts slowly towards a lazy conclusion of which Godard was no doubt immensely proud.That's because the title of the film refers as much to the emotion with which he held the state of cinema as it does the emotions felt by the characters of the screen. Godard deliberately took every aspect of accepted film-making practice in this film and turned it on its head. Its characters are unconvincing and shallow or unconvincing and clichéd and the central protagonists are paralysed with indecision; the story fails to resolve many of the issues it raises and arrives at an unsatisfactory conclusion; montage sequences are misused to render them meaningless; the scene in the couple's flat lasts an inordinate length of time in comparison to other scenes in the film, thus disrupting the film's rhythm; the lush, romantic score is inappropriate to the story on the screen and intrudes at random moments. Fritz Lang, the old-time director whose on-screen film is being cheapened by Palance's brash producer, represents the cinema of the past, cast aside for lesser values Godard clearly despises (see Palance's child-like glee at the sight of the mermaid's breasts, for example).It's a clever idea in many ways, but its contempt isn't only reserved for the filmmakers themselves; it's aimed just as squarely at those who sit and watch it in darkened theatres and living rooms... "},{"Title":"The Mother Lode For Pretentious Film Students The World Over!","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" CONTEMPT (4 outta 5 stars) Definitely not a movie for all tastes. It's probably the best example one could have of a movie that is beloved by critics but considered maddeningly-boring by mainstream audiences. I think it appeals to people who like to pontificate about movies... rather than just watch and enjoy. Every word uttered and every nuance of every character is ripe for endless debate and analysis. This movie is the Mother Lode for pretentious film students the world over! Still, there is no denying that the movie is extremely well-made. I don't think it makes the list as one of my favorite Godard films... but there is no question that the man is a master filmmaker. A writer (Michel Piccoli) and his sexy wife (Brigitte Bardot) meet with a crass Hollywood producer (Jack Palance) to consider some re-write work on an adaptation of The Odyssey. During the course the afternoon the wife comes to realize that she despises her husband... and he spends the rest of the movie trying to figure out why. The movie is full of little in-jokes for film buffs... not the kind of jokes that one laughs at... but the kind that elicit knowing nods. The movie also features excellent photography, great performances and ample nudity... yes, it is definitely a French film! "},{"Title":"I liked 'M' better.","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As Fritz Lang says in the movie, I liked 'M' better. What was this movie about anyway? These characters, while unpredictable and erratic, are also very two-dimensional. Yes, Jack Palance reads a few good lines from his black book, and yes Bridget Bardot is cruel and beautiful with the shifting wind, and yes maybe Penelope really did despise Homer.   So what? This movie is filled with incessant whining and dirty looks. At least the audience gets to witness another trademark Godard death scene (and Bardot's ass). I have a suggestion to speed this movie up. How about this Stay the hell home if you don't want to go to Capri! Damn! A colossal headache! Odysseus would have steered clear of this torture.  "},{"Title":"Bardot is a Knock Out","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film held my interest and I really enjoyed the great acting of Brigitte Bardot, (Camille Javal), Michael Piccoli, (Paul Javal) who are married and the film starts out with them both naked in bed and Paul tells Camille he loves her from head to her very toes and even her rear end and more. As the film progresses, Paul introduces Camille to a producer named Feremy Preokosch, (Jack Palance) who takes his wife for a ride for one hour and her husband is trying to find her. This event seems to have caused many problems in their marriage and Camille will not tell her husband just what happened in that hour they spent alone together. Serious marriage problems seemed to evolve after this incident and the husband and wife will not tell each other just what happened. It could very well be that Paul pimped his wife over to Feremy, which is never really clear. Great film and worth viewing over and over again. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the most important film ever made","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is classic classic art-house filmmaking, a poetic and deeply affecting portrayal of the breakdown of the art film industry in Europe--personified by the calmly sagacious Fritz Lang--paralleled by the breakdown of a relationship.The film features Brigitte Bardot in what is possibly her most convincing role--not just a pretty face here, but an actress in full right.  Jack Palance shines as the boorish American producer.The film's complex themes--drawing heavily on the symbology of Homer's Odyssey--are perhaps most elegantly presented in a 30 minute conversation between Camille (Bardot) and her husband, the film writer.  Filled to overflowing with impoverished dialogue that leads nowhere and everywhere at once, we are left with a sense of estrangement amidst the empty rooms of the forgotten film industry.Shot in Cinemascope, the saturation of colors--emphasis on Mediterranean blues--is convincing and well-suited to the expansive themes.  The cyclic musical score is one of the best in film history.This is an important, MUST-WATCH film.  Unfortunately, it is not readily available for rental in most places.  The film was re-released on the big-screen in 1997, but has not yet been re-released on video.  I, for one, look forward to that day. "},{"Title":"Typical Godard","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"14 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you a fan of Godard films then you may think this is one of the best films you've ever seen, but if you think that he is just a purveyor of pretentious rubbish then maybe you aught to take up self harming because i'm sure its far more entertaining than Le Mépris.There is nothing particularly wrong with the film as the acting is strong, but it is just mind numbingly boring. I have heard many people rave about his use of colour, for example the green of the garden is supposed to signify Jealousy, but in my eyes it is only average. If you are interested in seeing some french cinema from this era then I recommend anything by Truffaut or Renoir. IF you choose Godard and the film isn't Breathless (the only worthwhile piece of cinema he ever made) then be prepared for pain, because you'll be stabbing yourself through the hand with the nearest pen just to alleviate the boredom. "},{"Title":"A totally dreadful film","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"15 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Newcastle Film Society showed this movie last night. What can I say about it, apart from being totally and utterly bored. First, this movie received very bad reviews when it was released, it was panned by critics worldwide and by the public. I'd only seen Breathless, which I think is an interesting film, and one I could watch over again. Contempt on the other hand had very flat dialogue story, Jack Palance was utterly wasted with his overacting, and the cinematography which some describe as stunning appears very flat and uninteresting. I didn't like the story much.. I noticed Leonard Maltin's movie guide gave this film 3.5 stars. I'd give it 1/4 stars - it was horrid! Oh, and before I forget 25 people walked out... "}{"Title":"A film should stand on its own and not require an art appreciation course","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Godard's New Wave film about movie making is really quite boring for the most part.  Bardot gives an excellent performance, but much of it is extremely repetitive and annoying, especially the scenes with her screenwriter husband in their apartment, which is a large part of the film.  One scene in which they discuss whether or not he should take the writing job and go to the filming on Capri is ludicrously belabored and will really test your patience. Some good points   It was fun seeing Fritz Lang playing himself as a rather benign elder statesman-type director.  Jack Palance is also good as the over-the-top ugly American producer.  The scenic photography of Capri is beautiful.  Georgia Moll as Palance's assistant was excellent as was much of Bardot's performance, when she was saying the same thing over and over.This is the type of art film that gives foreign movies a bad name.   It oozes pretension, as does the commentary track that goes with the Criterion release.  The meanings given for many of the scenes appear arbitrary and I don't see how anyone without a deep background in the films and film makers of the period would come up with these ideas.   I guess that's the attraction of films like this, but I'm not going to pretend I liked it.  I watch at least as many foreign films as US films and I am a great fan of the French films of the 30's, 40's and early 50's from Renoir, Clouzot, Bresson, Carne and Cocteau, so this is not xenophobia.   I liked Alphaville but most of the French and Italian films of the late 50's and 60's leave me cold.    Obviously this is a matter of taste, but I think a film should stand on its own merits and not require an art appreciation course to validate them. "},{"Title":"Strongly recommended; but not intellectualized.","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm writing this from a perspective of having seen it 30-some years ago at the Circle Theater in Washington, DC. I have no desire to contradict the intellectual spins on this fine movie -- and isn't it too bad that intellectual movies are no longer being made. I also wish I knew about Fritz Lang back then; since now I've seen most of Fritz Lang's movies.My review is simply this CONTEMPT is the funniest movie I've ever seen. How funny is it? This film had me laughing so intensely that I had to leave my seat and the theater for a few minutes in order to break the cycle of laughing -- literally gaging and turning blue from the intense laughing and rolling on the floor. The laughter simply grows and grows until it takes control, and if you can't break it you die. I haven't experienced that since, not even during SPAMALOT. A co-worker was elsewhere in the audience and next day we were both bragging about the great time we had with this curious but fine movie.The theater was filled to the last seat, and I remember that maybe 20% of the audience were laughing themselves sick, the other 80% were stone-faced. Despite the serious themes of the film, I think the laughs were intentionally provoked. Sometimes in intellectualizing a person can miss the humor. For example, there was virtually no reason why the beautiful wife's love for her husband turns instantly to contempt. Many reviewers were puzzled and looked for a solid reason, but there isn't any. It turned-on-a-dime. When people fall in love, it's often just that quick, and the audience accepts not only the speed but the lack of reason. Isn't it equally tragic -- and funny -- that love ENDS just as fast. Suddenly, for no apparent reason, a person loses it all. Not always funny, but mounted on top of the tons of other criss-crosses of themes -- laughing at life -- it's funny. "},{"Title":"Flat and uninspired","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jean-Luc Godard's ambitious take on an earlier film by Roger Vadim called And God Created Woman fails completely and unmercifully. If you are expecting Breathless or Vivre Sa Vie, look elsewhere. Godard is unapologetic, lengthy, and spiritless in his sell-out production of a failed relationship.The plot isn't a complete flop. A love triangle emerges when American producer Jerry Prokosch (Jack Palance) and French writer Paul Javal (Michel Piccoli) collaborate on a film by famed German director of the silent film era Fritz Lang (played by himself). This liaison dangereuse is touched off by Camille, the wife of Paul, who sees in Jerry everything that Paul lacks (manliness). But Camille, we learn, has Paul on the end of a string. Piccoli is almost comical in his portrayal of the reflective intellectual who lives inside the walls of his head. Camille and Paul fight we see them in their bohemian pad (complete with red sofas and blue chairs). They fight about trivial, yet domestic matters that signify their relationship shallow and destructive&#x97;for both parties.Are we supposed to sympathize with Paul? I don't. Godard made this film in part as an self-explanation to his wife (concerns about his failure to communicate effectively aside), so one imagines that Paul is misunderstood and just. But he isn't. He is far too interested in the ideal (feminine, artistic, etc.) than his failure to love his wife. Is Godard admitting his shortcomings on screen for us to scrutinize? In any event, Godard sides with Camille.Another sticking point in this film is the role of New Wave starlet and sex icon Brigitte Bardot (Camille). On screen, she is so flat you can practically use her as wallpaper. Apart from beaming at the screen and parading her butt (you don't have to wait too long to see her in the nude). Rumor has it that Godard delivered the first cut of the film to the producers, who were stunned that he could make a film with Bardot and not disrobe her. Never one to refuse those who pay his checks, Godard dutifully added certain scenes. (Ironically, Fritz fights with Jerry about making a film that's true to his own artistic vision.) With Bardot, we are reminded of a line in the film God's didn't create humans; humans created Gods. Bardot, it seems, is the Odysseys' Penelope and Paul and Jerry must win her love.The film is shot in Technicolor, which adds life and youthfulness to Godard's oeuvre. The film's lush landscapes and full-palette use of colors is nothing short of marvelous. If you watch this film, pay attention to the yellowness of the Turkish bath robes or the blueness of the Mediterranean. Also watch for Camille diving into the sea and swimming away while Paul drifts off leaning against a cliff wall. But the sound is unforgivable, especially comparing the efficient use of sound by Hitchcock and others and Godard's access to an ample budget. In one scene in which the trio are in a music hall, noise from the dancers on stage chops the dialogue up. It was as if Godard wanted to get the best of both worlds splice dialogue and music to prevent one from dominating the other. The result is utter garbage that serves to draw us out of the scene and make us wonder if something's wrong with the sound system. The scene on stage as background noise would've been more appropriate, and been a non-event rather than an experiment.Ultimately, Camille embraces Jerry and they kiss in Capri. Unlike Francois Truffaut's Jules and Jim, in which a kiss seen by a spouse was almost a non-event, theirs marks the end of Paul and Camille. Still, it has, as one film critic said of a Paul Verhoeven film, all the sexuality of a dead battery. Like Ulysses' voyage, this film is long and seemingly endless, with occasional hurrahs and some real dead spells. The film succeeds on one level&#x97;Godard proves he isn't a one-trick pony and can make a big budget film. But for those expecting the sentimentality and even the depth of other New Wave flicks, you'll be disappointed here. Perhaps for those who have experienced a marriage come unraveled, this film will pack a punch and a clear message.Was Martin Scorsese right when he wrote that Contempt was cinematically sublime? Probably not. Nor is this film, as critic Colin McCabe in Sight and Sound announced, the greatest work of art produced in post-war Europe. But for New Wave buffs and Godard fans, you should go through the motions and feign interest in the bored bohemian existence of Camille, Paul, and Jerry. I couldn't. "},{"Title":"Looks great, more like a picture than a movie","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a movie to be looked at as much as watched. Godard's use of colour is beautiful. The re-occurance of primary colours throughout the film gives it an energy all of it's own. Long scenes of somewhat inane dialogue are coloured by lovingly constructed pictorial scenes.The movie-buff Godard is felt throughout the movie, from the strategically placed movie posters to the business of movie making. Lang is delightful as the movie director who tolerates the machiavellian whims of his producer played by Palance, who is totally unbelievable as the producer who seduces Camille/Bardot and manipulates her screen writer husband Paul/Picolli. The sets are sparse, sexy and dynamic. The acting fairly minimalist. Nothing happens, but we see the dynamics involved in the making of a movie played out in front of us. The story is a tragedy, yet it is not a story at all.Godard, in retrospect, wished to offer the movie-goer a different perspective on a world unknown to most people. He could have been writing and filming about anything (as we would see later in Weekend) The subject matter is irrelevant. It is what you see that appears to matter more than what you understand. And in that respect Godard's movies were high-class left-wing propaganda movies. A product of their time. Godard didn't understand that the proletariat wished for entertainment, and the cinematic bourgeoisie wanted intellectual movie-making not intellectual movies!However, as a piece of cinematic history it is worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"To live is to suffer...","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Stultifying drama from director and (uncredited) writer Jean-Luc Godard, working from Alberto Moravia's novel Il Disprezzo (A Ghost at Noon), concerning French novelist and would-be playwright summoned to Italy by an American movie producer to rewrite the screenplay for his troubled production of Homer's The Odyssey. Godard's use of color is sumptuous, yet he gives us glimpses of the movie-within-the-movie (being directed by Fritz Lang, who portrays himself) without showing us any of the passion that goes into film-making. And it doesn't do the viewer any favors to see Jack Palance's producer kicking around cans of film in anger when the rushes look just as poor to us. As the writer's wife, Brigitte Bardot is frustratingly petulant, selfish, and wildly mercurial; she's photographed for the utmost effect (when one of those scintillating close-ups come, with the deep blue sea in the background, the experience is startling), but her relationship with Michel Piccoli is like a bad running joke. Neither can make a decision, and their combined lack of personal direction is like acid in the other's wounds. They bicker like children in their new apartment, the argument going around and around, yet one is hard-pressed to figure out what is meant to be revealed here. There's not much contrast with the film world alternate story, and the couple's rather discreet indiscretions (he flirts with an assistant, she kisses the producer) don't light a fire under Godard's dreary narrative. If the meandering nature is entirely intentional, the film is a success; it broods and paces and takes its time, but what for? A flatly designed 'ironic' ending...which is almost as puzzling as the many interjected shots of Bardot's naked rear end, apparently a request from this film's actual producer, Carlo Ponti. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"My second Godard..","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It took me 10 years of active moviewatching to see my first Godard and now I keep knocking 'em out of the park. I saw this a few days ago but I couldn't find my premise to begin to discuss something about it. Contempt is aware of itself as a movie, more so than Breathless, and it's aware of the meta-narrative that hovers outside the body of the movie in an effort to perceive the mechanics of it. The approach is dialectic, between Fritz Lang the poetically minded director and Jack Palance the crass controlling movie producer, inbetween the two a film about a film is struggling to be formed. The problem for me here is Godard's expression, is he poking fun or is he in earnest, or both at the same time? When he has Jack Palance say I like gods or everytime I hear about art, I take out my chequebook has he said too much already? And when he has Fritz Lang say that it's enough to feel god close to us or that we should return to an objective perception of the world as is does he similarly snicker? He may very well be but the film feels like it's more than just satire, that it's trying to be serious about something, not just that art can imitate life or the opposite, but perhaps that the two are only removed by the presence or absence of a camera.I like the intellectual qualities of the film, as an exercise on what cinema can be. I like the use of a film about a film device because it mirrors life, perhaps too expressly though, or more precisely not life as we know it but life as we know it from the camera. But if Godard glosses over in satire the appeal of power or art, if both are silly aspirations, what does that say about his own film, of his own story about a husband and wife falling out of love? The few dailies we see of the film Fritz Lang is preparing for Jack Palance are meant to look silly, to reveal the contrivance of art, but what about his own shots of ancient Greek statues, his long shots of people walking and talking? If art is a folly, what does that say about Godard pursuing it in the first place? This ultimate irony for me only comes back to bite Godard in the ass.Or the scene in the cinema where a young talentless singer gives an awful rendition of a popular Italian song for the benefit of Jack Palance. Like the dailies of Fritz Lang's film, Godard seems very keen to point out the bad art in others, to mock the effort. Powell and Pressburger held art as a mirror for life in The Red Shoes but they reveled in the art, Godard on the other hand condescends it. The troubling thing for me is that when the husband lets Brigitte Bardot ride on the fancy car with Jack Palance and she takes off with him, Godard gives us one of the ten best cuts in movie history. He cuts and I can not only think but feel that a world is torn asunder. Almost ashamed of the emotional earnestness of that moment, he spends the rest of the film in mockery and caprice. Even the end echoes that, where Godard summons a capricious fate to decide the follies of the human drama.The title of the film then makes double sense.These were all questions I had in the back of my head, but now I have my premise. The movie opens with a shot of a camera tracking towards us. In the end, the operator pans the camera to point at us. Tao tells us that when we look at the universe, the universe looks back at us (Nietzche gave us only the negative of that). Godard wants us to look into his camera, but I get the feeling that he doesn't want his camera to look into us. His view of a world does not broaden to encompass, it narrows down to a stage. There's a shot where Bardot is framed against a blue sky on the top of a Capri villa, she leaves the shot and her husband enters it. To paraphrase the Faulkner dialogue Jean Seberg reads to JP Belmondo in Breathless, between grief and nothing Godard will pick nothing. "},{"Title":"A Forgotten Film / Curiosity piece","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Contempt, could never be made today, because it would be commercial poison at the box office. . It was made, because of Goddard's clout, at the time. The assembled cast, which is great, is given little to do. A shame. It was assembled, I have no doubt, due to the director's reputation. This film is Goddard's vanity piece, an experiment. Goddard, I believe, accomplished what he wanted to do. Keep that in mind, when you watch this film. Le mempris exists today, as a film of interest only to movie scholars, and film school students, in that it is more technical achievement, than entertainment. Keep that in mind too, before you rent it. "},{"Title":"Worth watching for Bardot","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An odd film. Brigitte Bardot was, of course major eye candy then, and that is the major charm of this film. It seems like the plot from the movie based on The Odyssey is obviously supposed to parallel the relationship between Paul and Camille. Or, more likely, the relationship is the model for the re-interpretation of Homer. A little interesting are the brief scenes which refer to the pistol Paul carried. I suppose it must have just been mis-direction, as it eventually had no bearing on the denouement of the plot. If it were a more modern movie, or one where the director was not in complete control, I would have thought that the film was focus-grouped, and an alternate ending inserted. Some of the direction was a bit bothersome. The art-film snobs think that this shows mastery of the craft, but I find it off-putting. I don't know why people raved about this film. It was OK, but worth watching mainly due to Bardot. "},{"Title":"Good but not Great","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've heard nothing but praise for this film and I have to say... it's overrated. First my complaints The whole conflict between the scriptwriter (Picolli) and his wife (Bardot) is way over played. It becomes redundant, repetitive and ultimately the most boring (and central) part of the film. What I assume are attempts at subtlety and ambiguity in their relationship end up dragging out far too long. Cinematographer Raoul Coutard has done way better. I've heard a lot of praise for his work on this film but I've found many other pictures he's shot to be far better looking. As with a lot of Godard's films, the music is way too repetitive and overused. Lastly, and people might say I'm crazy, but I think Brigitte Bardot is one of the most uninteresting, non- charming, uncharismatic leading lady I've seen in a Godard film. This may be why I found the plot between her and the scriptwriter so dry. It's obvious that we're supposed to admire her hugely but give me Anna Karina over Bardot any day. Come to think of it, the fact that Bardot wasn't larger than life in this film probably weakened some of the points it was trying to make. Contempt does have plenty going for it though. Of course Godard plays with form and style a lot, often rather effectively. Jack Palance is hilarious as the American producer and Fritz Lang is so watchable and interesting as himself. What I liked the most about this film is it's overall expression of love for cinema, while still acknowledging both the ups and downs of it. This is not amongst the best of the Jean Luc Godard films I've seen but it's still well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"extremely dated","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Though some parts of the cinematography are great, the movie and premise are extremely dated.  A morality play among Hollywood types as if that really existed.  HAH.  Worth a good laugh. No frontal nudity of BB.  I ended up fastforwarding the second half of the movie.  "}{"Title":"cool movie, Bardot's butt","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Come see Bardot's butt and more thrills in this wondrously filmed Goddard epic that's self reflective about being self reflective about being self reflective.  You'll love Jack Palance  I know how the gods feel, I feel like a god sometimes.  this movie MUST be seen widescreened.  Not sure if it's available, but Martin Scorcese has been championing a re-release of the film and it's making its art-house rounds. the cinema is dead "},{"Title":"I detest you because you can't make me feel anything!","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" **SPOILERS** Strange way to make a movie with the films producer Jeremy Prolcosch, Jack Palance, having an affair with the scriptwriter's Paul Javal, Michel Piccoli,wife Camille, Brigitte Bardot.Camille is extremely suspicious of her husband Paul in fooling around with Jeremy's secretary Francesca, Glorgia Moll. it, Camille suspicious mind, gets so out of hand that it effects Paul's ability to jazz up the script and make Homer's The Odyssey at least acceptable to the now, 1960's, movie going public.Trying to get a handle of what to write Paul is also handicapped by him being a purest at heart in not wanting to mess up the work of the great Greek philosopher Homer in commercializing it with lots of needless sex and violence. Working for the great German detector Fritz Lange, played by Lange himself, has Paul feel that he should be himself in his writing and not try to impress Fritz with a load of made up BS about Homer's The Odyssey. Paul feels that the story despite it being somewhat dated is not to be compromise by making it into a cheap dime store novel just to get people in the theaters.Camille getting edgy by the minute, even though by now she knows that Pauls not cheating on her, goes so far to get under her tortured husbands skin that she openly flirts with Jeremy and even kisses the producer just where, on the isle of Capri where The Odyssey is being filmed, Paul can see her. In a last desperate effort to get her back to him Paul tells an obvious stuck up Camille that he's quitting writing for Jeremy! Paul thinks that Camille feels that he's somehow using her, in letting her screw around with Jeremy, to get Jeremy to have him write the script for his movie.All these noble efforts by Paul fall by the wayside in that Camille has no use for him since, in his stubborn effort to be a purest in his writings, he can't provide her with the lavish and luxurious lifestyle that Jeremy could. Paul who made a whopping profit for himself and Camille with his last work the screenplay to the mega blockbuster Toto against Hercules was the reason that Jeremy hired him to write the screenplay for his version of Homer's The Oddssey. In his writing the script Toto against Hercules Paul at least knew it was a piece of commercial junk and just did it for the money. In the script for The Odyssey Paul would not allow himself to screw up the story just to make it a big commercial success which director Fritz Lange himself wanted him to avoid doing.****SPOILER ALERT*** The ending is a bit contrived with Camille leaving Paul alone with his unfinished script at Capri while going to stay with Jeremy at his specious pad in Rome. This is the life that Camille always wanted and now, being Jeremy's lover or possible wife, she'll have. But things like that in life don't always turn out that way and Camille, together with Jeremy, are to find that very important and ironic fact out, by experiencing it, the hard way!Talky and overbearing at times the movie is saved by the fine acting of its major stars Brigitte Bardot Michel Piccoli and Jack Palance. But by far the movie is mostly worth watching by having, against the movies directors Jan-Luc Gadard strong objections, actress Brigitte Bardot's world famous derrière featured in it, from long shot to close-up as well as in color and black & white, in at least in a half dozen scenes. "},{"Title":"I'm done with denial, It was OK","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As much as Godard is pissing me off, as much as he's important. I'll never say it enough. This movie might be his most important work with A bout de soufflé. Inspired by Moravia's novel, Godard is toying throughout the movie with his beloved cinema. He's presenting us a movie well marked by his eccentric and weird style of direction. Love it or hate it, it's original. Most of all, it was shocking for the time. I still think Godard is asking for way too much attention(he should really play in his own movies), but it came with a pretty good result. The legendary beginning credits is an important reflexion about cinema. I don't like the man, but hey, Le Mépris was a leap forward in contemporary cinema. No need for denial. "},{"Title":"Much walking,much smoking, much empty talking...","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was intrigued to watch a film by Godard with Bardot. I cannot say I am impressed. It is a rather pretentious and boring story dealing with petty and insignificant conflicts. Godard has tried to expose the artificiality of cinema. But ironically this very film is extremely artificial. Because in order to expose artificiality, you have to be genuine yourself. And that is exactly what Godard is not. The very dialogs, the constant moving of the characters, the lack of motivation in their actions etc. are far from real life. The American is nothing but a malicious caricature, the constant repetitions of Do you love me? Why don't you love me? and the like are tedious. I just could not identify with any of the characters even partially. The subject of good and cultured Europe vs. bad and vulgar America is very primitively shown. And the film relies too much on Bardot's sex-appeal to maintain the viewer's interest.The very first minute of the film we are confronted by Bardot's naked ass. Curiously, even the eroticism in the film is cold and sterile, as indeed is the whole film. Maybe the only good thing is the setting where the whole story takes place i.e. the beautiful island of Capri and Villa Mallaparte which is one of the most interesting examples of modern architecture. But this alone is not enough for a film, alas! "},{"Title":"The Discrete Charm of The Emperors Robes.","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The striking thing is that although some comment writers here at IMDb appear not to have understood such basic aspects as which character is which, or what sequence of events actually occur in the story, they nonetheless manage to award it maximum credit and declarations of masterpiece.One viewer here has said that Mr Prokotsch carries a little book from which he is fond of quoting banal aphorisms. In fact the character who is fond of making these utterances is the real-life Fritz Lang ( played by himself ). They are not Hallmark trifles but quotes from playwrights and he utters them not from a little book but from memory! Indeed, I don't think such a little book of quotations appears in the movie even once! Clearly the reviewer in question didn't know which character was which, what it was they were doing, or what in actuality ( rather than their imagining ) was happening on the screen.Several viewers refer to the alleged significance to the psychological play of one character leaving a second alone with a third. Yet in fact, the true weight of this is not demonstrable upon the basis of what we actually see. It is, on the contrary, only one of several conjectures uttered by one of the characters and is neither confirmed nor denied. Similarly, in another comment here we are told that one character despises another because he is selling-out rather than pursuing his dream. And yet in the actual movie ( as opposed to the version in that viewers imagination ) it is this character himself who declares this, not having it echoed or endorsed by any of the others.On the contrary, every clue as to the psychology of the relationships shown is carefully balanced with others in such a way that we are denied any so simple an explanation for what transpires. Just as the characters ponder and conjecture the psychology of Homers characters in the film they are making we are left to wonder which of any number of possibilities explains the relationships in this story! Which raises the alleged auxiliary narrative of the making of the film itself. Despite what at least one person writing here states, this tells us virtually nothing about the practical experience of the movie-making process. Rather, the movie-making process acts as a framework or scaffolding defining an abstract space within which the relationships unfold. Similarly, this sense of an abstract space, a virtual proscenium as it were, is made boldly and visually in the scenes that take place on the rectangular, flat sun-blasted roof of a building. It is so like a stage. It is accessed by the characters via a tiled flank that steps down in a broad stair-like manner reminiscent of the pedestal of a Greek temple. Echoing the Homeric themes of the movie the characters are working on.That so many reviewers can be so factually mistaken about what they think takes place in the movie, to the extent of confusing characters and conflating events, yet nonetheless resoundingly endorse it as a masterpiece poses very basic questions about the objectivity of their judgement.Had none of them been primed by the reputation of the Great Godard to expect it to be a masterpiece, perhaps they would either have thought otherwise of it, or perhaps even have watched it more closely. Dare I say, more appreciative of its genuine attributes.For this is a little recognised problem with the ready flow of hyperbole in praise of an Emperors Fine Robes. It actually deprives the artist of a fair assessment. I, among many, find myself encouraged by the all too abundant flow of automatic accolade by those who are keen to be seen as sophisticated by their appreciation, to be unduly hostile of the actual work even before seeing it.So I have to pause to take stock of the actual merits of this movie, rather than be provoked by the reactions of they who are blind to all but reputation.The principle strength of the film is in the very denial of an explicit narrative interpretation such as some writers here have referred to. The movie is visually flat. Most strikingly in the scenes in the apartment which uses the architecture of the interior to compartmentalise the characters into different boxes in a flat plane. Entirely consonant with concepts being explored in painting contemporaneous with the making of this movie. But the story is also rendered flat by the way in which insights into the psychology of the characters are offered and yet at once contradicted or withdrawn. Thereby creating an impenetrable cryptic surface of Human affairs that may seem to be an artistic conceit yet is on reflection, true to real life. In Hollywood's version of reality there is always one final narrative. In real life there never is. Nor is there in this movie. Watch it with an open mind as to what happens in those relationships, taking into account all of the evidence rather than just what fits your preconceived notions, and you will be forced to come to an open verdict. A position of irresolvable enigma rendered final by the tragic event near the end.At first my reaction to this, and its occurrence off screen was to think it a cheap shot. But it indeed serves this function of rendering the mystery of the story as to why one character reacts to another, irrevocable by removing one of those characters forever from the prospect of revealing that truth. As the character in question actually says in almost the preceding scene Not even death will force me to tell you.Overall, the film is of academic interest like a challenging piece of art in a gallery. So it might be thought of as part of Godards work in progress at that time. It has zero value as entertainment. "},{"Title":"What the ...","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I envy all people whose world changed when they saw this movie. I envy them big time. I fell asleep when I saw it, and I think this is the first and only movie that ever succeeded in doing that. There goes my reputation as an intellectual. I cannot enjoy the merits of the genius Godard, because the story gets in the way. What story? No story. Just a repetition of the same all over again, ad infinitum. I like story. I like development, story development, character development. I'm sorry. I know that's banal. This film is just too subtle and too storyless for me. I guess I'll have to stick to my favorite boring story containing movies like Amarcord or Playtime. Sigh. What do they see what I don't see and that keeps them awake? I'm seriously jealous. "},{"Title":"Didn't like it 15 years ago, still don't care for it now","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I first got to college, I was already into cinema and elected an intro to film course. I was only watching modern movies at that point, mostly American, and I was unsatisfied with most of the films we were watching for the class (most of them I've come around to liking since, though they all have a bit of a stigma of being attached to that class). The one big exception was Godard's Breathless, which kind of blew me away. It just felt fresh, where so many of those other films felt dated to me. Outside of the class, when exploring a video store's foreign section, a friend and I picked up Contempt - I wanted to see more Godard and he wanted to see more Brigitte Bardot (I have no idea how he already knew about her). He got the better deal, with Bardot's beautiful bum gracing the screen for a few glorious minutes. I was unsatisfied with this follow-up to Breathless. I think I avoided Godard for a year or two afterward, but I started liking him again when I saw Band of Outsiders. I pretty much ate up all of his other films afterward, loving most of them. I had always meant to get back to Contempt, but never did. Unfortunately, several years ago, particularly after Notre Musique, I fell out of love with Godard. This second viewing of Contempt is the first Godard film I've watched or rewatched since Notre Musique (though I've bought several, including Contempt). I wonder, if I had watched it when I was in my Godard period, would I have loved it as I did so many others? Strangely enough, I felt almost exactly the same way about Contempt that I felt about it the first time it's gorgeous, but, lord, is it a bore. I can almost live on the images alone - especially all the images of Bardot. But, much like Bardot herself, Contempt comes across as gorgeous but utterly empty. None of the other performances are any good, either. Palance, whom in general I like, is particularly awful. Piccoli is a total bore, too, and I can't help feeling a man who looks so much like an ape shouldn't be with Bardot. It's interesting to see Fritz Lange as an actor, but he doesn't have much to do. Really, the only character I had any real attraction to was Giorgia Moll, who may be even prettier than Bardot. The film'd almost be better without any people in it - the scenery is plenty good. But they'd also have to remove that terrible, repetitive score to make it worth sitting through - it's easily the worst part of the whole film. But it's Brechtian! my film professor would say. *beep* off! I would reply. "},{"Title":"A distant call for 'balance'.","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have nothing to say about this film, as I have not seen it. I would like to see it, however the deluge of (highly) contradictory reviews at this site hinder any attempts at closure as far as my decision is concerned. Be lucky that you may expend time lamenting (or praising) this film for the mere price of three of your American dollars (rental). The rest of the world (i.e. Us) have to buy and then decide whether or not it's a pile of celluloid offal. Do not complain so vacuously so often. criticism and/or  praise is good, but if your intention in writing a review is directed at helping other people 'sift out' their cinematic choices (as opposed to showing off the little grey cells or alternately becoming reactionary toward other people's snotty intellectual vanities etc.) then at least bother to write something balanced (ish) and less pontificatory. Thank you so much.  "},{"Title":"By the numbers Godard....","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A good movie but far from a great one.  Everyone with even rudimentary knowledge of Godard will be able to see through and read into his tricks. Due to the talent and international financing a somewhat diluted, toned down film shouldn't be a huge surprise.See Weekend or Alphaville instead.  "},{"Title":"Typical Godard, Which Means a Test of Patience","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I know this comment will make me sound like a film Philistine, but I find Jean Luc Godard's movies more often than not to be endurance tests, and Contempt was no exception.Godard's chief MO was to puncture the illusion of cinema and reveal it to be a construct -- he basically wanted to strip away the exterior and show the machinery working underneath. Fair enough. I think approaches like Godard's are necessary in any art form if it is to grow. However, that doesn't necessarily make the results enjoyable to watch. Godard films are abstract, cold and ever so slightly lifeless. Watching a Godard film is like reading an essay about the Great Depression when you could be reading The Grapes of Wrath instead.Grade C+ "}{"Title":"better than most Godard films--and with gorgeous cinematography","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I must first point out that I don't particularly like Godard's films, so this makes my reviews a bit biased. Of course, those who think he is a genius are biased as well, so the reader of this review will just need to find out for themselves if he's a genius or a highly overrated and pretentious director. After seeing films such as Alphaville and Prenom Carmen, I am definitely a believer that he is the latter.There is a germ of an excellent film here in the plot. There are parallel stories occurring--the Odyssey being re-made and a writer who treats his beloved wife with indifference. Although I read a review that could not understand why the wife so quickly went from loving to hating him, I could see this, so my only average review is not due to this. Instead, it is the stupidity of the camera work. Godard was proud that he was NOT like old-school directors (who, for example, tried to artistically frame their work) and would let the camera wander off-track or slide back and forth instead of the usual shots. Many consider this great, but I just think it's annoying. It's amazing that such beautiful locations and Technicolor are practically wasted due to deliberately sloppy camera techniques. Given a different director with different sensibilities, this would have been a much better film. Interestingly enough, the great director Fritz Lang is a major character in the movie and he plays himself. Too bad Lang did not direct this as well. Oh, and Jack Palance is in the movie as well playing a jerk of a producer. I hope producers really aren't like him in real life! FYI--there is a decent amount of nudity in the movie. While not super-explicit, parents are advised against letting kids see this. You certainly do get to see a bunch of shots of Ms. Bardot's exquisite butt, so Bardot fans should make this a must-see.I should also add that the musical score was wonderful, but it was, at times, poorly integrated--being way too loud and intrusive. "},{"Title":"Quasi-intellectual tosh.","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was amazed at seeing the waste of a good book by a fine author in the hands of Godard. By the time he made Le Mepris, he had become so self-indulgent that the film in places is quite laughable. Stilted dialogue, boring, circular, mundane. The trick Godard can never pull off - as only genuinely clever directors can - is to depict boring and mundane without being boring and mundane. And trying to dignify his work by casting a tired and out-of-it Fritz Lang only added to the embarrassment. All Lang did was look bored (as well he might) walking around, dropping heavy aphorisms all over the place, some of them quite meaningless, each delivered with an implied shrug and a sigh as if he knew what crap he was being made to utter! (The poor man even had to refer to his now ancient success, Rancho Notorious, which rather demeaned him.) The camera-work was often self-conscious or very poor when it wasn't merely adequate. Likewise the photography was indifferent when it wasn't overlit. Palance looked quite ill at ease most of the time, and who could blame him for that? It's peculiar Godard always seems to laud the old time American mainstream directors but can't ape their technique for toffee. Le Mepris' only saving grace was BeBe herself, whose impossibly beautiful aura shone throughout the film. "},{"Title":"Truly One of the Most Contemptuous Films I've Ever Seen","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So Hollywood movie producer Jack Palance hires the extremely talented director Fritz Lang to direct a film adaptation of Homer's Odyssey. A cartoon stereotype of the overwhelmingly arrogant American, Palance is repulsed by and opposed to Lang's treatment of the material as an art film (having seen many films by Lang, I personally don't think he would've ever made the film Godard depicts him to have made) and hires a writer played by Michel Piccoli to revise the script. The conflict between creative expression and advantageous commercial prospect corresponds with Piccoli's estrangement from his wife Brigitte Bardot, who becomes detached from Piccoli, in another one of Godard's pretentious scenes of internal indecision and external inertia between two lovers, after he leaves her alone with Palance, who is of course a hot shot convertible-driving playboy.Piccoli and Bardot's estrangement is obvious to us long before Godard is finished demonstrating it to us, continuing throughout his career to insult the intelligence of his audience by indulging in his own conscious effort to be different.Piccoli, Bardot, and Palance correspond to Odysseus, Penelope, and Poseidon, respectively. Oooooh!I just watched a French interview from 1964 of idolized New Wave filmmaker Jean-Luc Godard on YouTube. I've liked Breathless and Tout Va Bien, but I'm embittered towards him because his very snobbish and uninformed bite at Steven Spielberg, saying that Schindler's List was nothing more than an attempt to cash in on the Holocaust, which couldn't possibly be true because Spielberg famously was not paid for directing the movie. I watched the interview on YouTube because I was interested to see if my picture of Godard as an intellectual snob was founded, and it was, because anyone who watches this interview with the knowledge of his high-horsey criticism of very influential people like Spielberg and Jane Fonda can plainly see that he himself is guilty of selling out. The interview was for Contempt, which was made very popular at the time of its release because of the showcase of Brigitte Bardot's nude body. Godard answers the very admittedly prudish French interviewer's question about the scene by saying that he originally did not film those scenes with Bardot but that the American distributors said that in order to make the movie commercial, he would have to include a sex scene with her at the beginning, middle and end. Although he told the Americans that according to the story, it was impossible for her to have sex scenes with her at the middle and end, he submitted to annexing a sex scene at the beginning and nude scenes as substitutes for sex at the middle and end.Aside from my image of him as an intellectual snob being correct, as he seemingly needlessly references Cellini's Venus sculpture, for example, so that he can elusively flaunt his knowledge and intellect, we see that one of Godard's most famous, most talked-about, and most iconic sequences on film proves him a grandiose hypocrite.Godard also throws in a discussion of Dante's Inferno and Friedrich Hölderlin's poem, The Poet's Vocation. Normally, if there are elements of a film that I don't quite catch on to at first, I am patient for them to dawn on me. With films like Contempt, I feel contempt. There is a standard that the audience must reach. It looks down upon you. Whether it is fully comprehensible beyond its surface or not is irrelevant, because one no longer cares after the film tunes out from its audience and panders coldly to its own flight of fancy. Have many great films done that? Yes, but they are at least connected to the audience's reaction, whether bewildered, aghast, enlightened, intrigued, whatever. Contempt couldn't care less about your reaction. Its title is perfect. It's like a brand name. You pick it up at the video store and that's what you get. Contempt. "},{"Title":"Godard Stumbles","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was very disappointed. The words vacuous, vapid, shallow come to mind. Oh, and pretentious. The storyline was pretty simple and could have been a framework for a really bad film, or a really great one. What we got from Godard is mediocre. The acting was atrocious-Jack Palance was a continual over the top embarrassment. Bardot basically pouted her way through the whole film, or just looked bored. Fritz Lang looked like he was just glad to be paid for hanging out in Capri and spouting impressive quotes. Only Picoli added any real hint of depth. Someone compared this to L'Aventura and had the gall to say the cinematography in this mess was superior. Nobody creates scenes like Antonioni-he is a master at framing, his camera work nearly flawless. There is no comparison. Godard was trying for a clever documentary and stumbled badly. Watch L'Eclisse and you will watch a master director do magic with two wonderful actors-Monica Vitti and Alain Delon. There was no tension, no sense of urgency to care about these people. The photography was merely pretty in a Kodak sort of way. But nothing in this film moved or inspired. "},{"Title":"Much Ado about nothing","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Contempt is Godard's one of the most celebrated movies. The plot of the movie is simple and characters quite real. The movie is made in a certain style. All the scenes are well shot and very well thought of. Despite all movie making hoopla and Hollywood bashing and Ulysses references I found the movie quite boring. The movie is so real that it hangs somewhere in between great cinema and documentary. Movie doesn't have anything to say. Producers are pimps and directors are whores is a contrite topic. Discussions between husband wife are repetitive and lengthy. If thats the point then its a silly point. There are nude scenes which are supposed to be mocking nudity in 60s. That reminds me of a great quote by mahatma Gandhi 'An eye for an eye makes the world blind'. Through out the movie i knew what was coming. Even the climax is so horribly predictable. The movie has just too much Godard in it. You know all the time that he is standing there in the middle of the screen. A bad movie by a great director. "},{"Title":"And the Oscar goes to...Bardot's Butt","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't want to delve into all of the reasons why I found this movie unbearable so I will just give a few examples 1. The back and forth translation between French and English is VERY distracting and annoying. 2. The dialogue between the main characters is extremely repetitive and doesn't reach any real resolution. 3. Do not expect to see anything about film-making in this movie, despite what it says on the back of the DVD. The few scenes of a camera crew are just filler. 4. I am not against nudity in film, but the amount of screen time devoted to Bardot's behind was ridiculous and not really necessary.The only aspect of this film that impressed me was the cinematography; the scenery is really quite breathtaking. If you want to see a film by Jean-Luc Godard, I recommend Breathless because that is the only one of his movies that did not bore me to tears. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the less boring Godard's movie (that's not a praise)","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Premise I saw several Godard's movies of the Nouvelle Vague period, when I was twenty-something. An age when you're ready to swallow everything in the (usually frustrated) quest for Art, Ideas of Genius, Style. Question if I already knew Godard, why being so fool to record Le mepris overnight? Answer (very easy) because of Brigitte Bardot.If you have seen other Godard's works, you may easily predict the contents of Le mepris. People with a deranged look, over-long speeches scarcely related to the story. Godard's style requires that suddenly and unreasonably someone dies. That's a joy for the audience it means that the movie is over.It should be said that Le mepris is possibly the less boring movie made by Godard (I know that people unaware of Godard couldn't believe that). At least one follows the story and gets what's happening on the screen. And the dialogue makes enough sense. For instance, husband and wife talk for half an hour (literally! check your clock) if it is the case to go to Capri. We can perfectly follow their argument about that... However, the fact that Bardot is naked for most of this conversation is not that great relief for the viewer one may expect. By the way, Michel Piccoli wears his felt hat all along the movie in bed, in the bath-tub, at the beach, etc. You wanna-be artists, learn from this profound touch of genius by Godard!What about Brigitte Bardot? Well, of course Godard is not just a director, he is an Author. Thus, in order to break the bourgeois conventions, he refuses to base his film on BB's beauty. For most of her scenes, the director makes long-distance shots of Brigitte. I say any girl with long blond hair and beautiful legs could have replaced BB as a stunt... And then BB is forced to wear an enormous, absurd, horrid black wig, which greatly affects her beauty. A real shot in the back of the audience! A small number of close-ups of an un-wigged Brigitte partially raise our spirits...For a good third of her screen-time, Brigitte is more or less naked... Needless to say, you see practically nothing. Moreover, the atmosphere of the film is so icy that the very idea of erotism is unconceivable. If you look for a delightful, cheerful, good taste erotic aura, see other movies featuring young BB.For people interested in Le mepris see the movie at your own risk.        "},{"Title":"Made me feel contemptuous, all right...","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"10 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I read people lavishing praise on this film, I feel a little like the child in The Emperor's New Clothes. I mean, really, crap is crap, even if it is wrapped in a burrito of pseudo-profundity.There was some funny material, mostly supplied by Jack Palance as the ultra-smarmy producer. But otherwise, the lead characters are uninteresting-- I didn't care about them at the start, and - surprise!- I didn't care about them at the end.Throughout, I wasn't sure where Godard's tricks began and where his technical ineptness ended. Weird editing abounds, with many cuts against actions that really break the flow. Is this a device, Godard saying to us, hey folks, just a movie here! and if so, to what end?(On a related note, I don't know if the dubbing in the version I saw was bad on purpose, or was also an attempt to break down the form. In one scene in a theatre, a woman on stage is singing a song- but is clearly lipsyncing something other than what is playing. And then, when the characters in the audience speak to each other, the song cuts out for their dubbed dialogue. In my mind, it says something negative about a film when I can't tell if this sort of thing is purposeful or not.)And ultimately, the movie says nothing interesting about one of its more obvious themes, the conflict between the pure artist and the greedy producer. (A pretty dull topic to begin with, anyway.)In the final analysis, not much to recommend here. Worthwhile for mocking arty film pretense and also for Bardot's ass.1963. In garish colour with garish dubbing. Rating 3 out of 10 (poor). "},{"Title":"contemptive","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most pompous movies to have ever been made. It prides itself as being a great movie about cinema when it reallyis nothing but a bunch of Godard-ism that goes around in circlesand doesn't even try to make sense.  The use of 'The Odyssey' is areally cheap trick here, because it doesn't really do anything. Talking about different theories relating to Odysseus andPenelope can be interesting, but when we see the way it's beingfilmed, oh my god!  It's plain ridiculous, just as Bardot is a snottyand terrible actress and wife.  In the end, one doesn't understand ifthis movie is about relationships, rewriting history, or -as it claims-cinema.  It does not belong to the absurd either, so why doesn'tanything make sense?  Because it looks intellectual.  I haveactually seen this twice, and the first time I must admit is sort ofOK. The second time though was pure torture. Although the musicinitially sounds nice, it is used in such a dramatic way in the moviethat all it does is bang on the viewers' nerves.  When I think aboutthe movie now that's what really gets to me most, in a veryaggravating way.  Colors are nice, but is that enough to make amovie good?  Nevertheless, it is a pure Godard, and it is worthviewing just to get a sense of what he can be like. "},{"Title":"A BORING, DULL, PRETENTIOUS, PREDICTIBLE WASTE.","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm sorry, but I have to voice my true opinions of this film.  I can already hear the angry cries from fans, ready and willing to tear my head off for insulting such a masterpiece.  But please, spare me the hate mail, arguments and violent demands--just let it be.  After all, this is merely my opinion!  Now down to business--I absolutely hated every second of this movie.  In direct comparison to other films of the same time hailed (and actually deserving) of their revolutionary and genius status (works by Truffaut, Bergman, and Fellini come to mind), Godard's Contempt is a plain and flat examination of nothingness, and is therefore not much more than a torture to view.  I desperately tried to love this film, and I really attempted to ponder and think of it as thought provoking art.  I give credit to Godard for being avant-garde and experimental, possibly even ahead of his time, but the film only comes across as pompous movie making.  I can envision Godard giving himself a pat on the back for being such a clever guy, and this narcissism tears through the celluloid, eventually catering primarily to narcissistic audiences that, just as Godard must have done, believed themselves to be nothing short of ground-breaking academics and ingenious intellectuals.  The film, when it's not way off track and stumbling, centers on an utterly disgusting and intolerable married couple--and we pay the $3.00 rental fee basically to see both of these self-obsessed grunts arguing non-stop for two hours.  Is this cinema at its best?  Is it beautifully realized art?  Is this a brilliant filmmaker, unleashed, and on the top of his game?  I really hope the answer to all these questions is no.  I hated the characters, the annoying experimental color changes, the flat acting, the tawdry cinematography...am I missing something?  Last weekend I had the pleasure of renting 8 1/2.  Comparing the two films was inevitable, simply because they both share a great reputation and both are from Europe and were made in 1963.  Fellini's film is truly a masterpiece--pulsating with life, joyous and fun, comic and dramatic, dreamy and artistic--this movie represents film at its best.  Contempt falls flat on its face in direct comparison, and although they are very different films, I have to ask; if one film is so amazing and and other seems so dead and lacking, what's the point of the latter?  This is at best a good character-examination and a tormenting look at the anxiousness, paranoia, and questioning that comes with many marriages--but on film it just didn't seem coherent or feasible.  It would have worked better as a book...no, wait, scratch that--it was a book before it was a film...so what did Godard find so fascinating about the book in the first place?  Maybe he forgot to incorporate the passions he must have felt for the novel within the movie.  After all, it must be very fatiguing constantly showing the world how much of a genius you are... "}{"Title":"Le Mepris","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I went to see this movie for the 1st time recently and to be perfectly honest it was utter nonsense. The only plus side of this film was to see the beauty that was Bardot in 1963. Jack Palance also starred and he spoke in English whilst a female member of the cast translated into French! You couldn't make it up.I bet when Palance looks back he must have a very red face!I had seen And God Created Woman and that film was so much better.I went with a pal to see Le Mepris and he could not believe how bad it was.This is a movie to avoid like the plague!Ian "},{"Title":"Does anyone REALLY like this movie?!","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ....... ....... ....... .......C'mon, be honest. It's boring as hell. Yeah, there are some interesting scenes and dialogue and --- in retrospect, it seems important, well...sort of. Not really. Anyway, while you're watching it, it's torture. I know not a soul who liked it....and one person who fell asleep during it........If you like Godard, you'll probably like it. If you prefer Chabrol and Melville...pass -- or you'll end up PASSING OUT........ "},{"Title":"not Jean-Luc Godard's finest effort","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Because I am a film geek there are movies I must watch, even if I do not want to. Jean-Luc Godard's 'Contempt' is one of those films.I saw this 1963 Italian/French production yesterday after taping it on TCM some months back. Though the reviews I read through either praised or scorned it, I found myself in the latter. Remember, intrepid reader that criticism is subjective. No two people see the same film the same way. Why? Because we filter the perception with our experiences. And we all have different experiences in life. Through in culture, religion, a host of other variables and you can get many polarizing reviews.Most people know that French film director Jean-Luc Godard IS the French New Wave, starting off with his early 1960's seminal, 'Breathless', which at the time was groundbreaking for its generation. It certainly has influenced many low budget films, certainly a template for 1970s independent film-making auteur John Cassavetes.Why did I dislike 'Contempt'? Was it because of the lack of seeing French sex bombshell Bridget Bardot in a sexy role? This was the least skin she showed in a movie and Jean-Luc was forced to go back and redo some shots to show her nude. Actually, no. That wasn't the reason.What got to me was the endless bickering. The repetitive arguing in Cartesian circular form about their disastrous marriage throughout the entire film made me believe that this was what was going with the director Jean-Luc at this time in his life, especially when you consider the film they are working on within the film itself is 'The Odyssey' and the main character and narrator is more obsessed about whether or not Penelope cheated on Odysseus back in Ithaca than he is in the hero's journey.And you know what? I was right.Though this was the biggest production Jean-Luc ever made, one with a big studio with big A-List names, this was still a low budget approach to a movie and in some ways he was exorcising his demons about his own failing marriage. To write it off as a European convention is not correct.A movie like this could certainly not be made by Hollywood today. Sure, they are dark films out there about family or marriage dysfunction. But the constant medium shot and overlapping dialogue (a la Robert Altman style) would never be financed by a major studio as 'Contempt' was.What this film reminded me of was, Whose Afraid of Virginia Wolf? You get people like Liz Taylor and Richard Burton and they could spin this mediocre screenplay into gold, Oscar gold that is, which is what they did. Of course, that is my opinion and I have not seen other reviews mention this connection.Sure, relationships go through tough times and some break as a result. But this film makes you think if they are so miserable together, why bother staying together? Life is too short to have such misery heaped upon you in doses.Music? It so graded on your nerves with its swells in endless repetition as a motif that I was wondering if Jean-Luc had final cut authority. Because it had to be the only reason why the same piece of music played on endless loop, to satisfy himself, not the audience. Not even composer Philip Glass does that and he created the repetitive sound for soundtracks.I will give this film two praises though it does feature famous German director Fritz Lang playing himself here. Fritz directed a very famous silent film 'Metropolis' made in 1928. (I recently saw the uncut version; if you don't know this movie, it was featured as Madonna's 'Express Yourself' music video and has influence on other films such as 'Blade Runner').The second praise is that there is a bit of a device that Jean-Luc gives that throws you off from the ending you think is coming. I'll leave it at that as a surprise, if you choose to see this. "}]