[{"Title":"Society's child lost in Utopia.","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"72 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What kid did not fantasize, at one time or another, being left alone, completely unsupervised, for a long, long, LONG period of time?   To be allowed to say or do whatever he pleased, whenever he pleased.  To eat anything he wanted, to go to bed late, to not go to school, to act or behave as he pleased without reproach.  To be his own adult.  Usually those kind of thoughts permeated our little minds right after a heavy-duty punishment.  In 1990's Home Alone, we saw a broad, comical take on this fantasy.  With 1963's Lord of the Flies, we get to experience the flip side.Lord of the Flies was required reading in junior high school.  William Golding's dark, sobering allegory, set during wartime London, tells the story of a large group of young schoolboys airlifted out of England who are left to their own devices after a plane crash leaves them marooned on an uninhabited isle with no surviving adults.  As the boys struggle to adapt to their crude but strangely exotic Robinson Crusoe existence, the troop begins to splinter into two opposing sects after failing to come to terms on an autonomous code of ethics.  Most of the boys decide to revel in their unsupervised freedom, reverting to primitive, animal-like behavior while resorting to barbaric acts and ritualistic practices.  A conch shell becomes the embodiment of power; a boar's head a symbol of lordly conquest.  On the other side, a minority group try to repel the tempting force of evil by forming a more civilized commune.  Eventually the survival of the fittest factor sets in as the anointed leader of the hostile group incites violence to force an autocracy. Golding's fascinating premise certainly does not hold much hope for the future of mankind.  We are conditioned as a people to be civilized; it is an acquired trait, NOT an inherent trait  &#150;  according to the author.  And if and when the shackles of goodness and purity are at any time removed to the extent that we are allowed to become our own social and moral dictator, we will invariably revert back to what comes naturally.  And with a child, who has been less-conditioned, it will take little time at all.  Evil is stronger, easier, and much more seductive.  When playing good guys and bad guys as a kid, which did YOU prefer to be?Boasting a surprisingly natural cast of amateur actors and directed by radical stage director Peter Brook (Marat/Sade), this lowbudget British effort impressively captures much of the novel's back-to-nature symbolism that I found so powerful and fascinating.   The young masters representing good and evil, James Aubrey (Ralph) and Tom Chapin (Jack), effectively portray the resolute leaders of the two disparate tribes, while butterball Hugh Edwards as the bespectacled, philosophical Piggy and towheaded Tom Gaman as the quietly sensitive Simon are touching as two of the weaker followers who become likely targets of the surrounding chaos and burgeoning brutality.  What I love most about this cast is that they act like little boys, not little actors, grounding their often awkward actions and behaviors in reality.  Trivia note one of the secondary boy players is none other than Nicholas Hammond, who went on to play young Friedrich in the film classic The Sound of Music two years later.Brook's use of grainy black-and-white photography, plus the lack of any comprehensive musical score (remember Tom Hanks' Castaway?), accentuates the bleakness of its surroundings and feelings of isolation.  The movie can hardly be expected to capture fully every single intention of this highly complex novel (most don't), but it does respect Golding's words and captures the very essence of what he wanted to say.  For that alone it should be applauded. By the way, don't waste your time on the 1990 color remake featuring professionals like Balthazar Getty.  The poetic beauty is all but dissipated in this haphazard, jarringly Americanized update.  It makes me worship Peter Brook's version even more.And what story could BE more disturbing yet topical than The Lord of the Flies as it applies to today's latch-key society?  "},{"Title":"Incredible Movie - A Forgotten Gem","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"59 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Director Peter Brook delivered a very powerful and artfully done film based upon the classic book by William Golding. To those who have commented here about the differences between the book and this film these are two very different mediums. Brook did not attempt a straight adaptation, he presented Golding's story through his own vision and emotional lens.The use of non-professional children is one of the things that make this a brilliant film, and vastly superior to the obnoxious 1990's version. If you pay attention to the opening minutes of Brook's film, you will notice that the world presented is nice, normal, clean, and functional. The boys deliver their lines well and the story flows smoothly. Once the boys are on the island, the scenes aren't nearly so smooth in transition, the speech becomes very awkward and the boys interaction with each other is stilted and unnatural.That is the point! These children know the direction they are going is wrong, to a boy they know this. Yet as individuals they are helpless to stand up to the group. Their awkwardness flows from their fear of being cast out, while yearning to be rescued and return to their homes. The nightmarish quality of the situation is well reflected in the hesitant speech and graceless movements. The uneasy stringing together of scenes makes the viewer squirm, hopefully making the connection to how ill at ease and unnatural the boys themselves must feel.I'm sure most of you have been around boys of this age at some point in your life. They are prone to being tongue-tied, have few social graces and lack physical co-ordination. That's what makes this film so utterly believable, the boys are real boys, not pimped-out Hollywood trick ponies, delivering their lines in perfect Shakespearean English, while nimbly doing complicated dance moves and mugging their perfect little faces square at the camera.Golding's book is a masterpiece that can be taken on several levels. Brook's film offers no fewer interpretations of the deeper meaning while presenting a realistic and horrific vision of the basic story. I know most people simply will not get this film. That's too bad because it is a classic.  "},{"Title":"A MASTERPIECE.","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"62 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those rarest of rare birds a film that is totally faithful to the novel upon which it is based.During his lifetime, William Golding was ever protective of his greatest creation. When it came to making a film of 'Lord of the Flies' some of the greatest screen writers and playwrights of the day had a go at producing a script for it - all of them being turned down by Golding himself. Finally, it was decided to attempt the film as a sort of Drama Workshop. Thus it was that 30+ boys, plus director Peter Brook, a film crew and the regulation chaperones found themselves living in a bunk house, which had been an old canning factory, on the island of Vieques off Puerto Rico, with little more than copies of the novel and an outline of the idea and the limitation of the school holidays in which to make the film.The result defies belief. This is a masterpiece of Youth Drama, years ahead of its time. Even today, 40 years on, it is still staggering in its truth and clarity. The powerful imagery, chilling in its simplicity, far transcends anything which could be achieved with present day digital trickery. Not for this film the obvious blood and guts of action horror; here we have the most unspeakable acts made far more terrifying by their very understatement. (Simon's death must be one of the foulest acts ever filmed - but then, in reality, it was not - it is all in the imagination of the viewer and becomes far more terrible than any actual depiction of the act of  ritualistic murder could ever be!).When the great day of reckoning comes, this film will stand head and shoulders above all other film adaptations of novels. "},{"Title":"Notorious eyebrow raiser wonders why child cast are under fire.","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"47 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  May I start by saying a pox on those who do not love the cast.I honestly can't see why you complain. I love the book; I didn't need to read it for school, but I read it anyway and enjoyed it. I understood the message Golding brought about. Then why am I not offended by this movie as I was by Lord of the Rings?This film is an excellent translation of Golding's novel. It is stark, bold and well directed. The young cast are frighteningly talented, especially Chapin and Edwards. This has everything I expected and much more. Perhaps I was wishing for a more vivid Lord of the Flies scene, but it brought it's message across and kept everything in the book alive. I marvel every time I see Edwards' Piggy. I can't understand the capacity the boy had at such an age. Jack was well portrayed also, as was Ralph.The ending was perfect. I admit the music did throw me off a tad but everything else just came so willingly. The emotions of the boys practically leaked out through to me, and that one little boy in particular (I've forgotten his name, I'm afraid - is it Percy?) looking up at the sea-captain just personified everything that the ending symbolised. This film is one of my favourites and I cannot see how anyone could fault it so drastically.  "},{"Title":"What's Everyone Complaining About?","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"40 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After reading Golding's classic novel, my class watched this adaption of Lord Of The Flies in our literature class. I found it to be quite good, and a hell of a lot better than the 1990 version, which alters all too many important moments and characteristics of the book. Reading over these comments, I was very confused. 1. The story and moral of Lord Of The Flies is so haunting and powerful that it does not need an overly dramatic score. The tune that Jack and his choir sing around the island is just the right touch. 2. Of course the acting wasn't as amazing as it could have been! Everyone seems to be forgetting just how young and inexperienced these boys were. Besides, the character's in Golding's story are just as young, and act their age (however violent and disturbing it may be). I found the camera work to be quite lovely. The film uses beautiful shots, which only enhance it even more. The final scene is one of my favorites. My only bone to pick is how quickly the film goes through the events in the book. I really do wish it would have slowed down a bit, and concentrated more on such characters as Simon, as well as the boys transformation into savages. Overall I found this adaption of Lord Of The Flies to be fantastic. My advice to future viewers of this film is to read the book first, definitely watch this 1963 version afterwards,and completely avoid the 1990 version all together. "},{"Title":"A mirror to society","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Peter Brook's film adaptation of William Golding's The Lord of the Flies is still an interesting piece of cinema one doesn't get a chance to see too often. After more than forty years of its release, the film is still a good way to get to know Mr. Golding's masterpiece, as Mr. Brook stayed truthful with the screen play he wrote.The mere idea of children shipwrecked in an island to fend for themselves, as they make a world of their own, was quite revolutionary when Mr. Golding wrote the story. To witness what children are capable of doing in extreme circumstances is an eye opener. In fact, the children put into practice what they have seen of their society as they realize they are stuck in an island without any indication of anyone looking out for them.Although some criticism has been expressed in this forum about the way the accident happens, and the way the boys come from all parts as they first gather in the beach, Mr. Brook's intentions seem to be more into the theatrical staging of this scene as the different groups come together. The best scene being the group lead by Jack as they march on the beach singing Kirie Eleison in their sweet and melodious voices.Cruelty is the most notorious trait the boys display for one another. That, and the leadership that Jack wants to take away in forming his own tribe and the complete breakdown in the communication among the boys. Mr. Golding was telling us that given to certain circumstances, man, or children in this case, will revert into being savages and that perhaps society's role is to keep people controlled into what is known as a civilized world.Peter Brook made an excellent film, but perhaps his biggest achievement is the magnificent work he got out of the mostly unknown cast of young children. There are no false notes, especially in the principals. With the notable exception of James Aubrey, who plays Ralph, none of the other boys had a film career, although one sees the promise in some of them. Tom Chapin is good as Jack. Hugh Edwards gives a heart wrenching account of Piggy, the boy that is ridiculed by the rest and betrayed by Ralph in telling the new arrivals about his nickname. Tom Gaman as Simon also had some good moments.This film shows Peter Brook at his best. "},{"Title":"A film of classic cinematic imagery more relevant today","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"39 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Peter Brook's rich film of Golding's Lord of the Flies is a stunning compilation of classic film imagery. Scenes surrealistic, beautiful and disturbing create a haunting atmosphere and a world of sights, sounds and ideas unlike any otherfilm. The choir marching on the beach in full dress singing that catchy Kyrie Eleison, the first sight of Jack in his almost shocking warpaint, Piggy's comic- pathetic persona, the floating body of Simon in the ocean drifting off the screen as the sun-dappled water glistens, the look on Ralph's face at the very end of the film, his countenance stamped with fear, horror, relief and profoundsadness--all combine to form a mosaic of a classic contemporary fable. As the war in Vietnam was raging in the 60s and 70s, this film provided a distinctcommentary on the times. Seeing the film recently again, with its disturbing picture of irrational fear culminating in spectacular tragedy, Lord of the Flies seems almost more relevant today--and almost more tragic than before. "},{"Title":"Kill the beast, cut his throat, spill his blood!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"       When William Golding's classic parable was originally published in 1954, critics gave outstanding reviews for a debut novel. The book was not only a first-rate adventure story, but a parable of our times. While back in 1954 kids killing each other took some strong believing, today you can see Golding's prediction being chillingly accurate. Nine years later, stage director Peter Brook would direct the film version that generated many mixed reviews. Some called it unprofessional and rushed, while others praised it as a classic. When the terrible American remake was released in 1990, many looked back at this version as a classic, and rightly so.     Brook's film opens with a very creepy montage consisting of pictures of a British boarding school intercut with planes flying over London with a haunting school chorus playing in the background. We learn that the world has been caught in a nuclear war and all the kids in the school were evacuated on planes. One plane crashes into the sea during a thunderstorm. The only survivors are kids ranging from six to twelve years old. Knowing they are trapped on a deserted island, they decide to re-start civilization.     The leader is Ralph (James Aubrey), one of the oldest kids who calls on assemblies with a conch. His buddy is Piggy (Hugh Edwards), a fat nerdy kid with glasses who is ignored by the other children even knowing he is the most mature. The bully is Jack (Tom Chaplin), a trouble chorus leader who quickly evolves to a Nero-like totalitarian leader and begins to lead the boys into savagery. The neutreal Christ-like figure is quiet Simon (Tom Gaman) who fails to fit in with others. The kids eventually split up to two tribes after many disagreements, one tribe consists of savage hunters led by Jack, while the other tribe led by Ralph is worried about being rescued.     Like the book, Peter Brook's THE LORD OF THE FLIES is a parable of the world under different political views. Piggy and the conch represent order and are both eventually ignored. Ralph represents a democracy while Jack represents a totalitarian form of leadership. Simon represents Christianity, although he is also ignored for most of the time. The kids undergo many conflicts, most ending in tragic results.      Today, Golding's novel is a subject in many school discussions, and some people today criticize it for being unrealistic and irrational. But after all, it is a parable. In real life, it is obvious the kids wouldn't last for very long.      Not believing professional child actors would deliver acting strong enough to portray such characters, Brook decided to cast non-actors that lived close to the island of shooting. This benefits the film greatly since Brook coaches great performances out of the kids (were some of them really acting?) and the fact that the actors are all unknown adds to the realism (This technique could be compared to the recent CITY OF GOD.) But the film's secondary performances are not as good. The kids usually take long pauses in between their lines, and for most of the time they seem to be reading them. Poorly reading them, in fact. To make things worse, the movie was dubbed on post-production due to the low-budget. This makes some of the scenes awkward, mute, and out of synch. May I also add the scenes are edited abruptly, making the whole thing seem rushed. It's sad that the film had to be cut to 90 minutes, considering an extra 30 minutes of footage would improve it. This process slows down the film, making it sometimes boring and tiresome.     This, by no means, is a bad movie. Brooks direction and Tom Hallimans cinematography put the 1990 remake to shame. The island locations (Puerto Rico) look dark and menacing in B&W, the kind of atmosphere the remake lacked. Brook is able to compose beautiful sad visuals. ***SPOILERS*** These include the kinetic editing during the hunt for Ralph, Simon's dead body floating in the water arranged by the sad school chorus (depressing moment), Piggy's tragic demise that puts the 1990s remake laughable mirrored scene to shame, and the very scary feast that occurs at night followed by the dance. That scene, consisting of quick images, scary close-ups on the savages painted faces, and disturbing screaming is very strong even for today's standards. Brook is also wise on deciding to omit the Lord of the Flies scene and only suggesting it. He does a batter job at it than Harry Hook did in the remake. Imagine the pain of actually filming that scene. ***END OF SPOILERS***     While the out-of-synch audio, some poor acting, and slow pacing might keep this movie away from the recent generation, it is still an underrated classic on its own right. It is disturbing, haunting, and visually wonderful. It really deserves to be seen twice to be really appreciated. Strongly recommended for those that never read the book and an essential preference over the remake.  (4/5)  "},{"Title":"An undeniable masterpiece that truly is a parable of our times.","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" WARNING THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERSLord of the Flies (1963) is a film based on William Golding's 1954 novel, which went by the same name. This film, like its written counterpart, can be taken two different ways. In one aspect, Lord of the Flies is an enjoyable adventure story, with several elements of horror, as well. From another point-of-view, the position William Golding obviously took when he wrote his novel, Lord of the Flies is an paradigm of human nature. The film does its novel justice in discussing both literally and figuratively the primordial nature of man and how the superego plays a major role.Symbolism is abundant in this film. Ralph, the protagonist, represents democracy and rightness, while Jack, the antagonist, represents totalitarianism and wrongness. Furthermore, the conch Ralph uses to attempt to establish rules represents governmental order and decorum. While Ralph struggles with a small amount of boys to build huts (representing safety and man's dependence on nature), Jack is out with his hunters killing pigs, signifying their fall into savagery.Piggy, Ralph's sidekick of sorts, is asthmatic and unwilling to help with chores, but nonetheless represents intelligence and clearsightedness. The fact that Piggy is mocked, ignored and the object of derision exemplifies the real life fact that true intelligence is usually not paid any attention. When Piggy is killed the conch is shattered into thousands of little fragments. This represents the complete termination of any sense of intelligence, rationality or order the island may have at once had.Simon, the most introspective of the characters and a true loner, represents Jesus Christ. He faints when the choir boys first meet Ralph and he offers some of his meat to Piggy when no one else would share with the corpulent young boy. Early in the novel a young boy with a mulberry birthmark raises the question of a beast, which he says he saw moving through the foliage one night. Simon says it was him going to meditate but the littlun's (the small children) are still nervous. When Simon finds a dead parachutist atop the island (which Sam and Eric saw and mistakenly believed was the beast) he staggers down the island's mountain to tell the boys that the beast is not real. This is reminiscent of Christ staggering under the weight of his own cross.However, Jack, his men, and even Ralph and Piggy, are caught up in a festive tribal dance. When Simon appears he is mistaken for a beast and beaten to death. When this occurs, wind causes the parachute atop the island to detach from the twigs which snagged it and the dead parachutist's body flies out to sea as Simon is dragged out to sea, as well. This shows that Simon was and forever will be the only one of the boys to truly know where the beast was the entire time in their hearts.Roger, an inimical character representing the embodiment of pure evil and sadism, is the one who kills Piggy. He gets sadistic pleasure from torturing pigs, and he enjoyably kicks down sand castles the littlun's build and throws stones at Henry. Roger is the personification of the base stage of the human psyche evil.Sam and Eric, twins collectively known as Samneric, represent society. They are naturally good and assist Ralph with collecting fruit and building huts. However, Jack eventually captures them and they are forced to join his tribe. When Jack and his men hunt Ralph near the end of the film, Samneric reluctantly give in and inform Jack of Ralph's hiding place, showing that anarchy caused them to lose all sense of loyalty to others.Lord of the Flies is truly a masterpiece. It exemplifies Freudian thought, observable human behavioral characteristics, and the incontrovertible reality of the human psyche. The superego, the part of our brain concerned only with our own survival, can take over if rules are not existent. Society keeps humans sane, and lack of civility will inevitably lead to savagery.Yes, Lord of the Flies is a great adventure story, but it is also the greatest representation of the human spirit ever created. Praise Golding for the invention, and praise Brooks for his wonderful interpretation. "},{"Title":"Primal Horror","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It has been three years since I read the book and saw the movie, and I have still not forgotten it. Lord of the Flies is one of the most harrowing film expiriences I have ever seen.You don't need Hannibal Lecter to make a movie scary, and this movie proves it. Actually, a film is most scary when it provokes fear on a most basic level. This is not a story that is scary because of plot twists or original characters. This film is scary because it uses techniques that will scare anyone in the deepest way.The plot is simple. School boys crash land on a remote island with no adults. The boys set up their own government, with Ralph in charge. But things start to fall apart very quickly.The set up is perfect. All the boys are perfectly cast, and their performances are strong all around. All the characters are likable in the beginning, which is important because as Roger Ebert (I think) said, a person is scarier when the viewer knows more about them.The directing is perfect. Even though the film is in black and white, the imagery still retains a sense of wonder and awe. Each shot is perfectly used to create the optimum effect. Pacing is key here, because if it is too slow, the film gets boring, but if it goes by too fast, the film feels rushed. The director nails it perfectly. He starts out slow but even, but as the story degenerates into madness, the intensity grows, which magnifies the fear. "}{"Title":"Well done on the DVD extras","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  We all know the film and book from grade school - they do still teach it don't they?  Anyway, I am incredibly impressed with the Criterion DVD extras.  Home movies, outtakes, deleted scenes, scrapbook, etc. all with commentary from a cameraman as well as the director, there are even book excerpts read by William Golding, the author.  The entire collection is a work of art unto itself. "},{"Title":"Out of the mouths of babes..","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I read the book when I was a kid, and I found it to be very disturbing. I didn't really care to think why.Watching this movie as a grown up (especially as a grown up trying to think about anything BUT work) made me ponder several things about human behavior. For instance, what makes one person lead and another follow? Why is there almost always just 2 prominent sides to a situation, even though there are people involved whose opinions may be of varying shades of gray? Isn't it strange that once you commit an act of taboo, that it just makes it so much easier to do the next time? Why is an act that is morally reprehensible to perform individually, become so much easier when it is done in group? Where does one's individualism go when mob rule prevails ? I think the movie did a good job of bringing out the beast, but it didn't surpass my initial impression from reading the book. The acting was commendable, given the age and experience of the actors, and the classic novel they were trying to portray. Ralph was just superb, trying to lead with reason, but watching his leadership ebb to a much more terrifying alter ego. The relentlessness and inevitability of his fate was captured in all its horror when he is told They're going to hurt you, Ralph.Its hard to write a review about just the movie, when the story itself (as told in the book) is what makes the biggest impression. The movie is rich in metaphors - innocence lost, war, society in general, right and wrong, etc. In closing, I would recommend this movie to anyone looking for fear, but not of the sensational variety that 'horror movies' are generally associated with. Its a black and white movie, made in the 60's, and stars a bunch of scrawny kids. The fear is what you have to not watch - but live. "},{"Title":"A Society without Perspectives and Rules","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After a plane crash in the ocean, a group of British students reach an island. The boy Ralph (James Aubrey) organizes the other kids, assigning responsibilities for each one. When the rebel Jack (Tom Chapin) neglects the fire camp and they lose the chance to be seen by an airplane, the group split under the leadership of Jack. While Ralph rationalizes the survival procedures, Jack returns to the primitivism, using the fear for the unknown (in a metaphor to the religion) and hunger to control the other boys. His group starts hunting and chasing pigs, stealing the possession of Ralph's group and even killing people. When I saw the 1990 The Lord of the Flies, I found the impressive story very scary since it shows the lost of innocence of children fighting to survive in a society without perspective and rules. My immediate association was with my and other Third World countries, where many children are abandoned by the Government in their poor communities, and without education, perspectives in life and laws, become very young criminals working in gangs of drug dealers and thieves. In this movie, it is exposed how primitive a kid can be without the authority and respect, and this sort of violence is in the headlines of our newspapers almost every day. I have never the chance of reading this visionary novel, but both movies are very similar and I believe that they are good adaptations, with a frightening study of characters and sociology. My vote is eight. Title (Brazil) O Senhor das Moscas (The Lord of the Flies) "},{"Title":"Very impressive.","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having just completed the novel, I was eager to see the film adaptation, and I was pleasantly surprised at how well William Golding's ideas were captured. It isn't very often that a movie can help you understand the book better. All of the actors were wonderful, particularly the four leads. They nailed the characters of Ralph, Jack, Piggy and Simon dead on. I was also pleased that the director didn't attempt to re-create the conversation between Simon and the Lord of the Flies, it would have been nearly impossible to make it as effective as it was in the novel. In general, it was very well done and well worth the time spent viewing it.   "},{"Title":"A Superb Movie--If You Haven't Read the Book...","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...not because the book is so much better, but rather because one always gets more out of a book than out of any movie rendition of it. (The exception that proves the rule being One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest--not better than the book, but definitively it's equal.) So, I just watched the movie, and cannot recommend it highly enough. Go into it with the question of what makes us human, what civilization is, and how we deal with our need for social living, and then consider ALL sides of the matter before making a judgment.The movie making itself isn't all that perfect. But the way in which Brook present's the story--as a tableaux without a message, leaving it for us to decide--more than redeems any inconsistencies in film technique or the acting.Someone above mentioned that it is hard to talk about the movie without talking about the story itself. And that is true. So, that said, I just wanted to comment that I'm disappointed in what seems to me to be a rather facile interpretation of Golding's work that seems prevalent amongst the comments--the easy assignment of virtue to Ralph and Piggy and savagery to Jack and his followers. Commenters keep noting a reversion. The conch represents civilization and democracy, Jack (or, more properly, the boar's head) totalitarianism and barbarism.But the question goes a bit deeper than that. Ralph starts off with the power and the trust. But his response to the situation the kids find themselves in is a passive one--he wants to build a fire and wait to be rescued. Jack is described as power hungry a number of times in comments, but the readers fail to note that if not by show of hands the first time, by show of feet the second time the kids withdraw the power from Ralph--i.e., the scene in which he says what if I blow it and they don't come when Piggy tells him to summon the kids with the conch. And the ultimate question is not about whether Jack is power hungry and Ralph virtuous, but rather why the children chose to follow Jack and not Ralph.THe answer is very clear. Jack was a stronger leader than Ralph. Ralph wanted to be rescued--Jack sought to deal with the situation as it was. Materially, Jack was able to provide meat to the kids because he was able to arm and discipline his choir boys. Socially, Jack was able to forge a bond with his followers, his tribe, that gave them a reason to accept his leadership, while Ralph could only offer leadership based on a momentary common consensus. And in the end, Jack could protect his followers, Ralph could not. It is significant that the two boys with Ralph in the scene mentioned above are Simon and Piggy--in the end, in allying themselves with him, they end up dying, while Roger, the first to desert to Jack, survives. To see Golding's story as a reversion to savagery misses, I think, the whole point. It was not a reversion the boys underwent, but, rather, an adaptation to the circumstances in which they found themselves. They didn't go naked because they were suddenly nothing but monkeys, they went naked because it was the better adaptation to the environment in which they found themselves. They didn't accept Jack because they had become uncivilized, they accepted Jack because under the circumstances, he offered more in terms of social utility than Ralph could. It is understanding this that we understand how totalitarian regimes do take power--that people don't adopt them because they've reverted to savagery, but rather that an extremity of circumstances compels certain behaviors in order to survive. Jack's power wouldn't have been possible without his choirboys armed with spears, but neither would the meat he brought his tribe. The respective prime followers of Ralph and Jack, Piggy and Roger, are very interesting in that they represent the conflicting elements in human civilization, that to protect the weak and that to hurt it. Intelligence is perceived as weak in a society on the edge because its rewards are not reaped immediately, Raplh's glasses can start a fire, but the kids are still at the mercy of someone seeing it; while brute strength and violence does, as in the killing of the pig, reap immediate rewards. It concerns me that this novel is being taught improperly in schools, as an allegory for good vs. evil rather than as testamentary to the human condition and the choices we make in order to survive. Golding's work is a brilliant examination not of human morality, but of human society and its many layers, and it is a shame to reduce to Ralph good, Jack bad Manichean dichotomy. "},{"Title":"They didn't wish for this","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" William Golding's timeless novel Lord of the Flies is one of the many works of literature that has continuously etched itself into the English reading curriculum, much like Harper Lee's To Kill a Mockingbird and William Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet. Golding's novel isn't a racial parable or a story about star-crossed lovers, but a dark, biblical allegory with a message about as crippling and as thought-provoking as anyone I can think of. It's not an easy read, with lots of imagery spelled out in grand detail and a plethora of ambiguous symbolism. And for that matter, it's not a very easy watch. One must go in prepared and open-minded to truly enjoy what Peter Brook's Lord of the Flies brings.The story is simple. After a horrific plane crash, a group of young schoolboys are left stranded and ill-equipped to try and sustain themselves on a remote island surrounded by water as far as the eye can see. There are no adults, the pilot is dead, and their home country of England is now involved with what will be known as World War II. We are first greeted with plucky young Ralph (Aubery), who will later become selected leader of the island, with his leadership resembling a fair and balanced democracy. Ralph's best friend on the island is a chubby boy named Piggy (Edwards), who remains realistic about the situation that the boys will be condemned to this island until they die.Another boy on the island named Jack (Chapin), quickly embraces life on the island, and turns to barbaric and savage intentions as the antagonist whose only care is to hunt and kill. He becomes symbolic for Satan, while another boy named Simon (Gaman) becomes almost a Christlike figure, with his excessive assistance to the boys and authentic kind nature.The moral of the novel and film is quite interesting, and is open for some heavy debate. Golding states that the only reason humans are kept in place and are civilized is because of law and order, and if those laws were ever to be lifted at any given time, that at first, people would try to remain civil, but would soon become virtually consumed by their savage instincts. We act on our superego, meaning we do what we believe is right, and if laws didn't exist, we'd most likely act on our id, our impulsive inner-evil if you will. Over the course of the film, it seems like in no time these once well-kept, collective children are consumed by their own inner-desires to act on impulse and not fear any consequences at all. This makes for a very unsettling picture, especially in the last half-hour when some unthinkable scenes occur.Hook's direction sets up a consistently tense and very detailed atmosphere. The cinematography is also commendable, only complimented by the dreary silence because of the choice to omit any formal music. Hook manages to incorporate some rather tricky tracking shots, and some birds-eye shots that are difficult to successfully pull off. Apparently, the film was shot on an island in Puerto Rico, and very little scripting was done. Much of the dialog is improvised, which works for and against the film simultaneously. There is a great feeling of authenticity when a film or show is improvised, but here, the children, all of them I believe to be first time actors with some never even returning to film again, recite their lines in a strange, unnatural way, which takes time to get used to. It provides inevitable corniness, but thankfully, can't derail the entire film all together.Not to mention, the pacing feels a little off. Sometimes, long periods of silence go on, and we are unsure of where the film is going. Although a little odd, it provides time for the cinematography and atmosphere to take effect, projecting a feeling of dread and uncertainty. Throughout the film and the novel, the boys are fearing, what they call the beast, which refers to the unknown on the island. The boys constantly believe some creature is out to get them, and this fear consumes them, much like their feelings of barbarism and savagery. This is where the film begins to hit home. What kid didn't dream of living by his own rules, in a place where he/she could do and say whatever they wanted? It isn't until that dream becomes a reality do we begin to regret our wish. The true tragedy is these boys didn't wish for this.Lord of the Flies was a challenge to adapt to film, and director Peter Brook clearly accepted it with gratitude and honor. He has great respect for Golding's original work, keeping the biblical theology and references in place, and rarely tampering the original events, making this a successful adaptation. I still feel the need to reiterate the fact that the phrase the book is always better than the movie is a void statement, seeing as the film adaptation can never be truly everything you wanted it to be. This is because the film is based off the director and/or screenwriter's interpretation of the story. As far as that works, Brook's is on par with mine, but perhaps the more important question is, is it on par with yours? Starring James Aubrey, Tom Chapin, Hugh Edwards, and Tom Gaman. Directed by Peter Brook. "},{"Title":"Was heaps of fun","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" .......May I start by saying a pox on those who do not love the cast....The young cast are frighteningly talented Thank You! Yes, the cast was talented in a non-professional way and that is perhaps what made the film work. But the real story of how the film was made is this Off set was very much like on set. We lived in an abandoned pineapple warehouse and all called each other by our movie names. There was a split in the cast - sort of one gang against another - although in the real life one Jack and Ralph were on the same side (the leader of the other gang being one of the other choir boys). The gangs would make war on each other with Jack and Ralph's bunch headquartered out in the cane fields while the other bunch had a metal scaffold fort near the warehouse. In the beginning the cast was more of less evenly split but in the end I found I was on the losing side since we were down to only two people! So, filming was not all that difficult for the kids and much of it was simply letting us go at it. For instance the hut building scene was turned into a contest of who could build the best hut with a watermelon being the prize. That the cameras were going was only a secondary concern for the kids. Anyways, it was fun and make for some great childhood memories. Kent Fletcher (Percival), Corvallis OR USA "},{"Title":"Not a bad adaptation, but it doesn't have as much of a bite as it should","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lord of the Flies, a piece of literature written by William Golding and originally published in 1954, is still a very famous novel, and is often studied in schools (many can say that's where they became familiar with it). Nearly a decade later, the first movie adaptation of the book saw the light of day. Adaptations of novels can be excellent, while others may generally be disappointing. This 1963 adaptation of William Golding's famous novel turned out to be sort of a mixed blessing.A large group of English schoolboys find themselves stranded after a plane crash, without any surviving adults. Shortly after the crash, two of them meet for the first time. One of them is Ralph, and the other's real name remains unknown. The other boy tells Ralph about his undesired nickname, Piggy, and unfortunately, that is what he is called from then on. Ralph and Piggy don't see any other boys around, so Ralph uses a shell (or a conch) to call them. With all the boys gathered, Ralph is elected as the leader for the time they are stranded, and it is soon discovered that they are on an island. Ralph tries his best to keep the rest of the boys civilized, and tells them that a smoke signal must be kept going in order for them to be rescued. However, a rivalry soon begins between Ralph and the power-hungry Jack, and many boys end up on Jack's side, creating a group of savages! The first thing you may be wondering about this movie is how faithful to the novel it is. Quite a bit of detail from the story was removed for this movie (which often happens with adaptations of novels), so if you've read the book, remembering some parts that you found really interesting, and you'd like to see how they're done in this movie, you may be disappointed to see that some of them are not included. However, apart from that, I would say the movie tells the original story very well, but it definitely has some other problems. The cinematography is pretty amateurish, and the cast is, well, not terrible, but not great. Personally, I found some of the movie dull, so I had trouble getting into it at times, but also found certain parts interesting or somewhat moving (though not as much so as I was expecting).This Lord of the Flies adaptation definitely hasn't impressed every admirer of the book, which I can understand. I was a tad disappointed myself (certainly not as much as some people, but still a tad disappointed). However, many other admirers of William Golding's piece of literature like this movie. For fans of the book who haven't seen this movie, if you want an adaptation that is faithful to the book (despite the unsurprising fact that the story is shortened), and you can get over the shortcomings I've mentioned, I recommend this movie. You just might not want to expect a work of genius. "},{"Title":"It lacks.","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" We open this classic 1963 adaptation of William Golding's novel with a series of photographs underneath the credits. A series of memories, nicely setting the mood of the story - photographs of boy's schools, of the situation at hand in the story, and of plane crashes, disaster. We get, though sometimes unclearly, that a plane has crashed during a war, and that there are presumably boys on board.With that note, the story becomes suddenly detached. The first acting scene starts with the British boys we inferred before, yet they are completely clean, and perfectly calm, and nothing can be seen of the fact that they've just survived a near brush with death. We see nothing of the remains of the plane, we see nothing of the scar that was referenced in the book - we have no idea if these boys are simply on a field trip. A key point for continuity - the tube escape system hinted at in the book, a possibility that the boys might have escaped in their condition. It was supposed to be technology, but we never find out about it - that key point was missed.So we start off with a break. Coming in to the movie, the first thing you'd notice is a horrible lack of pacing. When dialogue occurs, there are harsh pauses in between camera focuses on each character. Piggy speaks horribly slowly - although that could be attributed as a part of character - and the other characters seem perfectly sedate. It seems that they're simply waiting for a teacher to arrive. No sense of emotion, nothing.Progressing through the normal parts of the book, the dialogue and action is extremely slow. The camera would focus in on Ralph for a second, wait....then he'd say his line. This rough pacing brought down the entire feel of the movie.Granted, it was made in 1963. It is a black and white movie, and uses a different kind of cinematography we are used to today. But that is not apparent in movies made earlier in black and white - Hitchcock movies are paced amazingly. This is not an example of a good use of the technology available.But there were naturally certain redeeming points. The bloodlust in eating the first pig is pictured well, and the second half of the movie is much better, and easier to watch. There is a genuine frisson of tension while Ralph is being chased - although a flash or a glimpse of a possible attacher would make it more so - and the music and sound effects are used amazingly well; although there is one point, on the top of the mountain, when one line of music repeats over, and over, monotonously.The main problem, aside from the pacing, must have been the lack of a clear point to the tale - in the novel, there was a societal critique, and a perfect image of one's inner demons. In this movie - it lacks.Rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Lord of the Flies (1963)","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lord of the Flies is a real challenge to put on screen. I can only imagine the difficulties in 1963. It shows humanity at it's worst, and uses young children to get it's point across. It's one of those wonderfully grim English tales, like Animal Farm, an allegorical attack that is an engaging and enthralling story. Brook never quite captures the feel of the novel, and a lot of the dramatic irony is lost in cinematic form. However, he does do a pretty good job and coaxing some very natural performances from the children, even if some of them do look directly at the camera every now and again. It doesn't quite build up the suspense, and it all seems to happen in a short period of time. Regardless, this is a powerful and memorable adaptation. "}{"Title":"A Novelty","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" No need to recap the plot. As I recall, the movie got a lot of word-of-mouth back in '63. Many theatre-goers were discovering a world of cinema beyond the typical Hollywood product of the conformist '50's, and eager distributors were obliging. Of course, many viewers saw the boys' graphic descent into savagery as a profound comment on human nature. I suspect director Brooks was wise to toss aside the screenplay and improvise instead. After all, these are pre-pubescent boys and its darn hard to write convincing dialog for that age level, especially dialog with philosophical undertones.As a result, the narrative is told in visual fashion, with lots of crashing waves, screaming boys, and chanting refrains. To cover the sparse dialog, the sound track is unusually noisy, but many of the visuals remain memorable. Also essential is the abundant symbolism. For example, there're Piggy's glasses (reason), hunting instead of foraging (killing), along with the conch and the assembly (democratic values). Despite such allegorical references, I suspect contemporary viewers find the film less compelling after 50-years of unconventional movie-making that has worn away the original impact.Now, I haven't read the book, so I don't know how faithful the film is. But frankly I would have been more persuaded by the cynical subtext had the survivors been adults rather than 10-year old boys. After all, who's surprised that that age group would wind up shucking classroom constraints for going native.Then too, it's important to remember that art is a medium of manipulation (in a good sense) and not of proof. That is, an artistic narrative can illustrate a truth, but no matter how good, it can't prove it. For the latter, we have to go outside of art, mainly to the sciences. Thus, novelist Golding may illustrate a particular view of human nature, but the novel can hardly confirm its truth.All in all, the movie is worth catching up with since it remains a genuine curiosity, whatever the drawbacks. "},{"Title":"Lord of the Flies review","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This version of the Lord of the Flies is decent. Some good qualities are the closeness to the storyline and setting, but the film was poorly acted and produced. Peter Brook did a good job bringing the book to the screen, but I think he left out some important parts. This may have been done because some scenes were risqu at that time. Some scenes not present are the disappearance of the never-named boy with the birthmark and Ralph's encounter with the pig head, or Lord of the Flies. These two scenes are important in the story, but the movie manages without them quite well. The film was shot in the Caribbean using English schoolboys that had no experience in acting. The location and nationally worked excellently in this film, but the lack of experience shows when you can't hear the dialogue too well. Some scenes, mainly the hunting scenes, were poorly choreographed. This version is still better than the remake I believe. The remake has the children use profanity and makes references to television shows from its time period (1990). In the DVD version there are several extras which are interesting to watch. My favorites are the theatrical trailer with and without audio commentary about a major problem that almost happened at the film's premiere, deleted scene with and without commentary and a reading by author, William Golding, screen tests and outtakes, and the scenes from a documentary about director Peter Brook's theatrical techniques.You should read William Golding's book before watching this movie, and definitely watch this version before the remake. "},{"Title":"The best possible outcome","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I would suggest reading the book first, and studying it because this is such a complex work. Once you do see the movie, you'll want to see it twice because it's so enjoyable and it must be thought about to be enjoyed.If you don't know, Lord of The Flies is about a plane carrying kids out of London so they'll be safe from the war. The plane crashed on an island, and and then Golding's pyscho-analysis of the human race begins. Two leaders emerge, one good and one bad. By the end of the movie almost all the kids are on the bad side, two are killed and you can clearly see how the group of kids' behavior is equivalent to mankind's.Don't even think about renting the 1990 Lord of the Flies. This version is one of the great film versions of any novel that has been made. Peter Brooks takes a masterpiece of a book and not only copies the book but adds onto it to make a masterpiece of a film. "},{"Title":"Scary and effective","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had the task of watching this for Society and Environment. We were studying leadership roles I think. Well anyway, I didn't even know what the heck Lord of the Flies was (I had some image of flies festering on some rubbish tip, flies trying to be the master of flies... I don't know what I was thinking!). Anwyay...A forever relevant and realistic story about a group of boys stranded on an island. The boys, who are about 9 or 10, have to adjust to the lifestyle on an island fending for themselves. The group splits in two and there is a terrible amount of conflict on the island - they have very different ideas of hunting for food etc. This conflict and the stress of the new lifestyle takes it's toll and causes fatal things to happen. Totally convincing - GREAT actors.You'll have to see it for yourself because you really do feel for the boys (I feel for Piggy). A very good realistic movie that really struck a chord with me.. scared me though - not in an Exorcist kind of way but more of a psychological way. Definitely recommended. "},{"Title":"Horrifying","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie was when it aired on PBS when I was 13. I watched it and I was absolutely shattered. For a good month I actually did sleep with my light on, and hummed any song I could think of so that the sing-song chant of Teery-ay, Teery-oh couldn't creep into my head. My memories of this movie have stayed with me so vividly that I haven't felt the need to see it again, even though it's now 30 years later. Frightening or not, it is more than memorable because of what most perceive of as its flaws - i.e., the b&w photography, the uneven editing, the faulty acting. These all made it much more realistic and therefore more frightening to me. My comments aren't meant to discourage anyone from watching this movie at least once - if anything, I recommend it heartily. Just don't be surprised if the sing-song chant doesn't play an eerie, constant refrain in your head as well.  "},{"Title":"Layered Views, Society by Simplicity","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is yet another of those films that like its literary source started life honestly as art and then became a staple in industrialized education. Another book with the type of message earnest teachers can extract and teach, explaining life. Another thin process that fools young minds into pretending they understand. But set all that aside; it is a life this film was shuttled into apart from its original intent.And that intent is noble for sure. Brook was a stage director. His intent is not to moralize or tell a story. Like most stage dramatists, he doesn't mind those when they suit his purposes. But his main mission is to be affecting, to make an impression. And there's no compromise on that, constrained only by the sensibilities of British audiences of the time.So we have episodes only. And because these are inexperienced actors the episodes are shaped by three elements innocent faces, some fairly effective camera blocking, and one or two dramatic effects that have little to do with the source material. An example of the latter is the much quoted approach of a gang of robed boys across the beach to chants.If this has any magic at all, it is in the stagecraft, and that's what makes it somewhat interesting.Golding's original target was in the Austin tradition, to take a critical stance at society by merely describing it crisply. The message, a real one, is about the use of abstraction in understanding how we use abstraction to aggregate civilly. Austen-type introspectives, Golding and Brook all do this in different ways so the joy in this project is in seeing how they overlay.Pay attention to the way we are implied. Everything that is there is obviously arranged so that our eye can catch all the important elements. Its along the same lines of narrative purification as the book but visual the boys clump just so, not because of any social or physical law, but because our eyemind needs it so to see.My mind gets offended at all this cleanliness, all this order intended to explain disorder. Part of the offense is the way things have changed in the world of drama today we demand ever more simplicity and clarity, even more than Golding and Orwell and probably in part because we are taught them in school.And we also demand it with less subtlety, at least outside the art-house.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Very true to the book.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First off, I suggest you read the book first. It is a great novel and this film based on William Golding's book is a good movie that's worth watching again and again. The 4 main roles are true to the book, and the movie follows the book extremely well. This movie is true to the novel. "},{"Title":"unknown young boys terrific","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A group of young English schoolboys are marooned on a South Pacific island after a plane crash. There's a war going on. Ralph encounters an asthmatic bespectacled Piggy. They find a conch and start blowing. The other kids gather. Jack leads a group of choir boys. The boys vote and elect Ralph leader. Ralph makes a rule that only the boy with the conch can speak. One of the younger boys claims to see a snakelike beast. Piggy uses his glasses to start a fire. Jack has a knife and the choir boys with newly made wooden spears kill a pig. Meanwhile a plane flies overhead but Jack's group had let the fire die out. Ralph and Jack conflict. The children begin to fear a beast that comes out of the sea and Jack vows to hunt down the beast. Jack and Ralph lead the group into the jungle and find a pilot in a parachute. They all run away thinking that it's the beast. Jack belittles Ralph as a leader and starts his own tribe. After a hunt, Jack puts the pig's head on a spike as an offering to the beast and then raid Jack's camp for fire. Simon discovers the pilot and tries to explain the feared beast. The children mistake him for the beast and kill him. After Jack's group steal Piggy's glasses, Ralph's remaining group go to confront Jack. Jack's cruel second-in-command Roger pushes over a boulder and kills Piggy. Ralph goes into hiding and Jack tries to hunt him down.The use of unknown young boys to play the boys give it a feel of faux realism. The boys are very naturalistic. The use of such young boys heightens the fear. James Aubrey has an inner intelligence that shines through as Ralph. Hugh Edwards is a great Piggy. Tom Chapin is not quite threatening enough as Jack. The black and white puts the movie in a stark world. It does justice to the words on the page. "},{"Title":"A technically imperfect but faithful and mostly effective adaptation.","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" William Golding's 1954 novel Lord of the Flies has gone down as one of the most widely-read and acclaimed books of the 20th Century and beyond thanks to the author's melding of solid, though deceptively straight- forward storytelling with allegory, making it an excellent tool to introduce various literary devices to students (hence why it is usually a staple of high school and college English curriculum). TIME Magazine even included it on their list of the 100 Best English-Language Novels written between 1923 and 2005. The novel itself can be enjoyed on many fronts. If nothing else, it's a fascinating premise What WOULD a bunch of young boys do if stranded somewhere with no adults around, no rules, no laws, no structure or discipline and left to their own devices? The fact it also happens to rich as an allegory on human nature and societal structure is just the icing on top. Golding himself summed up his intent rather simply by stating it's ... about the problem of evil and the problem of how people are to live together in society. That basic concept is put front and center in director Peter Brook's film adaptation and relayed with power despite some obvious technical issues that arise.An airplane full of young British schoolboys - ranging from about 6 years old to early teens - crashes somewhere on an uninhabited island. Ralph (James Aubrey), the son of a Navy commander who thinks the paternal figure he idolizes will soon come find them, stumbles upon the chubby, insecure, bespectacled, talkative Piggy (Hugh Edwards) first and the two make their way down the beach, discovering more of their schoolmates as they go. Along the beach come a second and smaller group of slightly older boys, led by Jack (Tom Chapin). Things begin harmlessly enough, with the kids essentially viewing the experience as some extended camping trip. They play games, laugh, play pranks, gather fruit, start a fire and build a shelter from branches as they await rescue. Using a majority rules vote to establish a new leader in Ralph, the group set down a few basic ground rules at the outset to maintain order, like using a conch shell as a platform to speak without interruption and keeping a fire going at the island's highest peak so a passing aircraft may see it, but things quickly go to hell.Once one of the boys claims to see a snake-like shape-shifting beast stirring among the bushes at night (which later turns into a mythical sea beast), a seed of superstition and paranoia encroaches on the new society and things escalate from there. Jack and his group deem themselves the hunters, sharpen spears, paint their faces, dress in animal rags, leave pig heads on stakes as an offering to their perceived new God and quickly descend into a life of violent tribal savagery, while Ralph loses his power and his numbers once his rival proves he can provide better and has no issue using deadly force as a means to silence those who oppose the new way. After having swayed the majority of others over to his side, Jack and his few remaining allies realize their own lives are in grave danger.Filmed in 1961 in Puerto Rico, this low budget production had numerous technical issues that needed tended to before it could finally be released in 1963. The major problem was the audio, most of which was not actually recorded on location due to various natural noises the filmmakers really couldn't do anything about. As a result, most of the dialogue was dubbed in later and, sadly, they didn't do a very good job of it. Audio levels really seem off throughout. Many seem to have issues with the casting of inexperienced boys instead of trained child actors in all of the roles, which results in some wooden, amateurish and / or stilted dialogue readings. Personally it didn't bother me all that much, but it will some viewers. If you can ignore the above issues, this is a visually splendid film that's atmospherically photographed on beautiful locations and it manages to generate a great desolate feel apart from the 'civilized' world.Most importantly of all, Brook actually does the source novel justice. Very little of importance was left out and the director conveys exactly what the book is trying to say. That's especially impressive considering he had to narrow down around 60 hours (!) of total filmed footage to just 90 minutes for the theatrical release. Supposedly a 100-minute version was initially released to Cannes, but I don't believe that cut has ever been made commercially available. A more polished and bigger- budgeted color remake was made in 1990 by director Harry Hook. Though it's not a terrible movie, it lacks the character and artistry of this original version. "},{"Title":"Amazing, but not for everybody","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I read the novel for school this year and watched this particular film in class as well. The novel has many dark elements underneath what seems to be a happy, adventurous synopsis. This film captured that and did a wonderful job of telling the story. They didn't skip many parts of the novel, and the casting was brilliant, considering the cast was full of young boys. I don't think you could experience the story without encountering the amount of symbolism involved. So, depending if you like that type of stuff or not will shape your perspective of the film. The story is very dark and eerie at times, and it gives you a weird feeling while watching it. Kind of like the feeling you get when you watch a Paul Thomas Anderson film. Like you shouldn't be watching, but you can't help but keep looking. Overall, I'd say the movie was fairly amazingly done. Just not everybody's cup of tea (including mine), so that's why the reviews vary. "}{"Title":"True to the Book","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Okay, let me just say it The 1990 screen adaptation was awful compared to this amazing film.I don't know why, but there's just something about this film that captures the disturbing essence of the story that the 1990 version lacks. This 1963 version is the most true adaptation to any book I have ever seen For example, the boys actually have British accents, like the book, unlike the 90's version. In the 1963 version, there are no adults on the island (except for the parachuted man and the ranger who comes in at the end), exactly like the book. In the 90's version, the pilot is shown at the beginning (What the heck!?). When Piggy dies, he is ACTUALLY KNOCKED OFF THE CLIFF (unlike the 1990 movie, where the boulder bounces off his head- seriously, guys? Do you have any concept of the laws of physics?) The script follows the dialogue of the book nearly word-for-word, and has no music- which adds to the creepy aura of the story. All in all, it's an excellent film that I recommend to all people. I promise it will not let down fans of the book. "},{"Title":"A lot to think about, if you are so inclined","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Anyone coming to this probably knows how it starts, but the opening credits here do a great job of setting the stage. This is done with a sequence of still images young boys in an English prep school, boys in a choir singing Kyrie Eleison, boys playing cricket, missiles, bombers, evacuation notices to the London airport, an atom bomb, a plane in the water. These images are inter-cut with a drumbeat soundtrack. No further back-story needed.Many serious themes are broached, the overarching one being to consider what would ensue if the thin veneer of civilization were stripped away. The ninety minutes of the movie follow Golding's book fairly closely and we get his take on the theme by following what happens to some thirty-odd kids on an isolated Pacific island. One of the boys, Ralph (James Aubrey), recognizes the need for organization and the need for a leader. A vote is taken and Ralph is elected, but another boy, Jack, is a rival. Jack, having been chief chorister at the school, gets all of the votes from the choirboys, but none others. Any relevance to contemporary politics is not coincidental. Initially things go all right, with tasks being apportioned Jack will be in charge of hunting and keeping a fire going as a signal to any possible rescue ships. Ralph will oversee building huts and making executive decisions. Soon a power struggle develops between Ralph and Jack and Jack gets the upper hand, since he is the main provider of food.If you are so inclined, allegorical meanings abound, offering occasion for endless analysis and speculation. Segments of modern society are reflected in the personalities of the main characters Ralph the reasoned leader representing civilization; Piggy, the intellectual, Ralph's friend and moral adviser; Simon the gentle, dispassionate truth seeker; Jack the militarist; Sam and Eric, the common man. The conclusion that savagery triumphs over good is depressing, but at least there is a recognition that there can be noble impulses embedded in our DNA. Jack makes a comment early on, After all we're not savages. We're English and the English are best at everything. The irony of that statement is appreciated as the movie moves along.The origins of religion are shown to be rooted in fear, and used by the group in power to their advantage. The corpse of an airman is found and it is mistakenly taken to be a beast shrouded in mystery and feared. Jack, recognizing an opportunity, offers protection from the beast and sacrifices pig's heads to feed it to keep it at bay. Since young kids have the least exposure to civilizing influences (read restraints), the implication is that we are all part brute--unfettered ego and the will to power are what make most things go bad.If you are not inclined to allegory or deep meaning, then you can see this simply as an adventure showing what might happen to a bunch of school kids when set loose without authority. Their relationships become pretty much what they probably were in school Jack, a closet bully; Ralph, a straight-up kid; Piggy, a fat intellectual who was picked on; Simon, a quiet thinker; Sam and Eric, congenial get along guys. They become who they truly are, which is scary to think about. I thought the child actors were quite good, especially for kids with little or no acting experience. They did not speak with great eloquence, they spoke as kids in a believable manner. Hugh Edwards makes a perfect Piggy. Aubrey plays the final scene with such emotion that it had a powerful impact on me; he communicates a sorrow bordering on despair. In that final scene he is made to look much older, which would indicate the effect his experiences on the island have had on him.Black and white is the right medium for this story, since it puts the focus on the kids and their faces. In color the kids would be overshadowed by the lush tropical island setting. The scene near the end where Ralph encounters the sailor is stunning in black and white. Panning up from the sailor's feet along the length of his brilliant white uniform is inspired. The spotless uniform offers a great contrast to the shape the kids were in.The score by Raymond Leppard is gently supportive while being mostly unobtrusive after the opening credits. The choir singing Kyrie Eleison as they march along the beach in their black robes will likely stick in your mind. Fragments of this song are repeated on several occasions throughout the movie. Leppard's score lets the tense drama unfold naturally without having to hit you over the head by what emotion you should be having. Many of the scenes play with no accompanying music; silence is used to great effect.Perhaps Walt Kelly's Pogo quote best sums up the takeaway We have met the enemy ... and he is us. "},{"Title":"LORD OF THE FLIES (Peter Brook, 1963) ***","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Had he managed to adapt William Golding's Lord Of The Flies to the screen as was his intention, it would have been the third film to be set on a deserted island in Luis Bunuel's canon. Ironically, the man who eventually realized this task &#x96; distinguished British theater director Peter Brook making only his third film in 11 years &#x96; would eventually work closely with Bunuel's most regular collaborator in his twilight years, screenwriter Jean-Claude Carriere, on THE MAHABHARATA (1989) &#x96; an ambitious adaptation of the epic Indian novel. I had myself studied the Golding book in school for my O level in English literature (the ominous title, the literal meaning of the word Beelzebub, was actually suggested by T.S. Eliot!) and I also have Golding's next work on my bookshelf, The Inheritors; frankly, although I had seen the film under review a long time ago on local TV, I had been postponing the purchase of the Criterion SE DVD for 10 years (it was one of the very first such editions I came across locally) but only recently relented once I learned of the Bunuel connection! While only two of the child actors (the recently deceased James Aubrey and Nicholas Hammond) engaged for the film would go on to pursue professional careers in the cinema, the most striking of them are the ones playing the villainous Jack Merridew (whose voice had to be dubbed given its overly Americanized inflections!) and the perennially victimized Piggy (whose demise is very effectively shot indeed). Actually, due to the constant noise of overhead flying planes, it was impossible to shoot live sound on the Puerto Rican location and all the dialogue had to be re-recorded &#x96; except for Piggy's anecdote of where his hometown got its name from (which was also exclusive to this film version).The post-apocalyptic island setting immediately elicits comparisons with other films depicting children in the aftermath of nuclear fallout like Joseph Losey's THESE ARE THE DAMNED (1963), Frank Perry's LADYBUG LADYBUG (1963; which I own but have yet to watch) and Peter Watkins' shot-for-and-subsequently-banned-by BBC-TV-film, THE WAR GAME (1965). Brook's previous work may have been primarily for the stage but one cannot deny that, in spite of the semi-professional nature of his cast and crew, he made a fluidly cinematic and powerful adaptation of the classic novel (as already alluded above).Although the funds emanated from an American source (producer Lewis Allen), the film is primarily thought of as a British production and it was considered as such when it competed officially at the Cannes Film Festival (where Luchino Visconti's THE LEOPARD eventually emerged victorious); incidentally, the version shown over there was slightly longer than the one subsequently released to theaters. Interestingly enough, Orson Welles had offered to edit down Peter Brook's original 4-hour rough-cut and during the film's theatrical premiere in New York, the final reel had had its soundtrack printed backwards! Finally, there was later a colour remake made in 1990 but I am not familiar with it. "},{"Title":"A Near Perfect Adaptation","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I just finished watching this movie for the first time. Before this one, i had only ever seen the 1990 version before this and I must say that this is much better than that version! It's just great to see a movie that, for once, follows the book almost perfectly. I wish every movie would at least strive to do so.There definitely are flaws in this movie with some iffy acting, rough editing and bad sound at times but the story is what caused me to give it a 10/10 rating. It is so well done as far as the story goes that it has become one of my favorite movies.See this movie if you're a fan of the book and I don't doubt that you will be pleased. I grew up reading the book and now I am glad to have seen this movie. I hope you will be too. "},{"Title":"Read it, then watch it.","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Alone on an island somewhere in the Pacific ocean a group of British schoolboys put up the struggle of their lives in order to survive, after crashing (being shot down) their airplane.The passenger tube, leaving a scar on the island, may represent the sin fall or the beginning of destruction on the island.Two boys, Ralph and Piggy, manages to call an assembly where they decide to elect Ralph as leader. Ralph who is a good looking and fair haired boy, representing democracy and reason, takes the responsibility and make up some basic rules that the group has to follow. The rest is up to you to discover, but is the human being natural evil or is it natural good? that is the question you have to ask yourself before reading or watching. Do you believe in mankind? "},{"Title":"You only need see the 1963 version...","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In 1963 breaking rules was already in full swing (Elvis, Little Richard, Beatles). In a back drop of movies such as From Russia With Love, Jason and the Argonauts, Cleopatra, and Lilies of the Field, along comes Lord of the Flies in black and white.The 1963 Lord of the Flies film exerts a far larger affront to social mores than the remake of the film decades later. The original along with Spleandor in the Grass and To Kill a Mockingbird should be required viewing for students. Odds are at least one student might get a clue. The early films are less clinical and more memorable. "},{"Title":"Faithful rendering of classic book","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The story of two separate and socially contrasting groups of boys simultaneously plane-wrecked on a deserted island and the effects of having to survive without guidance or constraint of and adult guidance is both entertaining and deeply thought provoking. I have always felt that this film, more than any other that I have seen, follows the original book almost without change. This is so extremely rare in film-making that, for this reason alone, the film is particularly noteworthy. I have encountered criticism of the film, but personally I will always include it among my all-time favourites simply because it so closely recreates a great classic book faithfully on film. "},{"Title":"Is evil inherent?","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is the classic B&W British version of William Golding's book set during WWII about a group of schoolboys marooned on a small tropical island in the Pacific. There is much to be praised and much to be criticized among the latter the distracting background music and the translation of Christian symbolism from implicit to explicit. However, the strongest impression remains the genuine expression of deep, often overwhelming emotions, portrayed so beautifully by the non-professional cast. It is noteworthy that, in interviews published in the New Yorker magazine thirty years later, the now-grown boys recalled the experience of making Lord of the Flies as a signal step in their maturation and development. Although I believe only one went on to further work in the performing arts, they all returned from Puerto Rico (the filming location) older in more than months. Many argue against Golding's essential tenet that human nature is inherently evil and that civilisation provides only a veneer of protection, but whatever one's opinion this film highlights the issue with inescapable intensity. "},{"Title":"A true study of human nature at its worst","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I first read the book by William Golding for school, and I'll admit that the only thing that attracted me to this title was its brevity.  However, after reading it, I did something I've never done before, I immediately reread it!!!  I couldn't get over how deep this book was.  I decided to rent the movie too, but all I could find was the 1990 version, while entertaining, didn't go as deep as it should have.  But when I finally got my hands on this version, I had another first for me, I found a movie that I liked better than the book! Even people who have never read or seen the Lord of the Flies, know the basic premise, a bunch of boys are stranded on a remote island without adult supervision, and their society quickly starts to collapse into savagery. This however does not do the real meaning of the story justice.  You have the leader, Ralph, who is just a simple kid trying to hold together the group and keep law and order.  You got his sidekick Piggy, who is portrayed as the last voice of reason.  And then you have Jack, who just wants to have fun and hunt.  The symbolism of this group of kids and humanity starts to become really clear.  Golding had a really depressing idea of human nature, and Peter Brook portrays it brilliantly.  I suggest reading the book and getting a good idea of what the underlying message was. Then watch this movie for a most excellent experience.  I give it a high score of 10, but with a warning of not to watch this if you get depressed easily, this is no light hearted deserted island story a la Swiss Family Robinson.  "},{"Title":"Lord of the Flies","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I used to hear the title and wonder what the film was about, then I heard more it, and most significantly I saw the spoof by The Simpsons, so I was definitely looking forward to watching this British film, based on the famous novel by William Golding. Basically a group of English school children, all boys, are stranded on a deserted island after surviving a plane crash, and eventually they all unite on the beach. The boys all decide they need a leader, so they put it to a vote, and they choose Ralph (James Aubrey), instead of Jack (Tom Chapin), and for a while he is able to steer the boys, all aged between eight and fourteen years old. They work together to build a civilised and co-operative society until they can be rescued, building shelters and making fires, but they also make wooden spears and have knives. With the lack of rescue and the arguments for authority there are growing tensions between all the boys, to the point when there is violence to find food, and the group split into two. Jack is the leader of the more savage half, and Ralph and Piggy (Hugh Edwards) are doing their best to keep the remaining boys together, but almost have to stay together by themselves. There is a point when the savagery between the departed boys that a large rock is pushed and it crushes Piggy, Ralph has to run away and hide in the jungle. In the end the island jungle is set on fire, and Ralph running comes across a naval officer, who is shocked to see the children's' behaviour, and presumably they all get rescued. Also starring Roger Elwin as Roger, Tom Gaman as Simon, Roger Allan as Piers, David Brunjes as Donald and Peter Davy as Peter. All the young male actors do really well as the attitudes flair and arguments turn violent, the most memorable characters being Ralph, Pigg and Jack, it is a good gripping story where authority and no help are what create the problems for the young people, and there are certainly some dark moments, overall it is certainly a drama to see. Very good! "}{"Title":"When The Jungle Becomes The Classroom","Date":"3 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is either a poorly edited film shot with decent child actors, or a brilliantly edited film working around bad ones. However rough around the edges, this first adaptation of the classic William Golding novel captures the crux of the book, harnessing a youthful spontaneity that threatens to spill over into anarchy at any moment.We're not savages asserts one lad, the bossy Jack. We're English. And the English are best at everything.The story is the same in all but a few minor particulars. During a future war, a group of boys find themselves stranded on an island. Using a conch shell, some sharpened sticks, and a pair of broken spectacles, they construct a fragile society precariously balanced between hope of rescue and surrender to more primordial instincts. Jack is quite savage, it turns out, and only a fat outcast named Piggy and his friend Ralph understand that devoting their new life to hunt and have feasts and have fun is not all that good an idea.One reason the novel Lord Of The Flies endures is for how it remains a sturdy, involving adventure yarn even as it metaphorically examines the human condition in its darkest form. This adaptation maintains that balance fairly well, not lingering too long on any big metaphors.The oddness of the casting is striking at the film's beginning. Kids seem to stumble with their lines, miss cues, look at the camera, etc. Many shots focus on a boy staring into space while another is heard talking, suggestive of either synching issues or an actor's inability to deliver a key line convincingly.A lot of comments note a scene where members of Jack's choir give their names, each obviously waiting to be cued while the camera pans over them. The scene could have been cut out without missing anything; why did director Peter Brook leave it in?I think he wanted the raggedness of the performances precisely because it cuts against the grain of what you expect from films, cute boys delivering their lines crisply. You need to risk a bit of chaos to deliver a convincingly chaotic film, and chaos is what you get.Just like kids! sighs Piggy during one scene full of random running and shouting. Like a crowd of kids.Piggy, played by a young Alfred Hitchcock soundalike named Hugh Edwards, stands out for his on-point delivery, coming off at once as humane, order-loving, and a bit of a bore. His monologue about the naming of his hometown, Camberley, says all you need to know about the character in an amusing way, establishing both his likability and his irritation factor.The other two lead actors, James Aubrey (Ralph) and Tom Chapin (Jack) are solid, but it gets dicey from there. The lad playing Simon, a key role, seems on the verge of nodding off throughout, while the book's other major role, Jack's sadistic ally Roger, is reduced to a handful of words and silent stares. Jack in the book has a more nuanced relationship with Ralph and the others; here he comes across as a smug little brat hardly in need of Roger's help to transform the island into his private savage garden.The choice of shooting in black-and-white may have been budgetary but works at establishing a menacing mood that only deepens as the film progresses. To a large degree, mood is what makes this film succeed as much as it does. You feel a sense of dislocation around this group, which is just as it should be. "},{"Title":"A Society of Kids","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This masterpiece was originally based on the famous great deep novel written by Willian Golding, and this movie is the most close version to the original novel The story is very deep and effective and could be understood in many levels and perceptions, it can be understood as an adventure of a group of castaway lost kids or it can be understood as an example of the native human needs of developing society and system of life under the threats of the brutality and primitive rituals The story's begin is not clear, really the reason of the traveling of the kids from their school in England to the tropical island is not clear either in the version of the novel or in the 1963s or in the 1990s version of the movie, as the kids themselves in the novel don't know why did they take the plane, only a clue may be taken from Piggy when he said to Ralph in the 1st chapter Atomic bombs you know and it could be understood as the threat of nuclear bombing - may be due to a world war (I think Golding meant the WWII) - that forced the authorities to make a group of school students (between 6 to 14 years old) travel by plane to an unknown destination (May be to distant BRITHISH COLONY..ugh!!) .. another version of the movie says that this was a normal school trip (To the tropical islands??!!) .. anyway the plane crashes and nobody survives except the kids of the school on a small deserted unknown tropical island, here we discover closely some characters of these kids- Ralph => A noble 14 years old kid who was elected by the kids to be their chief, he was strict, organized and concentrating on the rules and on finding a way to get the kids rescued- Jack Meriedo => A Tough greedy 14 years old kid, eager to be the leader by force, wanted to create a brutal community (A tribe as he call it) that of hunters free of rules and culture, concentrates always on hunting the pig and then the beast and he created the idea of the head of the pig as a gift to the mysterious beast as to be protected, for the human natural development and culture, the pig's head which was then got rotten and stinks and surrounded with flies (Yuk!!) is the symbol of the protection, then the symbol of the tribe, then a sacred symbol and finally a worshiped god and idol which is the start of heathenism!! A rotten stinky ugly pig's head which is surrounded with flies became their Lord of the flies!! A virtual god!! - Piggy => A 12 years old kid that is nerd, fat with glasses, because of his name and shape he becomes the gag of kids although his kind heart and matured brain, he represent the abandoned voice of wisdom and mind, his great importance comes from his pair of glasses which were used to make fire, one of his glasses was broken by Jack Merido and was killed at last by a fallen rock by Roger (Jacks right arm) as a stupid gag which had shaken the kids - Simon => A 10 years old helpful lonely kid that was killed by Jack's tribe without mercy during on of their brutal festivals This movie represent to us how could the wild life turn innocent school kids into living merciless beasts and monsters living the wild life like the brutal native human .. at first the kids elected Ralph to be their leader and afterwords Jack splatted and created his own hunters tribe to become the leader of the island .. he ordered the kill of the pigs to have food to feed the kids, and the kids then experienced the killing of a life .. he ordered the kill of Simon which was by mistake, then the kids started to experience the blood of the human beings, the Piggy was killed and the kids turned into beasts and wanted to HUNT Ralph as a wild beast .. they ran after him to hunt him and at the last moment .. they found a navy officer!! the help has arrived at last .. the navy squad saw a group of shapeless kids with torn and dirty clothes and colorful faces, they thought that the kids were playing .. that the kids spent all the time playing on the island .. may be after all it was a game .. but it was a game of life and death!! A Genius simple idea created by William Golding who seems to have and control all the keys of the human nature .. the tendency for leadership, the tendency for the entropy and Chaos, the tendency to create and manipulate the inner unknown human fears from the mystery and unknown subjects, the tendency to crate a protective idol .. the evil and cruelty within the humans ..The 1963s movie version was really much better than the 1990s as it was closer to the novel and was much better performed by the kids Thanks Will *** Lo'ay "},{"Title":"Faithful Adaptation Of Golding's Novel","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As did many people I first encountered Lord Of The Flies when I read the novel in high school. Unfortunately, that's starting to be a very long time ago! However, if memory serves correctly, I have to credit this movie for being a pretty faithful adaptation of Golding's story. The movie takes place entirely on a deserted tropical island (it's implied that it was in the Pacific, although the movie was actually shot in Puerto Rico.) It's intended as a critique of humanity's violent impulses which wonders what would happen if a group of young boys were isolated without adult supervision. The result, of course, is disastrous a short attempt at unity is destroyed by the jealousy between two rivals for the leadership of the group, there's a complete breakdown of the rules they had agreed to follow and the end result is a descent into savagery and violence. Two things stood out for me. The first were the performances by the three main leads as Ralph, Jack and Piggy, James Aubrey, Tom Chapin and Hugh Edwards (I would say especially Chapin) were quite convincing for the most part, although there were a few fluffs in the mix; a few times when they seemed to be trying a bit too hard and the result came across as less than credible. The second is the closing scene, as the boys gone wild are confronted by the sudden presence of adults as they're discovered by sailors from the British Navy, and - after all the horrors that have developed - they simply adopt a sort of oh, haven't we been naughty posture.There is something powerful about the study of how children would react to such a situation, but there's also to be honest an air of expectedness to the story. The early attempts at unity essentially have children trying to act like adults. That's perhaps understandable in the circumstances, but it also surely comes as no shock that they can't keep up that pretense for very long - after all, they're not adults. A devolution into some form of anarchy is surely to be expected. Even more interesting in some ways might be to watch the degeneration of a group of cultured adults facing the same circumstances, because then the chill would come from the sense that they should know better. Here, though - as violent as it is - what happens on the island doesn't shock me (and not only because I've read the book!) I can't say that I was truly enamoured with this film. I was bored to death by an opening sequence that seemed to go on and on with very little purpose, but once it got going, this was one of the more faithful reproductions of a novel I've come across in a movie. "},{"Title":"A different take on a highly analyzed story","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I would like to offer a different take on how this film should be seen.  Most people see Lord of the Flies as a film about the descent of a group of schoolboys into savagery.  I see it as a story about the collapse of democracy and the rise of totalitarism.Allow me to elaborate on that one.  William Golding wrote his novel in the years following World War 2.  Golding had observed to his dismay the collapse of German democracy and the rise of Hitler's Nazi regime.  Democracy failed in Germany primarily because the German people wanted it to.  Hitler then proceeded to crush all opposition and remilitarize Germany, much like Jack seduced the schoolboys to join him and  hunt down Ralph after Ralph had been fairly elected.  Similarly in the USSR Stalin came to power and hunted down Trotsky and all his dissenters.  In book and film, Ralph becomes a heroic Trotskyist figure who opposes Jack and his brutal Stalinists.Both book and film provide a disturbing look at the triumph of totalitarism.  The final scenes of flames enveloping the island are suitably apocalyptic. "},{"Title":"Life Magazine carried a long article about the making of the movie","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" .  .  . which was filmed in Puerto Rico. The boys were housed in a bunkhouse during the filming. They had a minder who made sure they kept out of trouble and that they turned up on the set on time every day.The minder was awakened one night by a commotion coming from the boys' room which was adjacent to his own room. He padded to the door and peered through it to discover all of the boys huddled in a circle on the floor. They were having a contest.In the center of the circle was an electric fan with the blade guard removed. The fan was running at full speed. In each boy's hand was one of the ubiquitous lizards that ran up and down the walls of the bunkhouse. Each boy, in turn, was dropping his lizard into the blades of the fan. The winner of the contest was the boy whose lizard was sliced into the most pieces.One can imagine Golding's ghost nodding, nodding, nodding, nodding. "},{"Title":"You really couldn't hope for a better film version of the novel","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  And saying that, I also should clarify that I've never seen more than a few minutes of the 1990 remake. I have read the novel, though. It is good, but its none-too-subtle parable make it sort of a weak read to an adult. I was 15 when I read it, and I thought it was obvious then. As far as the prose goes, it could have been written by an intelligent teenager.Peter Brooks, when adapting the novel into this film, decided to go with a cinema-verite style, obviously influenced by early French New Wave films like Breathless and The 400 Blows. What results is amazing an immediate and believable telling of events. The amateur actors are excellent, and cast to perfection. The cinematography and editing make the film much more frightening than the novel was. All in all, the only real problem is the often inappropriate scoring, especially at the film's end. I give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"vieques","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of my favorite films from the sixties. The film was made on the Island of Vieques in Puerto Rico. It's ironic that a crashed military pilot evokes the dark side of human nature. It would be interesting to know if the film help to attract the U.S. military to use it as a training field.  "},{"Title":"Read the book FIRST!","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Reading the comments in this section says as much about human nature as the film, some people are capable of digging below the surface to see the 'real' story hidden within, some are obviously looking for an action movie, and are probably disappointed that Swarzenegger didn't rescue the boys! Read the book THEN see the 1960's film, and if you have the time, read the book again. Oh, the 1990's American version..... Well in the last act Arnie swoops in on a helicopter.... Do yourselves a favour, if you have a brain and any hint of imagination, leave the 1990's version firmly on the shelf! "},{"Title":"Realistic and Frightening...","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film when I many years ago and it's real and in your face approach to the duality of humanity struck me hard and stayed with me.  I recommend this film to anyone who lives in the real world and have doubts about the duality. "},{"Title":"Get the DVD Version","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Criterion DVD version of this film is great - specifically audio track 2 (director's comments) and track 3 (Golding reading from the book excerpts of the scene from the film!).DVD also has a deleted scene,home movies, behind the scenes items etc. etc. which not only show more of what went into the filming but also of the release at Cannes.  Definitely a must see/buy. "}{"Title":"Great Movie, Equals The Books As A Masterpiece","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I still remember the first time I saw this movie, it was strange, scary, and all together real.I know the book offers more insights to the emotions and thinking of the characters, but the visual and sounds of this movie make you start thinking on a whole different level.I also remember that I kept rooting for Ralph, but Jack had the real power and he knew what to do with it.  I was shocked when Piggy died (so was Ralph).  Great Ending too. "},{"Title":"Good, but not that good","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this version in class, after we had read the book, and I felt that the movie was missing some of the important symbolism used in the book. Yes, this movie did capture a lot of the things that happened, but it was missing some of the more important things.In class, we critically analyzed (we're an honors class) the details to the book, and what they symbolized.In the book, the conch shell was smashed into a million pieces when Piggy was killed. This should have been in the movie. It symbolized the ending of civilization, because the conch shell was a symbol of power for the kids.The other big thing that annoyed me was that they left out the part where Roger throws rocks at another kid (I forget who). In the book, he intentionally misses because the other kid was protected by an invisible barrier, the barrier of rules and punishment for intolerable acts in the world of parents. This showed that they still had a small grip on reality before Jack took over.One last thing, the height of Ralph and Jack annoyed me. They were supposed to be the same height, but Jack was significantly taller. This shows that they were equal in size and shape.  "},{"Title":"Classic of the Sixties","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of several impressive movies of the 1963/1964 period (eg. Dr. Strangelove, Failsafe, Ladybug Ladybug , etc) which included a nuclear threat theme. Enhanced by it's B&W photography, inexperienced (and therefore spontaneous) young actors, haunting music and spine-tingling ending. A piece of trivia is that no adult has a line of dialogue in the film.  A true classic, not tainted by the appalling 1990 movie of the same name. "},{"Title":"The Art of Being Human","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The time, 1940. The place, an idyllic island somewhere in the Atlantic. England transports a plane load of prim and proper, school boys away from the horrors of a European War. The plane crashes and the boys are left stranded on a tropical island without adult supervision. William Golding' novel allows viewers to observe the transformation of even the most well behaved children when left to their own devices. Innocent at first, the boys contrive a make-shift hierarchy based on English society and parental mores. Soon however, a subtle inclination allows the more aggressive side of human nature to evolve and a split divides the once tranquil group. What follows is the natural tendency of mankind to revert to a more primitive and prurient structure resulting in animal dominance, religious fears and murder. Disturbing in it's accusations, terrifying in it's imaginary, the Black and white version is definitely a superb classic by any standard. Brief nudity. **** "},{"Title":"Second time around","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw this the first time in the 1960s it impressed me as a powerful film. When I saw it a second time this century it disappointed me as an amateur film with an Ed Woods, Jr. budget. The acting was terrible and the production values were wretched. For example, we are expected to believe a little boy with a stick can pry loose a boulder that appears to be as big as a mid-size automobile. I would expect that in a Hollywood film, but not one made by the British! We see the completely unmarked body of a boy who was jabbed and beaten to death by many attackers. If the film is supposed to be true to the time period of the Golding's book, the flight suit of the pilot appears to be an anachronism.With professional production values, it could have been a very powerful film.  "},{"Title":"Never a Movie like it.","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Don't watch this film unless you can take heavy, psychologically disturbing movies.Most know thie plot of Lord of the flies. After all these years the movie has lost none of it's ability to disturb. The heartbreaking story is scary because of it's realism. It is perhaps one of the most disturbing movies ever made.SPOILERSThis movie is not for the faint of heart, there is heartbreak, there is tragedy, I know it (was) shown in schools at least when I was growing up, I wish children watching this could grasp the true concept of peer pressure and fitting in and the horrible consequences that can arise from that need. Again, this is a tough movie to watch but an important one and one that has a firm place in movie history. "},{"Title":"What's with the random glow sticks in the 1990's version?","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There's no way that anyone can make this book into a decent movie. When you read the novel you are able to capture the thoughts and feelings of the characters in the story. In the 1990's movie it just felt like the director was struggling to cram all of the events into about an hour and a half. There was nothing there, the entire movie was just played out scene by scene before you. I didn't feel the need to discuss my understanding of the story or analyse any of the character's actions. The movie was so incredibly weak compared to the book. The book made me think. It's the kind of book you never forget, how can you? It's the kind of story you refer to when discussing human nature. And I'm sorry, I don't mean to bash the entire movie, but what's with piggy's death? In the book they made it dramatic and symbolic (when he dies the last symbol of order is shattered before the boy' eyes (conch)). In the movie it was almost funny. Not because of the fact that he dies, but the way they kill him. Is it me or did that rock bounce off his head? I just think it would have been more powerful if all they showed the giant rock were Piggy stood. Obviously he dies, there's no need to prove how badly done your movie was made. I just recently had to watch this movie for my grade 9 English class and my classmates and I agree that it was very disappointing compared to the book!  "},{"Title":"Dazzling and wonderful","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The book had an uncanny errieness to it. And the film...well, the paradise that is art has come alive. How can it be possible to compare a book to a movie that will be different in length? This movie was wonderful, dazzling and timeless. "},{"Title":"Why isn't this movie more famous??!!","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  LORD OF THE FLIES is a remarkable,fantastic, movie,that is not getting the fame that it deserves!!!! I guess people today would rather pay attention to the 1990 version instead of the classic. Wake up people! Everyone should see this movie. The story is fantastic,and the plot shows it's work in the most fantastic way possable. A perfect 10! "},{"Title":"The world in Microcosim","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A thoughtful rendering of Golding's novel, detailing the decline of civilization as violence and brutishness overwhelm good.  The film is flawed in that there is no effective way for the exchange between Simon and the lord of the flies to translate to film. Still, the film says a great deal that is particularly valid in the world we live in today.  In 1963 when the film was released there was still much room for hope but 36 years later it appears that Jack is winning again.This version, although done with non-professionals is vastly superior to the later Hollywood release.  The boy playing Piggy is totally natural and gives the character great depth.In spite of limitations, this is a fine example of adapting a book to the screen. "}{"Title":"Excellent Book, Mess of a movie","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I both read the classic novel and saw this movie as part of a unit in my English class (I'm a High School sophomore), and I absolutely loved the book. It was a very attention drawing story with vivid imagery, a compelling descent into savage behavior with a strong lesson about values and ethics. I highly recommend the book to anyone.But here an immortal story has, amazingly enough, been made into a bad movie. It's as simple as that. I don't know about the simple movie viewer, but if you had just read the book, as I had, watching the movie would be complete torture.The book had eerie, colorful imagery that pulled in readers and compelling and disturbing scenes. Naturally, a movie adaption of a story on such an island in such a remote place begs for color and visual moods. However this movie was filmed in black and white which considerably dulls the intended atmosphere in several scenes. Too bad the '90s remake of Lord of the Flies completely sucked. It would have been a chance to make up for this flaw.The scenes are very poorly organized. Any tension, suspense, or compelling nature is lost because the screenplay and shots just don't flow well and the camera work is amateur and quite sloppy.And what really both amused and irritated me about this movie is the laughably poor acting from an inexperienced child cast. Yes it's true that they're only children, but there were and are films with good kid actors that could convincingly do character roles. The kids in this film are just embarrassing. They all sound like they're struggling to remember their lines or are trying to follow character directions but not quite knowing what to do. The cast is completely unconvincing, and their performance contributes greatly into making this the bad movie that it is (though it's not completely their fault as the direction and technical work is every bit as shameful and amateur, and besides the child cast from the '90s remake was every bit as horrible if not worse). By the way, you'll notice that the voices of some of the older kid actors change tone getting deeper and higher pitched in alternate scenes (this is particularly noticeable with Ralph). Yet another sign of poor organization and little thought into this movie.Overall, a lousy film, but definitely the right choice between the '60s and '90s version. If you're going to watch a movie adaption of William Golding's literary classic, this is the right version to watch as the '90s version is even worse, but the best choice would be to skip the movies altogether and just read the book. Go to your local bookstore, get the novel, turn to page one and get ready for one amazing trip. "},{"Title":"A good adaptation sadly stained by irritating quirks.","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Simon Maybe there is a beast. What I mean is  maybe it's only us.Since I just finished reading the book last night, it felt natural for me to check out the movie. I decided with the older version as it is the one whose snapshots came up while I was searching for the cover of my book to feature in my book review.The movie starts with a series of black and white pictures over sound. We deduce from them that it is set in England, that a war, probably a nuclear war, has started and that kids are being evacuated by plane. We hear a crash. The next scene, we see two kids on a beach and they wonder if there are any adults left. They start by getting everyone's name. They find a shell in the sea, that the young boy who is only referred to as Piggy, informs them is a conch. In order to have everyone gather, Ralph blows the conch and they decide who should be the leader. While Ralph is soon elected leader, another boy, Jack, who lives only to hunt the wild pigs on the island, soon threatens the power of both the conch and Ralph.The film is a quite good adaptation. It is very faithful to the text and apart from two scenes, I couldn't really see many differences.I was annoyed by a few things however. First of all, I felt the music and sounds weren't fitting the atmosphere. I also think the scenes that lead up to a sort of communal frenzy among the boys were so frantic they lost all sense of realism. It simply didn't seem to fit. Last but not least, I think the acting was fairly poor. I understand that an ensemble cast of young boys is not the easiest thing to manage but a lot of overacting ensued which took away from the film's credibility.The movie, which was extensively cut, was a good telling of the book and I felt they did pick out the key scenes from it in order to form a compact, yet linear and understandable tale. When seeing a movie from a book you have read, it tends to be a great disappointment when some of your favorite scenes go missing or when you feel the movie isn't understandable as a whole because of some involvements cleared out in the book, but that didn't happen here.In many ways it reminded me of the French film La guerre des boutons (1962) but if had to recommend only one, I'd go with the French one. I think, even though Lord of the Flies' addresses far more serious cultural criticism than the, mostly, comedic relief of its French counterpart, the acting of the ensemble cast is far better in La guerre des boutons.I liked Faithful to the book. The island. The Lord of the Flies scene.I disliked The music and sounds. The acting.62/100 A good adaptation sadly stained by irritating (to me) quirks.Read more at www.theordinaryreview.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Boys Will Be Boys","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When their plane crashes, young schoolboys are stranded on a deserted island. Like the excellent Criterion release's sleeve-writer says, this is famed theater director Peter Brook's daring translation of William Golding's brilliant novel. That we are capable of great cruelty whilst young, tease ourselves into groups, and scapegoat others is all here - the Darwinian story is most effective in reflecting society, and it mirrors readers when they need it most. However, the cinematic execution is off the mark. Unlike the novel, you relate to the story without really becoming involved. That being said, the decision to use an unknown cast works, as do some scenes. One of the highlights is a powerful end, where Mr. Brook creates a scene well suited to the visual medium.****** Lord of the Flies (5/63) Peter Brook ~ James Aubrey, Tom Chapin, Hugh Edwards, Roger Elwin "},{"Title":"some of the most memorable child acting outside of a musical or comedy","Date":"18 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was one of a handful of kids who didn't get to read Lord of the Flies at the time when it would've been most appropriate- back in grade school where I could relate to what is the quintessential story of boyhood Id gone amuck (that is Id without any girls or parental guidance). So I had to be content with, years later, watching the film. It turns out to be something very fascinating; very naturalistic (the film was mostly improvised by its young cast) and with breathtaking black and white cinematography. It's the classic story of a bunch of kids marooned on a deserted island with nothing but their wits and most barbaric instincts as young men (emphasis on *men*, British no less), and what it is to be apart, or decidedly not part, of a herd. And while I wasn't completely blown away by the production, I could see the definite admiration for the source.As for the film, Peter Brook crafted something unique in that he got a bunch of kid actors, pretty much all of them first timers and non-professionals, and made them about as believable as can be possible in a drama. Aside from some other examples like Shoeshine or Stand by Me (though the latter is more comedy/drama), Lord of the Flies showcases these young talents so much in a raw style, and often to heartbreaking and almost anthropological effect, that you can't take your eyes away from it. It's by now means flawless and occasionally suffers from its improvised expression of narrative, but the positive results are so strong it's kind of a sleeper must-see of the 1960s, at least in British cinema. "},{"Title":"Great, though the film-making could use some work","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As I sat down to watch this with a group of young adults(yours truly belongs in said group, as well) one of the two people in the room who were our senior said, as the 'director' title card came up in the opening credits, Peter Brook? He's a big name in theater! Well, I'd be lying if I claimed that I didn't, throughout watching this film, often thought to myself Mr. Brook, I do believe you should have stayed in your own field. I do now, though, acknowledge his talent. The film opens with a bold and unusual(as far as I know; I haven't seen too many films of this period, so it may, in actuality be common practice of the era) choice of narrating events, which I found refreshing and surprisingly effective(though if the less-than-pleased grunts I heard from around are any indication, I was in the minority). The film has an interesting plot, though that may be more indicative of William Golding's insight than that of Brook... I'd have to read the novel itself to determine. Before I proceed; I've heard that there is a colorized and re-cut version of this film... the version I saw is the original, black and white (and apparently, less expertly cut, judging from the opinions of those who have seen both; I wouldn't exactly claim that those are terribly educated opinions, though). The pacing is all over the place. In some instances, the film is intense(at times, without really 'moving'... an impressive effect that is not easily achieved), and at others, it doesn't move, well, at all, really. The acting is, as could be expected by a cast of teenage boys, not all stellar. I would suggest that at least some of the roles were cast with more focus on the actor looking like the character described in the book than actual acting talent. The cinematography is at times magnificent, with some breathtaking visuals... and at times dreary and dull, with lazily composed shots to cover the action. I found myself marveling at how many angles seemed to be missing... scenes where one would expect the camera to cut to a reaction shot or a closeup, and it instead stays... and stays. Not moving from it's current motif. The editing seems as if there was too little time or enthusiasm to do it properly. Several shots are cut into before the action starts and out of too long after it's over. Also, I found myself looking at the screen all too often, not being able to make out what on Earth was going on or what I was supposed to be looking at. I recognized the same in my fellow viewers. It may be supposed to build atmosphere and create mood, but all it achieves is confusing the viewer. The cut I saw was no more than 76 minutes long, but it certainly felt like a lot more. Now, with all that said, all that negativity... the film was actually not too bad. The point it makes is excellent, and I found myself more involved in it than I thought I would be. I truly cared about these young, English lads... even though they did have a tendency to be a bit full of themselves. Some of them handed in far better performances than what is normally expected from such young(and no-name) actors... reminiscent of Tami Stronach of The Neverending Story. Near the end, one of the boys delivers a stare so unsettling that it's a bad bet to claim that it won't send a chill down your back the first time you see it. Though the production values and film-making qualities are somewhat dubious, this film is worth watching for any person who considers himself an open-minded individual. I urge you to read the book instead(since I am almost certain that it's better; to get this great work in its purest form, the way the creator intended it), but if you refuse to or are unable to, pick this over the colorized version(since that apparently loses tone and important character traits) and definitely over the '90 version, since, just reading some of the quotes, ruins at least one incredibly strong scene of this. I most insist that you watch without reading the plot outline or hear what it's about from anyone(unless you have already have); I did. I watched this having no real idea of what it was about, and I don't even want to consider how little an effect it would have had on me if I had preconceptions about the story. I recommend this to anyone who have the patience and emotional strength(it requires more than you'd expect, more than I expected, at least) to watch it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Popular Novel becomes  Excellent Cinematic Work of Art.","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When viewing the film, one is simultaneously drawn into a story which is both realistic and at the same time surrealistic. The movie was also shot in glorious b&w, which only enhances its impact on its audience.The screenplay is from the William Golding novel, which was quite popular in this period, 1962 to be exact. I can remember that it was one of the books which we had as required reading during our junior year at my high school. Ditto for a Lit class of mine at the City College of Chicago about three years later.The film opens with a montage of credits which are both stressful to the viewer, but also tell of story's beginning. Without giving away anything, a fairly large number of young, upper class British School boys are marooned on a tropical island following an evacuation for a Nuclear War threat. They are left to their own devices and we observe their reactions.Other than the opening and closing credits, the film is masterfully put together in such a way as the viewer really feels that he is watching real events unfolding before his eyes. "},{"Title":"Great Movie-Making","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Whereas Edward Turner decided this movie was quite disappointing, I was fascinated. I too read the novel and felt this film did an admirable job of capturing the children's descent into savagery. While incapable of capturing all of the symbolism and imagery of the book (and really, who could?), the director did a remarkable job for the tools available to him at the time. Several scenes are filmed in a way in which it is difficult to say for sure what is happening, which to some may be annoying, but which I found effective in creating a sense of genuine dread. An extremely well made film and definitely worth a look. Immeasurably superior to the 1990 version. "},{"Title":"Very close to the Book","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Lord of the Flies has been a favorite book of mine since I first read it in the mid-1960's. I wasn't disappointed by this black and white gem when I saw it on video years later. Forget the  flashy Hollywood remake. It didn't capture the energy, the haunting moments, the fears, or the joys that this flick did. An outstanding performance by Hugh Edwards as Piggy and a great insight on human nature. "},{"Title":"Wonderful adaptation!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a wonderful adaptation of a great book! Very powerful messages about human nature and life are in this! I was so surprised when I saw this film because it was VERY true to the book. Pretty much word for word (of course there will be cuts) but there was truly no changing in the dialogue that went on. This film puts the horrible 1990 version to shame! But of course how it is the 1990 director gets the credit and this director is almost but forgotten. So what is it? Are humans naturally good and society corrupts us? Or vice versa? That is for you to decide, but personally I think it's a little bit of both. "},{"Title":"OK adaptation of well read book...","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 1st watched 8/25/2009 - 5 out of 10 (Dir- Peter Brook) OK adaptation of well read book about a group of British school kids who crash land on a deserted island and try to fend for themselves. The story starts on the island after the crash. They initially get along fine but start splitting up into two groups(the more violent hunting group, and the more passive group more focused on being rescued). Ralph is the more sympathetic passive leader who is voted in initially as the chief, but he's rivaled by Jack, who is initially his righthand boy. Jack then becomes the hunter's leader and becomes aggressive to the point of accidentally killing one of the kids during an incident at night where they falsely believe they encountered a monster that lived on a cliff. The pacifist group becomes less and less in number as the story goes on to the point where the leader is the only one left and is hunted by the others. The acting is fine in the movie but the direction is a little laid back for my tastes with minimal music thats get a little annoying as well. There are definitely parallels here to real life and how adults interact but emotions aren't really pursued in the movie very well. The movie is interesting but doesn't have the impact it could have had. "}{"Title":"Has Poor quality and bad acting, but it follows the book pretty well","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was pretty excited about seeing this movie. I loved the book Lord of the Flies, so I was excited to see this. I was a little bit disappointed, but then again, I probably had my hopes up a little too high. I read some rave reviews about this movie by movie critics, some claiming that it's a brilliant classic, others claiming that the actors were good, and most agreed that this is better than the 1990 remake. There are good things and bad things about this movie. It is a low budget movie, so don't expect great effects. This movie was made back when special effects didn't matter, so I don't really care as much about the effects. The directing is pretty good, the direction in this movie has better flow than the 1990 remake. In the opening scene to this movie, it shows pictures of the kids at their school, and it shows pictures of the plane as it crashes. This is a very low budget approach to the scene, but surprisingly, it is more effective than the opening to the 1990 version. Another plus side to this movie is that the character development is good, and this movie doesn't make a whole lot of changes to the book. The only actor in this movie who was good was the kid who played Ralph. He was better than the kid who played Ralph in the 1990 version. While the kid who plays Piggy is exactly the way I imagined the character in the book, I thought his acting was rather poor. The antagonist in the story, Jack, isn't acted very well by the actor in this movie. In this movie, he is more of just an upper class, arrogant, and not intimidating character. In the 1990 version, the kid who played Jack was good, and was more of an intimidating character. In that movie he was more of a troubled kid, in this one he is just an arrogant person who is fairly normal otherwise. It just seems more likely for a troubled kid to degenerate to savagery than it does for an arrogant upper class kid. The score is pretty good in this movie, but the score in the 1990 version is more riveting and intense. While the direction is pretty good, the qualities of the film are very poor. The picture is blurry, the editing isn't very good, and the soundtrack isn't in the best condition. The ending scene in this movie is done better than the 1990 version. In this movie, the death of Piggy is more shocking and since it isn't shown on screen, it isn't fake looking. The following scenes are also pretty suspenseful. The surprise ending is much better than the rushed ending in the 1990 version. In this movie, you get more time to feel the characters' emotions at the end.All in all, this was an okay movie. It follows the book very well, but the poor qualities really bring the movie down, at times it is barely watchable due to the poor qualities. At least the direction is pretty good. Only watch this if you have read the book. I thought the 1990 version was okay, but this wasn't a whole lot better. This movie had more of a flow, better character development, and better directing, but the 1990 version is more entertaining in it's own way. "},{"Title":"marooned with the Kiss army","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The problem with this movie (and the book as I recall) is that there is nothing very interesting going on at the apparent level. To get anything nourishing out of it you're just dumped right into the symbolic level (aggression as man's basic impulse / the boy makes the man) which luckily isn't hiding at all. The story provides no detail to linger over at the obvious level. And the book has been overtaught by teachers eager for the fastest possible lesson about allegory. Conflict, shaming and exclusion are all introduced at the same early moment. ...It does not have enough structure. Climbing around an island/mountain multiple times to generate small intrigues in a one-track story is just not engaging enough. There's nothing left to do but overstate the scenes it does have.The problem with many 'modern' efforts from this era ('63), is that modern was intended as an aesthetic that was forever current. 'Modern' as a mid-century style had a good run. But 50 yrs on, this 'modern' cinematography is receding into the stylistic past. On top of that they're coming off 15 years of noir films, and they still don't know to fill the dynamic range. The imagery is drab. The backstory is covered via a 'modern' prologue of still images, that is now rather junky looking. The actor playing Jack makes for an extremely prissy antagonist. If you breathed on him, he'd collapse. "},{"Title":"This movie is one of the most...","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...hideous and horrendous massacres of a classic piece of literature I have ever seen. If this is the better of the two versions, I shudder to think how awful the 1990 version must be.The introduction is static, vague, uninteresting and long. The language, although being directly sourced from the book, captures none of Golding's subtlety and flow. The direction is bland, with nothing new or exciting. Point-the-camera-and-let-him-talk-then-point-the-camera-at-the -other-guy-to-let-him-talk direction.The cast, with the exception of Hugh Edwards as Piggy, are awful. At the most basic level of matching the actors to Golding's descriptions in the book. Ralph is described as relatively tall, quite broad and altogether looking like a boxer. He is also described, repeatedly, as being 'fair'. Fair hair, blue eyes, pale skin. James Aubrey is short and skinny with brown hair and eyes. He seems, in fact, as short as some of the littluns. He has no status over the tribe. He is also much shorter than Jack, creating a difference of status between them. Jack looks like he could beat the hell out of Ralph with ease. They are meant to be two equal-but-opposite forces butting against each other, with the decision of power being made by the sway of the masses (littluns).The biggest problem with this movie, however, is the lack of time. The events of this movie could have easily taken place over 2 or 3 days, a week at the most. The long hair, sunburn and tan, and general omnipresent filth are all symbolic of their descent into savagery. Sure in the movie, their clothes get ripped and they get smudged with well-placed dirt but this only serves to further break the illusion as you raise an eyebrow at their perfect hair, fabulous teeth and unblemished skin.I think, though, that the time is ripe for another stab at this deep and introspective story, perhaps with a director who can fully grasp the meaning of this story. "},{"Title":"Bad Story, Not Put Together Well.","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was not a fan of this novel. I want to start by saying that. The story goes that a bunch of British schoolboys are flying out of the UK during wartime, when their plane crashes on a deserted island. The young boys must survive on their own, developing rules and systems to keep themselves going. But as time goes on, religious like beasts are created within some of the boys minds, and the ideas spread quickly. One boy starts his own, individual tribe dedicated to hunting and killing the beast and many of the boys follow. These boys become savages and go against the remainder of the island. I don't like the story for many reasons, the main being that it seems too forced. The ideas are understandably a mirror to society and its culture, but done so in an unbelievable way. On top of that, this movie wasn't put together well. Bad acting across the board led to me constantly be taken out of the film. The cinematography was terrible in areas, but made up for it with some amazing and beautiful imagery.The film seemed to drag on for way too long in certain scenes. I just found so many things wrong with this film, and it was not one I would want to re-watch.Soundtrack 8 Script 4 Originality 10 Cinematography 5 Casting 8 Acting 3 "},{"Title":"Did Peter Brook Miss His Calling?","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lord of the Flies (1963) has two things going for it 1) It is actually faithful to the novel it's based on - a rare achievement in cinema. 2) The film features beautiful black-and-white shots with a pleasing dose of chiaroscuro. The cinematography of juxtaposing the human face and body with water, sand, rock formations and night sky is a visual triumph.Did director Peter Brook miss his calling? Seems to me he would have made a superb photographer. A scene in which a dead boy is slowly, gently turned over by seawater achieves an odd beauty that is almost sacramental. Stills from this scene could legitimately hang in the finest art museums. Also, some of the facial close-ups reminded me of the photography of Henri Cartier-Bresson.Ultimately, however, motion picture films cannot be judged as if they were photography exhibits. This slow-moving, somewhat ponderous film can be difficult to watch at times. In the dialog, there are often unnaturally long gaps between questions and answers. The boys sometimes seem to be speaking through a mental haze, the sound quality is poor, and the pacing of the action also seems to be poorly thought out at times. Scenes of conflict lack some of the grit and intensity they require.For those who really want to see a film version of William Golding's classic novel, this black-and-white movie, with all its flaws, is substantially better than the American color remake in all ways except sound quality. "},{"Title":"doesn't wear too well, but still worth it","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film when it first appeared and was very impressed. Now after a span of almost forty years, and viewing it with a class of college freshmen, I think the film is creaky in spots. Nonetheless, there are still some very effective scenes. I especially liked --I had forgotten it, of course--the use of the kyrie eleison chant as a sort of leitmotif. I also found myself being continually astonished that the mental picture I had formed of the boys while reading the novel, did not jibe with the depiction of the characters in the film. In fact the comparison of this film with the novel is especially effective for people interested in comparisons of how two media deal with one subject. I write this not having seen the more recent version. "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been better.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I grew up knowing movies to have great special effects and computer graphics and obviously we can't expect a movie from 1963 to have these effects. Despite the lack of effects the movie could have been filmed to show certain scenes with a lot more effectiveness.  The acting in this film was, for the most part, absolutely brutal.  They're just kids and can't be expected to pull off Oscar performances but most lines were given with no emotion and bad timing.  It's not a wonder that only two of the boys in this movie went on to greater things (Ralph and Robert).  The direction could also have been much better.  Even from small things that could have been edited out later or redone in a matter of two seconds. ((one of the first scenes when the choir is reciting their names, every persons timing was horribly off and the first boy Henry kept glancing at the camera and couldn't even focus enough on the one line he was given to deliver it with any effectiveness)) It is the directors job to notice these small things and convince actors to avoid them.  Especially when they're dealing with children.In William Golding's defense this story was incredible.  I suggest reading the book and not watching the movie because there is much more to the book than there is top the movie.  If you've seen the movie but never read the book, I suggest taking the time to read it, whether you liked the movie or not.  "},{"Title":"hohum","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Warning You might want to read the book or see the movie before you read this.Now this, along with Catcher in the Rye, is a book that should stay that way. Lord of the Flies is an intirely emotional and mentally deep book, one full of simbalism that just couldnt transfer well on screen. Ex. The book explains just what the 'Lord of the Flies' is, whereas the movie doesnt. In the book this explanation comes in a semi-hallucination to my favourite character in the book, Simon. Simon is a very deep character, as is Ralph and even Jack. Without this character development, the boys transition into madness is muddled and unclear. Where is Simons conversation with the pig and the fly? Why do we see the parachuter before the boys realize what it is? In the book, we know about as much as they do when they first see it, hightening the suspense. Why does Ralph not talk to the sailor at the end like it was intended? Where are the shelters in the movie? Keep this wonderful novel on paper. It doesnt belong on the screen. And if you are going to make it into a movie, find some better actors. "},{"Title":"Eck","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Appalling acting, and visual effects to match. I especially disliked Piggy's high squeaky voice, and the scene where Piggy collects names (the boys take a long time to answer, especially Roger.) I'd rather watch the American version. "},{"Title":"A hollow adaptation","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What happens when children have complete control over themselves and their situation and all authority is cast out the window? Lord of the Flies documents just such a situation. The movie, adapted from William Golding's novel of the same name, is about a plane full of young British school boys that crash lands on an island. The pilot of the plane dies and the thirty something boys are left to fend for themselves and make their own rules. As lines are drawn and tribes are created and divided, chaos descends. This story delves into the dark and undisciplined, essentially animal side of the human mind. It's extremely dark and indeed frightening to watch the depths that unattended children sink to when they lose all control and authority.The story William Golding created is an absolute incredible one that goes so much farther into the psyche of the adolescent than most dare to go. Unfortunately the film adaptation of this epic tale does not even begin to do the source material justice. It is a poorly executed attempt at bringing Golding's novel to a new medium. My biggest complaint with this film would have to be the acting. The direction is somewhat shoddy and the sound mixing is particularly frustrating (even though I read all the sound had to be overdubbed because the ocean drowned out everything while filming) but the acting is the biggest issue. The child actors all seem to regurgitate their lines, giving the film a stale feel without any substance to lines which are meant to be harrowing and dramatic. During the entire first and second act the acting is tense and feels very forced, whilst the actors are being completely unenthusiastic. In a film about children losing control and going absolutely mad with power and freedom, the acting should be much more restless and I kept thinking these kids needed to be more hyperactive and significantly less subdued.Leading into the final act there is a very significant and very obvious shift in tone. The story turns from an innocent one about lost children, to a terrifying psychological study. It was here that the highlights of the film came from. There were some scenes that delivered in a dark and cynical way, and for that I can appreciate the effort only slightly more. After this dark turn the film started to improve at points, but then would seem to drop back down to that subdued level of lackluster acting. By the end of the film I felt robbed of what could have been a great adaptation of a fantastic story. But by the ending, which was still well done, I realized that the character relationships were still underdeveloped, as well as the underlying themes of the story. They weren't absent from the story, but they could have gone much further.All the right elements are present in Lord of the Flies but they are all very underdeveloped and the film does not achieve its full potential. Poor acting and a lack of enthusiasm hurt an extremely well crafted psychological experience that had so much potential. A story like this could be amazing if done right, but when it isn't done right, everything goes horribly wrong. I was left very disappointed by this film adaptation. "}{"Title":"Fairly faithful, despite omissions","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THE FILM AND/OR READ THE NOVEL                     DO NOT READ THIS COMMENT                     ***POSSIBLE SPOILERS***Inasfar as turning novels almost literally into celluloid, this version of William Golding's novel is a fairly faithful adaptation the scenes follow each other in almost chronological order mirroring each reading of the novel I have made over the years. My older and advanced students read this book and then present me with a summary of it together with personal comments; this happens almost every year. Thus I think I may say that I am thoroughly acquainted with the story and its development in all aspects.I cannot help thinking that some previous reviewers of this film have either not read the novel, or were not paying enough attention whilst watching the film. However, there is one highly glaring omission in Peter Brook's film a hog's head was clamped onto a tall stick, but was never referred to in spoken words as being `the Lord of the Flies'. The fact that flies were then seen (and heard) buzzing around the hog's head can only lead one to presume that the visual message was considered enough in itself. There are other omissions and some strange changes to the novel. Firstly that the aeroplane carrying the kids ploughed into the jungle and did not flop down into the sea as in the film.So it was very nice - excuse me - seeing the boys at the beginning in nice white shirts and chorus gowns. Thankfully, as the boys grew into the surrounding jungle back-cloth, their attire changed ominously but correctly.Helped along by Raymond Leppard's `Kyrie' for boys' voices, and otherwise on instruments as well as tuned drums solo, conspiring with some spookyish black-and-white photography, the narrative goes through Golding's novel almost to the letter, thus making the small deviations and certain omissions all the more puzzling. This is by no means a criticism but an observation, as all `poetic license' of any kind has no hard and fast rules. However, I do think that 10 to 15 minutes added to the film might well have put right those niggling points.The boys were mostly between about 9 and 14 years of age, thus it is rather difficult, to say the least, to exact highly professional performances from these young actors. We get what could and should be expected and be grateful for it. My one grumble is that `Piggy' in the novel is cast as a little uncouth, with unpolished English, poor pronunciation and a fair amount of slang which does not have much to do with Camberley, Surrey, U.K. To my dismay, in the film `Piggy' seems to have received plentiful elocution practice. Tut, tut. My other little grumble is that in 1963 I think British film-makers could have run to a few more pennies and given us the visual glory of the beauty of wild Puerto Rican shores in full colour. I will concede that the use of colour might have diminished tension (or spookiness) in the telling of the story. `The Lord of The Flies' narrates, somewhat moralistically laden in the end, how a group of war-time British boys with inherited stiff-upper-lip social backgrounds can  quickly slide into savagery as supposed power of one kind or another takes a hold on them. Is it not the same in big power politics today on a globalised level? Yes ....... I can just see it Golding's hunters are the terrorist groups fighting against Bush, Blair, Putin, Aznar and so on. But, no my imagination is running away with me.An acceptable film but not very recommendable perhaps; I will not bother with the 1990 version. I will just lean back in my revolving chair, imitating an Oxford College don and recommend the novel.  "},{"Title":"Lord of the Flies","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found this movie rather slow-moving, yet confronting. The movie seemed more like a comedy at times than in the thriller/drama genre. The actors were very poor and lacked many of the characteristics expressed in the novel yet some of the scenes were very powerful. This movie dealt with social and human issues and toyed with the idea of role play and social status.I did not enjoy this movie, yet i will give it credibility for being quite true to the book. "},{"Title":"NOT the best possible outcome","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you want to watch this and you haven't read the book, you'll be lost. A lot of crucial points in the pages of William Golding's masterpiece novel are lost here, while others that are based on them are retained, thus the story flows very jerkily. The musical score is almost non-existent, and while it works when applied, there are some scenes that could really have benefited from good scoring that are given in complete silence. The script is, for the most part, almost verbatum from the novel, which is nice, but some new scenes are added that are totally pointless, and moments of dialogue crucial to the original story are foolishly skipped. Peter Brooks, however, does do a nice job of directing the movie. His camera angles are good and he gets genuine drama out of some scenes, and establishes the island quite well before the real story starts. The collection of still images the opening credits are projected over to a children's choir is also pleasantly eerie. The one thing that destroys this movie totally, though, is the kids' performances. The acting is so BAD it's surreal, robbing all the scenes of any energy. It doesn't totally kill the movie, but comes close. Brooks' direction alone has to carry the movie, and it staggers a bit under the burden. I don't think Golding would have been proud of this. "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not as good as the second one (1990).  It's filled with bad child actors, and seems to skip through a little too quickly without explaining what's going on very well.  The book is much better in this regard of course.  As usual, read the book.  As a film, this just isn't very good.  As a look into the savagery encoded in everyone, even the most highly educated well-mannered English boys, it's an excellent lesson in sociology and psychology. "},{"Title":"About this movie","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Hello,My name is Leticia, sorry for been that quick , but do you know where i can get this in full movie?I love this movie is drama, horror and sort of others.I would really like more, if you can get this film or if you could say the website for me, because I tried to see where does this film will be, but I couldn't find so that would be a pleasure. O.K.A.Y send me the site or the movie and I really how you are going to do because i'm new in this site. Thanks for it bye bye "},{"Title":"Bizarre and Disturbing (but not always as intended)","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This version of Lord of the Flies is strangely surrealistic. The opening scenes are especially bizarre and non-real. Are we to believe that an airplane loaded with British schoolkids crash lands on an island, and that not one of the kids looks the least bit mussed afterwards? The film opens with flashcards depicting the flight and crash, and then children start appearing from all parts of the island, clean as soap, as though they are not even aware of what happened, really. Wouldn't they have all come from the same place, the crashsite? Wouldn't they be torn up with many dead or nearly so? The rest of the film has an odd, surrealistic flavor as well, but nothing tops the way these British schoolkids seem to have been transported to the island, Star-Trek style. So, obviously, these kids are to be taken as symbols of humanity, not real peoole.Because of the film's surrealistic symbolism, I found some of its themes to have an immature viewpoint and to represent a disturbing, socially-bigoted view. Certainly in `the real world', the boys' descent into savagery would have more to do with their being spoiled rich kids without any real values or discipline than it would any kind of inevitable devolution in to primitivism. The tribal societies they emulate with their painted bodies and chants were not chaotic bands of louts and idiots, as the boys in the movie become. Now, granted, the visual impact of the film would be greatly diminished with out this primitive look, but equating this kind of look with evil and chaos is just stupid. It would have been much more compelling (thematically, if not visually) if the kids were not made to look and act like extras in an old Tarzan movie, OR if the good voice-of-reason kids weren't the only ones not to do so. The symbolism of rules and order equal western clothing styles vs dressing in clothes appropriate to the climate equal savagery, chaos and evil is inescapable. And dumb. They could have all acted and dressed British and we still could have had the same conflicts. If the film had been more realistically portrayed, then all this could be written off to kids who actually were imitating the racist images seen in the movies, not knowing any better. But it is obvious that the filmmakers intended everything and every one in this movie to be symbolic rather than realistic. So the imitation savagery must also be taken as symbolic and purposeful. "},{"Title":"Very badly made, but a million times better than the 1990 version.","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Now that we can create CGI fights between thousands of people, the SFX in this film are probably laughable to the current teenage/older child generation - unfortunate because that is who this film is aimed at. As well as this, the change in social interaction and life must be taken into account when considering how good this film is. You could probably get a copy of Lord of the Flies and read it, following every line spoken in the film exactly, but ultimately, that is not how to adapt a book for a film. Certainly, this adaption is much better than the 1990s version which was changed so much it was hardly an adaption at all, but creative changes must be made when transfering a book to the big screen. With 'The Lord of the Rings' this was done very well (NB certain scenes had to be cut not for creative reasons, but because of length reasons) but here there do not seem to have been many.The acting in this film is one of the worst criticisms. The children don't seem to understand what they are saying most of the time and don't seem to really know what is meant to be going on. You can blatantly see that shots have been done so that the children have to say as little as possible in each shot and has been done in an as orderly fashion as possible (eg when the boys are all giving their names they were obviously just told what their character's names were and then told to say them when the camera was on them. They even seem to find this difficult.). Sometimes they seem to just reading a card which has been placed conveniently off screen (eg when Percival etc can't remember his telephone number you can see him look at the bottom left of the screen to read his lines off a card). The lines are said monotonously and overall, the acting is terribly wooden.Next, the sound. When I was watching the film, it was blatantly obvious that the soundtrack had been dubbed in ADR. Sometimes you can see a character's mouth moving completely out of sync with their line, and sometimes their mouths don't seem to be moving at all (eg the first time we see Piggy). I found out after watching it that the sound was dubbed in post-production as I had thought. This reflects badly on the film - sometimes you can even hear when the recording starts and stops.Next, the budget. I don't know how much of a budget this film had, but it certainly wasn't enough. The overall look of the film seems as though it was edited as quickly as possible and not really thought out, showing how amateurly it was made. This was a British film, so the filmmakers can be forgiven a bit, but the film should not have been made with such a small amount of money.Despite all this, the film still manages to capture William Golding's intentions in the novel, unlike the 1990s one, and is enjoyable to watch even with the terrible technical hindrances. CONCLUSION If you want a high-tech, more modern version with no brain, watch the 1990s version, if you want a low-tech, low-budget, faithful version, watch this and if you are studying the book, watch this. "},{"Title":"Worked well in the book, but not on the screen","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I actually read William Golding's original novel at school and whereas it was quite dated in terms of language and mannerisms of the boys (the worst word Ralph knows is `bloody'!), it was still vivid and had many interesting things to say about the inherent evil of human nature. Unfortunately it does not transfer well to the screen and the boy's descent into savagery is rather unconvincing and at times risible. This is not helped by the unprofessional production. The performances of the boys are quite amateur, Brooks direction is bare-to-the-bones basic while his screenplay fails to convey Golding's underlying themes and messages and even dispatches with the bitterly ironic ending. Watchable but a big disappointment.  "},{"Title":"Wasn't amazed by the book, but it puts the movie to shame","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First off, if you never read the book, DON'T see this...you will not understand what the hell is going on.  It took only select parts from the book and it was frustrating watching it even after reading the novel.  And the acting was very bad...I realize they were all kids, but it was still quite bad if you compare them to some of the acting talents of some children today.  This movie had potential to be really good, but failed quite horribly. "},{"Title":"The movie of 1990  was much better!","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I watched the movie Lord Of The Flies from 1990 for school. That movie was amazing! Great acting! Then I watched this movie from 1963 and that was just HORRIBLE! The acting was very bad. The hole cast was just wrong! The make-up and costumes were also weird!Be kind to yourself and watch the version of 1990. A few things are maybe different than in the book but it's worth it. The acting and the hole cast was much better and was just amazing!(1990) Especially Ralph (Balthazar Getty) and Jack (Chris Furrh) did an amazing acting job!!!!! They really make the characters alive! So the one from 1990 is better and just an AMAZING movie! "}{"Title":"Read the book, don't see the movie.","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm going to go on a limb and say that this quite possibly would be the worst movie ever made.  The acting is horrible.  And yes, I know that they're just little boys, but come on now.  There are talented kid actors around.  A monkey could perform better than the kids in Lord of the Flies.The book was a great book.  I really enjoyed reading it.  So, read the book and don't see the movie.  Unless you like a movie where staring takes up more time than dialogue. "},{"Title":"A terribly made movie. But a good adaptation.","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The acting in this movie was just terrible. Because all the actors were kids, this fault can be squarely placed on the director's shoulders.Every 'group' scene in the movie that involved more then a couple kids, came off as seeming horribly forced.It was a hard film to watch. But, the screenplay was good adaptation of the novel, therefore making the movie enjoyable to analyse along with the book.By contrast, the 1990 movie was much more well made and a way better movie. However, that version was no more then a cheap attempt to make some money off the good name of the book. "},{"Title":"Nice book, but awful film!","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" *NO REAL SPOILERS, BUT SOME PEOPLE MAY SEE THE LAST SENTENCE AS ONE* Well, the book is quite nice, but please do not watch the motion-picture. It just does not have the certain something. In addition their (actors') singing is insufferable. The only funny aspect of the film is the character Piggy. Well, there are also some serious aspects like for example society's cruelty and nature's laws. If people know that there are no consequences they are able to fulfill insane actions. Nature's laws Kill and be killed; eat and be eaten; save your own life. However, these aspects also occur in the book. Uh, yeah, before I forget it Simon will never say anything again. "},{"Title":"this is a very very bad movie","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" No one in their right mind can call this film anything but an utter and complete waste of time. When the movie was over, I felt personally insulted that I had been subjected to watching it. Amateurish beyond belief, incomprehensible to anyone sane, so technically inept that it made me cry, the acting so horrendous that when a character dies, you feel relieved, and so plain bad that every copy of it should be hunted down and destroyed.My favorite part is when the camera pans over 7 boys who say their names, hesitantly, as if they are waiting for their cue, one after the other, for at least a minute. There is no point to this pan, since you forget their names as soon as they have said it. It is just there.And whatever evil person that wrote the Kyrie Eleison song should be shot at dawn along with the rest of the crew! And another thing! This film is so unbelievably dated that it is embarrassing. "},{"Title":"A waste of time and money.","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I honestly hated this movie. I think it might actually be the worst movie I've ever seen. The opening montage is far too confusing then it had to be, and the cinematography is inconsistent at best. My only contact with Lord of the Flies was forced; like most of us, I read it in High School English. My class had the choice of making our own videos as an extra credit project, and I have to say, my version is far better then Brook's. I have always thought the book was confusing and pessimistic, but interesting. This movie is a mockery of the book. If I hadn't read the book beforehand, I would have had absolutely no idea what was happening in the film. This film had so many things going for it. It has an interesting plot, a great cast, and the island is everything I pictured it to be. Even with all this, Peter Brook still managed to twist this film into something I wouldn't watch again if you paid me. "},{"Title":"Bloody garbage.","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I read the book and that wasn't terribly believable in my opinion in the first place. After seeing the movie, I'm even more disappointed. The acting is not the least bit convincing and there were plot elements missing from the movie that were in the book. There is so much wrong with this movie that rather than explain it, I'll let you watch and/or read it and see why its terrible. Sucks to this movie. "},{"Title":"horrendous","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  i have watched this movie and it is simply awful. the acting is weak, it goes from one seen to the next abruptly. i was so bored watching it i actually shed tears. If you have read the lord of the flies do not watch this movie!!  "},{"Title":"What a bad movie","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" WHAT A HORRIBLE MOVIE! I can't believe my English teacher made me watch this junk. Peter Brooks is a horrible director and should be ashamed for doing this of crap. It goes by the book in every way, but the acting had delayed reactions and was overall terrible. The cinematography LAME. I know it was the 60's, but come on, my gecko could do better. Piggy was a complete retard, Ralph was the biggest wimp ever, and the other boys were annoying as hell, especially them singing. The musical score was cloying, boring, and repetitive. The suspenseful moments? What suspenseful moments? This movie should be burned.Word of Advice read the book, DON'T watch the movie 2/10 "}]