[{"Title":"Akira's End","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"63 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is common knowledge that many things changed for Kurosawa after this film. A breakdown, the loss of working friendship with Mifune, funding difficulties...etc...but with all the changes that followed the completion of Red Beard, while watching I couldn't help notice that everything was ironically in bloom. Akira Kurosawa's direction was never better, Mifune never acted better and at it's core Red Beard tells a story borrowed heavily form Dostoevsky, thus making this a labour of love. This film is flawless in many respects, if you're a film student, such as myself, you can take everything and pick it apart and find...The story is a simple one, a wise and determined doctor impresses a young ambitious doctor into learning what humanity is and how it exists all around us and that without it we are nothing. It tells of humanity through children and adults and the lowest depths of human existence. Some have argued the subject was a little too heavy handed but Kurosawa has always maintained that sometimes heavy handedness is needed especially for those who don't get it with a slap. In my opinion, there are periods in every artists career when they are at their best. Miles Davis was at his best before his breakdown, but the breakdown was bound to happen after creating and giving so much. I feel this is what happened to Kurosawa, he gave all that he could give and with this film, if you truly study it and study it well, (the DVD version comes with an exceptional commentary) you will find that this is one of the most finely crafted films in cinematic history, in fact as far as direction goes, it is difficult for me to think of one better directed. Fellini's best, Ozu's best, Coppola's best, Welles' best, Antonioni, Visconti, De Sica, Goddard, Renoir, Melville, Erice, you name it, watch their best with the sound off take note of the direction then compare it with RED BEARD. You will be left breathless. Kurosawa is a GREAT among the GREATS. This is visual poetry. Kurosawa's great directorial swan song. Bittersweet, for after RED BEARD something within Akira profoundly changed.  "},{"Title":"Films like that can influence the way we see the world","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"52 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is practically never mentioned when Akira Kursawas best films are listed. I think this film should be at least one of the first three of such a list! I do love most of his films very much and my private choice of his best film is always this one. I saw it only once, maybe 20 years ago, but the memory of it is still very strong,. Some scenes burned their image into my mind forever! When I saw it at a small art house cinema here in Vienna, Austria, it was like a lovely dream you want to go on and on. I left the cinema thinking I just saw the best film of my life. True, it not comparable with the story telling masterpiece Rashomon or the complex Seven Samurai. The film does not feature new ways of telling a story. But I think it is Kurosawas most human legacy in a body of work which is rich of statements on humanity. and human weaknesses and strengths. Looking at any list of current films in the cinemas today one can only wish there would be much more films like Red Beard. Films like that can influence the way we see the world, like the current films packed with violence already do. It would be a much better world for sure! I don't go so far as to single out any part of the story. I would wish every one would see the film as I did, knowing nothing about it except the title and the director. The film speaks for itself. "},{"Title":"The end of an era","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"33 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Red Beard marked the end of an era for Kurosawa. It was the last of his period costume dramas (excluding Ran and Kagemusha, though these were more of a glorious revisit to his 'old' style anyhow), the last film he shot in black and white, and the last film he ever made with Toshiru Mifune, thus ending what is, to me at least, the finest director-actor pairing in the history of cinema. Perhaps it is for these reasons that I look on this film with so much fondness, and it remains one of my favourite Kurosawa films (alongside Ran and Rashomon). That aside, it is also filled with warmth and sincerity, but then that's to be expected from the man I consider to be the greatest director of all time. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Kurosawa's Titanic","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"33 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was the sixth Kurosawa film I ever saw, in a film-viewing binge that began with Seven Samurai and has yet to satiate me. It did, however, mark a turning point for me as it did for him.Up to then, I had only seen the B&W Samurai classics of the 50s and early 60s. The must-sees not just Seven Samurai, but Yojimbo and Throne of Blood. The under-appreciated Sanjuro, and the light but enduring Hidden Fortress. This was my first non-samurai film from him. What I did not realise until later was that it was his career apotheosis.Red Beard is not Kurosawa's best film. Yet when it came out, it was a phenomenon much like Titanic 30 years later. It broke the bank, it was an exercise in unprecedented creative and financial power by a major filmmaker, and it appealed to filmgoers like few filmes before or since. Kurosawa built a hospice and miniature village for his characters to inhabit, and this episodic story of a young star doctor discovering a vocation among the poor under the gruff red beard (Mifune) feels all the more authentic for it. It is a film of such deliberate ease and confidence that it could only be made by this director, at this point in his career. It could not be anything less than the fullest exploration of his most cherished themes - social injustice, the redemptive power of human kindness, personal codes. It could also do nothing but foreshadow his decline.That's a lot of expectation to pile onto the unsuspecting viewer, so what do you get during those 3 hours? You get a first-class drama, Mifune's finest performance, and one of the most beautiful tear-jerkers ever to grace a screen. All the while, countless instances of technical brilliance remind you why this film could only be made by this director a surgery covered in nothing but an extended closeup of the young doctor, an eerie seduction covered in an almost static, dreamlike wide shot, and, halfway through, the ass-kicking of a life-time and its touching follow-up.This is an extinct form of filmmaking, one preserved in the ember of its stark black-and-white film stock. The cinematic equivalent of a Tyrannosaurus Rex skeleton there are ways in which you won't relate, but it is daunting, powerful, and a journey into an intriguing other world well worth spending 3 hours in, and then some. "},{"Title":"What a classic above classics...","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First of all let me say that this film is a real tear jerker. If you want to see a film that talks about compassion then you are going to want to see this film. In a world where pettiness abounds to see the big-hearted nature of the main characters and how such compassion literally changes people for the better -- you're going to want to see this film.For years I avoided this film (like IKIRU) because it was not a samurai film. But after getting over those ridiculous reasons, I finally figured I needed to complete my Kurosawa education by seeing it.And boy was I glad I did.It is one of those films that does change you. Like every classic it stands the test of time not because of its entertainment value but because it is a great experience. Even months after seeing the film the first time I found myself always examining my own life against the noble attitudes of the main characters.Yes, it's three hours long. And yes, you're going to want to spend time to digest it. But the three hours you devote to this film is worth it. If you loved TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD, you're going to love this film. "},{"Title":"One of the Master's Masterpieces","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Akahige / Red Beard is 3 hours, 5 minutes long, but I strongly recommend it. It shows a definite maturity of style over Samurai (54), Throne of Blood (57), Yojimbo (61), to which it manages to subtly refer.  In between  was the slow-but-intense Crime/Class drama High and Low (63).  Red Beard takes AK's observed modern style back to the feudal setting.  One should set aside 4 hours for it, though, as you may need the break and, if you're like me, you'll want to see certain scenes again. Long composed/blocked shots and a small story make it seem slow, but I've found it fascinating all three times--rich in detail, with AK's familiar ensemble doing their best acting yet.  "},{"Title":"Touching Low-Paced Lesson of Humanity","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the Nineteenth Century, in Japan, the arrogant and proud just-graduated Dr. Noboru Yasumoto (Yuzo Kayama) is forced to work in the Koshikawa Clinic, a non-profit health facility ruled by Dr. Kyojio Niide (Toshirô Mifune), a.k.a. Red Beard. Red Beard is a good, sentimental, but also very firm, strong and fair man. While in the clinic, Dr. Yasumoto becomes responsible for healing the hurt teenager Otoyo (Terumi Niki), and he learns a lesson of humanity, becoming a better man.Akahige is another magnificent work of Master Akira Kurosawa. The touching and low-paced story is very beautiful, and shows the redemption of a spoiled man that becomes a human being, learning important and worthwhile values of life. It is almost impossible to highlight one individual performance in such a spectacular cast, but Toshirô Mifune shows his versatility in the role of the good Red Beard. The 185 running time, with intermission, does not make any part of this interesting story boring, and this film is highly recommended for any sensitive audience. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) O Barba Ruiva (The Red Beard) "},{"Title":"A Monument to the Goodness in Man","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Akira Kurosawa said about the film, I had something special in mind when I made this film because I wanted to make something that my audience would want to see it, something so magnificent that people would just have to see it. Humanistic and compassionate, the film tells the story of a young doctor who after graduation from the Dutch Medical School in Nagasaki hopes to become a member of the court medical staff but instead has to take a post as an intern at a Public Clinic for the impoverished patients. The clinic is run by Dr. Nide (Toshiro Mifune) whom the destitute patients call Red Beard. The long and difficult journey awaits the young doctor &#150; from the initial shock and denial to work at the clinic, to learning how to understand his patients, care for them s and see the humans in them. Kurosawa describes the film, one of his directorial pinnacles as a monument to the goodness in man. It also can be called a monument to his talent and humanism. "},{"Title":"Heart-melting warmth from Kurosawa","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (spoiler warning)Motion picture enthusiasts would, at one time or another, ask themselves the agonizing question of which is their best-loved film. I have often done that. Although I cannot be absolutely certain, I'm inclined to choose Red Beard, with Hello Dolly and Judgement at Nuremberg as close contenders.If I am allowed to use only one word to describe this film, it will be warm. From Akahige flows a warmth that can be said to be almost uncharacteristic of Kurosawa, or at least much more palpable than in any other of his films. This warmth is particularly seen in his portrayal of the little people (borrowed fom Bob Hope in the 1971 Oscar Award), at which Kurosawa is very good. The best example is in a scene close to the end.To set the scene, the young doctor played by Yuzo Kayamo has almost completed his transformation from a sceptical, arrogant apprentice to a humane, loyal disciple under the eccentric but effective training of the head of the hospital played by Toshiro Mifune. In turn, the young doctor is now helping with the tranformation of a juvenile prostitute (rescued by Toshiro Mifune) from a neurotic patient into a normal person. The example I have in mind is an episode between this girl and a small boy who has been driven to theft by poverty.While the girl is well on her way to recovery and helping with manual work in the hospital, she has difficulty winning the acceptance of her co-workers. The episode started when they catch sight of the little boy trying to steal rice, but fail to stop him. In the following day, the girl managers to corner the little guy in the hospital. The conversation that ensues would break a heart of steel. What we see is two innocent children talking about poverty, hunger and life in a matter-of-course manner, without any wailing, without any bitterness, without even a trace of sadness. At the end, she tells him not to steal any more and promises to bring him some food the following day.Unknown to them, the conversation is heard by some of the girl's co-workers, who end up in quiet sobs. The next day, at lunch, the girl tries to get an extra bowl of rice. One of the women who did not hear the conversation takes it away from her, claiming that she does not need that much. Those who heard the conversation the day before immediately snatch the rice back for the girl, claiming that she is a growing child and needs a lot of food. The scene is actually quite funny, and will have you laughing, but with a lump in your throat and mist in your eyes.There is so much about this film and I won't go into details. I must mention however the wonderful music, which also has a feeling of warmth consistent with the film. In particular, there is a hauntingly beautiful little tune accompanying throughout the young doctor's untiring, patient and caring effort to help the girl recover from her traumatic experience.Toshiro Mifune put up one of his best performances. Yuzo Kayama, a most popular star/idol at that time (comparable to Tom Cruise at his hay days) played his role as a solid, down-to-earth actor. All the numerous supporting roles were extremely well cast. Most significant, however, are the very minor roles (such as the labour women mentioned before) that are equally captivating, leaving a deep impression in the audience's mind. Therein lies Kurosawa's greatness.  "},{"Title":"Towards enlightenment","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Red Beard is the noble conclusion to Kurosawa's monochrome period which undoubtedly contained his finest work.  Although there were  beautifully choreographed action scenes still to come in Kagemusha and Ran, nothing was quite the same after this quiet meditation on the stirrings of humanity in a dark and otherwise uncaring world.  The period is early 19th century, the place a hospital for the socially impoverished run by a doctor who manages to combine idealism and pragmatism, the two essential ingredients needed to facilitate the emergence of enlightenment.  Although the great Toshiro Mifune dominates the film as the hospital head, it is the effect of his presence on the young doctor who pays him a visit that is the main theme of the narrative.  Yasumoto, selfish and ambitious, has no intention to begin with of devoting his services to the hospital but one by one his defences collapse as he learns from the example of an idealist who has shed all vestiges of selfishness.  There are constant reminders that medicine was at a rudimentary stage in its development and of the dedication needed by pioneers at a time when most answers still remained unknown and everything was largely a matter of easing rather than curing.  I would not claim that Red Beard is among Kurosawa's half dozen greatest works.  At just over three hours it sprawls in a discursive way.  A lengthy flashback of a dying patient's reasons for seeking a form of absolution rather impedes the narrative flow in spite of some impressive visuals of snowscapes and an earthquake.  But then the structure of the whole film rather has the episodic quality of a soap opera where momentum is maintained by proceeding from one crisis to another.  Nevertheless it is full of wonderfully contrasted sequences from the knockabout humour of Mifune applying his medical skills to warding off a group of assailants by breaking their limbs like matchsticks to the tender scene of the young doctor being nursed back from sickness by the girl rescued from enslavement in a brothel.  And then there is the rain.  Where would a Kurosawa film be without those torrential downpours to remind us of the physical discomfiture that a journey towards enlightenment entails. "}{"Title":"Beautiful lesson..)","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ''Red Beard'' is a beautiful story and also a lesson of life.Noboru Yasumoto, a recent graduated Doctor who wishes to work for Shoguns, is assigned to work in a simple clinic, full of poor people. Arrogant,he only wants to be a rich and famous doctor,not caring for other's people health situation,sometimes even mocking them. Things start to change,during the days that Yasumoto stays in the clinic, and starts to know more about the poor people's problems and life. Also Dr. Niide, played by the great actor Toshiro Mifune, helps Yasumoto to understand the patients and the meaning of the word 'doctor'. Dr. Niide is a very fair and patient man, who genuinely worries about his patients, and sees them as people who needs help.It's beautiful to see Yasumoto's personal growth,from a doctor who doesn't care for the patients of the clinic, and only wants a good salary, to a man who cares and decides to stay working in the clinic to help people. It reminds me Musashi's story. (by the way, I highly recommend it for people who likes Japanese culture and enjoy those beautiful stories). "},{"Title":"Perhaps too sincere for an American audience","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The story is about a young doctor who thinks a posting at a public medical clinic is below his station. But the gruff Red Beard teaches him a thing or two. The film endeavors to heighten awareness of human suffering. The viewer identifies with the young doctor and learns with him about the evils of the world and the ever-surprising lengths Red Beard goes to to mitigate them.There is ample humor, sparse dialogue, and excellent characterization. Cinematography and other finer features are somewhat pedestrian. Yet the film is touching and memorable. It is not melodramatic, cheap, or smarmy--it is one of the films whose appeal reaches other times and nations besides 1960s Japan. "},{"Title":"A movie bigger than life","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Watching Red Beard is a wonderful experience, so beautiful that memory of it still lingers in my mind. Everything I mean everything is so subtle, calm and human that one falls in love with it. One can fell the joy and pleasure in self.Direction is yet again top notch and Mifune' shows the world, again, that he is among the very best if not the best. Music needs special mention as it is the least bothered area in Kurosawa's movies. Every sub plot has its own density, cheers and insight into human social values. The way movie paces itself is brilliant. Kurosawa takes his time to establish his characters and once it is done emphasis shifted to story and sub-plots.On moral grounds it teaches us all that humanity is the only sky above all humans and one must not forget this fact.All technical aspects including camera handling, set designs, acting from supporting staff is very good. Wants to mention the acting of the little girl (I think Otoyo) is so close to life that it makes you believe of that.A must watch for everyone.9/10 "},{"Title":"Slow but rewarding...","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just finished watching 'Red Beard' and feel that the characters are all old friends. It could be because the movie is 3 hours long, but it is probably more due to the skill of Akira Kurosawa and his meticulous craftsmanship.Some complaints of the film are that it is slow, too episodic, too much like TV medical dramas, it treats psychotherapy like the newfound Holy Grail (and in 1965 Japan it might have been), but the movie is so well done it doesn't really matter. Kurosawa considered 'Red Beard' his monument to the goodness of man, and it is inspiring in such a way.Toshiro Mifune is wonderfully restrained as 'Red Beard', but you know when he starts rubbing his chin, he's going to kick some ass, mostly verbally, but in one scene, physically; he beats the crap out of some thugs who don't want him to take a sick girl to his clinic. His character will cheat, lie and even charge exorbitant medical fees just to ensure goodness prevails and the patients of his medical clinic get the help they need. He also will speak his mind beyond that of a typical doctor; poor parents get chastised, the lazy rich get a dressing down, and even acknowledges that well-being is usually in the mind of the patient and sometimes the best doctor in the world cannot change that.As always, it's a shame Kurosawa and Mifune went their separate ways after this film, because they truly did bring out the best in one another. "},{"Title":"Kurosawa's final prayer for human kindness","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Red Beard was Akira Kurosawa final prayer for human kindness. Most of his previous work touched on this issue, especially Ikiru, but this would be the last. Afterwards, his films grew dark in their examination of human weakness, and unable to see a good future for mankind. They also lost the talent of Toshiro Mifune; this too would be his last appearance in a Kurosawa film.The story is simple, almost elementary in its convention. In early 19th century Japan, the young, naïve doctor Yasumoto (Yuzo Kayama) comes to work in a free health clinic. He accepts his post grudgingly, judging his surroundings to be beneath him. Through the instruction of an older doctor, the wise Red Beard (Mifune), and exposure to human suffering around him, he grows up and finds his place in the world of medicine. Although the plot seems predictable, the human emotion Kurosawa discovers is not.Each episode of the movie feels alive with emotion, alive with sorrow and with hope. Although the story surrounds Yasumoto with human suffering, it is not about suffering, but about learning step by step to find compassion. As we journey with Yasumoto through the story, we are also the ones being challenged.Modern life bombards us suffering on a global scale. We read headlines from around the world, know statics on poverty, wars, genocides, and natural disasters. We see the overwhelming tide of human weakness, and feel duly overwhelmed. Yet, it felt so refreshing to see a film with characters who did not know the statics, who only knew the hurting people in front of them. I felt challenged to know people the same way. "},{"Title":"Beautiful - Proof of Kurosawa's Brilliance","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Adapted from the novel by Shugoro Yamamoto, Red Beard tells the story of Dr. Kyojio Niide (Red Beard) and his intern Dr. Noboru Yasumoto. Yasumoto has just arrived from Nagasaki, where he was learning medicine at a Dutch academy. Upon arriving at Red beard's clinic, he learns that he is to stay there (rather than to be called upon) as an intern. This angers him, for he had ambitions to be the doctor of the Shogun. The clinic is hardly a dream location. Plus, he isn't exactly too keen on Red Beard's dictator like rules. He becomes arrogant, and tries to break all the rules on purpose, so Red beard will send him away. But, in the process of facing the deaths of two of the clinic's patients, he starts to change and begins to learn the true beauty of life. He begins to understand Red Beard's non-conservative thinking.The story is basically a coming of age story of Yasumoto. After intermission, he begins to document the treatment of his first patient, Otoyo. She is a young girl that they rescued from a brothel. But, as he takes care of her, he falls sick. She begins to take care of him. In a way, they both were the needed cure for each other.Akira Kurosawa is most famous for his samurai/war films like Seven samurai, Yojimbo, Sanjuro, or Ran. But here, we have a period piece that is not set as a samurai story. It is the simple story of a poor clinic and their struggles. An extremely personal film filled with beauty and emotion. The acting is some of the best you will ever see in a Kurosawa film. Mifune is excellent as the aging doctor as Yuzo Kayama is excellent as the young intern.If you can handle the length of three hours, then there is no reason why you should avoid this film. The pacing is excellent and the film flows very nicely. One of Kurosawa's best.9/10 "},{"Title":"7.5 ONLY??? BLASPHEMY!!!!","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I never knew a movie could be so emotionally devastating, yet so spiritually uplifting at the same time. I watched it at my uncle's house (about an hour away from my home), and it was 900pm, I had so much work to do at home that night and after noticing the 3-hour length on the box (!!!), I thought I might as well leave for home half-way.I was so immersed in the story that I stayed the whole way and stayed at my uncle's place another half an hour just thinking about it.It did NOT feel like 3-hours at all. I cared so much about the characters that I could just watch another 3-hours of it if the story were to continue that way.Kurosawa is definitely a genius of 20's century filmmaking. This film is sheer power. Film buffs, do NOT miss this. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Red Beard was a wonderful movie.  The story was engaging and the acting superb.  Two scenes stand out for me.  The first was the Mantis scene with the seduction and assault on Dr. Yasumoto.  Kyôko Kagawa as the Mantis was great in portraying her madness and the scene itself is an example of great film making.  The other scene was the operation on the young woman.  The actress who played the victim deserves praise for making it look like she was writhing in pain.  What a striking scene.   Toshirô Mifune was great as Red Beard and the rest of the cast were also outstanding.  The acting by any of the characters in this movie far surpasses the narcissistic emoting of Hollywood films.  "},{"Title":"Crisis of the Master","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Here we have another work by one of the the three top masters of film. It is uncomplicated and deep and highly regarded by many because of its accessibility and the high level of craft made obvious. But there is a deep problem here.One should say at the outset that even a problematic film by Kurosawa is still worth more than nearly everything else that enters the popular stream. But there was a reason Kurosawa collapsed after this. There is a reason it marks the end of an era.Kurosawa's anchor mastery is that he not only knows his way around the three disciplines of film (writing, dealing with actors, creating a vision), he knows how to fuse them. The more abstract the center of the story-vision, the more complete that fusion. But as his fame grew with his value to the studio, he came under greater pressure to be accessible and in this case he chose to explicitly moralize.That is where the disaster is rooted. In the past (and later) he was able to start with visual notions and build everything around that the story, the noh-centric acting (except in terms of immediacy), and of course the moving frame we see. But this time, he reaches further than ever into the lowest common denominator of popular life. And unfortunately for us, that territory is exclusively literary. He borrows from Yamamoto and Dostoyevsky and gives us a series of episodes whose points we get, but by getting them, we place ourselves in a literary place in our mind, not a visual one.In other words, what makes him important is his ability to invest images with narrative. Go back and look at some of his early films with no sound or subtitles. You can completely get it. The words are only there to mollify our brain. Now flash forward to this. What we have is an illustrated book, where all the narrative motion is in the spoken exposition. The difference in center is startling.No question that the pictures are still masterful. Still highly formal in composition and more importantly in the motion of the camera. But the pictures are now in service to the story (the way more mundane directors work) rather than the other way around. One still marvels at the eye, especially the shot where the new doctor is engaged with the mad woman, but at the same time, one grieves that the Master has lost his center.What's left is a long, slow journey back to the triumph of `Ran,' made ever so more important because of this voyage of the creative soul to recapture itself. Just as depicted in that film.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"No samurai, but this is a great Kurosawa film...","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As one would expect from a Kurosawa film, the sets and costumes used to portray an 1860's Japanese clinic are meticulously detailed and feel remarkably realistic. There are also some trademark flourishes from the director, such as the sideways screen-wipes, which lead us from one scene to another like the sliding-across of a Japanese door. What took some getting used to for me was the absence of the samurai themes that crop up again and again in his most widely renowned films. Red Beard certainly lacks some of the urgency in Kurosawa's best-known films, proceeding at a stately pace in nearly three hours running time.Throughout the film we witness a series of episodes that shed light on the lives of the patients suffering within the walls of the hospital. The film is often grim and on occasion graphic in detail but the stories that are recounted, from the last moments of a voiceless man to the incarceration of a mad, murderous young woman, are powerfully compelling. Furthermore, from these episodes there emerges the overarching narrative of the arrogant young doctor learning from the taciturn veteran. The final episode involving the rescue of Otoyo and the fate of the boy thief, is the most fully developed of the episodes within the film and in itself delivers moments of both intense joy and tragedy.In a definite nod to the martial roles usually played by Toshiro Mifune, his character, Red Beard, is involved in one spectacular melee during the film, which had me wincing one moment and laughing out loud the next. By and large, however, immediate gratification does not abound and I would urge patience with the slow, episodic approach in order to appreciate this fine film. "}{"Title":"emotionally stirring","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Admittedly, I didn't find this to be the best of Kurosawa's works (Seven Samurai was more complete, Yojimbo was more enjoyable), and it was perhaps a bit longer than it needed to be.  But I have never been more moved by so many scenes from one movie.  A very touching film, perhaps even more so these days in the age of an increasingly detached world.  A feel-good movie at its very heart, it made this viewer realize how fortunate and thankful he should be about his surroundings.  Definitely worth the time. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Hate to break up the love feast but...","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...This isn't even close to Kurasawa's best - but that's not to say that its not a good film, it has its moments. But Mifune's Dr. Niide seemed muted and, for the first time ever, his acting mannerisms (pulling on his beard) looked forced. And lets face it folks that fight scene was just plain silly. Still I found myself enjoying this movie and its long vignettes based on the (surprisingly) rich romantic lives and heartbreaking travails of the local peasants. A decent film worth the 3 hours invested but more then a bit melodramatic and lacking in subtlety compared to Kurasawa's better films.6/10 "},{"Title":"I think I went too far&#133; A doctor should not do such things","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As good a director as he was, Kurosawa sometimes let his keenness to get a point across undermine the quality of his films. This is the case with Red Beard, a picture best known for being the last in a long line of collaborations with actor Toshiro Mifune.Kurosawa typically had a kind of mission statement with every film he made. During his 1960's output he appears to have become increasingly stubborn and obsessive in making a film for a reason. In the case of Red Beard, he was appalled at the number of poor quality ultra-violent Samurai flicks being churned out in the wake of his own recent action pictures, Yojimbo (1961) and Sanjuro (1963). As a backlash he decided to make a period picture with a peaceful, non-action theme, more of a pure drama. Furthermore, in an abandonment of the cynicism which had marked all his films from The Bad Sleep Well (1960) onwards, he declared that Red Beard was to be a tribute to the goodness in humanity. There is nothing wrong with this is a basis for a film &#150; it's just that Kurosawa tries too hard.Kurosawa was, or at least had been a director who handled emotional moments with skill. Consider for example the terminally ill hero in Ikiru (1952) drunkenly singing in the bar, or Kikuchiyo rescuing the baby in Seven Samurai (1954). Bearing these past triumphs in mind it's almost painful to see how he fails completely to achieve the same effect in Red Beard. Here the audience is practically bombarded with moments of strained poignancy. There is absolutely no subtlety, as one heavy-handed sob story after another is cranked out.The problem is further compounded by the fact that Red Beard is structured as a series of short stories with the same setting, as patients come and go at the hospital. It's really very difficult to share any feeling with the characters because we never really get to know them &#150; we just hear about their past misery. Whenever characters cry (which happens all the time), it's difficult for the audience to connect to them. Eventually all the stories of grief and woe just start to sound ridiculous.Of course, there is one overarching storyline, that of the young doctor Yasumoto's transformation from being a selfish snob who resents having to treat poor people, to a dedicated professional who takes satisfaction in his work. This is for me the most satisfying and engaging part of the plot. The most uplifting moment in the film is when Yasumoto wears his uniform for the first time, and is immediately greeted with greater respect from both colleagues and patients.And, in spite of his poor judgement with the plot, Kurosawa's direction is still of good standard and there are plenty of marks of quality. He matches the warm, sensitive tone of the film with a delicate approach to his shot composition, and a slow and measured pace to each scene. In the first half of the film, he shows Yasumoto's feelings about having to work at the clinic by shooting the interiors in such a way that they appear cramped and confining. When Yasumoto dons his uniform the spaces begin to open out and a little more light is let in. There's also a sly nod towards Kurosawa and Mifune's earlier pictures in the film's only real action sequence. It's choreographed just like the frantic arm-chopping scene from Yojimbo, but rather than drawing a sword Mifune is instead twisting limbs and cracking bones in a completely bloodless fight.It's a pity that this was Mifune's swansong with Kurosawa, not just because it's a poorer film, but also because Mifune is somewhat sidelined to a secondary role (in spite of being the titular character), and it's not a performance where he really gets to flourish. While Mifune continued to be much in demand as an actor he only had a few memorable roles after this. Kurosawa's output slowed down considerably after Red Beard and it would be a long time before he was back on top form. "},{"Title":"Three hours of movie magic","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Definitely superior to Seven Samurai, RB is now my 2nd-favourite Kurosawa film (narrowly behind his superb Scandal (1950) ).This is the work of a director in complete control. The great script is sprawling and, in the hands of a lesser mortal, could have turned into a sentimental or even maudlin mess. Like many of AK's pieces starring Mifune, the story is essentially an ensemble work. We are lead into patient's case histories and their life stories (one of which even goes into flashback within flashback). Dr Niide aka Red Beard seems to be half-healer, half psychoanalyst, as he see into men's hearts.Something no other reviewer has yet commented on is the humour. Yes, this is serious drama, but contain plenty of laughs. Right from the opening scene, where the horrified medical graduate is taken, step by depressing step, into the place he has been tricked into taking and the trap which will prevent him from escape, you really feel his growing anxiety, and the buildup is very funny in a grim sort of way. Then there's the scene where Kurosawa does a brief Bruce Lee impression, systematically breaking the limbs of a gang of toughs who try to prevent him taking a sick you girl out of a brothel. The hilarious part is what follows, as RB loudly berates himself for acting in a manner not suited to one of his profession, and that perhaps he went a bit too far. You've just gotta see this scene to fully appreciate it. And there are more.As we've come to expect from AK, the acting is uniformly excellent. Particularly chilling was the mad woman, in the short scene where she enters the young doctor's room. Slowly, we are show why she was nicknamed The Mantis. And the girl who plays Otoyo is just as good (and what happened to her ? IMDb records only one other film for her).Criticisms ? Only minor ones. This film could be read as a cliched triumph of the human spirit saga, and the ending especially leans a bit on the syrupy side. If you lost concentration for awhile, the sprawl of the story might get you a bit lost.But don't let this put you off. This is a truly great film, and a definite must-see. "},{"Title":"Lesser Known but Stunning","Date":"11 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This very long film is everything that is Kurosawa. It involves a young, self-centered doctor with connections, who is about to be a personal physician to the Shogunate. As it turns out, through a series of circumstance (especially one involving an engagement) he finds himself in a clinic, asked to treat the lowest of the low, a squalid, almost sickening place. He postures and spits out his disdain, refusing to work and confronting his superior, called Red Beard, played by Toshiro Mifune. After many incidents where he is called into near death experiences, he begins to see the sadness, particularly in the rescue of a twelve year old girl from a brothel. In modern times we would say she is suffering from PTSD. She is silent from being beaten and will talk to no one. She is very ill and is taken to the clinic where the young man is given the task of making her well. She suffers through her own recovery and then takes on the task of watching over the young doctor who, himself, has fallen ill. The movie is often about her as much as him as she grows to be compassionate of others instead of resisting any sort of kindness. An attempted suicide by a poor family brings an ultimate decision. Of course, I'm not a film student, but the images are stunning. The bleakness of the every day lives of the patients and their caretakers. The world as a harsh and desperate place. Red Beard embraces this and makes the world his, despite opportunities that would bring him comfort. In the young man, we see a reaffirmation of his own life. "},{"Title":"A Wonderfully Human Drama, The End Of An Amazing Collaboration.","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on a few short stories, Red Beard is a lengthy movie that sadly holds a very troubled production tale. Filming took 2 years, and being a period drama the sets were built with the kind of wood and nails used in that era. Toshiro Mifune had to grow a beard and keep it during shooting, thus losing many role offers and resulting in financial difficulties for his own production company. Red Beard is the last of Kurosawa's black and white movies, and the final movie of the 16 film collaborations between Mifune and Kurosawa (Where they stood remained ambivalent, yet something of a reconciliation happened between them at Director. Ishiro Honda's funeral in 1993, ending three decades of mutual avoidance).A somewhat, arrogant young doctor is accidentally assigned to a rural clinic after aspiring to be the personal physician of the Shogunate. During his time there he meets the elderly Dr. Kyojō Niide (Toshiro Mifune), who behind his gruff exterior and demanding attitude is actually a very caring man with a sense of community. The young doctor also encounters and delves into the various life's of each patient, who all have very emotionally raw human tales of existentialism.In many ways Red Beard is Kurosawa's underrated gem. There's a wonderfully large cast of all age groups, and also features some of Kurosawa's most stunning scenes of human interaction. Patience is a virtue, everyone has a story to tell and social injustices of the time are tackled honestly regardless of how brutal. Toshiro Mifune's character is also downplayed a lot, which actually benefits everyone else's screen time and makes it all feel like the movie wasn't driven just by a renowned actor.Final Verdict Even after all those production problems, Red Beard is a heartwarming and somewhat affirming hospital drama that holds up wonderfully. 9/10. "},{"Title":"one of the finest films on humanity & the art of compassion","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this Akira Kurosawa film went under the radar for me, it was just another known Kurosawa film that i must see one day... watching it 2 days after my dad's funeral was actually perfect timing, cause of the theme's of death, compassion, empathy & the overall humanity of story really resonated with me... it made me even look at how i have been dealing with Dad's illness in the final weeks and raise questions of my own selfish behaviour... masterful actor Toshiro Mifune is the almost mystical wise Red Beard - the lead doctor in a small town full of peasants and generally lower class, where his presence affects everyone like a god... when his new apprentice comes to town who is full of ego & great ideas, not willing to obey Red Beard rules etc, the doctor fresh out of an acclaimed medical school has to learn some important lessons of life, and medical methods aren't in text books... unorthodox methods Red Beard teaches him to be connected with the patient and give them what they need for their soul which helps them either survive or pass away peacefully... one of the most touching films on humanity i've ever seen but without being sentimental... this film will stay with you long after watching it... after doing extended reading on this film and further thought, i pushed it up to 10/10 alongside other Kurosawa masterpieces like Ikiru and High & Low... there's still so much of his catalog i have to explore as well as re-watch (Seven Samurai, Sanjiro, Yojimbo for starters), this was his last film with his star actor Mifune but I'm slowly coming to grasp that Kurosawa has many masterpieces (not just a couple like most greats do) & one of the true greats of cinema... "},{"Title":"50/50","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of Kurosawa's more humanistic films. It doesn't have a strong plot, but instead focuses on particular characters for short periods of time (same as his Dodes'ka-den and The Lower Depths). It centers around a clinic director training a young doctor. Some of the more interesting patients are a woman who kills men after having seduced them (therefore earning the nickname Mantis), a sick boy with a worried family and a girl getting rescued from a brothel. It's based on Shūgorō Yamamoto's short story collection Akahige shinryōtan, but borrows Otoyo's subplot from Dostoevsky's The Insulted and the Injured. It was Kurosawa's last film with Mifune and his last B&W picture.The first hour of Red Beard is absolute gold, managing to be immersive, intense and entertaining at the same time. I particularly adore the scene where The Mantis tries to kill Yasumoto, it's just fantastically shot, acted and put together - one of Kurosawa's best scenes by far. Other noteworthy moments include the part when Mifune beats up a bunch of thugs (even when playing a doctor he gets to kick ass), and of course the well shot. However, the rest of the movie is boring as hell, and sometimes too discursive, bringing up some interesting subplots and later abandoning them (such as with The Mantis). It's needlessly too long for such a simple story (it lasts 3 hours) and way too slow. The worst part is by far the 30-minute how I met my wife flashback. I also think that the movie looks really dull in B&W. I know that color was probably unavailable/too expensive, but I don't think that this is the type of movie to go along nicely in black and white. I mean, it'd be nice to actually see the main character's red beard in color (that beard pretty much ended the Kurosawa-Mifune cooperation because Mifune couldn't work on any other project because of that beard he had for this film).Red Beard showcased Kurosawa's attention to detail more so than any other feature of his. I mean, the clinic drawers were stock-filled of pills and medical equipment of the 19th century, true to its time period. Of course this had to cost a lot, but Kurosawa stuck with it. The drawers are never even opened or mentioned. "},{"Title":"A melodramatic, medical take on medieval Japan from the master of Japanese cinema","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is much melodrama in the tragic lives of patients in a neglected hospital, but Kurosawa tells their stories with a compassion that is infectious. The climax of the first half, when the gruff doctor resorts to mass violence for the sake of one mentally-scarred individual, is as good as any showdown in a typical Toshiro Mifune samurai movie, and all the better because of the great reluctance of Mifune's character to resolve problems with force. Like another revisionist samurai movie of the era, Harakiri (1962), Akahige relies on exaggerated hard-luck stories to make its point. Yet the vignettes here are more artistic than any in Harakiri, as when wind chimes drown out the sound of a marketplace when a husband realizes a wife's secret. "},{"Title":"great Kurosawa work","Date":"8 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i watched this movie and enjoyed every single second of it. why is that? its simple, its a piece of art made from the great Kurosawa. i don't really know where too begin, so i will begin with the technical stuff. the movie is really well made, despite being made in the 60s. the shots are beautiful and you soon forget that it is in black/white, because of the great story. the story is like a really great book, with interesting characters. the plot and sub plots unfold them self in a beautiful way, and they keep you interested and wanting more. the characters are really well done. you really care about them, even the supporting ones. they grow and learn during the entire movie. i also like the performances, especially mifune, he does a really great job. so is there any negative things to say about it? no, not really. only that it is sad that the modern audience is not aware of it. because it still would work today. its either because most of Kurosawa's work is timeless, or because of his great impact on movie making. so 10/10, and please check more of Kurosawa's work out, you will not regret. "}{"Title":"Kurosawa does melodrama and it rocks","Date":"28 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While this film never appears in the all time best off lists of films (where films such as Seven Samurai and Rashomon usually appear in the first spots), Red Beard is perhaps one of the most powerful Kurosawa films. It is very heavy handed/melodramatic but when it is done right it becomes powerful and engrossing to a very high degree. And done right would be a severe understatement to the quality of the direction in this film. I would rate this as the second best drama that Kurosawa did, after Ikiru, though this film is more complex, featuring several sub-plots and many different characters. Another essential Kurosawa film. "},{"Title":"This may or even surpass Ikiru!","Date":"18 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have been searching for a film that can surpass Ikiru (watched 2008) in terms of penetrating the deepest of humanity, and finally there is one that comes close to it, and its a Kurosawa too! Akahige is seriously way beyond typical Kurosawa films (except Ikiru) because it is so heavy to watch. The level of emotional, humane influence projected is unexpected from an old classic and is on par with some of the heaviest tear-jerking films I have seen. This film is fundamentally one of those 'lessons in life' masterpieces and I cannot help but shed tears like every 15 min because the stories from the patients, staff and families connected to those patients are just beyond heart-breaking. I am also surprised that some elements are presented way beyond his time, for instance the suspense and the performance by a 'nymphomaniac' approaching the apprentice's life is as good as any modern psychological thriller. Not to say that I am being biased, but really I cannot find any faults in this movie too.Why this film is memorable - One of the very very selective few films since Joy Luck Club that made me cry so much...thanks to overwhemingly touching stories that gave way to the following points - the acting performance of a dying patient suffering from pancreas cancer. One of the best I have seen. -Sahachi's words to change the apprentice's rebellious nature of not wanting to wear uniforms 'please wear the uniforms. If u do, we will know that u are a doctor. Poor people like us cannot afford doctors and will b extremely happy to see one.' - The suicide act of Onaka -- something I have not come across in non-Japanese films, because, ironically, it wasn't that depressing as she kills herself in Sahachi's embrace - Sahachi's stretched-out hands right before his death - Red Beard's attempts to feed a 'rebellious' teenage girl who was actually traumatized for a long time. WOW, that's a superb presentation of such profound understanding of another's hidden torment. - After realising Chobo's heartbreaking story, Otoyo accepted the candies stolen by the boy for her sake but forced him to take them back to feed his siblings. Wonderful. - The 'yelling down to the well' act. Its more beautiful than any other form of prayers shown in other movies because it is a maximum presentation of a simple, desperate act of hope. - A very UNUSUAL point to add Red Beard's attempt to disable (and in the end amputated) the limbs of his assailants just to save Otoyo from her despair. He went against his call of duty! "},{"Title":"A very interesting film without being one of Kurasawa's best","Date":"4 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love Akira Kurasawa and his movies, and while not among his best like Seven Samurai, Ran, Throne of Blood, Hidden Fortress, Ikiru, Rashomon, Yojimbo and High and Low, it is an interesting film. Although it is for me too long with some scenes that plod a little too much, it looks gorgeous with Kurasawa's direction as subtle as ever and some great architecture and use of snow and wind. The music is hauntingly beautiful also, at its best in the first major death scene, and the story while not the most original or most accessible of Kurasawa's films continues to fascinate. Standout scenes, tense, full of humanity or whatnot, include the action scene, with a nice mix of humour and brilliant sound effects, the Mantis preying on Yasamoto, Sahachi's tale of his wife and the culmination in the well. Toshiru Mifune gives a very restrained performance and an effective one at that, while Yuzo Kayama as the young doctor and Koyoko Kagawa as the Mad woman among others match him in equally naturalistic performances. Overall, while not a movie for everybody I found it interesting and excellent. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A worthy end to the legendary collaboration between Kurosawa and Mifune","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kurosawa's sweeping tale about an arrogant, young trainee doctor who aspires to be the personal physician of the local Shogun. To his surprise, his family have gone against his wishes and placed him in a rural clinic, under the guidance of Red Beard, a strict but compassionate doctor. At first, he is appalled at what he see's and rebels, refusing to wear the uniform or work. Through his experiences at the clinic, the young doctor learns the true meaning of life. The film examines the doctors relationships with various patients and more importantly, his relationship with Red Beard, a hardened veteran of a doctor who imparts his wisdom on to him. The daily struggles at the clinic force the trainee doctor to re-evaluate how he see's himself, he learns of the true power a doctor holds, he can make a huge difference in peoples lives if he wanted to and bring happiness to the less fortunate. A life of poverty is worth having if he can make a difference to numerous lives.Even by Kurosawa's standards, this was quite a sentimental film. One of Kurosawa's trademarks was to use extreme examples of society to get his message across and this film is no different. Another one of his obsessions was existential humanism, which was in full force in this film. Despite the harshness of poverty displayed, 'Red Beard' gives hope and paints a rather positive picture of the human race, especially through the character of Red Beard. It also marked his last collaboration with Mifune, his films after this would paint more of a bleak picture of society. Mifune played the part with a subtle sort of intensity, a far cry from his usually angry Samurai roles. It really was an excellent performance. In one particularly great scene, Red Beard dismantles a bunch of thugs in Steven Seagal-esquire fight scene, he uses his knowledge of the human body to fracture certain bones in their body. After this scene, he evaluates and damage he's done and realises he was too harsh, he proceeds by patching up their injuries. The protagonist also gives an admirable performance, displaying all the traits necessary for a complex individual who undergoes a miraculous change by the end of the film. A special mention goes to the child actors who were simply superb, one scene near the end was especially moving and I think it even made me shed a tear or two.Another masterpiece from Kurosawa and for me, it firmly places him as the greatest film maker of all time. Not just through technical ability and attention to detail but through simple, effective storytelling. A must see. "},{"Title":"Long, slow and very rewarding...","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Red Beard is one of director Akira Kurosawa's best films. Interestingly, it is highly reminiscent of two of his other films--Dodes'ka-den and The Quiet Duel. I could go into all the reasons why, but it's best that if you like Red Beard you also give these other films a try--you won't be disappointed.The film is much like many of Kurosawa's films in that the importance of the peasant is the focus of the movie. The value of these people is strongly emphasized--despite a feudal society that saw them as expendable. Through the use of a haughty young doctor from a rich family who arrives at Red Beard's combination clinic/hospital, the director is able to show the nobility of the poor. The young man's opinions change towards these people he previously thought were beneath him as he is forced to make rounds in the hospital and surrounding community. Seeing men die, women getting operated on without anesthesia and the degradation of the poor has a strong effect on the young man--and the audience as well. Interestingly, however, despite Toshiro Mifune being the star, he is a shadowy figure through much of this film--appearing and disappearing for long stretches of the film. Instead, the film really is about this young doctor's journey and the effect the unorthodox Mifune has upon him.Speaking of unorthodox, I loved some of Mifune's strange techniques to help the poor. In particular, I loved the great fight scene at brothel where he took on a gang of thugs to save one young girl as well as the way he occasionally used extortion on his rich patients in order to gain funds for his hospital! Great stuff--and well worth seeing because of the complex and rewarding plot. Exquisite. "},{"Title":"It only takes a vocation to succeed in life","Date":"27 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you can settle with just three colors white, black and gray; if you do not need special effects to feel that a film is valuable, and if you were in tune to see in human interiority, the more immense wealth that we acquire in this land, this movie will surprise and excite you, perhaps to tears, because you have a hunch strength of spirit, light heart and the primal energy of the mind. The great Japanese master, Akira Kurosawa, here's another one of his moments dense and shiny as a filmmaker and film brings a plethora of characters huge, hot, hurt, but able, in most cases, to overcome the suffering and false expectations. The story, from start to finish is exemplary, a symbol of a life full of love vocation and commitment to the human being. Toshiro Mifune is Dr. Kyojo Niida, better known as Barbarossa for his thick red beard that identifies -to him- as a man of principles.Director of a charity hospital, every day is forced to greater austerity to reduce the state budget, but he continues to forward, giving all of herself to serve the less fortunate... and these, in turn, give some lessons living and coping, they are worth and justify all the sacrifices in the world. A young doctor now shares his experiences. It is high class, aspires to be a member of the shogunate and seems to be there for an inexcusable error. But it happens that sometimes, life puts us where we want to be but where we should be. And you know, well you know, how soon we smeared of reality that shelters us, we may pass the piquin and see a little more up front.Endearing characters and some very dense, pass through the film and we'll put, no doubt , in memory Barbarossa, an example of integrity and dedication to every test; Noboru Yasumoto, eager for the blind presumption light and truth, The Mantis, the victim of abuses in its infancy, now transformed into man-eater; Sahachi in search of redemption and reunion with lost love; Otoyo, the girl rescued from hell and who keeps hidden an angel... Kurosawa has hit the point for another memorable film. Barbarossa gets very, very high, the Japanese cinema. "},{"Title":"Much More Than a Story About  Doctors","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A young and headstrong Dr. Noboru Yasumoto who has trained in Europe seeks a position as a personal doctor to an important official in 19th century Japan, instead he is assigned to a rural clinic under Dr. Kyojio Niide (Toshiro Mifune) who is known as Red Beard and perceived to be an autocratic administrator. As the film progresses the young doctor chafes against the rules but along with the audience he also gradually begins to develop a greater understanding of his mentor. Although there is considerably more to the film, the most important theme as I see it is what it means to be a compassionate and dedicated caregiver.A deceptively straight forward film which on the surface as a collection of parts does not seemingly add up to the wonderful viewing experience I had. The performances are universally good, and while the film does not lend itself to the obvious powerful moments of a movie about conflict there are still comparable moments and more time for subtle development. A story about dedicated doctors is not an entirely original concept either but placed at a time when modernization of the processes is taking place this film presents a seldom seen perspective. Without the dynamic action so often associated with Kurosowa the visual elements are less obvious and less important, none the less it is still obviously the work of a master film maker.Although I can't claim to have seen all of Kurosowa's films, of those that I have seen this one ranks second only to The Seven Samurai in my personal enjoyment.This would be Kurosowa's last Black and White film and also sadly his last collaboration with his star Toshiro Mifune. "},{"Title":"The end of one dynasty; the beginning of more greatness.","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Red Beard is a defining film in the Akira Kurosawa filmography as it was his last film to be shot in black and white as well as his last teaming with Toshiro Mifune, one of the greatest actors of the twentieth century. In this stunning achievement, Mifune plays a grizzled, veteran doctor who takes a young, brash and arrogant doctor to be his partner in a clinic set in a horrible part of nineteenth century Tokyo. While under his tutelage, the young doctor Yashumoto learns much about what it means to care for people and see them not as objects to overcome but as flesh and blood that need affection and care in order to bring them to full health.In my opinion, Red Beard is one of the very best Kurosawa has to offer. The film takes nearly all of the supporting characters through incredible odds and shows their toughness and strength to overcome hard times they all face. It is perhaps his most humanistic film since Ikiru and his best of the 1960s. The acting supersedes most American films today by a large margin and Kurosawa continues to show is mastering of the many camera techniques he uses to tell the story in a fashionable manner. This is a must-see for anyone interested in Kurosawa, Japanese cinema, or in powerful and brutal film making about people trying to survive and the effects of kindness of others. "},{"Title":"The Cream of the Kurosawa Crop","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From the start, not a moment during this three-hour masterwork is dull. Its opening credits music is periodically paused for the ambient sounds of the health clinic, one of the many things Kurosawa does that is sudden but subtle. Those three words are the aphorism that best describes Kurosawa.Through a three-part first act and a two-part second act, the film takes place in the 19th century. A young doctor named Yasumoto, played by a very able actor named Yuzo Kayama, is the protagonist, portrayed with an uncanny, lifelike pride. Educated in Dutch medical schools, the conceited Yasumoto aims to the prestige of personal physician of the Shogunate. For Yasumoto's post-graduate medical training, he has been transferred to a countryside clinic under the leadership of a clinic director aptly nicknamed Red Beard, played by Toshiro Mifune in a tremendous performance, seeming like a domineering tyrant, however it is easy to see that in truth he is a kindhearted clinic leader. At the outset of the movie, Yasumoto is up in arms about his relocation, judging beyond a shadow of a doubt that he has not much to reap from working under Red Beard, whom he believes is merely interested in his medical writings and almost immediately defies the clinic director. He rejects his uniform and turns his nose up at the food and simple surroundings.In a scene of tension that one could cut with a pairing knife, Yasumoto crosses into the prohibited garden in which he encounters The Mantis, in a mysterious and brimming performance by Kyoko Kagawa, an enigmatic patient that no one but Red Beard can doctor. This scene is a long, unbroken stationary shot that will pour inspiration and enlightenment into any aspiring filmmaker. In one of the film's most emotional chapters, Yasumoto, subsequent to falling ill, is nurtured to health by the tending and warmth of a 12 year old girl who he and Red Beard have saved from a brothel in a spectacularly entertaining scene involving a choreographed fight that no matter how unexpected is not one bit incongruous.In the course of his interpretation of Red Beard's empathy and a chain of impoverished patients, Dr. Yasumoto gathers the most precious knowledge he could ever ascertain as a doctor. The lives of patients slowly become more valuable than prosperity or reputation. Through the film's vignettes, he studies Red Beard and thus so do we, and we see his unapologetically spartan philosophy, that their misery can be improved and even revolutionized with kindness and reliable attention. Kurosawa, unlike most of the great directors, is much more interested in the hero and the essential study of a good person rather than empathy of their flaws, much like what fascinates Scorsese, PT Anderson or Fritz Lang. Kurosawa is an unaffected portrait of a hero, not so much a character who has flaws, but a misunderstood spiritual teacher to the characters and the audience. He sees illness, in its deepest form, as a disorder of the soul, originating as an effect of the tortured heart or mind. He rejects the idea of a political solution to health care, though he is frustrated with the disdain politics show to the pain of those it controls. He finds a more timeless cure for his horribly ailing patients, though many may suffer and die. Yet the stages they go through to their death or survival are astoundingly drastic.The swiftness with which Toshiro Mifune conveyed and emoted is amazing. The average actor may perhaps need much more time and space in a given scene to communicate an impression than Mifune did. The promptness of his actions is such that he alleged in a solitary, distinct movement or facial expression what takes many classically trained actors a lot longer to squeeze out. He presents everything without delay and unflinchingly, and his awareness of pace was the sort I am sure any director would have longed for dearly, because he was entirely in sync with Kurosawa, perhaps because their minds were so uncannily alike. And still with all his timing and sharpness, he as well possessed startlingly perceptive and beautiful feelings. He had to! Otherwise, what would all of that precision mean? I am speaking collectively of his performances in Yojimbo, Sanjuro, Seven Samurai, Rashomon, Drunken Angel, Stray Dog, I Live In Fear, High and Low and others, but in Red Beard, he has reached that point that can only be so apparent with age, one of great wisdom and understanding of personal compromise. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was expecting a beautiful film, but I have to admit that I was expecting a boring film. Kurosawa is probably my favorite all time director, but I have found that some of his 2+ hour movies tend to get a little long in the tooth before all is said and done (excepting the superb Seven Samurai.) However, I was pleasantly surprised. This film is a delight. I was truly moved by the story of the cynical young doctor who gradually learns to care for his patients, under the tutelage of a stern but caring elder, played by Mifune. The first major death scene is truly extraordinary, and is surely on the short list of Kurosawa's most memorable ( the music plays loudly as a sick man lifts his head up one last time. He is in a dark room but the light shines on his face at that moment. It is magnificent.) I think Mifune was very capable as the elder doctor, and I disagree with Steven Prince's commentary, in which he claimed that Shimura would have done a better job with certain scenes, in particular one where the doctor is (unsuccessfully) trying to give a young child medicine. For sure, Shimura would have been more natural at it, but that was part of the charm, that Mifune was playing against type, and that the doctor himself had to make an effort to tamp down his enormous energies and tap into his caring side. The second half of the film is dominated by the young doctor, a young girl, and an even younger boy, as Mifune virtually disappears. However, it continues to fascinate, as we track the young doctor's immersion with a single patient, who in turn regains her humanity by caring for him when he is sick, and helping the young (hungry) boy in his desperate situation.In short, I cannot recommend this film highly enough, esp. for the Kurosawa admirer. Perhaps Ikiru, Akahige, and Ran, are respectively Kurosawa's three most comprehensive statements about man as a whole (although all his films are about the state of man alone and with others, Rashomon, High and Low, I Live in Fear for example), and Akahige, I believe, is his peak in terms of his humanistic vision of what man is capable of and can evolve to be. This is his last film with Mifune, as is well known. A fitting statement for both men, although it would have been interesting to see what Mifune could have done as Hidetora in Ran. "}{"Title":"Human rights","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have been carefully watching Kurosawa's films for years, particularly his samurai work. Mifune's presence on the screen is undeniable. He commands respect and attention, with every turn of his chin or move of an elbow. I watch Kurosawa's movies with a sense of the sublime, as well as a sense of disbelief. How does he do it?This is a film about human life and the importance of empathy. This film, better than so many which make the same attempt, communicates the need for human understanding and care for the unfortunate. By exploiting the arrogance and ignorance of the self-centered doctor, Kurosawa finally explains to the thickest of us, in beautiful scenes with heart-wrenching acting, why we should care about others. Akahige should be mandatory viewing for all. An important story about tragedy, poverty, and the dis empowered that, in the hands of this director, is never sappy, cheesy, or self-indulgent. "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie by accident. What a lucky event! It is a humanistic, well-told, and brilliantly filmed tale about an arrogant apprentice doctor in Edo who thought he was destined to serve the Shogunate.At first our protagonist detests his (surprising) post at a charity hospital and is repelled at the thought of wasting his fine Dutch medical education in such a humble setting. He even refuses to share his medical notes with Red Beard, the nickname given to the head doctor who runs the clinic, and who sets an example to his young medical charges through service and compassion.Slowly but surely our young doctor's arrogant stance begins to change. I won't spoil the plot by relating why, but I assure you that the viewer will be rewarded by a talented cast, brilliant director, beautiful black and white photography, and a complex and ultimately satisfying plot.I intend to see this film again. And again. And again. "},{"Title":"More Passion Than Compassion","Date":"24 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'd never thought this would happen, but it did This one's the first black-and-white Kurosawa pic I don't care about.Yes, his direction is impeccable; yes, the photography is marvellous; yes, it's all in good taste and style.But the overlong and predictable narrative never goes beyond superficial medical soap opera hokum - except, maybe, for the final part -, Mifune's beard-stroking performance is oddly boring, the social message is delivered with a heavy hand and the individual episodes featuring different cases of mental and physical illness lack insight.Surely a must-see for fans of the great Japanese director, but just a mediocre swan song to the successful Kurosawa-Mifune-collaboration.5 out of 10 butt-kickin' medicos "},{"Title":"Mastery","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kurosawa had me in the palm of his hand for THREE HOURS. He told me to laugh, to smile, to cry, to fall on my knees and worship him, and I did precisely that laughed, smiled, cried, and fell on my knees and worshiped him. What a movie! This experience of crying for joy had once been quite alien to me. And now I realize it was because I wasn't watching the right movies. Amelie actually was the first movie to make me cry for joy (when the old man opens his long lost treasure box), and that too is a high-quality touching/uplifting movie . . . but this is better - and the weeping was much more intense in this one. After you see it you'll understand these two scenes 1) the women screaming down the well and 2) the girl buying the bowl. Those two moments had me in tears. I cry just thinking about them. But, of course, that is not all the movie has to offer. There are quite a few unforgettable scenes. And Mifune in the role of Red Beard re-reminds you of his versatility and incredible skill. This is the last collaboration between Kurosawa and Mifune, and it is a sad departure. They are both at the height of their talents, and it is unfortunate they couldn't draw out the pure pleasure of that combination for just a few more films. It itself is enough to make you cry. And even if not every moment of the movie will have you in tears, the movie overall will stick you in the ribs with some powerful feelings. You will understand when you see the movie how a director can hold you in his hand for so long, how he can re-affirm your faith in humanity and not make it corny or sentimental, how he can moralize and not detract from its depth, and how he can do all this with such effortless grace. I say 'WHEN you see the film' and not 'IF you see the film' because you WILL see this film, you have to; the completeness of your life depends upon it. "},{"Title":"Silver Rating","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Red Beard (赤ひげ, )- Japan 1965This is the 11th movie on the list. This movie, signified yet lasted.The film signifies the beauty and amazing collaborator attempts and successes of director Akira Kurosawa and Toshiro Mifune. Being their last collaboration, and a strong one at that. I also believe this movie took an unusual turn as Mifune was not the lead but a big supporting role. Don't get me wrong though, he was great anyway. Akira, why can't I make films just like you. Breathe-takingly relatable, characters so real you can touch them and story telling at it's finest. This movie, once finished made me think I should learn to speak Japanese, and make black & white movies, and hell, while I'm at it, they will be samurai movies. My list of favorite directors is actually a long list, but this movie cements Akira's place. The movie, I said Signified yet lasted. Meaning although it was great, the main character learned a life changing lesson, and we all enjoyed watching as well as learned a lesson also. This movie also lasted a long time. Like a long time. I thought it could've definitely been shorter. The movie lasted very long.It was alright SilverRating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Stunning","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As a long-time fan of Kurosawa's films I thought I knew what to expect. Red Beard was one of the few of his films I'd not yet seen although I've had it on my shelf for nearly a year. So one cold, snowy winter afternoon I settled in with this film.Three hours later I can comfortably say that I was overwhelmed. This was perhaps the most devastatingly beautiful film I've ever seen. Simple stories, so often told again and again. But here they're sculpted by the hands of a master filmmaker and master acting craftspeople. Pacing, shot selections, camera angles, emotions, all come together to present this little saga in an unforgettable way. The scene of the young girl telling the story of how she wound up marrying that dying fellow was one of the most jaw-dropping pieces of acting I've ever seen.If you want to see REAL FIMMAKING and REAL ACTING look no further. But I caution you you may not see today's movie dreck with so generous an eye after watching Red Beard. "},{"Title":"A story of transformation","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The heart of this excellent and final Kurosawa/Mifune collaboration is the transformation of the young doctor from a cocky and arrogant intern interested mainly in prestige and advancement (he plans on being the Shogun's personal physician) to a doctor who's primary goal is to provide medical treatment and emotional support to the poor people who rely on a public clinic.  The trick was to make this transformation believable and in my opinion they succeeded.  Through a succession of events that tests the young doctors preconceptions, he moves through an intellectual, emotional and physical transformation (becoming quite ill and being nursed back to health by a patient he has recently cared for)that is wholly believable.  He not only sees the clinic and its patients in a new light, but is able to reconcile his feelings toward his former finance who had jilted him.  Mifune shows a new side to his character as he becomes embarrassed, grunting and huffing, when his protege begins to emulate him.  A very moving film supported by an excellent musical score.  Another feather in Kurosawa's cap. "},{"Title":"Another amazing film that shows what Kurosawa is capable of","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In 1965 Kurosawa made Red Beard. It was that last time that his common leading man, Toshiro Mifune would appear in one of his films.Mifune plays the title character, Red Beard who is the head doctor in a government run clinic for the poor. One day a new intern, Dr. Noboru Yasumoto (Yuzo Kayama) arrives at the clinic. He soon becomes angry and rebels against the rest in order to get thrown out of the clinic. He begins drinking heavily and refuses to wear his uniform. But soon, he realizes from his patients, himself, and most importantly Red Beard what it means to become a good doctor.Red Beard is a long film that clocks over three hours, but is never boring and  carries a strong message of what it means to be human. The widescreen cinematography is astounding. "},{"Title":"a masterpiece","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Red Beard is a simple tale that is never simplistic. It is melodramatic without being sentimental. The story will move you to tears, the acting is subtle and nuanced, the lighting is at times startling, and the editing, camera-work and sound design are perfect and on occasion iconoclastic.Kurosawa takes the story of a young, proud doctor apprenticed to a gruff genius at a poor persons' clinic, and weaves around it humanistic tales of tragedy and spirit. Sahachi, The Mantis, Otoyo - these characters will humble and move you and live long in your memory. There are scenes of incredible grace and depth of emotion - the name 'Chobo' being cried into a well is haunting and magical.This is Kurosawa at the height of his powers, and that is quite a sight to behold. Unmissable. "},{"Title":"A touching Coda to the greatest Actor/Director team ever","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Oh My God this movie was amazing. I mean in many ways it is just like the Godfather Part II. In that the scope of the movie is so large and that it works on so many levels. When Kurosawa said that he wanted to strech the limits of what movies could be with this film, he really meant it. This is a movie that both cares about the human condition while at the same time not preaching to us. What is most amazing about this movie is that after one is through with it, he/she will have enjoyed a truly rewarding movie. It is only after the fact that one will realize how much he/she was touched by it.  "}{"Title":"a film deeply in touch with what's right and wrong with humanity; perfectly cast","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Akira Kurosawa, behind the veneer of directing a few of Japan's most well-known/received action films (Seven Samurai, Yojimbo, Hidden Fortress), was also a master at finding the right touches in drama. With Red Beard, his final collaboration with Toshiro Mifune, he unravels from a previous novel a story with many little stories, connected with the idea that people can be devoted to helping people. Many people take for granted what doctors can do, besides the straight-forward medical side of things. They can also help bring people out of the dark into the light, or closest to it. While this may be looked upon with some skepticism and cynicism in the modern age, what's fascinating is that Red Beard is a modern film, with a timeless sensibility. It's a film shot in black and white, but it deals with characters that will always be out there, the good and the bad, the under-privileged and those who are not.But besides the themes that Kurosawa and his writers have underneath, he tells an interesting, if somewhat familiar, story of the young being brought into a world by the experienced. Dr. Yamamoto (Kuzo Kaywama) doesn't think he will work at the clinic run by Dr. Niide (Red Beard), and at first does everything in his power to resist doing anything. But then he gets drawn in bit by bit, starting with an encounter with a mentally-damaged woman (Kyôko Kagawa, who assists in making their one scene one of Kurosawa's absolute best), and observes Red Beard at work. Sometimes it's too much, but he does begin to understand what he hasn't realized yet as a doctor. Then, when a girl (Miyuki Kuwano) is struck with a fever under a repressive mother, Yamamoto takes her under his care, leading into the second half of the film.It would be one thing if Kurosawa decided to focus squarely on the relationship between Niide and Yamamoto, but because he is more interested in certain stories with the patients, so is the audience. Like a sewer, Kurosawa weaves delicately all of these little bits into the film, and often using powerful light measures in certain shots (some of which, when a dying character, Rokusuke, is shown in a flashback in CU, or when another character, Sahachi, recalls a story involving his wife, are tiny masterpieces of composition). And it's not necessarily tragic the entire way either- one scene involving a fight with Red Beard and some thugs brings out a purely comical excursion in the film. If one of the director's (not just Kurosawa but in general) is to cast with a keen eye, then this film doesn't miss out- nearly every small role is fit so one can't see it being cast any other way.Mifune, when he is on-screen, is compelling as always, but not in the same manic way he was in some of his earlier acting roles. Here he reacts calmly sometimes, attentively, and when his emotion comes through, he doesn't do the yelling and lightning fast delivery. His character, which he fits into beautifully, is far more wary of the ways of the world than some of his samurai parts were. As for the younger counterpart, Yamamoto, played by Kayawa, he is performed with the right levels in how the character transforms- frustrated, shocked, observant, understanding, caring, sympathetic. And there are other parts that are played without a note missed- Onaka, played by Kuwano, is perhaps the Japanese equivalent to what Jodie Foster was in her youth- determined, believable, and of course vulnerable. There is a tendency for some Japanese actors to take it a little to far into the over-reaching, but her work here is far from that.I was emotionally moved by Red Beard, and in a way that some films just can't do. Some films overpower with melodrama to mark its points. Red Beard delves into questions that those other films (which may or may not have fine emotional content) wouldn't raise. There is an underlying current in the story that the clinic is under-funded for Red Beard. He cannot fathom why this is so, not that they can't get the money they need to treat the under-privileged, but why the under-privileged are there in the first place. But then with the film, the questions coincide well with the dramatic structure and catharsis pulled by the end. It's a typical kind of conclusion, but it's worthy of such. One of Kurosawa's better films; not one to start with if you're not familiar with the director's film, yet a treat for those ready for a three-hour trip into a world we know and don't know at once. "},{"Title":"Where do you go after you've reached perfection?","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This marks the 'end' of early Kurosawa. And it seems obvious why. In Red Beard he managed to perfect his humanistic message previously explored in Ikiru, Drunken Angel, High & Low etc... I can't possibly imagine how he could have better captured his love of humanity and, having finally achieve his ultimate expression, it must have hit him hard on what to do next. After this movie he apparently had a break down. And when you strive for something all your life and then finally achieve it where do you go next? It's certainly not for everyone but those who still care about people they've never met will appreciate its message.After this film Kurosawa career just seems to explore things that interested him, never again does he return to the open message to humanity that this film is. And why should he, he's perfected it right here. "},{"Title":"Hollywood should really take an example of this film...","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the few films that have an extreme deep story, very much philosophical issues of beeing a good person. Without losing focus on this there are many scenes which make you smile, laugh, cry and shake your head in disbelief. Many sub-plots and different views all combined into a rich and very entertaining film.For me Akira Kurosawa is still the master of directing and I really wish that Spielberg or George Lucas would go back to where their roots are to see what it really take to make a great film.Very worthwhile watching! "},{"Title":"Red Beard's Influence on Scorsese's Taxi Driver","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Many directors have described their admiration for one of the greatest directors in cinema history, Akira Kurosawa. His influence can stretch to George Lucas and his epic Star Wars which garnered its inspiration and structure from Kurosawa's Hidden Fortress. Another director who has attributed much in his career to Kurosawa is Martin Scorsese (who gives a cameo as Vincent van Gogh in Yume &#150; Kurosawa's Dreams).Scorsese's movie Taxi Driver details the story of a troubled anti-hero named Travis Bickle disgusted with the conditions of the city he lives in. He ends up saving a young 12-year old prostitute from the pimps who have begun to run her life. This aspect of the movie can be attributed to Kurosawa's influence on Scorsese and is seen in the film Red Beard. In Kurosawa's film a young man who is upset with where he is at in his life (much like Travis Bickle) decides to save a young geisha who is entrapped by a cruel master; who is echoed by Harvey Keitel's character in Taxi Driver. The young girl is the same exact age as Iris in Scorsese's film as well.One of Red Beards most important cinematic themes is the rescue of this girl and her realization that there is better to life. No other film seems to depict this Kurosawa theme better than Taxi Driver. The young geisha goes through a transformation under the young man's care and begins to understand life and how precious it can be. This is echoed by Iris who goes back to school and goes back the life suggested by her liberator Travis. "},{"Title":"Akahige's One Bad Mutha...","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This one's a real winner. One of Kurosawa's heavier entries into his vast collection of works, Redbeard runs over three hours (or two VHS tapes). Mifune Toshiro portrays the title character an master surgeon who schools a stubborn young punk on how to be a physician yet remain sane.  This quite possibly may be Mifune's greatest performance and the film definitely ranks up there with Kurosawa's best (there's too many to name).  Plus you gotta' love seeing Mifune physically beatdown a bunch of pimps and lowlifes in a scene that says don't mess with Akahige, he's a bad mutha. "},{"Title":"The doctor is in for the next three hours","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Red Beard is a great example of Kurosawa's skills he has an outstanding cast, superb cinematography, and a fascinating story about pre-modern Japanese medicine that is episodic but riveting. Even at three hours Red Beard is worth watching.  "},{"Title":"A major disappointment for an ardent admirer","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I regard Kurosawa as the pre-eminent director during the second half of the 20th century. His films epitomize humanism, especially the ambiguity of human experience and the need to know thyself. This theme appears in its essence form in Rashomon, but is at the heart of such diverse films as Stray Dog, Seven Samurai and Yojimbo. The aspect of Kurosawa's art that perhaps I most admire is the cohesion, as plot and characterizations develop seamlessly, whether in the relatively short Rashomon or in the longer Ran and Kagemusha. That is what I miss most in Red Beard. The earlier film which comes closest in theme is the much shorter The Lower Depths, in which the individual stories of the members of a slum community are artfully interwoven, and one comes to understand the needs of each one of the seven or eight principal characters. By contrast, Red Beard seems to fall into sections, not all of which have clear relevance to the framework narrative of the young doctor who comes of age under the guidance of a gruff but benevolent senior. After I had viewed the film I had the impression that I had seen a number of weekly episodes of an expertly directed television drama series, some reasonably absorbing, others over extended. I would suppose that the intention was to show how the young doctor matures from being self-centered and ambitious to serve a wealthy shogun, then after his has seen an assortment of human needs, to being compassionate and dedicated to serving the poor. Many of the performances are excellent, especially that of Yamamoto as the young doctor. For whatever reason, Mifune seems almost to be walking through what is for him an atypical role, one that perhaps did not allow him to convey the intensity he brought to roles in Stray Dog, Rashomon and Seven Samurai three very different films, in which his charisma almost literally jumps of the screen, as with the foremost Hollywood and European stars such as Bogart and Gabin. In some of Red Beard's episodes Kurosawa shows his mastery in creating sympathy for the human condition; however, adding the parts does not necessarily produce a satisfactory whole. "},{"Title":"An Inferior Kurosawa Movie- Merely Excellent","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While far from Kurosawa's best, this is still a beautifully crafted and well-paced film that exhibits Kurosawa's technical mastery of film. Regretibly, it lacks the delicate emotional control that kept powerful films from slipping into melodrama. There are many moments in Akahige which feel insincere and crafted for eliciting an emotional response- something one much less frequently feels when watching the detached study of human pathos and perseverance in Kurosawa's Ikiru. This lack of dramatic control mars what is otherwise an exquisitely staged, acted, and photographed production- but it is still an excellent film.In spite of its lenght (some three hours) it is an excellent film for introducing Kurosawa to a new viewer. The plot is rich without being complicated, the acting is almost always proficient, and the pacing never drags. Nevertheless, one who is new to Kurosawa should regard this film as hinting at the true power and majesty of Kurosawa films like Seven Samurai, Ikiru, Ran and the plain good fun of The Hidden Fortress, Yojimbo and Sanjuro as well as hinting at the skills that went into making technically brilliant films like Rashomon and The Lower Depths.It is my opinion that, except for Ran, Akahige was Kurosawa's last really great film- though I have not seen Kagemusha. Particluarly during his last decade, Kurosawa just could not seem to recapture his dramatic sensibilities and the films of that period seemed particularly lifeless. I can't blame Kurosawa for this- he represented a type of film making that was no longer fashionable in the mid-sixties. Akahige was huge and technically daunting- it took years to shoot and was the most expensive film yet produced in Japan. The strain of production not only distracted attention from the dramatic integrity of the film, it also finished off the already ailing relationship between Kurosawa and Toho Studios- Kurosawa's long-time backer who funded most of his best films. After Akahige, Kurosawa's life was never the same. He never had quite the same callibre of collaboration in creating and producing his movies. Not only did he not enjoy the same direct help, but, also, he could no longer rely upon the confident voices of disagreement and dissent in his older crews which helped him stay on track dramatically as well as technically.Also, here, we see Toshiro Mifune in a role that was a little too big and complicated for him- requiring more subtlety than he was really able to deliver. He still tries hard and frequently succeeds- but the role also plainly eludes him at times. This would be his last film with Kurosawa and while he is not at his best, he is still quite good- more as a presence than as a dramatic actor. This film is a sort of ensemble performance so don't expect to attach yourself to a particular character- even Yashumoto- the film's main character who really starts out a little too bratty and detached for the viewer to freely sympathize with him.In concluding, I can sum up by saying that the film aspires to greatness but falls short. But, as is often the case, aspiring for greatness and failing often means that one must settle merely for quite quite good instead. "},{"Title":"A word of advice","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Have 3 hours to kill. This is another one of the classics by a great director that has 13 male votes for every female vote. Obviously, the film-school dropout dorks are out in force making sure it gets rated 8+. In the last week, I've seen both Sanjuro and this for the first time, and I now know why I had never seen them before, They're OK, but not in league with Kurosawa's great flicks. Contrary to the comment that this sometimes admittedly veers close to sappiness but never indulges, BOY does it INDULGE. It feels like they were getting paid for drama per minute. And at 3 hrs long, that is a lot of drama. In fact, there are so many tragic characters and subplots introduced that this actually veers into melodrama. How could it be worth 8+? Explain why Mifune is a minor character for the first 90 minutes. Better yet, lose most of the first hour, including the entire subplot of the mantis woman. Better yet, since she was a stimulating character and the scene where she stalks and attacks is great, put this entire subplot in a separate movie. It'd probably be a classic and Akahige would be improved. Then, lose most of the Chigusa subplot, including all of oh, I had a baby and now you need to marry myyounger, nicer sister so my pop can save face and hug his grandkid at the same time. And, maybe lose one of the two patients that die, or at least kill them pronto. If you don't have 3 hours to kill? You're going to be reading subtitles anyway, right? You can play a DVD on 2x speed and still see the subtitles. So, whenever Mifune isn't in a scene (WHICH IS OFTEN), put the DVD into 2x speed. You'll find that many of the scenes look more real at 2x. That is how slow the pacing is in this. OK, now the dorks can flame me. "},{"Title":"Not Kurosawa at His Best","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I LOVE Kurosawa's movies and think Toshiro Mifune is one of the greatest.  But Mifune and Kurosawa have both been much better.  This is far too long and uninvolving. After a while, this tale of a doctor who cares for the poor begins to feel like an extended episode of Marcus Welby, M.D.  "}]