[{"Title":"William Castle Presents Joan Crawford In EMOTE-O-RAMA","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"45 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Like all William Castle films, the story of STRAIT-JACKET is slight, full of holes, and often silly to the point of absurdity. Long ago Joan Crawford came home to find her husband in bed with a floozie and snatched up an ax. Adjudged insane, she is locked up in an asylum for twenty years, but now she's home--and pretty soon some really weird things begin to happen around the old family farm. Could it be, oh, I don't know... JOAN? Throughout his career, producer-director William Castle liked to build his movies around gimmicks TINGLER had Percepto, 13 GHOSTS had Illusion-O, and HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL had Emergo. But STRAIT-JACKET had something better Joan Crawford herself, who plays in a style that can only be described as Emote-O-Rama. Say what you like about Crawford, she never gave any performance less than one hundred percent, and in STRAIT-JACKET she gives one hundred and fifty. In the opening scenes, 60-something Joan has the unmitigated gall to play Lucy in her 20s! Later, as Lucy in her 40s, Joan plays the role like a nice little old lady who occasionally drops acid when she's not busy with her nervous breakdown, she sucks down bourbon, attempts to seduce her daughter's boyfriend (even to the point of putting her fingers in his mouth), knits like a fiend, lights a cigarette by striking a match on a record album, raises hell at a dinner party... and all of it about as subtle as a bulldozer.But they didn't call her a star for nothing not only does Crawford manage to carry it off with complete conviction, she actually manages to endow the character with considerable pathos along the way. And I have absolutely no doubt that THIS was the film Faye Dunaway studied the most when preparing to play Crawford in the infamous MOMMIE DEAREST; watch both back-to-back and you'll know exactly what I mean.The rest of the cast is pretty interesting as well, featuring Diane Baker as daughter Carol, Leif Erickson as Crawford's brother, George Kennedy as an unsavory farmhand, and a very young Lee Majors as the ill-fated husband--not to mention Mitchell Cox, a Pepsi V.P. Joan was favoring at the time. There are cheap special effects (amazing, how she can neatly lop off a head or two with a single blow), Pepsi-Cola product placements, and even some dialogue that would do Ed Woods proud. It's all campy and bizarre and hilariously weird and ramped up to the nth degree by Crawford's full-force performance.With a somewhat better script and production values, STRAIT-JACKET could easily have matched Bette Davis' more sophisticated HUSH, HUSH SWEET CHARLOTTE; as it stands, however, it is a cult movie in all caps. The DVD release is very nicely done, with the film itself in excellent condition. A collection of Crawford's costume tests gives a surprising insight to actress' personality, and a particularly nice little making-of documentary includes comments from Diane Baker. (Note don't watch the documentary, called Battle-Ax, until after you've seen the film it's a spoiler.) Strongly recommended to Castle, Cult, and Crawford fans! Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"''The Best In Axe-ploitation!''","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" No matter what script she was given to do, Joan Crawford was a pro. In this William Castle classic, she proves it again. The plot has been rehashed in previous reviews, so I can get to the heart of the matter here. Joan plays an ex-axe murderess with typical fury, beautifully combined with a poignancy which may be completely unexpected, but nevertheless completely appropriate. Well supported by the underrated Diane Baker, Leif Erikson, Rochelle Hudson and George Kennedy, she gives meaning and depth to what otherwise would have been just another horror film. Whether playing scenes with daughter Baker's boyfriend (John Anthony Hayes) or his snobbish parents, (Howard St, John and Edith Atwater), Crawford is on the money, using her years of experience to transcend her material. Thanks to her, Strait-Jacket is a worthy thriller from a Legendary Star and a fondly remembered director. See Castle's other collaboration with Joan, I Saw What You Did (1965). It's a winner, too! "},{"Title":"Crudely effective William Castle schlocker; Crawford's last hurrah.","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Following the unexpected smash-hit Whatever Happened to Baby Jane, both Bette Davis & Joan Crawford saw their careers revitalized--as crones in horror films.  Davis took the high road (The Nanny features one of her finest, most subdued performances.) Crawford apparently took whatever she could get, as witness Strait-Jacket, an enormously entertaining low-budget low-class William Castle schlockfest wherein our gal Joanie's released from prison years after chopping hubby's block off upon discovering him in bed with another woman.  When La Crawford is sent home to stay with her daughter (the lovely Diane Baker, whose career had apparently fallen on hard times as well), heads begin to roll again and guess who the cops think is wielding the axe? Like most of Castle's fright-fests, Strait-Jacket is a crude, outrageous (for its time), often genuinely shuddery thriller that does indeed deliver the goods--and benefits immensely from Crawford's undeniable star-power (whether you're a fan or not). The isolated farmhouse setting provides a perfectly eerie backdrop for the ghoulish goings-on, the cast includes such pros as Leif Erickson, George Kennedy and Rochelle Hudson, and when the battle-axe starts swinging, the chill-factor is truly alarming. The surprise ending is a corker--and such a neat, nasty twist that the exact same gimmick was used four years later when Ms. Crawford journeyed to England to take on the lead in the garishly Technicolored circus thriller Berserk.  If you've seen the latter, you'll know exactly what I mean, so I shall say no more.  Except that, without Miss Crawford, both films could have easily come off as camp hoots.  That they don't is a tribute to this lady's amazing professionalism.  In private life (according to her daughter's memoir), Joan Crawford may have indeed been the mother-from-hell. In movies, however, she commanded the big screen right up to the bitter end.  More power to her! "},{"Title":"Who says Castle couldn't direct?!?","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the most enjoyable horror films ever.  The closing credits gag reveals the spirit of the picture - it is not to be taken seriously.  By the way don't spoil a great laugh by reading what that gag is, in the crazy credits section.  This is pure camp fun, played brilliantly by Joan Crawford in an Oscar worthy performance.  The opening narration is hilarious - and Joan's get-up (black fright wig, clinging floral dress and clanging bangles) is outrageous.  You'll probably guess the surprise ending - but that's not what this film is about.  Besides the fun element there is also a subversive political statement - Castle sets his axe-murder horror on a sweet little farm, that looks like a set from a family sit-com.  And the family that live in it are too good to be true as well.  But all this is a facade, as insanity, lust and murder lie just below the surface.Also of note in the cast are George Kennedy - excellent as the twisted handy-man, and Diane Baker as the perfect daughter.  And apparently that's Lee Majors being hacked up at the start of the film.  Castle does a brilliant directing job, but it's Joan's film all the way - what she can do with knitting and matches is truly amazing!  And the scene where she attempts to seduce her daughter's boyfriend is nothing short of magic.  I can't believe that an actress who could play this scene with such good humour, could have taken herself as seriously as Mommie Dearest suggests.  Do not miss this over-looked classic. "},{"Title":"Camp classic. Great!","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film is an out-and-out camp classic, and Joanie's finest hour post-Baby Jane. After she had pulled out of Hush Hush Sweet Charlotte, canny shlockmeister William Castle signed Joan up to play a demented matriarch character in this campy horror-shocker and she did not disappoint. According to Castle's autobiography, Miss Crawford was actively involved in the production at several levels, herself supervising rewrites of the script, changing the supporting cast to her liking and also choosing the unlikely wig and costumes for her character. And from her first scene, getting off a train (in high heels!), to the final showdown with her bad-girl daughter character, Joan's performance here is pure class. Watch for the famous cardboard axe in shadow and a hilarious cat fight with her daughter who literally throws herself on the bed and squeals. But don't poke fun it might be verging on farce, but this is a tight, pacey film with some good direction and camera-work. The overhead shot of Joan losing it in the tiny closet with the NASTY striped wallpaper is worth the price of admission alone. Recommended. "},{"Title":"You can't afford to miss Straight Jacket.","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The movie opens with shocking betrayal.  Lucy Harbin (Joan Crawford) returns from a journey only to find her husband (Lee Majors) in bed with another woman.  She spins into a murderous rampage.  With an axe, she evens the score by lopping of the heads of her adulterous husband and his mistress with a big, shiny axe.  Her revenge is the fuel for local legend, but the price is twenty years in a mental intuition.When Crawford is released from custody (fully recovered) the story begins.The prison bus drops Crawford off at the home of her sweet and innocent daughter, who is very popular and happens to be dating the richest boy in town.  She also watched as her mother brutally murdered two people, including her father,  but in spite of life's little setbacks, Diane Harbin is perfectly fine.With such a humdrum cast of characters, it seems strange when headless corpses start showing up all over town.  Who could the murderer be?This movie is one of the five best movies I saw in 2003. It's lots of fun, and Crawford's performance outclasses any I've seen.   It is a GREAT movie. It's got LOTS of decapitations, but no gore or fake blood!   A modern marvel!  "},{"Title":"I can't possibly sum this up.  Just watch it.","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am redoing this review--I did the original one five years ago and I think I can top myself. I rated this movie as excellent and I am going to explain why I rated it so darned highly.Isn't Joan Crawford the coolest? Some people jokingly call this movie Blanche's Revenge as Joan eschewed the wheelchair of Baby Jane and replaced it with an axe. (It would have been really nifty if she'd been an axe murderer and in a wheelchair. That would have kicked tail.) This movie was made in 1964, and William Castle was attempting to better his reputation--he was known for scaring people, but I think he really wanted an A-movie to his credit. After seeing Baby Jane he decided that using a bona-fide star might help him in his plan, and he pitched Robert Bloch's Strait-Jacket story to Joan Crawford. Lucky for him she agreed to do it, and he earned a little critical recognition for a change.The plot is simple enough--Joan Crawford plays Lucy Harbin, a young woman of 29 who witnesses her husband cheating on her with a former girlfriend. The shock of being thrown over drives her to madness, and she dispatches both her husband and the hussy while they sleep. The couple's three-year-old daughter Carol watches, horrified, and Castle cuts (get it?) to another shot of the daughter, now grown. She's telling her fiancée about her past because, as she abruptly puts it, My mother's coming home from an asylum. Today. That line kills me--she gave him so much time to prepare, huh? Once Lucy returns Carol begins going to great lengths to turn the present-day Lucy into the Lucy of twenty years earlier. Obviously, that isn't such a hot idea because Lucy was a murderess. Even more distressing, Lucy gives several indications that she isn't completely rehabilitated--when the asylum doctor shows up to say hello, she wigs out completely and runs screaming from the room. Eventually, anyone and everyone who discovers Lucy's imbalance gets offed. Is Lucy regressing or has she been usurped? That is the basis of the movie's surprise ending, which I of course didn't figure out. (My mother did, but she always does.) Okay, so why is this movie so entertaining? If you guessed Joan Crawford, you guessed right. William Castle's idea works wonderfully. He chose someone who would give her all to make sure a movie worked, and that's what happens. At the time, Joan was sixty years old, give or take a few, and she throws herself into the role of a 29-year-old with gusto. (She doesn't succeed, but she tries.) Her character starts out as a brunette, brazen floozy-type and ends up a gray-haired timid middle-aged woman. It doesn't seem like such a big difference on paper, but when you see the difference between Joan's first and second entrances it's quite effective. Also, who among us knew (besides Christina Crawford, apparently) that Joan could swing an axe like that? Move over Lizzie Borden, Joan's on the warpath! And the seduction scene with daughter Carol's fiancée? I don't think a movie has ever made me squirm so much. It's horrible, but you can't look away--Lucy goes through about fifteen emotions in less than fifteen minutes. Just thinking about it makes me feel icky, and nothing really happens. That's the weird part--nobody does much of anything, but it's so damn disgusting. (The DVD features a little making-of featurette, and one of the film historians says in a awed tone, She actually puts her finger in his mouth. I guess it bothered him too!) If I had to choose the one part of this movie that raises it over other movies of its ilk, it would be the first murder scene. The moment where Lucy, poisoned with anger and wielding an axe, wreaks havoc on her sleeping husband. I just feel that a jealousy-crazed woman brutally murdering her husband would have the same look on her face as Joan does in the scene. It's absolute blind rage and she has no control over it. To be blunt, she looks like an insane killer and she is more than a little creepy doing it. I just thought of another great part--at the end of the picture the Columbia Pictures lady has been beheaded. Cute little touch, huh? "},{"Title":"Classic Crawford","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, where to begin with 'Strait-Jacket'?  First of all, people who aren't keen on either Crawford or 60's horror movies shouldn't, and probably wouldn't, bother with this in the first place.  That being said, its great fun.  Joan Crawford is the film's main - perhaps only - asset.  Crawford is considered by many now as a camp icon.  This does her a great disservice because it undervalues her talents as an actress.  Quite simply, she was the greatest (female) movie star.  One of the best - and paradoxically saddest - things about Crawford was that whatever she was in, she always gave maximum efforts to her performance.  This is sad because a movie like this isn't really worthy of the depth that she adds to the character.  Adding Mildred Pierce-level emotion to 'Strait-Jacket' is almost tragic to watch if you think about how her career had gone.  One of the trademarks of a truly great actor is the ability to rise above the material, and Crawford certainly does this here, cranking up the acting-ometer up to 150.'Strait-Jacket' certainly compares well with others in its genre. Personally, I found it a lot more enjoyable that 'Whatever Happened...' perhaps because Bette Davis wasn't in it.  It may not have the subtext of 'Baby Jane' or 'Lady in a Cage' but, no other words to really explain it, it is simply more fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Excellent little shocker from William Castle!","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" William Castle is best known for fun, gimmicky horror flicks the likes of The House on Haunted Hill and The Tingler; but his resume features some more complex films that can comfortably sit alongside the best B-movies of the sixties, and Straight-Jacket is one such film. Obviously, a film of this nature relies heavily on its lead star; so it's a good job that this one benefits from a great leading performance courtesy of the fabulous Joan Crawford. Crawford isn't as good here as she was two years earlier in Whatever Happened to Baby Jane, but she approaches her role with seriousness, and it gives the film a sense of credibility not often associated with this type of film. The plot takes obvious influence from Psycho, and focuses on Lucy Harbin. She was sent to an asylum after she discovered her husband in bed with another woman, and proceeded to axe them both to death. She is released twenty years later, still on the brink of sanity, and is reunited with her daughter Carol (who was present at the murder) and discovers that she is engaged to be married.The tagline, which states that the film 'vividly depicts axe murders' isn't exactly true, and the film is not very shocking in today's day and age. However, this would obviously have been different back in 1964, and despite no real money shots; Castle gives his film a great macabre atmosphere, and this adequately provides the horror on its own. Crawford gets a great support cast to work with, and again the film transcends its B-movie heritage as they're all extremely good. Diane Baker, Leif Erickson and my personal favourite, George Kennedy, all manage to give stand-out performances behind the leading lady. The film opens up with a great little sequence which shows why the lead character was sent to the asylum, and although the plotting takes a downturn after that; Castle manages to keep things interesting all the way down to the explosive ending. The final plot twist isn't exactly impossible to figure out, but I have to say that it caught me by surprise and while not everything completely makes sense by the end, Castle does a good job of implementing the twist. Overall, Homicidal and Mr Sardonicus still top my list of favourite William Castle films, but Straight-Jacket isn't far behind and comes highly recommended! "},{"Title":"The beginning of the end for Crawford","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS WITHIN SUMMARYWhat Ever Happened to Baby Jane? (1962) should have been the springboard to further successes for stars Bette Davis and Joan Crawford; instead, both were typecast in increasingly unsavory horror productions, with Davis faring somewhat better than Crawford in this respect.With Strait-Jacket, released a scant two years after Baby Jane's flurry of publicity and critical acclaim, Crawford began her descent into B-grade territory; the legendary glamour icon would never again appear in a first class production.As Lucy Harper, Crawford certainly dominates the proceedings, but gives one of her most laughable performances. The material, to be fair, gives her precious little to work with. Twenty years ago, we are told, Lucy Harper was declared legally insane. She walked in on her studly, younger hubby (a pre-fame Lee Majors) sleeping with the local floozy, and took an axe to both of them.This initial double murder is shown in flashback, and the scariest thing about it is Crawford's entrance by narration, we are told that Lucy Harper was very much a woman, and very much aware of it! Lucy steps off a train platform, strikes a seductive pose, throws her cigarette over her shoulder and walks to her shabby little house as screeching jazz blares in the background. This would've been a hysterically camp entrance for ANYONE, but the fact that it's a sixty-ish Joan Crawford made up to look thirtysomething (sleazy floral dress, jangling charm bracelets and a ridiculous black wig) transcends camp and sends it into orbit.Flash forward to the present; Lucy is being released from the mental hospital and coming to live with her daughter, Carol (Diane Baker), and her brother and sister-in-law, on their farm. As soon as Lucy arrives, murders begin occurring again. Who could be behind them? Well, since this is a Joan Crawford film, you can bet that she ain't the villain. (You can also bet that a case of PEPSI makes a prominent cameo appearance, at the behest of the former Mrs. Alfred Steele, international spokeswoman for the soda pop.) Instead, it is revealed at the crazed finale, that Carol is the new murderess--she witnessed the original double homicide, and that trauma, plus her growing resentment of her mother, caused her to snap.In an obvious nod to Psycho, Carol-as-a-murderess is shown committing her final crime dressed AS her mother--complete with a rubber mask fashioned after Crawford's face! In a sublimely surreal moment, mother and daughter tussle wearing the same dress, same bad wig...and then Lucy rips the mask off of Carol's face. The only scarier scene possible was when Crawford-in-blackface ripped off her wig in Torch Song, revealing her flaming orange hair.There are more howlingly funny scenes Lucy regressing to her sex kitten past by cranking up bad jazz records, swigging her liquor, and then lighting a match on the spinning record! Brilliant! Or the loony confrontation between Lucy and the rich bitch mother of Carol's fiance, as Lucy freaks outMRS FIELDS It wasn't JUST a sanitorium, was it? WAS IT!!!!!LUCY NO! It was an ASYLUM!!!! And it was HELL! Twenty years of PURE HELL!The completely insane coda has Lucy explaining how Carol carried out her diabolical scheme (She must have hidden it in her purse, she deadpans--watch the film and understand why that line gives this writer fits of laughter), and then calmly preparing to visit Carol in the loony bin. Never mind that the woman axed two people in a jealous rage. Never mind that she's been portrayed as teetering on the brink of insanity for the last 80 minutes. Suddenly, Crawford is playing her as she would one of her noble, composed 1930's MGM heroines. Absolutely twisted.The axe murders aren't graphic in the least (there's more gore in the bigger-budgeted, higher-brow Davis vehicle, Hush...Hush, Sweet Charlotte), and in the end, this is less a horror movie than it is another in a long line of mother vs. daughter Joan Crawford melodramas. However, this is a far way down from Mildred Pierce. For sheer enjoyment, camp appeal and demented guilty pleasure, Strait-Jacket is ideal. And remember Don't give away the surprise, shock ending! "}{"Title":"A full throttle plunge into dementia!!!!","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" For die-hard Crawford fan's this movie is an absolute hoot!!!! To see our gal Joanie decked out in the horrible wig with bangs to the jangling bracelets, it's a camp classic. Joan plays a woman who catches her young husband in bed with another hoochie and murders them both with an AXE and is sent to the loony bin for a number of years. The fun starts when she is released and guess what, you got it, axe murders start up again, imagine that????? Only Crawford could deliver banal lines with a completely straight face and she does give it her all, but the movie is just too silly to be taken seriously. Please watch it if you are teetering on the brink of insanity. "},{"Title":"Gore Mongral Movie Review Strait-Jacket","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Strait-Jacket(1964) a film starring Joan Crawford as a woman who comes home to find her husband getting busy with another woman. Joan snaps and kills both her husband and his mistress with an ax all to the watching eyes of her daughter who at the time was only 4 or 5. Fast forward 20 years and Joan's character is considered reformed and sent to stay with her daughter her brother and his wife. The rest of the movie revolves around deaths that occur at the house and if Joan's character is to blame or someone else.This is a pretty cool flick all around as it has an ax wielding psycho Joan Crawford, Leif (Invasion from Mars) Erickson and George (Breath Assure) Kennedy giving us a very heady performance. It also has some sequences for its time that would have probably made the teeny boppers of the era squirm up to their man in the theater.All in all I think this is one of those films that if your a horror/thriller fan you owe it to yourself to at least check out once as it does what is trying to do effectively even though you can see the end coming before you get there. With the characters all in place and an interesting story I give Joan's Ax Wielding flick 7/10 good.Strait-Jacket is out now on Tri-Star DV. Definitely give it a go!!!Until next time folks here is a tip If your married and you want to cheat on your wife make sure you leave the ax locked up real tight in the shed cause if you don't you could lose more than your money if she catches you!!!I'm out!! "},{"Title":"Fair","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Apparently Les Diaboliques inspired William Castle to direct horror films.  His first such film Macabre, based on Clouzot's classic, was hardly in the same league.  Castle's later films and antics proved him to be more of an entertainer than auteur.  Pranks and gadgets, such as a `ghost' on string and electrified seats are now legendary.  With Strait-Jacket Castle was obviously influenced and trying to cash-in on the success of Psycho.  Both films are based on stories by author Robert Bloch and have similar themes.  However Strait-Jacket is closer in spirit to Psycho 2 than the original.  Perhaps Psycho 2 (a rarity in that is a decent horror sequel) was in turn influenced by Strait-Jacket.  Avoid Psycho 3.Lucy Harbin arrives home early one night and catches her husband with another woman.  In a fit of rage she chops them up with an axe.  The ordeal unhinges her and she is committed to an asylum.  Lucy's daughter, Carol, witnesses the killings.  Twenty years later Lucy is released (cf. Psycho 2) and goes to stay with her brother's family, which includes Carol, on a farm.  Events do not go well, Lucy starts to relapse and there is a handy axe on the farm.Joan Crawford (whose real name was Lucille) plays Lucy.  Like her co-star, Bette Davis, in Whatever Happened To Baby Jane?, she featured in a range of horror films in the latter years of her career.  This was far removed from the Thirties and Forties when Crawford was a major star.  The same syndrome is also witnessed with George Kennedy, appearing here before his career `took off'.  In the Eighties he appears in a range of horror movies, the best being Just Before Dawn.Although Alfred Hitchcock described Psycho as a `comedy', it is played relatively straight and is an effective slice of horror.  Strait-Jacket is too tongue in cheek to be taken seriously and hence fails as a horror.  For example, when Lucy first arrives at the farm, the `warm' greeting by her relations is marred by unfortunate references to murder.  These include verbal gaffs, the tour of the livestock and the ceramic bust.  These are crammed together and too grating.*spoilers*Another major fault of the film is that its raison d'etre is a bit obvious from the outset.  Therefore the film lacks mystery and meanders.  On the plus side the decapitations are `fun', the film being a prototype slasher of sorts.  Tobe Hooper (The Texas Chain Saw Massacre) must have seen the scene where the farmhand investigates the freezer.  Crawford's portrayal of a mentally unsound person is competent, but the `youthful' attire is atrocious.*more spoilers*The film addresses, to some extent, the prejudice, discomfort and hostility met by people with mental illness (and also ex- convicts) trying to re-establish themselves into society (cf. Psycho 2).  At the finale only Lucy is able to forgive and accept responsibility.  Incidentally, the best film I have seen about mental illness is Clean Shaven, but that is principally a drama and hence an entirely different game.  "},{"Title":"Predictable Thriller","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When Lucy Harbin (Joan Crawford) arrives earlier from a trip, she sees her husband with his mistress sleeping in her bed and she kills them with an ax. Her little daughter Carol witnesses the murder.After twenty years in an asylum, Lucy is released by her Dr. Anderson (Mitchell Cox) and her brother Bill Cutler (Leif Erickson) brings her back to her farm where he lives with his wife and Carol (Diane Baker). Lucy meets her estranged daughter and she learns that she is going steady with the wealthy Michael Fields (John Anthony Hayes). Sooner Lucy has nightmares and hears children singing a pejorative song about her.When Dr. Anderson unexpectedly visits her at home, she shows that she is unbalanced and the doctor decides to take her back to the asylum. However he is axed in the barn. Is Lucy killing again?Strait Jacket is a predictable thriller by William Castle with Joan Crawford, who has a great performance as usual. It is not difficult to guess who the killer is, and the conclusion gives a satisfactory motive. My vote is seven,Title (Brazil) Almas Mortas (Dead Souls) "},{"Title":"Joan Crawford - the Percepto of 1964!","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" How's this for a meeting of the minds - Castle, the inventor of Percepto and Emergo among other classic gimmicks, teams up with Psycho writer Robert Bloch to frame his ultimate gimmick Joan Crawford. She can't really pass muster as a sweet young thing in the opening sequence, but she just has to last till the inciting beheading and then we flash forward 20 years or so to her release from the nut house. Voices follow her, she hallucinates, she has relapses, and random folks around the homestead - including another mind-boggling special effect, a YOUNG and less than chubby George Kennedy - are meeting the business end of the hatchet. But oh, we hardly suspected what might be going on, and after the truth is revealed in action, it is explicated at length in an absolutely preposterous wrap-up scene that one can only hope was grafted on Ambersons-style - though Psycho does seem to indicate a Bloch affinity for such devices. Before that howler we are treated to a different kind of camp - somewhat predictable, but high-energy, flamboyant and fun in spite of it. "},{"Title":"Psycho in Strait-Jacket","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Strait-Jacket tells this story Lucy Habin (Joan Crawford) surprises her husband with another woman. She falls into madness and kills them both, and her daughter sees everything. After spending 20 years in an asylum, she's is considered recovered and released. She leaves the asylum and goes to live with her daughter. Very simply told this is just the introduction of the film. The rest you can guess but maybe you'll guess wrong. I said maybe.This is an interesting film. It is deceivingly naive but those able to go beyond the story will make their own discoveries. For one thing Strait-Jacket was filmed in 1963 when society was more conservative - social rules and divisions were much more rigid then. There were mainly two choices (especially in small towns and rural areas) - either adapt to society and its straight-jacket or else be an outcast. Why am writing this? Because this is one of my readings of the film.Anyway Strait-Jacket is a good thriller (not so much for the scares but rather for the atmosphere). Well, it hasn't the sophistication of some film noirs of the 40s and 50s but its charm resides in its simplicity not deprived of sense of humor. Joan Crawfords acting is of course superb and the supporting cast does also a good job. The story is interesting and will keep your attention till the end.I've seen 2 other Castle films (The Tingler and House on Haunted Hill) - both of them funny and entertaining, but I think that Strait-Jacket is the best one - it is not so amateurish and goes deeper than the other ones, but still preserves the light touch characteristic of William Castle. There are surprises in store. Go for it! "},{"Title":"She Was All Woman...And Knew It","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" And so with those words begins this wacked out slasher film/murder mystery that shows Joan Crawford lopping off the heads of her husband and his girlfriend while they lie in post-coital repose -- and that's before the opening credits have even started! Strait-Jacket has the look and feel of What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? and all of those other exploitative films from the 1960s that put once-great declining actresses in campy schlock and let audiences howl at them. But somehow, this movie doesn't feel exploitative. If Joan Crawford had delivered a bad performance, it would have. But she tackles the role with such seriousness and commitment that she single-handedly ends up selling the film to you, and making you genuinely care about her character and what happens to her. Joan Crawford may have been hell to live and work with in her personal life, but it takes an actress with a unique skill to make a film like this not only competent, but almost fascinating.As for the movie itself, it's laughably predictable. I called the surprise ending about fifteen minutes into the film, and then talked myself out of it because I thought it would be too obvious. Well, I should have stuck to my guns, but it didn't much matter -- by the end I was no longer watching the film for the ending -- I was watching it for Joan, which is the only reason (albeit a damn good one) for watching this film at all.Grade B "},{"Title":"Mildred Pierce Parallels","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie very much. Sure, it should have been filmed in living color, and yes, Joan had better scripts in her heyday, but look beyond the cheap sets, and the bad hairdo's and you'll find a hidden gem. Joan breathes life into this poor, tortured ax murderer. Personally, I find many parallels between this movie and Mildred Pierce. This could almost be a sequel to Mildred Pierce. Think about it, Joan goes to jail for killing that man at the end of Mildred Pierce. Now, 20 years later, she's out of jail and coming home for Veda's wedding. Veda always was no good, as this movie proves. But she's marrying the richest man in town. Strait-Jacket is Mildred Pierce 2. It all adds up! "},{"Title":"I think I'm going out of my head...over Joan Crawford","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Joan Crawford had quite a career, starting as a stunning siren in the silents. By the 1960s, she was reduced to playing caricatures of herself, or ghouls, as in this William Castle thriller.Robert Psycho Bloch penned this slasher film, about a jealous woman who spends 20 years in an asylum after she took an axe and gave her husband 40 whacks...and gave his girlfriend 41. She's finally released to the custody of her brother and his wife, and her long-lost daughter (who witnessed the murders as a child).It's not hard to guess how it's going to end, but it's kind of fun watching it all spin out, with a few beheadings along the way to keep one's interest. The early scenes where the daughter shows Joan around the farm are priceless (as she keeps tripping up when talking about slaughtering animals), as are the various foreshadowing scenes involving knives. George Kennedy plays a gruff and creepy farm hand, beheading a chicken. Keep your eyes open for Lee Majors in his first screen role (as the #1 axe victim). And watch for the Pepsi product placement, thanks to Joan's contract (she was on the Pepsi board).Joan gets to run the gamut here, from mad slasher to timid wallflower to over-the-top vamp. It's all hokey and hackneyed, but enjoyable for fans of Joan Crawford or William Castle. "},{"Title":"Baubles, Bangles, and One Old Woman!","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Joan Crawford plays a woman in her twenties in the opening prologue that butchers her husband and lover whilst their daughter watches. Time moves up to the present, and Crawford, who now seems cured, is allowed to come home to live with her brother and his wife and the daughter she had left in their care. William Castle directs this campy classic with a pretty strait-forward approach as Lucy comes home and strange things start to happen to her and around her and, of course in a film like this, to other people and their health and welfare. Has she regressed? Well, I cannot answer that question here and now, but just remember one thing - this film was directed by William Castle. The acting in this film is good by all accounts Diane Baker does a credible job as the daughter trying to cope with having her mother back. George Kennedy axes the wrong questions as he plays a farmhand with callous seediness. But it is Crawford that will have your attention throughout. Not necessarily because she is real good but because she doesn't seem to mind at all playing a fool to her image. When she comes out in a flowered dress with bangles on her arm as a bracelet and an obvious wig in the prologue sequence - she looks so ridiculous that you know this has to be high camp. She supposedly is playing a young, swinging, virile woman but looks like she's been roaming a nursing home for a few years. When she gets back to the present, she plays herself for a bit, but then things start to turn her back into sexy, campy Joan. Check out the scene where she hits on her daughter's boyfriend with the record player playing. It sent chills down my spine and raised what hairs I have on my head. It has to be one of the campiest portrayals - whether intended or not - I have ever seen. Give this one a look just for Joan's performance! As for the axe murders - they are done fairly suspensefully and Castle has always been more than competent behind the lens with this type of material. "}{"Title":"Lucy Harbin took an axe, gave her husband 40 whacks&#x85;..","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" &#x85;..when she saw what she had done, she gave his girlfriend 41.Strait-Jacket is produced and directed by William Castle and written by Robert Bloch. It stars Joan Crawford, Diane Baker, Leif Erickson, Howard St. John, Rochelle Hudson and George Kennedy. Music is by Van Alexander and cinematography by Arthur E. Arling.Lucy Harbin (Crawford) has spent 20 years in a mental asylum for the brutal axe murders of her husband and his mistress. Released back into society, Lucy goes to live at the farm of her brother Bill (Erickson), where Lucy's grown up daughter Carol (Baker) also resides. Pretty soon, though, Lucy is plagued by horrible visions and begins to hear upsetting things, and now it seems that the people she is coming into contact with are being brutally murdered&#x85;.with an axe.Grand Dame GuignolIt seems on odd blend on first glance, Oscar winner Crawford paired up with Castle, maestro of the gimmick led movie, producing a film written by Bloch, author of the novel that would become Hitchcock's Psycho. Yet while it's hardly a true horror picture, the kind to have you gnawing away at your nails, it's unashamedly fun whilst carrying with it a bubbling under the surface sense of dastardly misadventure. Sensibly filming it in moody black and white, Castle, who certainly wasn't the most adventurous of directors, did have a sense for tone and an awareness of what worked for his target audience. Strait-Jacket is a solid murder mystery on the page, and on the screen it's coupled with some flashes of axe wielding terror. Having a woman who is the protagonist-who may be the antagonist-also adds bite to Castle's production, but he, and his film, are indebted to Crawford and her wonderful OTT trip into self parody.Joan Blondell was all set to play Lucy Harbin, but an accident at home meant she was unable to fill the role. Castle got lucky, he needed a star, and with Whatever Happened to Baby Jane? Reinvigorating Crawford's career two years previously, Crawford was once again a name actress. Bumping into Crawford at a party, Castle sold the pitch to her, even bluffing her that the part was written with her in mind. It was a goer, but Crawford held sway with all the decisions, including script rewrites and choice of staff to work on the picture with her. It paid off, because after what was largely a trouble free shoot , film was a success and Castle had one of the best films of his career. Here Castle had the ultimate gimmick to sell his film, Crawford herself, although he couldn't resist some sort of tie-in so had millions of tiny cardboard axes made up to give to paying punters at the theatre.Sure it's a film that nods towards Psycho and Baby Jane et al, but the denouement here more than holds its own, while there's also a glorious bit of fun to be observed at the end with the Columbia Torch Lady logo suitably tampered with. Those actors around Crawford invariably fall into her shadow, but it's a mostly effective cast and Arling's photography blends seamlessly with the unfolding story.So not outright horror, then, more a psychological drama with some horror elements. But, which ever way you look at it, Crawford's performance is value for money as she files in for a bit of psycho- biddy. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Castle  Doesn't  Make  It  Bad  at  All  Here !","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Strait-Jacket is not a bad film in its genre and in fact it stands as a most entertaining and thrilling B mystery horror product. The truth is that William Castle never directed big budget films (I believe he wasn't interested either) and his direction was most simple, but somehow he managed to get some little classics of the genre particularly this one and The House on the Haunted Hill (perhaps a bit less serious) in my opinion.After 20 years in an asylum for having murdered his husband and lover with an axe in a rage attack, cured Lucy Hurbin goes back home to live in a farm with her daughter Carol, a brother and his wife; but shortly after Lucy arrives the axe murders return.Castle pushes the story easily, handles more than acceptably the tension and head-chops, and though the finale is inevitably predictable (otherwise the film wouldn't make any sense) you look forward to it and enjoy it.Joan Crawford is very good as Lucy a role that she makes without effort and Diane Baker is good too as her sweet daughter. Leif Erickson, Rochelle Hudson and George Kennedy complete a competent cast.Good for Castle that gives us fans of the genre a most enjoyable suspense horror film. "},{"Title":"The Two Faces of Joan","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Certainly the number one reason to see this picture (number two being the total camp factor) is to see La Crawford at work, and boy does she act up a storm. This movie reads as a complete summary of Crawford's entire career as she runs through virtually her entire acting range and re-creates aspects of every screen persona she ever depicted.See her as a suffering, self-sacrificing mother will to do anything to give her daughter a better life. She's practically Mother Teresa! Then watch her morph into a pushy, sex-starved tart trying to get something out of a handsome man - all in a matter of minutes! The scene of her trying to recapture her lost youth is uncomfortable to watch because you know it's Crawford being Crawford - a 60 year old woman acting like the seductress she played 30 years earlier on screen. It's as if she is trying to convince herself, and not just the young stud, that, god damn it, she can still do it. You will never see a better depiction of human desperation on screen. It's about as raw as it comes. It's tragic, appalling and hilarious, all at the same time, as the reality of the woman's life and her Hollywood persona collide, all filmed for your viewing pleasure. If nothing else, in this movie Joan reveals just how far she was willing to go to remain on screen, no matter what. "},{"Title":"CLASSIC CASTLE THAT IS FUN WITH HORROR!","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  William Castle is great! Leave it to him to make what is essentially a slasher flick with an axe and to make it fun. A murder movie was never this much plain dumb entertaining fun. Joan Crawford's over the top performance as a wronged woman who decides to make her younger husband and his mistress into chop suey with an axe and is put away for 20 years and to be blamed for recurring murders when she is released is a case of it doesn't get any better than this. You almost want to laugh when two victims get their head seperated from their bodies because of the hokey effects. Basically it looks like display heads falling on the floor. But that's a part of the charm of this movie. Crawford's young husband is played by a young Lee Majors. While the effects, dialogue and acting are in fact a little hammy and over the top at times, the story is actually quite decent. This whole movie is classic Castle. While it isn't Oscar winning, it is just plain fun. So make some popcorn, find a comfortable chair, relax and enjoy. You will have fun watching this horror film  "},{"Title":"A 60s horror movie that is scary!","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Finally a good 60s scary movie that is actually scary(second in line Pschyo is first). This movie was ahead of its time when it came out in 1964. It has all the elements of a 90s horror movie, it's just in black and white. It makes you jump a number of times, it's gory(which is something that you never saw in 60s movies), it has comedy, it has a chase scene in the end(another thing missing from 60s horror), is a who done it movie, killer wears a mask, and is scary and creates a lot of suspense. All of these things listed are in this movie. Not to mention the excellent acting. Guaranteed you'll love it. Definitely one for the library. Howard St.John has an excellent role as the comic relief playing the father of Micheal, the mother of Micheal is a treat to watch as the character you love to hate, and Crawford is excellent as always. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A tremulous Queen Bee...","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Joan Crawford, the Arched Eyebrow Queen of Melodrama, is surprisingly vulnerable throughout most of this thriller involving a former axe murderess who gets released from the sanitarium and tries to make peace with her estranged daughter (Diane Baker), now a pretty twentysomething living on her uncle's farm. Curiously, Crawford thought little of this movie, yet she's quite good in it shaky, confused, and yet hopeful, she has a great scene telling off her future in-laws and I was right there on her side. Despite the obvious camp appeal--and Crawford's penchant for baubles, bangles and beads--it's a creepy character-study about insanity (not quite a horror flick, although a genuine thriller) and the stark black and white photography and eye-popping design gives Strait-Jacket a terrific look. Superb supporting turns, particularly by Baker, help make this William Castle outing one of his best screamers from the 1960s. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Mommie Dearest Makes Her Mark In This Mother/Daughter Story Of Madness","Date":"28 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Written by Robert Bloch (who also wrote Psycho), this story of hateful revenge, mother/daughter madness and psycho axe-murders, was axe-ually quite an effective and compelling little b-movie that proudly lived up to William Castle's reputation for delivering sensational thrills on a less-than-sensational budget.I certainly give all of the actors in Strait-Jacket plenty of credit for their credible character portrayals. There wasn't a single insincere performance in the lot.Besides Joan Crawford's intense role as the tragically mad woman who's now been released from an insane asylum after a 20-year sentence - I give a special nod of recognition to George Kennedy who played Leo Krause, the filthy, callous farm-hand who seemed to enjoy (for the benefit of others) heartlessly slaughtering the farm animals with the aid of his trusty axe.At the time of this film (1964), Joan Crawford was on the Board of Directors at Pepsi-Cola. And because of that this film contains (in one scene) a clear placement of that company's product for all of the viewers to plainly see. (From the absolute bottom of my heart (snarl! snarl!), I Thank you, Joan Crawford, for being one of the very first to start this truly unwelcome trend that still continues in movies to this very day) As a somewhat comical, twisted, tongue-in-cheek trivia note - The viewer will notice that, at the very end of the picture, when the famous Columbia Pictures' icon (the classic woman holding a torch) appears on screen, she is now shown as being headless, with her noggin noticeably sitting down at her feet.All-in-all - Strait-Jacket's gore may be decidedly laughable when compared to the gruesome standards of today, but as a wacky (or should I say whacky?) mother/daughter madness/murder story, it certainly didn't let me down. "},{"Title":"Mommy Fearest","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Joan Crawford was a great actress, but Hollywood stops being kind to actresses when they get wrinkly and saggy. Crawford got kind of a second wind to her career with Whatever happened to Baby Jane, where she and long time rival Betty Davis played women who were truly cruel to each other.After that, Crawford found herself playing the crazy crone in movies made by such operators as William Castle, the Gimmick King. Here she plays the a woman just released from a mental institution, whose daughter sets her up to take the fall for murders she intends to commit.Rather improbably, at the end of the movie, where the daughter is exposed with all the credibility of an episode of Scooby-Doo, Joan's character suddenly becomes incredibly rational and explains the whole plot.Since I'm trying to get to ten lines, this movie features a fun bit of Product Placement. There's a package of Pepsi sitting on a counter as they prepare for dinner. Why is this significant? Because in her later life, Crawford was married to Pepsi mogul Alfred Steele. Not sure this was the movie he wanted his product in, but he was dead for a few years.Also the Columbia lady has her head chopped off in the closing Logo, which is interesting. Kind of. "},{"Title":"Better Than Expected","Date":"26 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Given its reputation and the first thirty seconds, Strait-Jacket might be envisioned as a campy, over-the-top, horror fest, a movie to laugh at. And indeed, it does contain elements of camp Crawford's excessive makeup in some scenes, some of her acting, some special effects, the title sequence, and some of the music. These campy elements make the film fun to watch.And yet there's another side to this film, an interesting overall story that actually treats viewers to genuine suspense and some surprises toward the end. Long tedious sequences that are boring in the plot's middle section do have relevance, in retrospect. But they render the plot structure imperfect.Important story events occur off-screen, consistent with effective plot misdirection. Viewers are thus led down the garden path, but rewarded at the end. Clues are effectively subtle.Joan Crawford dominates this film. How could it be otherwise? Even when she's not physically present, the general thrust of the scene pertains to her character, Lucy Harbin, a middle-aged woman with some psychological issues. Crawford is best in those scenes where Lucy is an older mom, fragile, unsure of herself after being confined to an institution. Crawford is less effective, even ridiculous, as a youthful hussy, slinky and tawdry, wearing jewelry that jangles, and sporting caterpillar eyebrows and a horrid dark wig. But again, the blatant excess here generates the film's camp appeal.The director uses B&W lighting effectively, especially toward the end, to create suspense and a sense of mystery. Rearview projection in a few scenes makes the film look dated.I was expecting a total camp fest. And that's how most people probably perceive this film. But viewers who like thrillers will surely appreciate a story with a clever premise and a terrific ending, both of which redeem Strait-Jacket as credible, despite the camp. "},{"Title":"Better than most","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was expecting this to be another cheesy Castle flick. It would be entertaining but nothing memorable. However, this film was much better than the rest of Castle's films. The direction of the ax sequences was superb. You are constantly expecting the ax to drop, but it just never does. You can definitely see the influence that this film as had on horror films from Halloween to date. Of course, I would be remiss if I did not also mention that having Crawford and Baker in the cast made it a much better acted film than most of Castle's as well. Crawford's ability to move from mood to mood with her character was mind boggling. It was almost like she was playing three or four different characters in the same film. Baker was beautiful and played really well off of Crawford. For a horror film, this was actually a very good movie. "}{"Title":"This is Joan Crawford and I urge you to see Strait-Jacket!","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Rare was the 30s or 40s screen goddess who didn't see her career resurrected in the 60s & 70s by the Grande Dame Guignol genre of horror movies, kick-started by What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? in 1962. Bette Davis and Crawford capitalized on it the most, though Crawford had significant trouble escaping it after the trend had runs its course while Davis was able to extend her career far beyond it. Here, master showman Castle brought together, with much fanfare, the author of Psycho and the Queen of Hollywood for another tale of mayhem. Crawford plays a beaten-down woman, just released from an asylum, who twenty years prior, had caught her husband in bed with a floozy and hacked their heads off with a nearby axe. She goes to stay with her brother Erickson and his wife Hudson who have been caring for her daughter Baker ever since the crime. Baker is enthusiastic to have her mother back, though has understandable concerns about it. Not long after Crawford's arrival, she starts to experience unnerving situations and eventually people begin losing their heads and thus, naturally, she's suspected of having gone off her rocker again. She doesn't help matters when she starts dressing as she did two decades before and tries to seduce Baker's hunky fiancé Hayes by running her fingers along his lips and urging him to dance with her! The bodies begin to pile up as the viewer strains to figure out who is doing the killing and why. To say that Crawford is the whole show here is not 100% accurate, but it's darn close! Every single second that she is on film, she is delivering a captivating and shocking performance that is as mesmerizing as it is ridiculous. She veers heavily from deep tenderness and bruised emotion to brazen tackiness and campy delivery, but always giving it everything, either way. She's saddled part of the time with an atrocious and ill-advised wig that comes uncomfortably close to self-parody. However, the sight of her in her 40s get-up, wielding an axe is an unforgettable one! Some of her more passionate lines are delivered in a guttural growl that's equally memorable. Yes, by now the whole thing is silly and senseless, but she makes it compulsively watchable. Baker (who replaced Anne Helm, whose acting style displeased Crawford) gives an admirably effective performance as well. The good daughter types are never very rewarding roles, but she plays off Crawford beautifully most of the time. She is permitted a scene or two of more intense emoting as well. Erickson and Hudson really aren't around enough to make any significant impact. Hayes should have enjoyed a more significant career. Not only was he handsome, but he also conveyed a talented presence on screen. Kennedy, in an early role, plays a very grungy, sometimes-crass farmhand. Cox, who plays Crawford's doctor, has been razzed for his lack of talent and experience (he was a Pepsi executive who Crawford gifted with a role!), but he's really not all that bad in relation to the other minor players. It was a role that called for little beyond what he could bring to it anyway. Another notable cast member is Majors, who was cast as Crawford's husband after Rock Hudson recommended him, a fact Mr. Majors tends to veer away from these days. Crawford was a replacement, herself, for a severely injured Joan Blondell, though once she was on board, Castle pulled out all the stops to accommodate and feature her. Erickson and Crawford would appear (separately) in small roles in another Castle endeavor, I Saw What You Did. It's a hooty slice of camp horror that rests among the top of this genre thanks to the committed work of Crawford, the distinctive touch of Castle, the stark black & white photography and the amusing twist ending. "},{"Title":"Fun little post-Baby-Jane Crawford vehicle","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's no surprise that Strait-Jacket was written by Robert Bloch, the esteemed novelist best known for penning Psycho. Both works are hinged on backstories of maternal anxiety that crackle with tension.Joan Crawford gives a palpably frenzied performance as Lucy Harbin, a woman convicted of the brutal murder (decapitation via axe, if you want to get technical) of her husband and his mistress, all before the eyes of her young daughter. Twenty years later, Lucy is released from the insane asylum and reunited with her daughter, and all of a sudden, heads start flying again! Could Lucy be responsible, or is someone trying to take advantage of her fragile state?Aside from Crawford's histrionics, Strait-Jacket also offers up a good supporting performance from Diane Baker. There's also a nice theremin-infused score by Van Alexander, shocking scenes of violence (for 1964), and some awkward and unscrupulous Pepsi product placement to look forward to! The film loses some points for its rushed, matter-of-fact, and oddly upbeat Hollywood ending, but all in all, it's an enjoyable and essential psycho-biddy flick. "},{"Title":"nice little corker","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Pretty decent old time chiller with some axe murders and Joan both camping it up and giving it her gusto. At 1 point, she's as vulnerable as your granny might be; the next, she's belting out her dialogue like a diva. She always was a very watchable actress, even in B thrillers like this, which, nonetheless is well photographed and goofily entertaining, despite its over-lurid plot. Diane Baker went on to play the Senator that Hannibal Lector toyed with in Silence of the Lambs. Here she's barely out of her teens. Or at least is 20 years older than her character is supposed to be from the beginning. Her and Crawford have believable chemistry as mother and daughter. You really can't guess how it's going to end. When it does, you'll be giggling in disbelief. Fun time during the spooky season of October and AMC recently aired it with commercials and didn't ruin one second of it. Hop along for the ride. Makes a nice companion piece to Lady in a Cage... "},{"Title":"Strait Jacket is gruesome and will have you thinking.  The COLUMBIA lady had her head cut off. Can you find it?","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Lately, I have been in the mood to see William Castle films.  This one has Diane baker and Joan Crawford.  My impression of Joan Crawford came from the now-cult film Mommie Dearest (1981) that starred Faye Dunaway portraying Joan Crawford.  In Strait Jacket here was my chance to see how Ms. Crawford really could act.  Myself, having seen many thrillers and mysteries, I was able to figure out the who-done-it quickly.  I am not too proud of that because I love a good black & white film that surprises me at the end.  This film is good and gruesome and will have you thinking.  You will think about this film long after it is over.  I am going to rent this film on VHS video again.  A young George Kennedy (Airport film series, CBS, Dallas from 1988-91, The Naked Gun film series) is in this film.  Interesting note The young man in bed with the other woman is Lee Majors (tv series' The Virginian NBC, 1962-71, The Six Million Dollar Man ABC 1974-78, The Fall Guy ABC 1981-86).  Also take notice that after this film has ended, you will see the COLUMBIA lady with her head cut off.  Can you find her head? "},{"Title":"Joan Crawford chomps scenery AND swings a mean axe!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one in a series of low-budget horror films used as comeback vehicles for aging actresses, and one of the better ones. The actress in question is Joan Crawford, fresh from her success with WHATEVER HAPPENED TO BABY JANE? and going solo. Crawford plays a woman institutionalized for 20 years after going beserk and slaughtering her unfaithful husband and his mistress with an axe. She's better now, and is released into the world to her now-adult daughter. Of course, axe murders begin to occur left and right, and Joan is suspected. The murders are tame by today's spatter standards, but were considered shocking in the early sixties. This is also one of several flicks taking a leaf from PSYCHO and dealing with graphic violence perpetrated by insane loonies. The psychological angle was popular during the sixties(DEMENTIA 13 and HOMOCIDAL are two other examples), and went a long way toward showing us that people were far more scary than vampires or werewolves.  "},{"Title":"You've Got to Be Kidding Me","Date":"31 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Have suspense films really changed so much in just a few short years? It's hard to imagine that so many people went to see this, let alone have left glowing reviews of it.Straight-Jacket might have been better titled Hysteria. The entire production is an exercise in excess, one so blatant that it's difficult not to laugh out loud.Every actor in the production, including star Joan Crawford, conducts themselves as if they are in a stage production. They flail their arms. They mug for the camera at every opportunity. They screech and cry and rant maniacally (if they are female). It's shameless overacting to a degree seldom seen.This would be fine, if there was a subtle script to balance it. What Straight-Jacket offers instead is a bludgeon. In case you didn't realize that the actors were supposed to be dramatic, you get lines of dialog that border on parody. The ending, which features a rant so over the edge that it's hilarious, typifies the film. I love her! I hate her! I love her! I hate her! The icing on this over-baked cake is the musical score, which has to be heard to be believed. In case you missed the film's lack of subtlety, the score pummels you with further shrill punctuations every time there's supposed to be a scare.I'm astounded that this picture has picked up the kind of IMDb rating that it has. Did anyone actually watch this picture? "},{"Title":"I just recently discovered this genre","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie came on the heels of the hit Whatever Happened to Baby Jane? It is a horror, drama and thriller genre movie with an aging, but famous, glamorous movie starlet in the lead to lure you in. WHTBJ was the first movie I saw, and it was very interesting to me because the stars in it were Bette Davis and Joan Crawford.Both were glamorous movie stars of the 1930s, 40s and 50s, when they were both in their prime. They each had fought hard to climb to the top of their profession. Later, they fought each other literally. They each won much critical acclaim for their performances and Joan Crawford won a best actress Oscar for Mildred Pierce (1945) while Bette Davis won for Dangerous (1936) and Jezebel (1939). They were queens of the golden era in Hollywood where the stars acted like, well, big Hollywood stars. They supposedly dressed up just to go out to the supermarket.However, by the 1960s, they both had not worked for about a decade and their past glamor had faded. They both latched on to a lower grade horror genre to get back to work and into the spotlight. Strait-Jacket was Joan Crawford's second foray into this horror genre. Although the story is interesting, it would quickly become another forgettable horror picture if it wasn't for the acting of Joan Crawford. Crawford is very demanding of her part in this picture, almost overbearing, but I was glad the director gave in to her demands. Crawford really pulls off a grand performance and milks many a scene. Some of the scenes if they were really written that way, one would think it ridiculous, but coming from Joan, it is part camp, part bizarre and fully believable. She really pulls it off and gets away with her digressions.For example, there is a scene where Joan's character, Lucy Harbin, is nervous and has been talked into dressing and looking as she did twenty years earlier by her daughter. Later we learn that this is dangerous behavior for Lucy.Lucy is very nervous because she does not feel ready to socialize again having spent the past twenty years in an asylum. She is to meet her daughter's handsome boy friend and fiancé. We see her being nervous trying to put ice in a cup before he comes. But when they finally meet an amazing transformation comes over her. The whole scene is priceless and I could not believe how Lucy ended up lighting her cigarette!I handed out way too many stars for this movie, but I would give it the full 10 for Joan Crawford's performance and ad libs in this type of role. I say that a bit tongue-in-cheek, but if you give this movie a chance and learn a bit about Joan Crawford in the meantime, I don't think you will be disappointed.This movie is produced and directed by William Castle who is known for trying to scare his audiences with tricks and gimmicks in a camp, horror style manner. This movie is no different in that it does contain his antics in depicting the grisly ax murders.In a more serious vein, I wish this movie was done in a manner such as Psycho. Just imagine if Alfred Hitchcock, Robert Bloch (author of the book Psycho) and even an aging Joan Crawford put their talents behind a movie like this. "},{"Title":"Joan Crawford is horrifying...","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ...ly bad in what is almost certainly her worst performance. When she steps off the train, bracelets jangling, looking like a drop-out from a school for prostitutes, it's impossible not to start screaming -- with laughter. This continues throughout most of the film, with one scene of ludicrous emoting following another.You have to be incredibly dense not to figure out right at the start who the ax murderer is going to be.The script -- by Robert Bloch, of all people -- is 90% exposition, with little in the way of suspense or dramatic interaction. It alternates between risibility and tediousness. Van Alexander's score is atrocious. He has no idea how to write effective film music.This is a strictly for laughs film, perfect for party viewing. I'd suggest it as MST3K fodder, but it's so awful that it's its own self-parody. "},{"Title":"When I put those clothes on, something happens to me.","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" You know how young kids sometimes get their consonants mixed up when they're learning new words? Well if you ax me, this flick has one seriously demented performance by the late, great Joan Crawford in what has to be one of her better remembered films on the way down. She actually had me a little frightened watching the picture in scenes where people still had their heads on straight. Man, that scene with her daughter's boyfriend was creepy wasn't it? Sidling right up to him and putting her paws all over his face like that made me wonder why Carol Harbin (Diane Baker) wanted to take the patience and understanding route with dear old Mom in the first place. We find out later why, but gee, swinging the old axe the way she did was a little extreme just so she could blame it on Mommie Dearest and marry Michael (John Anthony Hayes) above his parents' objections. But I guess having seen it up close and personal as a kid, it wasn't too surprising to see where Carol got her instincts from. With a bit of a 'Psycho flavor to keep things moving, this has just enough misdirection to keep you guessing, and the final ten minutes of the story will have you at the edge of your seat. So much so that even the Columbia logo lady lost her head over the end credits. If you ax me. "},{"Title":"It all started on a hot sticky Saturday night...","Date":"27 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lucy Harbin (Joan Crawford) is freed from an insane asylum after twenty years. She was sent there for decapitating her cheating husband and his girlfriend with an axe. She returns home to stay with her daughter Carol (Diane Baker). Before long, Lucy is having hallucinations and people who cross her wind up decapitated.One of director/producer William Castle's last really good horror-thrillers is a starring vehicle for an aging Joan Crawford, long since past the point of being taken seriously. She's gloriously over-the-top at times. Diane Baker tries to match her but she's boxing outside of her weight class. As with most of the films from the latter half of Joan's career, she seems to have no clue about her vanished sex appeal (She was all woman and knew it.). I wasn't surprised to find Crawford had script approval on this. The script is from Psycho's Robert Bloch and, like that film, this has a twist at the end. You'll figure out the twist without trying very hard, I'm sure.It's all schlocky goodness that you might expect from Castle and '60s-era Crawford joining forces. In many ways it's a camp classic. Look for all the Pepsi product placement that Crawford, then a member of Pepsi's board of directors, had shoved into the movie. She even got the vice-president of Pepsi an acting role in the movie playing Dr. Anderson. So next time you have a Pepsi, take a swig for ol' Joan! "}{"Title":"Solid thriller despite Castle's schlock reputation","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lucy Harbin took an axe, gave her husband forty whacks, when she saw what she had done, she gave his girlfriend forty one. So is the life of Lucy Harbin, played by dynamite Joan Crawford. After spending twenty years in an insane asylum for her crime, she is released and goes to live with her daughter on their farm property, but it is not long before goings on around the farm seem to point to Lucy's questionable sanity (and innocence).While William Castle earned his reputation for schlock-ridden gimmicky horror films, his pictures with Crawford are true gems; this film and I Saw What You Did, to be specific. While Crawford's meditated approaches to performance are part of what made these films so effective, it is inarguable that these films were well written and well directed. Penned by Robert Bloch, the author of Psycho, Strait-Jacket plays on Harbin's potential madness like piano keys&#x97; it's routine, sure, but for 1964, it's still a fresh approach to insanity on film. What's most surprising though is, as in Psycho, the way in which the film's conclusion turns on its audience, and the plot twist is just as unexpected to a 21st century audience as it was in 1964.Crawford's dedication to her role in the film is astounding, and in Strait-Jacket she is able to take a stab at the madwoman villainess whom she played opposite to in Whatever Happened to Baby Jane? two years earlier. Crawford's determination and gall really pay off for her, because the role, no matter how dramatic or emotive it is, is convincing. Diane Baker plays opposite as Crawford's tormented daughter and is able to hold her ground against the grand dame of madness. Overall, Strait-Jacket is a solid thriller with Castle's schlocky touch, but its writing is sophisticated and its performances impressive enough to elevate it far beyond any sort of gimmick. The plot twists and Crawford's anti-demure playing of her character make this worth a watch. Along with I Saw What You Did, Strait-Jacket is among Castle's classiest and most calculated thrillers. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Another Hicthcock styled Castle film","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The movie was campy, but it was a good choice by William Castle to get Joan Crawford to play the main character. She was seasoned in years by the time she did the film but she still looks good. I notice that Castle did not use any gimmicks in this movie except for her. How much the star has fallen for an Oscar winning actress to do b-grade horror.A step up from his last movie with a similar Hitchcock premise to it, homicidal, Crawford plays a woman who spent 20 years in a loony bin for killing her husband and his lover with an Axe. Attempting to get her life together and bond with the daughter she left behind, Joan's character Lucy finds herself slowly going insane again.The movie is way more develop than homicidal and is given justice by Crawford's acting skills, despite how outdated some of the dialog is. Watching her Axe her husband in the beginning was worth the watch overall. "},{"Title":"Joan Crawford","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" William Castle directed this (for its time) gory thriller that stars Joan Crawford as Lucy Harbin, recently released from a mental asylum after 20 years for murdering her husband and his girlfriend with an ax. Lucy comes home to stay with her now grown daughter Carol(played by Diane Baker) who had witnessed the crime, but seems to have adjusted well, and is planning on getting married when a new series of ax murders occur. Is Lucy reverting back to her old ways, or is someone trying to frame her? Unappealing and ridiculous film is solely for die-hard fans of Joan Crawford, the unmistakable star of this film, though Diane Baker is quite good in her role...pity about the twist ending! "},{"Title":"Strait Jacket","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Joan Crawford's character is the prime suspect in a series of axe murders in 'Strait Jacket'. We get a back-story before the film really gets going. Lucy Harbin came home early one night from a trip to find her husband cheating on her with another woman. She kills the both of them with an axe while her young daughter Carol watched. Fast forward 20 years, and Lucy is just getting out to live with her brother Bill and daughter Carol. Pretty soon we witness some things with Lucy that make viewers question her sanity, such as her seeing decapitated heads in bed with her that later disappear. And then a couple of axe murders occur, and all signs point straight at Lucy...but a clever twist and exciting/creepy conclusion make 'Strait Jacket' much more compelling than many other horror films.I love this movie, it's one of my favourite old time classic horror flicks. Joan Crawford puts in her best performance next to 'What Ever Happened to Baby Jane', you really feel for Lucy Harbin yet fear that she is slipping back into insanity. Diane Baker also puts in an AMAZING as the seemingly well put together daughter of Lucy (Carol). The murder scenes are well done and graphic for its time. The finale at the mansion when Lucy's boyfriends parents are attacked is filmed perfectly, it's creepy and the use of shadows makes viewers jump. The twist at the end as it's revealed who the murderer is was a shocking one, and acted out perfectly.'Strait Jacket' should be seen by all, another brilliant masterpiece by William Castle. It's a scary and eerie little early slasher flick which has some good performances and terrifying moments.9/10 "},{"Title":"For her husband 40 whacks, for his girlfriend 41","Date":"25 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After playing the head nurse in an insane asylum in The Caretakers, Joan Crawford must have decided to see how the other side lived so her next film was Strait-Jacket where she was a mental patient. What got her committed was her Lizzie Borden like attitude toward her second husband Lee Majors whom she dispatched along with his girlfriend with an ax. Her daughter who grows up to be Diane Baker saw the horror show as a child.But Joan's much better now and she's gone to live with Baker and her brother Leif Ericksen and sister-in-law Rochelle Hudson. Baker's about to get married to John Anthony Hayes a real blue blood whose parents are understandably curious about the girl he's marrying and her family. The parents are Howard St. John and Edith Atwater. When some bodies start occurring again as the result of 40 whacks they get downright concerned.After what she did in Whatever Happened To Baby Jane both Crawford and her arch rival Bette Davis got inundated with slasher flick offers. After doing The Caretakers this probably was the best thing Crawford was offered. But said to say it started her career tobogganing down the hill of mediocrity.Her last films were truly not worthy of mainstay star whose career began in silent films. If you're dedicated to Joan Crawford or slasher flicks see Strait-Jacket, otherwise I wouldn't bother. "},{"Title":"Carol, Bring Me the Axe!","Date":"8 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" You've got to give Joan Crawford credit. Like any good ball player, she remained on the team, pitching, catching and batting, sometimes in the minor leagues, but always giving it her best shot. Yes, Straight Jacket is schlock, but thanks to a truly sincere performance by Miss C., it rises above what it may have been had not such a big star stepped up to the plate to take on this part. Visually, Crawford looks silly as the be-wigged murderess who chopped of the heads of her much younger husband and his mistress, her masculine face defying anybody to believe that she's in her late 20's/early 30's in the opening scenes. Crawford really worked hard to make her character someone interesting, instilling her with practically every emotional element that she could lay her hand on. Her bangled wife and mother who commits the murder is a trashier version of Stella Dallas; Her returning to public life has her as a shy, insecure woman afraid of facing strangers and being discovered for her shameful past. A child-like innocence comes out of her which has her appearing as if she is suffering from arrested development. Finally, she is a drunken floozy, throwing herself at her daughter's boyfriend without shame, caressing his face as if she was tenderizing a steak. Those moments are truly awkward to watch and indicate that even in spite of how everything turns out, she truly isn't recovered from her mental illness.As for Diane Baker as Crawford's troubled daughter, she is helped from the benefit of having worked with Crawford before (on 1959's The Best of Everything), their relationship as mother and daughter realistic as a result in spite of the young Carol having witnessed the horrors of her father's murder. The only issue is Baker's insistence that Crawford dress as she did 20 years before. The wardrobe and wig she wears is definitely low-class considering that Carol is engaged to a member of the upper class. Crawford actually looks better with the mousy brown hair and more sensible outfits, minus those cowbells she wears on her wrists. But Baker is credible in the role, showing both love and resentment towards her mother whose actions have obviously left her scarred.A young George Kennedy plays the sleazy farm hand who appropriately appears disheveled while working with the pigs. The beheading scenes are extremely silly looking, and the apparent nightmares and voices that Crawford hears are delightfully silly, the conclusion obvious. When Mommie Dearest utilized a scene with Faye Dunaway swinging an axe, I'm sure many of Crawford's fans thought of this film and had a good laugh at both film's expenses. "},{"Title":"For Him, The Past is Dangerous...","Date":"1 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Unobtrusive mobile framing and creative use of depth of field have Strait-Jacket starting out on the right footing. The use of music sets up a humorous tone that will permeate the film experience, while the voice over narration creates a pseudo-documentary mood (and all the better for close psychological examination by the audience). Castle employs a lot of useful techniques in his direction in order to emphasize the psychological. The first murder sequence uses great alternating shot scale, effective montage and superimposition of frames. This sequence is a clever and thoughtful bridge for the ellipsis and then title card/opening credits. This opening sequence is also a perfect conduit for properly establishing the psychological relationship of the mother (Crawford) and daughter (Baker). Castle was living his dream with this film as he was able to partner with Crawford and poach Bloch (writer of Hitchcock's Psycho). The script flows evenly and every scene progresses the dramatic value of the story. Bloch includes lots of cute theme-related puns. The haunting children's rhymes remind one of Craven's Elm Street. Amazing tension is created throughout and advanced especially with the use of sound. The cigarette lighting moment becomes a film classic (in this reviewer's opinion). The butcher scene with George Kennedy is a close second on the visual front at least. The studio distributors had advised Castle to turn away from using gimmicks... although he cheated somewhat, I believe that the film is much better for his decision to secure Crawford in the role and please the distributors. One final note would be to relate Strait-Jacket's moral to that of Renoir's adaptation of Zola's La Bete Humaine in 1938. It may be considered a stretch by some, but the concept of 'hereditary insanity' is a provocative link between the works. "},{"Title":"Head Trip","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It may help to be a Joan Crawford fan in order to enjoy this inexpensive slasher/thriller. I guess I'm not a big enough fan because I found Straight-Jacket almost ludicrous. I don't HATE Joan Crawford. It's just that, as an actress, she's pretty pedestrian. I'm afraid I feel the same way about that other actress in the Pantheon, Greta Garbo. Bette Davis had some flair and flash, and she made a couple of good movies although she was never a stunner. But Joan Crawford? The best thing I've seen her do is suffer under Bette Davis's sadism in Whatever Happened to Baby Jane? The worst of her acting appears when she's required to signal an emotion -- disbelief, anger, sadness, lying, seductiveness, lunacy -- whatever. It's as if a switch in her internal milieu is toggled and she occupies the psychological state. And she holds onto it like a yoga position. On top of that, she was a terrible mother if you believe even half of her daughter's memoirs.However, she fits rather well into this schlock axe-murderer movie. She's recently released from a booby hatch after slaughtering two people who have offended her. Her daughter, the excessively sweet Diane Baker takes her in. But Baker owns a farm, and it's a chicken farm and there are a lot of chickens and axes around. Then there is the handyman, the greasy, disheveled, snaggletoothed George Kennedy -- but we don't get to worry about his being the murderer for long.And there ARE murders. Two people get it in the neck. I more or less figured out who was doing it about half-way through the movie without trying very hard. In between pages of Will Durant's Story of Philosophy as a matter of fact, which I can recommend heartily because it actually has almost as many laughs as this movie. Those eloquent 1926 locutions of Durant's! Reminded me of another classic, Paul de Kruif's Microbe Hunters, written in the same year. Hilarious stuff. Haven't laughed so hard since my last visit to the proctologist.Where was I? The mind wanders compulsively when it tries to focus on Joan Crawford garbed in a flowered dress, adorned with jangling bangles, wearing a hideous black wig, and staring wild-eyed at the axe in George Kennedy's sweaty hand.This isn't bad enough to be funny. Few films are. It's just an inexpensive melodrama enlivened by a couple of shadows showing a swinging axe. Oh -- and the Pepsi-Cola on prominent display. "},{"Title":"Crawford and Castle, Together","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This one has a certain class, lent to it by Crawford and by the script by Robert Bloch of Psycho fame (and of the Lovecraft circle). It's a bit convoluted, as a movie, but it works. Any lesser actress would be hard to watch as the melodramatic mother released from a mental institution 20 years after murdering her husband and his lover. My favorite part is where Joan comes on to her adult daughter's new boyfriend. You'll probably figure out the ending before it comes, but watching it unfold is lots of fun. No gimmick this time out, I guess having Joan Crawford on the marquee was enough, even for William Castle! "},{"Title":"But cha are, Lucy.  Ya are wielding that ax.","Date":"19 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I always enjoy Joan Crawford movies just to watch her acting. She's so, so.......Joan Crawford. One thing rarely mentioned about Joan aside from her eyebrows, her shoulders, her drinking etc. is her voice. She's able to change her voice in a movie to fit scenes when appropriate.In this one, in the last scene when she is explaining everything, her voice is a little deeper and sounds so reasonable and sane compared to the rest of the movie. It reminds me of one line she said in Whatever Happened to Baby Jane when she tells the maid Elvira We're sisters, Elvira. We know each other very well. It has such a worldly, knowing quality to it that I enjoy. She's done it in other movies where she delivers a really good line with that deeper, more natural voice.One of Joan's signature moves in many of her films (I don't recall if it was in Straight jacket) is to walk away from the camera while having a dialog with another actor. She'll walk up to a fireplace with her back to the camera and then make a swift turn to face the other actor and deliver her line. It's always so dramatic.Another thing I liked in her earlier films in the 40s was the diagonal shadow that shaded the lower part of her face, making her eyes even more expressive. I wondered if that was what they copied in the Addams Family Values film when Angelica Huston's eyes were always lit with an oval shaft of light wherever she was.Although her films after WEHTBJ weren't the best but still campy and fun, it was too bad she couldn't or wouldn't get parts that mature actresses could play like other actresses her age. I wonder if it was her alcoholism that affected her judgment even though she worked hard and was professional to the end with some really bad scripts, e.g. Trog.She still fascinates to this day. They don't make 'em like that any more. I tended to believe most of what was written by her daughter in Mommie Dearest as I've seen people behave differently in private than in public all my life. I don't think she was a warm or friendly person but I would have liked to meet her and tell her how much I enjoyed her work. And she did work-hard. In a way, it's sad that such a hard working, disciplined actor had such a downhill direction in her career and personal life in her later years. "}{"Title":"Joan Crawford with an Axe","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The plot = Lucy Harbin (Joan Crawford) one night comes home and finds her husband in bed with another woman, she becomes raged and picks up an axe and chops them to pieces, which is also witnessed by her young daughter. So Lucy is carted off to an insane asylum. So fast forward 20 years and Lucy is released and is reunited with her estranged daughter Carol (Diane Baker) who is about to be married. But Lucy begins to lose her mind again and people are being axed left right and centre, could it be Lucy again or someone else...Okay I was eager to see this movie for a long time, I haven't been able to find it in any shop or nothing, but then one day I finally saw it and well, I just thought that this movie was brilliant. The director William Castle did a bang up job with this movie, the mood and tension was all there and the eeriness of the atoms-here was top notch, the beginning with the double murder was fantastic, and the scene with Joan Crawford being carted off in a strait jacket was highly enjoyable.Okay some of the effects do look corny but given the fact that this movie came out in 1964 is understandable. Like when some of the people getting axed, you can tell that they are mannequins, but that doesn't matter to me, and okay the twist at the end was pretty obvious and not surprising and this movie does try it's hardest to steer you away from the big twist doesn't quite work, but other than that I found this early horror movie very entertaining.The performances in this movie were superb, Joan Crawford as always brilliant, her swift change from meek old woman to vamp when she meets her daughters boyfriend had me stitches, no-one beats her she did that without being too hammy. she's head and shoulders above the rest no-one beats her. Diane Baker played the understanding daughter beautifully, her refined character, well she was just great. Howard St John came across very likable and understanding as Raymond and veteran actors Leif Erickson and George Kennedy were stand out as well.All in all a highly enjoyable camp classic that even though some of the effects are tame by todays standards, this movie still stands the test of time and a definite must see for all slasher fans. "},{"Title":"Joan Crawford can still Turn Heads","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" On a hot and sticky Saturday night, while older wife Joan Crawford (as Lucy Harbin) is away, hunky husband Lee Majors (as Frank) decides to play feed the kitty with a young saloon sexpot. Taking an early train home, Ms. Crawford catches the lovers in blissful repose. In a rage, she decapitates and hacks them, with a conveniently located ax. Driven berserk, Crawford is taken away screaming, in a Strait-Jacket. Daughter Diane Baker (as Carol) grows up in the care of kindly uncle Leif Erickson (as Bill Cutler)...After twenty years, Crawford is released from her asylum. She finds Ms. Baker is planning to wed wealthy John Anthony Hayes (as Michael Fields). But, a series of ax murders threatens everyone's happiness... Strait-Jacket winds up being pure schlock, from genre director William Castle. Yet, it does contain some of the director's most effectively simple moments, like George Kennedy getting caught up in some harmless laundry. And, Crawford's performance is really marvelous to watch. A behind-the-scenes debate once favored quitting (Greta Garbo) or waiting (Katharine Hepburn) over what Crawford and Bette Davis did (accept these roles) - but the murderous movies were popular, and remain fun to watch.******* Strait-Jacket (1/19/64) William Castle ~ Joan Crawford, Diane Baker, John Anthony Hayes, George Kennedy "},{"Title":"Strait Jacket-Didn't Ms. Crawford Also Make Berserk? **1/2","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Did Joan Crawford actually think that she was a character out of the French revolution? She handles that ax better than Madame De Farge of A Tale of Two Cities did.This thriller has Crawford returning to her family after 20 years in an asylum for whacking her husband and his girlfriend. She caught them in the act. I guess it was her fault for coming home earlier.Crawford's young daughter witnessed this.Fast forward 20 years later. It is at this point that our story begins. The bodies begin to pile up as Crawford dresses up as a real tramp. Part of her outfit is a mix between Mildred Pierce and her character in Flamingo Road.You know that something is awry here. It doesn't take too much intelligence to figure out that daughter, Diane Baker, does sculpture.The heads roll here but not much of anything else occurs. Now, if Bette Davis had been used as her sister with those masks, that would have been something. Baby Jane, watch out! "},{"Title":"For die hard Crawford fans!","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In the opening sequence of Strait-Jacket Joan Crawford (in her late 50's) actually has the audacity to play her character Lucy at 20-something (in very soft lighting, of course!). Anyway, Lucy discovers her husband and a drunk floozy in bed (both basically fully clothed). She hacks them both to death with an ax in a rage...thus begins Lucy's 20+ year incarceration in a mental institution. Apparently Lucy's young daughter, Carol, witnessed the murders as a child. Well...Lucy is released after many years and tries to get to know her now adult daughter (Diane Baker) better. And lo and behold, more ax murders begin occurring! Supporting actor George Kennedy - playing a real scuzball - is one such victim. Carol has a handsome young boyfriend whom middle aged Lucy flirts openly with in a hilarious scene. Then there is the confrontation between Lucy and her future mother-in-law, a real bitch who obviously looks down on her for being in the looney bin. More fun stuff just to watch that. All of this is a hoot, but one has to admire Joan Crawford for managing to keep her star quality despite being in this low budget shocker. One also has to admire her survival skills to get by in a Hollywood that had long left her behind by the year this was made -- 1964. Funny thing is, both Crawford and Bette Davis' star turns in Whatever Happened to Baby Jane is the film that cemented their star turns at playing crazy old ladies throughout most of the 1960's. In reality, both were only in their late 50's! Amazing what folks thought was old back then compared to Hollywood today. "},{"Title":"Despite Joan Crawford, A Pretty Good Tale","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After walking in on her cheating husband, Lucy (Joan Crawford) took an ax and chopped off their heads... and then hacked them to pieces. Not surprisingly, she was sent to the asylum for twenty years. But now she's out, and moving in with her now-adult daughter. When the locals start getting axed, suspicions turn in one direction.This is probably one of William Castle's better known films, due mostly to the star power of Joan Crawford. Reviews at the time largely said the film was a failure, but Crawford's acting was superb. I'm not really convinced of that. I enjoyed the film, even with the cheesy fake heads that fall off with no blood. I didn't really care for Crawford. I guess maybe it's because she played her role of a nutcase well, but she was more irritating than anything.This film is considered part of the hagsploitation subgenre... popular in the 1960s after What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? Some trace this trend to Billy Wilder's Sunset Boulevard. I'm not sure. I clearly see this film being in the trend of crazy old woman kills... and probably one of the better ones. If we have to give Crawford credit for anything, it's making a career out of a very unique subgenre.The gimmickry of William Castle is muted, which is unfortunate -- his influence is one of my favorite parts of the films. They handed out cardboard axes at the theater, but modern viewers don't get this luxury and Castle doesn't do one of his classic cigar-smoking introductions. I suppose we can be thankful the story was written by Robert Bloch. Rather than ripping off Psycho like he did with Homicidal, Castle went out and got the actual writer to work with.While not as enjoyable as Zotz or Mr. Sardonicus, with William Castle you can really do no wrong. I give my endorsement to this film as worth a viewing, if not a purchase. "},{"Title":"Hard to really recommend","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Straightjacket doesn't really feel like a horror film much, but it does feel good when it is.**SPOILERS**In an insane asylum, Lucy Harbin, (Joan Crawford) is released and goes to visit her daughter Carol, (Diane Baker) after twenty years of being away. As they begin to grow comfortable with each other, their friendship grows and are able to be friends with each other. Still shy, she isn't completely comfortable around others, which makes guests coming over to visit extremely limiting. Working up the courage to meet her fiancée Michael Fields, (John Anthony Hayes) it is enough for her to break out of her shell and becomes close to capturing her past personality. When her doctor Dr. Anderson, (Mitchell Cox) believes that could become dangerous to others, they all try to avoid aggravating the condition. When she attends a party to announce the engagement, they all try to keep her from avoiding past mistakes.The Good News There wasn't a whole lot to this movie either way. The film's only real virtues are it's creepy scenes, which are all towards the end. From the moment the decapitated heads are found in the bed, this one gets really interesting. From there, the body count picks up slightly and there's even a few good suspense scenes thrown in. The main one in the farmyard, where a victim believes someone is after them, then while completely unaware is brutally killed in a more graphic fashion than would be believed. The final twenty minutes, where the real stalking and suspense take place in the party, is the film's best moments. There's some really great stalking in the bathroom and closets, the revelation of the killer in the twist and much more to be had that make this one really fun. This one has a lot more graphic kills than would be believed, since they really go further in than would be expected and really make them seem a lot more brutal than possible. These here are the film's good parts.The Bad News There wasn't much with the film. The film's main flaw is that it's incredibly slow and boring. The film doesn't do much of anything until the end, and there's plenty of inactivity to be had from the film during these parts. The sheer fact that nothing happens until the end makes the beginning a real chore to sit through, since it takes forever to get going and seems far longer than it really is. It's nearly impossible to get any excitement out of them, since it follows the pattern of setting up a potential moment, only to laugh it off when they break it down to them being deranged but only threateningly. That is also a problem with the film. It threatens to do all sorts of good stuff only for it to back away with a laugh. This is infuriating, and can be a major source of damage to the film. The twist itself, which can be seen coming from a mile away, doesn't seem all that impressive or original, and also doesn't do much for the film. These here really lower the film somewhat.The Final Verdict While it's rather slow-going and really doesn't get to the good stuff until the last half, there's enough here to make it watchable at worst. Fans of the style or of the performers might be tempted to check it out, while those looking for more horror-dominated entries will find a lot more enjoyable ones from the time-period elsewhere.Today's Rating-PG-13 Violence "},{"Title":"She's Insane! She's Insane! She's Insane! She's Insane!","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** The least gimmicky and most conventional of all exploitation master William Castle's horror films the movie Strait-Jacket does in fact save the best, or the only gimmick in it, for last with the Columbia Picture mascot Miss Liberty ending up as one of the films ax-murderers victims.Having been declared insane by a court of law for the ax-murder of her cheating husband Frank and his lover Stella, Lee Majors & Patricia Crest, Lucy Harbin (Joan Crawford)is sentenced to an insane asylum until she's deemed by a court appointed psychiatrist, and his staff, to be normal enough to be let out. Twenty years later Lucy is considered to be sane and allowed to leave and live with her now grown up daughter who witnessed her crime Carol, Diane Baker. Living on a farm in rural California with Carol and her brother and his wife Bill & Emily Cutler,Leif Erickson & Rochelle Hudson, has Lucy for the first time in twenty years feel like a normal and mentally healthy person again until her past, that she tried to forget, slowly catches up with her.At first having nightmares Lucy then starts to hallucinate about her ax-murders of Frank & Stella over and over again to the point where she see their heads, without bodies, lying next to her in bed. The thing that really has Lucy get super paranoid and schizophrenic is when she's introduced to her daughters fiancée the handsome and wealthy, being the heir to his father's Raymond Fields(Howard St. Johns) dairy empire, Michael Fields, John Anthony Hayes. Lucy feels that her past if revealed to Michael's stuffy and very proper parents especially his blue-nosed and high society stuck-up mother Mrs. Fields, Edith Axwtaer, would end her daughters marriage to Michael before it even began.As all this is happening, in both the Cutler and Fields households, a number of ax-murders are committed at the Cutler farm with the first victim being Lucy's former psychiatrist at the asylum that she was committed to Dr. Anderson, Mitchell Cox.The handyman at the Cutler farm Leo Krause, Gorge Kennedy, knowing that a murder, that of Dr. Anderson, had been committed and covered up blackmails Carol in keeping his mouth shut, about her mom being the possible murderer, and getting what he want's Dr. Anderson's car as well as a raise in pay from her. It soon turns out that Leo ends up being a head shorter with him becoming the on the loose ax-murderers next victim.The movie moves to it final and surprising conclusion with Lucy having it out with Mrs. Fields over why her daughter Carol isn't good enough to marry Mrs. Fields' son Michael. Running out of the Fields mansion in a rage Lucy, ashamed of what she just did in losing it, returns back to the house to apologize to the Fields some time later. It's there and then where the truth finally comes out about what's been going on and who's responsible in the string of ax-murders, that by then also included Raymond Fields, in the movie. ***SPOILER ALERT****The movie Strait-Jacket ends with a battle royal between the ax-murders the one before Lucy was committed and the one after, over a span of twenty years, she was released from the asylum. "},{"Title":"Joan Crawford makes this film worth a look","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is an odd piece of film written by Robert Bloch the same man who wrote the novel PSYCHO which would be later made into one of the most infamous horror films of all time from Alfred Hitchcock. This film is no where as good as Psycho but it is sure entertaining. The film follows a recently released mental patient (Crawford) who axed her husband and his secret lover 20 years ago in front of their daughter. Now 20 years later she goes to live with her daughter on a peaceful farm in the country...but soon Axe murders begin and it might not be who you expect...is it Crawford? The Daughter? Or the creepy farm hand?I myself personally don't care for much William Castle flicks. The only one I think is the best and one of the best haunted house movies of all time is his HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL. Anyway, to go on, this movie wasn't terrible but of course it was no Oscar winner. Its a fun campy 60's thriller film with the late Joan Crawford. The editing is poor and the last scene is not necessary, nor good, but still the Axe murders, the twist at the end and Ms. Crawford make it work. Worth a look. Entertaining-Yes. Great Film-Not really. "},{"Title":"Castle does it again!","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the great William Castle's camp masterworks. A rather creepy shocker with Joan Crawford cast as a woman who has returned from an asylum after twenty years, for the murder she committed years before. Joan Crawford is outrageous in this film, screaming and acting confused at every turn. You shouldn't be too, providing you don't take this seriously. It's really just a fun film with plenty of chills and unintentional humor to keep one amused for an hour and a half. In addition to Crawford's performance is Diane Baker, who is both lovely and believable in her acting. George Kennedy is also memorable as the slimy ranchhand. The music score is also worth listening too, it's offbeat and effective. A surefire must-see, and don't miss the Columbia logo at the tail-end of the film! "},{"Title":"***** POSSIBLE SPOILER ***** Crawford takes the low road as ax-murderess in a William Castle romp...","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I watched in disbelief as JOAN CRAWFORD went through all the emotions from A to Z and still came up with a cardboard thin portrayal of a woman who was just released from an insane asylum after a twenty-year stint. Neither Crawford nor the director William Castle ever heard of the word subtle.JOAN CRAWFORD seems determined to turn her role into high art, but the ridiculous script, costumes and dialog (including an embarrassingly played scene where she tries to seduce her daughter's boyfriend), all tend to make her look as though she can't decide whether she's playing Sadie Thompson in RAIN one moment, or noble Mildred Pierce who can forgive her daughter for anything. The gaudy opening scene has her parading herself down the street like the floozy Bette Davis played in BEYOND THE FOREST, all jangled bracelets, tight dress and '40s styled bangs. This is why Crawford's fans love the film--they get a bit of FLAMINGO ROAD and POSSESSED and MILDRED PIERCE all in one film.***** POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD ***** The plot is about an ax-murderess who returns home and finds that it's not easy to forget the past, especially when you have a daughter with a certain agenda. DIANE BAKER is sweet and wholesome as the seemingly loving daughter, but the plot twist at the end depends on Baker's character turn being believable--and it's not. LEIF ERICKSON and ROCHELLE HUDSON have little to do, but since the spotlight is on Crawford and Baker most of the time, it makes little difference.The only one who gives a performance of any subtlety at all is GEORGE KENNEDY as the farmhand who slaughters the chickens and has a keen eye on things, so much so that he has to be disposed of.Summing up Crawford fans will no doubt find it entertaining, but it's really a B-film dressed up as an A product for the grand dame of emotions. A few really creepy scenes but Robert Bloch's screenplay is more character-driven than full of gore. "}{"Title":"Lucy Harbin took an Axe...","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" One of Joan Crawford's very first horror movie roles and by far her best is the role of Lucy Harbin in this William Castle classic. William Castle is, of course, noted for his use of strange gimmicks and stunts but for this film he really didn't need one (although paper axes were allegedly handed out to theater patrons during the film's initial run). The mere presence of Miss Crawford, who apparently demanded both script and cast approval, was 'gimmick' enough. Miss Crawford also apparently demanded product placement in the film for Pepsi cola, since she was on the board of directors of the company at the time and allegedly had other wild demands such as a bottle of champagne, a fifth of 150 proof Vodka and a dozen long stem red roses in her dressing room daily. Regardless of her quirky behavior behind the scenes, she does turn out a remarkable performance in this film. With it's notorious Axe murder scenes reminiscent of Lizzie Borden (there's even a nursery rhyme in the film which is almost exactly like the one used to refer to Lizzie)and a strange twist ending this film leaves its mark in horror movie history. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film for 1964","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This black & white Joan Crawford thriller must have really shocked the theater goers; and it sure kept me in the dark as to just what was going to happen. Joan Crawford,(Lucy Harkin),Trog,'70, was all mixed up mentally and had to be kept away from society for a few years. Diane Baker, (Carol Harkin) missed her mother and when Lucy was able to come home and be with her, all kinds of wonderful things happened. Carol was in love with a very rich young man and Lucy was invited to meet her in-laws at their mansion of a home, however, Lucy had her doubts about attending and things started to go wild with all kinds of yelling and screaming. The ending of this picture will fool you completely and you will find it very interesting and entertaining. "},{"Title":"No Surprises Here","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  STRAIT-JACKET (1964) ** (D William Castle) Robert (PSYCHO) Bloch must have phoned in this dull script which makes no effort at surprising us. It's totally predictable. Joan Crawford gives a good performance and is a striking figure in black wig and flowery dress, swinging her axe - but that's all.   "},{"Title":"OK horror film","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Joan Crawford finds her husband in bed with another woman. She grabs an axe and chops them up. 20 years later she's released from a sanitarium to live with her grown daughter...and the axe murders begin again.Low, low budget film is OK. Basically it's a good 45-minute plot stretched out to 90 min. Still, it's not uninteresting. The script by Robert Bloch is entertaining, the one murder shown is gruesome and exciting and Crawford is very good (the rest of the cast is OK). The bad points a pointless scene where Crawford tries to seduce her daughter's boyfriend (it is funny but kind of sad--she's old enough to be the guy's mother!), tacky production values and boring direction. Also I could have lived without the Pepsi product placement. Still, worth a look. Also, get a look at the Columbia statue at the end! "},{"Title":"Crawford and Castle","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Strait-Jacket (1964) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Joan Crawford chops off her husbands head as well as his lover and gets sent away to an asylum. Twenty years later she is released and goes to live with her daughter (Diane Baker) but soon more headless bodies start to pile up. This is a pretty good shocker that works mainly because of the Robert Bloch screenplay, which slightly borrows from his very own Psycho. Needless to say, there's a very big plot twist at the end of the film but I caught onto it within the first ten minutes of the movie so I doubt this twist comes as a shock to anyone. Castle's direction is a tad bit soft during the majority of the film but he does a great job when it comes to the axe murders. The murder sequences are well staged and contain some nice editing. Another good sequence comes when the mother and daughter are first united and try to get to know one another. The biggest problem is that I caught the twist so the middle section of the film had me yawning a few times waiting for the big climax. Crawford is good in her part as is Baker. A young George Kennedy adds some fun to the film as well. "},{"Title":"Camp at its most hilarious!","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In 1960,Psycho made Robert Bloch a famous horror writer.In 1963,whatever happened to Baby Jane? made Bette Davis and Joan Crawford potential actresses for horror flicks.Davis carried on with Aldrich in Hush hush sweet Charlotte while Crawford had to content herself with William Castle,not a bad choice (He would buy Rosemary's baby rights and would produce it four years later)for a follow-up.SPOILERS This is a hilarious funny movie.I do not know if it was intended as a spoof,but to my eyes ,it's grand guignol,a grotesque farce where Crawford overacts as hell with her black wig (see Psycho ,there are many similarities in the two stories,it was obvious that Bloch was capitalizing on the 1960 blockbuster) , her fake bracelets and her ridiculous dress ,she's bound to net horse-laugh.And what can we say of this incredible scene where TWO Joan Crawford are fighting against each other complete with axes and screams?And another one where she tries to seduce her daughter's squeeze?And another one when she quarrels with the so-called fiancé's snobbish (probably nouveaux riches)rich wealthy folks?And another one...the list is endless...BIG SPOILER But the biggest surprise ,so to speak,concernsDiane Baker's character.At least ,in Psycho ,did Perkins show signs of nervousness,of mental fragility,so his behavior made sense.Here ,it's impossible to swallow the truth when Baker turns into a monster (and the mask is one of the biggest joke I've ever seen in a horror movie).If you like kitsch,guilty pleasures,do not miss Straight-Jacket ! "},{"Title":"pretty bad","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've only seen three William Castle movies and i only liked House on Haunted Hill, i didn't like this one or The Night Walker. Joan Crawford didn't like this movie and i can see why. The movie stars out with Crawford finding her husband in bed with another woman and then killing them both with an ax, with her little daughter looking on. She's considered insane and after 20 years in the mental hospital, she's let go on probation. She goes to live with her daughter on a farm and the daughter is about to be married to a rich kid, but the rich kid's parents don't want them to be married. Joan Crawford is only OK in this movie and it's pretty obvious who the murderer is.  "},{"Title":"Fan-freakin-tastic!","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a total camp-classic.  If you're into camp, Crawford and the 50s it is a must see.Most memorable moments from this film for meCrawford striking a match across a moving record to light her cigarette. To say nothing of the way she stands there clapping her hands are getting into the music.  Plus, she has, like, one sip of her cocktail and is suddenly completely drunk!Notice the spotlight on the Pepsi Cola on the kitchen counter.  It's darn hard to miss and is an early, heavy-handed example of product placement for Miss Crawford herself.Oh, and the scene where she and her daughter go into town to get Joan gussied up and find a Craford-esque hairdo (wig) in a store window just waiting to be plopped on top of Mommie Dearest's head!But I think the scene I like very best is when Joan (liquored and loose) starts hitting on her daughter's fiance and how completely bothered he gets by it.  He plays the scene like she's getting him so hot that he doesn't know if he can calm down or if he's gonna have to get it on with her right then and there!  Of course, this was basically written into most of Crawford's later contracts apparently--that every man in the movie will want to have her soooo bad that it hurts--even though she's beyond grandma age!I adore Crawford and this movie does not disappoint.  Sheck it out!  "},{"Title":"Diane Baker Ruined The Film","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Because she was a mega-star, Joan Crawford gets a lot of press even in this movie, but I wasn't her who decided whether I liked this film or not. She was okay, but better in another 1960s film, the one with her arch-rival Bette Davis. The actress who affected me in this movie the most was Diane Baker and she just about ruined the film, as far as I was concerned.This film gets a little too melodramatic at times but Baker's character really gets carried away and is downright annoying as hell. She plays Carol Harbin. Her hysterics were so overdone it was ridiculous to watch.As a suspense film, it's okay, but after viewing the surprise ending, I wouldn't watch the movie again. A lot of people thought there was very little in the way of surprise in figuring out the murderer, but I don't think it was as obvious as stated by some. Nonetheless, the whole thing is so-so at best. It wasn't a memorable film, good or bad. "},{"Title":"The best really bad movie ever made?","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The star, Joan Crawford, and the period (the early '60s) makes this almost work...It's shuddery and creepy, though cartoonishly schlocky, obviously.If it's not the best really bad movie ever made, then it's certainly close.Yes, it's a legendarily ridiculous movie. The music score, in the innocuous scenes, sounds like it comes from a sitcom of that era, while the dramatic moments indeed sound as if they're composed for a sci-fi thing.Joan acts her little heart out as the tormented maniac, though her transformation from 60 years old to 29 years old isn't entirely successful. Go figure.Overall, the movie is badly edited, unevenly acted, and William Castle's work is mediocre even by his standards -- the way the opening murder scene is ruined by his cinematic incompetence is astounding! No subjective camera view? Even during the the killings?? My favorite part of the film is probably the party at the Fields' house near the end, Mr Fields' doomed closet, all the way thru Diane Baker's breakdown. So funny.It's undeniably fun, but imagine if Castle had done a better job on this film without leaving all the responsibility to Joan.Oh, the missed opportunities from Castle. Such good ideas yet so little talent! "}{"Title":"Straight-Jacket","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" An unstable woman(Joan Crawford, delightfully over-the-top at times bulging her eyes and clasping the sides of her noggin wishing for the horror to leave her mind)loses control when she finds her younger husband(a young Lee Majors in his screen debut)and another woman in bed together. She snaps and, in a fit of rage, chops them up with an ax as her daughter watches! Twenty years later, Lucy is released from the asylum barely held together, as she tries to adapt to the outside world she has not known for so long. There is a chance to bond with her beautifully grown daughter Carol(the lovely Diane Baker)who will be her guide into leading a hopefully better life. But, there's someone picking up the ole chopping ax again, and whoever it is isn't cutting firewood. Could Lucy be slipping back into madness? The film provides the idea to the viewer's mind that Joan's Lucy might be hanging on to her sanity for dear life..we see that at any moment she could fall right back into dementia. Through Crawford's performance, unrestrained as she is, we see that signs are there that the past could be creeping up on her. This is true especially when she tries on clothes and a wig that hearkens who she was twenty years ago. Voices begin to emerge and the decapitated heads of her past victims show up on the pillow next to her in bed. When Lucy meets Carol's very wealthy boyfriend Michael(John Anthony Hayes)there's this wildly bizarre scene where she tries to seduce him! That scene is pure Joan, smoldering up the young stud even as she was quite old as poor Carol can only watch with embarrassment. In actuality, Lucy just wishes to please her daughter and everyone else. The twenty years she spent in an asylum haunts her and Lucy wishes to just fit in and not be a nervy nuisance who cracks at every situation. But, when her doctor sees that Lucy's mental state is fragile at best, he possibly threatens the idea of her return to that horror and someone chops his head off with an ax. Later, farm hand Leo(George Kennedy)finds the doc's car and uses blackmail if he isn't treated to that very vehicle threatening to turn Lucy in. He's the next to lose his head. The running statement in the film is those who threaten to send Lucy back are sent packing to the pearly gates. So is it or not Lucy doing the damage to save herself..it seems that Carol is often the one cleaning up.This is a great movie because it headlines Joan in hysterics. The film doesn't need the usual William Castle gimmick because you have Joan plastered on a poster swinging an ax! Pure gold. Still, this is such a well crafted and head-trippy psychological chiller..just beautiful to look at in Castle's always-polished black and white photography. He just doesn't get credit for how well photographed his films are and that whole noirish feel is so ever present in STRAIGHT-JACKET. Joan, as always, is just a blast to watch. My favorite scene has Joan, trying to strike her match to light a cigarette(as her institution daoc looks on with worry)and does so..on the record playing nearby as it was spiraling! "},{"Title":"An oscar winnner","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Joan Crawford won her eleventh oscar for her performace in this classic film which consistantly places in the top ten of every film critics best films of all time.The scene where she stubs out her cigarette on the phonograph record shows the depth of her characterization of Lucy Harbin, Ax murderer. In the first scene where she alights from the passenger car of the train and pans from her shoes up to her face is one of the most provocative in all of film making. "},{"Title":"DON'T WATCH IT ALONE","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie scared the **** outta me...just don't do what I did...don't watch it alone. I thought I heard Lucy's bracelets jingling every time I was laying in bed at night. Oh...God! And DO NOT show this movie to even a 7 year old...I should know from experience! These killing scenes are...semi-graphic. And I mean, the woman in the movie is LoOnY! That's why they called it 'Strait-Jacket'.Strait-Jacket is the CLASSIC kind of scary. It didn't need to show sex and a whole lot of violence to get the movie across. This is the kind of scary I like. Just once again...a warningDO NOT WATCH ALONE! 10/10Also recommended 'Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?' "},{"Title":"Bar none, the scariest movie I've ever seen.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It may have been the situation (dark Halloween night) or it may have been that at the time I was a little young for it, but this movie still stands out in my mind as the most harrowing, get-in-your-head-scary movie I've ever seen. Joan Crawford makes you believe. "},{"Title":"histrionic and fantastic fun to watch!!!","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a bit hard to rate because if you look at the movie technically, the film deserves perhaps a 7 or 8. If you look at the film for its pure over-the-top entertainment value, then a score of 10 is merited. I split the difference and give the movie an 9.Okay, so technically, this movie is a bit predictable at times (particularly because the writers didn't develop enough characters to make knowing WHO the bad person is much of a surprise--though WHY she went on a killing spree was very cleverly done). And, the movie is very campy and histrionic (overly emotional) at times--especially with all the scenes involving knives and blood and chopping that have nothing to do with murders! However, for pure entertainment, this is a truly great film. Yes, I know the film is very cheesy and low-brow but for what it is, it is fantastic!!! Joan Crawford, usually noted for her lack of subtlety in acting, is perfect as the crazy-eyed and emotionally labile maniac who butchered her philandering husband. And, despite the effects being terribly funny (heads go flying off with a single blow with a dull-looking axe--an amazing feat indeed), the film is compelling throughout. If you compare this to other similar over-the-top shockers of the time starring washed up actresses (such as HUSH, HUSH, SWEET CHARLOTTE or WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO BABY JANE?), this movie is simply a lot more fun. And, considering how much I loved HUSH, HUSH, that's saying a lot! How this film has not achieved cult status is beyond me--it is well worth seeing again and again! SPOILER NOTE!!!! This film has the absolute cleverest final scene I have ever witnessed. I don't want to spoil it, but you MUST MUST MUST watch every bit of this film--even the final frames!!! You WON'T be disappointed! Seriously, folks--it rivals the funny intro to THE MOUSE THAT ROARED (also by Columbia Pictures).PS--for those who love odd film trivia, Joan Crawford was married to one of the high-ranking execs of Pepsi in the late 1950s. During this time and after his death, she held SIGNIFICANT shares in the company and insisted in her movies that somehow Pepsi products and advertising sneak into the her films. In some, she stands with a Pepsi sign behind her, in others she talks while holding a Pepsi bottle and in this film in the kitchen is a case of Pepsi during a scene in the film. I really enjoy LOOKING for the Pepsi--it's almost always there in her later films. "},{"Title":"STRAIT-JACKET (William Castle, 1964) **1/2","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This supremely silly yet undeniably entertaining offering by notorious schlock-meister Castle (albeit gimmick-free) proved to be veteran Hollywood icon Joan Crawford's second in a series of belated horror vehicles &#150; following the seminal WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO BABY JANE (1962) &#150; which inauspiciously terminated her lengthy and illustrious career. She plays a typical grande dame whose double axe-murder of husband (a very young Lee Majors!) and his one-night stand throws her into the looney bin for 20 years; when she re-emerges, more violent deaths follow in her path (one of the victims is unrecognizably lanky farmhand George Kennedy) &#150; so that the frail and disorientated woman's sanity is once again threatened. Apart from Diane Baker (as the heroine's daughter, who had witnessed the initial massacre as a child), Crawford is obviously the whole show here she approaches the role as if it were the logical continuation of her long run of glossy (but histrionic) melodramas of the 1940s and 1950s. This one is high-strung, to be sure &#150; indeed, one could only sensibly classify it as Camp (never more so perhaps than, when drunk, the star unaccountably and shamelessly seduces Baker's understandably ill-at-ease suitor more than half her age)! The film's most outrageous conceit, then, is its pathetic attempt to pass off Crawford as a girl of 29 in the prologue&#133;especially since when, made to don a black wig later, the passage of time is effectively blotted out and she looks exactly like in those early scenes!; this alone ensures a good time is generally had by the viewer, smoothing over the occasional longueur (usually relating to instances of tedious exposition or clichéd characterization). Apparently, STRAIT-JACKET was a dream project for Castle who, ever the shrewd entrepreneur, sought to combine the vibe inherent in BABY JANE (by borrowing one of its leading ladies) with the particular feel of another runaway hit &#150; Alfred Hitchcock's PSYCHO (1960), whose central premise he had actually already pillaged for HOMICIDAL (1961)! &#150; by acquiring the services of Robert Bloch, author of that film's source novel, to pen the script. The mix, however, is not as congenial as the producer may have envisaged (I will, in any case, check out HOMICIDAL itself presently) for one thing, while certainly well handled, the final revelation (involving impersonation) hardly comes as a shock in this case; besides, its power is subsequently dampened by having Crawford provide ludicrous psychological elucidation in an obviously tacked-on epilogue! "},{"Title":"Lucy Harbin took an ax, gave her husband forty whacks!","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Director William Castle is mostly known for the gimmicks in his films and the pulling of eccentric promotional stunts during the premieres, but just because he disposed of a vivid imagination and put the emphasis on those things, it doesn't make him any less of a great filmmaker. Particularly his films that are slightly less famous, like Homicidal, Mr. Sardonicus and naturally this Strait-Jacket are primarily story and atmosphere-driven shockers with convoluted plots, suspense and a minimum of eye-catching gimmicks. Strait-Jacket doesn't even feature any of them, actually, reputedly because the cinema owners grew tired of his goofy tricks. And certainly also not without importance, this film stars Joan Crawford in a post-Whatever Happened to Baby Jane? - role and that surely guarantees another grotesque, uncompromising and self-parodying performance of the great lady! During the terrifically mood-setting pre-credits intro sequence, a classy voice-over explains how Lucy Harbin caught her husband cheating on her 20 years ago and she promptly chopped up the couple with an ax whilst her young daughter Carol witnessed the tragedy at the bedroom's door. Now Lucy is declared sane again and goes to live with her now adult daughter on a secluded farm. Several wicked events challenge her sanity again and it doesn't take too long before new victims' heads begin to roll. But &#133; is Lucy really the one responsible this time? Crawford gives a stellar performance and particularly her drastic changes in moods are terrific and effectively eerie. One moment, her character is an unsociable and emotional wreck, whilst the next she luridly dances and even seduces her future son-in-law. Castle and scriptwriter Robert Bloch niftily demonstrate their talents of building up suspense and eeriness through small details and clever tricks, like the staged hallucination-sequences and the catchy nursery rhyme (Lucy Harbin took an ax, gave her husband forty whacks!). The climax is typical, meaning not exactly hard to predict but still well done and effectively unsettling, and at least the violence certainly lives up to the promising tagline on the DVD-cover Warning Strait-Jacket Vividly Depicts Ax Murders. Yes, it does! Not very gory ones, of course, but reasonably shocking considering the time of release. "}]