[{"Title":"First and foremost a spoof.","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"86 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lemmy Caution, a French version of Sam Spade -- or perhaps a James Bond gone to seed -- is on a mission   liquidate  the tyrannical Dr. Vonbraun, inventor of the  death ray  and the Orwellian supercomputer, Alpha 60. But to get Vonbraun, Lemmy must make the intergalactic voyage from his home in the Outlands  (roughly, Nueva York)  to Alphaville  (roughly, mid-Sixties Paris).  He gets there via his Ford Galaxy.  That's right -- a car.  Are you with me so far?The key to understanding Jean-Luc Godard's  *Alphaville*  is to realize that it is first and foremost a spoof.  It spoofs nearly everything it touches science fiction; comic-books; George Orwell; Aldous Huxley; American private-eye movies; spy movies; technology in general and computers in particular; romantic love as presented in cinema.  If you sit down to watch this expecting a high-minded piece of French New Wave cinema, you're going to end up being put-off.  Those familiar with Godard will perhaps be less put-off.  After all, when was this guy ever really  high-minded, anyway? Godard was the prankster of the  Cahiers du Cinema  gang.  Just listen to the score by Paul Misraki if you're looking for the tongue in the cheek. Even the putative theme of the movie, which is the priority of  love and artistic creativity over logic and technology personified by the talking Alpha 60 supercomputer, is not taken too seriously.  Love  is personified by the beautiful dingbat princess, Natasha Vonbraun  (Anna Karina), who doesn't even know what the word means.  She's a child, as easily manipulated by Lemmy Caution as she is by the technocrats of Alphaville.  Therefore, our rooting interest for humanity resides in Lemmy.  Eddie Constantine reprises the role of Caution, a popular TV character in France during the Fifties, for Godard here  Lord knows what Constantine thought when he first read the script.  The way he delivers the line, This  'Alphaville'  ought to be called  'Zeroville!'  gives a forceful indication of his bemusement.  He submits to Godard's nouvelle vagueisms like a good soldier, delivering a fantastic performance in the process.  Raoul Coutard's cinematography captures the heartlessness of the architecture in mid-Sixties Paris, which seemed to consist of blocky buildings blaring florescent lighting from every window, claustrophobic corridors, run-down apartments, and endless spiral staircases.  It's a pitiless place, which perhaps was Godard's one serious statement amidst all the postmodern, meta-cinematic foolery  we're living in Alphaville already.Altogether, this is Godard's most satisfying film.  Despite all its detractors, *Alphaville*  still survives  (in a Criterion edition, no less). Classics always do.      "},{"Title":"Weirder and weirder...","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"67 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If one had to use just one word to sum up Alphaville¸that word would have to be weird.  It is a film that constantly challenges our preconceptions, our expectations, and, as a result, manages to be both deeply disturbing and very funny at the same time.The film begins as what appears to be a pastiche of the American detective movie of the 1950s, but then suddenly takes a dive into the Twilight Zone. What follows is a perplexing 100 minutes of cinema that manages to be classic film noir, imaginative science-fiction, an action-packed and suspenseful thriller and - most surprisingly of all - a very entertaining black comedy, in the mould of Dr Strangeglove.   By trying to blend so many contrasting elements, the result could have easily been a disaster.  That the films succeeds, and succeeds admirably, is down largely to two factors.Firstly, Eddy Constantine plays the part of Lemmy Caution, the private detective, throughout with total conviction, seemingly oblivious to the fact that he is playing a complete parody (and a very funny one) of a character he had made his own in the preceding decade.  In the 1950s, Constantine played the hard-nosed detective in a series of French films of the traditional American detective genre.  It would have been very easy for a lesser actor to ham the part up or downplay the character, but Constantine does neither, and the result is utterly brilliant.We have a familiar character transposed from a familiar milieu into a parallel universe, where everything appears to be superficially familiar but then is shown to be a distortion of what we see in our own world - a kind of Humphrey Bogart through the Looking Glass.  Over and over again, we are surprised at how easily we are tripped up and misled by our own preconceptions.  This would not have been possible without a strong central character who is firmly anchored in our world - and Eddy Constantine serves this purpose brilliantly.  The fact that he works so well with his co-star, the superb and very stylish Anna  Karina, is a bonus.Secondly, Alphaville's creator, Godard, appears to be at the height of his powers as a director.  He shows complete mastery of the revolutionary cinematographic techniques which he thrust onto an unsuspecting world in the early years of the New Wave (the late 1950s).  Far more accessible than some of Godard's contemporary films (such as La Chinoise and  Weekend), the style is nonetheless distinctive and fresh, somehow giving the film an extra dimension that constantly surprises and entertains. Godard is also responsible for the script, an adaptation of a novel by Peter Cheyney, where he manages, quite cleverly, to draw parallels between the futuristic soulless society of Alphaville and contemporary France.  (There are more than a few direct statements to suggest that Godard regards his own country as Alphaville - for example the infamous HLM joke.  Godard appears to see France ending up as an isolationist state, seeming to have imperialistic ambitions, with its language under strict state control - not an uncommon caricature of the country in the latter years of the 20th century.)Popular concerns about the impact of computer technology on society are also exploited by Godard who suggests that widespread dehumanisation and total state control will be the outcome.Paul Misraki's enigmatic background music adds to the eerie other-wordly atmosphere of the ensemble.Overall, an amazing film that never ceases to surprise and shock.  A dark and very frightening thriller, a comic pastiche of detective films, a love story, a sci-fi movie with a power-mad (and asthmatic) computer... how Godard managed to pull this one off is probably one of the great mysteries of cinema history.  Watch, listen, laugh and be amazed.  "},{"Title":"Minimalism is not a crime","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"63 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alphaville is an attack on the syndrome of Science Fiction films full of flash and color but devoid of ideas. They intentionally took an Our Town attitude toward special effects -- e.g. driving along in a car, with dialog indicating that they're in a spaceship; commenting on how beautiful the stars look when you can't see anything but the glare of streetlights, and so on. If there's a problem with this movie, it's that the ideas themselves are perhaps not really all that strong; the notion of a dystopian city ruled by an all powerful computer just doesn't seem that heavy, not even taken as some sort of symbolic allegory; but on the whole I think SF cinema would be in much better shape if it had learned the lesson of Alphaville (think La Jette). Minimalism is not a crime, which is why I find it very annoying that I need to babble for another couple of lines to convince IMDb.com that I've said enough to be worth logging as a movie review.  "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"40 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" An excessively weird although constantly engaging futuristic film, there is plenty to enjoy in it, even though it is a bit hard to understand. Godard makes brilliant use of shadows and lighting to set up a scary atmosphere, and negative images are used effectively throughout to create a sense of awe and provide a feeling of a foreign environment. The sets are very creative, taken from existing buildings in France, and the music used throughout the film fits in delightfully. At times the film bears a bit too much resemblance to Orwell's '1984' to stand on its own two feet, and there might be a few other problems for the nit-picky, but I simply found this to be a fascinating and well made film, and it definitely comes recommended if you simply feel like watching something different for a change. "},{"Title":"Une étrange aventure indeed","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"31 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really like Alphaville. But I can understand why some would find it uninspiring or even boring. A Sci-Fi with no special effect. An intellectual feast in black and white. A movie that probably appealed to the crowd of the Quartier Latin. The story of a techno society. A society where people are killed if they act in an illogical way (ex. express sentiments). The episode of the pool is particularly good. The movie goes between two paradox technology and poetry. But eventually, victory will prevail in the form of a «je vous aime».Great lines in this one «Dans la vie, il n'y a que le présent. Personne n'a vécu dans le passé et personne ne vivra dans le futur». Or this question by Alpha 60 «Quel est le privilège des morts?». Lemmy answers «Ne plus mourir». This is just great!On last word Eddie Constantine and Anna Karina are both terrific in their role.Out of 100, I give it 79. That's good for *** out of ****.Seen at home, in Toronto, on November 12th, 2002. "},{"Title":"It's not going to appeal to everyone...","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"27 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forget about watching this if you have no patience for slow-moving drama, thought-provoking narratives, and/or philosophical discourse.This film is however unique, virtually impossible to categorize and visually arresting. It's basically a film noir set in an Orwellian future with its lead character using emotion, jokes, philosophy and love to weeds doubts into the rule imposed by a mechanized society of tomorrow....and well it's much more than that too. Recommended to anyone who enjoys the qualities listed in the first paragraph. "},{"Title":"A movie few else would dare.","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Godard was one of the most brilliant directors to ever make movies. His rebellious attitude and style simply puts some people off, which is unfortunate since Godard's movies are smart, well-crafted and, yes, entertaining.Alphaville is most often compared to movies that came after it, which goes to show how unique and groundbreaking it was (even if perhaps this has been obscured in hindsight). What Godard achieved is seen best at what HASN'T aged. Anytime you show computers and technology in a sci-fi movie it invariably will look dated years later. Yet Godard's stylized approach looks far beyond the superficiality of Alphaville. For example, the first scene with Lemmy Caution in Alpha 60 shows him monitored with microphones manipulated about his head. The jerky motion of the mics (equipment that isn't futuristic is the slightest) portray the mechanical control of Alpha 60 with cunning insight. The microphones are neither left static nor moved with fluid grace (just as another scene with discontinuous shots of a fight). The ominous, intermittent movements suggest the limitations of this computerized state.I like this movie in its correlation to William S. Burroughs' fictional world Interzone. Alphaville's Dr. Nosferatu (which translates into the undead, as in vampires) bears some resemblance to Burroughs' Dr. Benway. Alpha 60, the monsterous human/machine computer running Alphaville, functions much as Burroughs' Nova Mob. Concerns over science dehumanizing society are pervasive. The scene where Alphaville executes the poets using water ballet echoes the fictional dichotomy the state has drawn.Alphaville is hypnotic. The continuous use of flashing lights impresses this. The ending is what cracks me up. Ending with Natasha VonBraun (Anna Karina) straining to utter I...love...you. Is this all Lemmy Caution has faught for, some sentimental tripe?  Maybe Godard subtly revised Hitchcock's ending to his second The Man Who Knew Too Little--Jimmy Stewart delivers the beyond-obvious line, Sorry I'm late, I just had to go pick up Henry.Alphaville throws together a multitude of increasingly aggresive styles. After Le Mepris in 1963, this movie (if one ever could) shows a transition to Godard's scathing Weekend in 1967. Godard made so many wonderful movies each its own treasure. Not that everybody should make movies like Godard, I do wish everyone could make movies as good as his are.  "},{"Title":"Disturbing reality.","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"25 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Complex plot about a secret agent who arrives from the outer space outlands in the capital of a large union of nations which resides in space. The people in this capital are acting very crazy. They are token under tranquillizers the whole time and even don't know anymore what love is. The system from the state is under the spell from a large, intelligent computer, alpha 60, which cares about nearly everything. Developed from a scientist (von Braun aka Nosferatu, both are hints to germans, the first to werner von braun, the developer from the apollo moon project, the second from the first dracula movie ever, the german soundless movie NOSFERATU 1922)he tries to install a system of pure logic and rationalism. But what about emotions? And freedom? No one cares anymore... And then the secret agent comes into town and have to fight against this system. Goddard shows nearly no special effects and has made his movie in Paris in the sixties, which is a good trick (except that it is cheap!), because it says that this system is not far away from our reality.  "},{"Title":"Awful, Pretentious, And Self-Important","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"43 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, I made it through about half an hour of this HIDEOUS movie before shutting it off, and I feel obliged to warn others who may fall into the trap of the good press and critical praise for Alphaville.It takes a lot to get me to turn off a film. For Alphaville, the event that pushed me over the edge was a 5 minute soliloquy on the nature of time by the voice of the Alpha 60 computer. This voice sounds less like a computer, and more like a 500 pound Frenchman with swollen adenoids on his deathbed after a prolonged bout with lung cancer whilst eating a buttered croissant. I couldn't stand another second of this disgusting voice. Especially since the text of the speech was horribly banal, trite, and painfully pretentious.I have read claims that Kubrick was inspired by this voice when creating HAL for 2001. I can't believe that this is so. Unless Kubrick himself has stated this, I would sooner believe that this is just a halcyon fantasy of the pseudo-intellectual fans of this hideous waste of celluloid.The photography of this film is amateurish, at best. The editing is choppy and ham-fisted, with random shots of flashing traffic lights, arrows, and E=MC^2 neon signs inserted between cuts...which I expect is supposed to place the viewer in awe of the film maker's cleverness, but is instead laughably pretentious. Or maybe it's because the filmmaker didn't have coverage for his scenes so he used visual non-sequiturs as cut-aways to make his poor production and shooting skills look like art.The wretched acting is stilted, droll and flat of affect, apparently in some kind of misguided and pitiful effort to either pay homage to, or parody, the noir thriller.The plot themes explored by Alphaville are notionally childish, and are nothing that hasn't been explored a hundred times over by better film and television productions, both before and since the production of this movie.Really, I can't say enough bad things about Alphaville. Stay away. Worse than Plan 9 From Outer Space! (Which I watched all the way through!) "},{"Title":"A strange but beautiful adventure","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can you say that hasn't already been said. The dispassionate pastiche that is Lemmy Caution. The lethargy is exhilarating at times. The photography inventive and startling. The sound design unique and ground breaking. The acting superb. The music fantastique! Love it or get out of here! "}{"Title":"Pretentious Pseudo-Philosophical Psycho-Babble","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"22 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first saw this movie in 1965, I was a naive, impressionable student and thought it was daring, profound, and totally cool. Now I'm grown up and after seeing it for the second time in 2008, I realize how dumb and easily fooled by sophisticated art critics I was back then. Without a shadow of a doubt, this movie is Pretentious...... Pseudo-Philosophical...... Psycho-Babble......Although Eddie Constantine delivers a reasonably good performance, the production values (sets, direction, cinematography, and editing) are so amateurish they are reminiscent of the notorious Ed Wood movie Plan 9 From Outer Space. It's really that bad! The simple truth is that despite his reputation as an avante garde film maker, Jean Luc Godard has no real talent and wouldn't last 5 minutes in Hollywood. Anna Karina is cute but can't act. Neither can the rest of the supporting cast. Even the great character actor Akim Tamiroff is totally wasted. The plot is unbelievable, the dialog is corny, and the music is grating. After watching the DVD, I tossed it in the garbage can. Don't waste your time on this miserable clunker, which is basically a student film masquerading as art. "},{"Title":"Lazy/complacent throbbing of a movie","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"31 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Godard is nothing but a frustrated intellectual who indulged himself into movie-making. Yet movie-making is an over-sized word to depict that patchwork of philosophical quotations and minimalist narration. Lemmy Caution arrives in Alphaville from the outer world. He does not belong here but he's got a mission understand what he's been sent for. Alphaville is a Brave New City and it takes the whole movie and full loads of computer babbling (life, conscience... you know) to make him go mad about this, run amuck and away with the girl he met and fell for (you're telling me?).So Alphaville is nothing but a base B movie with a high-brow pretense brought forward as a stylistic composition (note to weirdos read 'philosophical homage to film noir'). Maybe you can smile at the the stylistic composure of the main character Lemmy Caution, some kind of a poor man's Sam Spade looking for booze in a poor man's Metropolis.Well, you know what? Godard was lucky he had to cut A bout de soufflé (Breathless) down to 90min. That way the movie get focused on characters and action (plus it had JP Belmondo and Jean Seberg to take its breath). Billy Wilder said this guy was a lazy bum who brings his notepad full of scribbles and pretends to be the genius that can pile up shots that will eventually make a movie. Quotes/ideas/dreams... that doesn't make a movie although lots of people in post New Wave France cherish the sweet thought of it. Creativity is 1% beachcombing and 99% work. Work alone AND with other creative people the hell with the overwhelming auteur bulls**t. People working alone can still write books or paint for instance but had Godard only tried this I doubt he'd have ever risen from the gutter where he belongs.OK, enough with the Godard rant. That must be me, I just didn't get it that the subtext was much more important than all the on screen travails (??!). I'm intellectually, poetically and deconstructionismatically challenged. But I shall die a happy man for I know that somewhere on the face of this planet there is a species ready to take over our debilitated humanity. Yep, I'm f**king relieved to know that some people are so smart as to read the future in a cripple's balls. "},{"Title":"The Sci-Fi Noir by Godard","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a near future, the American secret agent Lemmy Caution (Eddie Constantine) travels to Alphaville posing as the journalist Ivan Johnson from the Figaro-Pravda newspaper. His mission is to find the missing agent Henry Dickson (Akim Tamirof) and to convince Professor von Braun (Howard Vernon) to come with him to Nueva York. Prof. von Braun is actually Leonard Nosferatu and has created the powerful computer Alpha 60 that has conceived the inhuman dystopian society of Alphaville, where love, conscience, poetry and emotion have been banished and words are systematically eliminated from the dictionary. Alpha 60 is also omnipresent and Lemmy has the assistance of Natacha von Braun (Anna Karina), who is the daughter of von Braun. Soon he falls in love with Natacha but he needs to complete his mission before leaving Alphaville.Alphaville, une étrange aventure de Lemmy is my favorite Godard movie and maybe his most digestible film despite being weird. This is the third time that I see this sci-fi noir (last time was on 07 September 2001) and it is still an intriguing story that resembles George Orwell's 1984, inclusive with the idea of rewriting the dictionary removing words related to emotions and including new ones. The scary atmosphere gives the sensation of nightmare and the sets and locations are ahead of time. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Alphaville "},{"Title":"a strange invitation","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film bears an unmistakable resemblance to Orson Welles' Le Proces, which was made just three years earlier elegant black and white photography, the use of real Paris locations, a plot that combines absurdist humor with social commentary, and a performance by Orson's old pal Akim Tamiroff. Eddie Constantine plays Lemme Caution as a cross between Mike Hammer and James Bond, with a dash of Sergeant Joe Friday; with his pockmarked face, gravelly voice, trench coat and fedora, Constantine evokes the mystique of Humphrey Bogart, one of Godard's idols, while the exquisite Anna Karina, with her velvet voice, shares with Dominique Sanda the ability to convey complex emotions with minimal facial expression. Like much sci-fi, Alphaville parodoxically conveys an anti-technology message, which in the long run is self-defeating but makes for great entertainment, especially for those of us less than enamored of the Information Revolution. The plot bears marked similarities to 1984 and Brave New World as well as stories by Philip K. Dick, Robert Heinlein, and Isaac Asimov. Alphaville has a strongly anti-communist, almost libertarian message, which is ironic in view of Godard's later commitment to Maoism. The film's logical gaps are perhaps fitting in view of its protest against the tyranny of mathematical logic, which hearkens back to Dostoevsky's Notes From Underground. Godard shot the entire film in real Paris locations, mostly at night, giving them a spooky, futuristic look. Alpha-60, the supercomputer who rules Alphaville, is a clear forerunner of HAL 9000 in 2001 A Space Odyssey. This is a movie that both entertains and makes us think, defending the primacy of human emotions and values in a world increasingly dominated by machines. "},{"Title":"surprisingly, a rather accessible Godard film for non Godard die-hards; intellectual without being dis-interesting and boring, with perfect photography","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Without pitting into an over-sized budget and effects, Jean-Luc Godard relies on his wits as an artist and filmmaker to adapt Paul Eluard's novel on a society of evil, satirical, 'logical', and demonstrative force. What achieves a film like Alphaville to the status of an audacious, superlative art-film (with the broad outlines of the noir attitude Godard eats up like pudding), is it isn't an entirely classifiable film to put to genre. One can go directly to the word 'science fiction', and it's near justifiable to do so. But this is like sci-fi for those who only read the books, both of the pulp kind and philosophical breed - thus one of the film's most accessible qualities is it translates novelistic techniques in a way. That's another touch that Alphaville (aka The Strange Adventure of Lemmy Caution, played by Eddie Constantine) puts forth both in technique of the photography (compositions) and music, as well as the script. As in his other films, particularly from the 60's, Godard seems to pepper these characters in the city with dialog and twists that spark good philosophical debate...the fact that so much of the dialog - along with the camera - moves to a beat of consistent poetry, in a environment where practically all don't know what the word means, is a feat that Godard is cool to handle. Like in Band of Outsiders he's toying with the aspects of the cinematic process, while presenting a cohesive narrative (at least far more so than something like his version of King Lear, which is Shakespeare cross-bred with H.S. Thompson and then edited through an acid-head's filtered imagination). It will depend on the viewer's taste of talent if they enjoy Alphaville, as naturally with his other films, i.e. Weekend.But would contemporary audiences consider such experimental side-bars like a beep played whenever a certain word is spoken, or in heightening the tension by changing the exposure on the film so black is white and white is black? I wonder if my friends would find some of this pretentious after so many years of Star Wars and Close Encounters. Then again, maybe those who have read Orwell or seen Gilliam's Brazil, or even the old Bogart detective films, would find more interest than others. At a young age, Godard's films generally contain the qualities by a parent creating a film for his children, the audience- he prepares you for like by f***king with your head, and it will either tick an audience member off, or others will come to enjoy it and dig in to it with repeat interest. For example, the voice of Alpha 60, the head honcho and 'logical' leader of the city of Alphaville and its doped-up type civilians, at first had me a little bugged too. And much of what he was saying the first time around was intriguing, but befuddling for my mind to take all in. And although Godard strikes up a chord with his main players (Constantine and Karina notably), it's Coutard and Misraki's show as much as his. Their touches add to Godard's vision, as Coutard brings the director some of his most indelible images the long takes down the corridors of the hotel, the dank lighting in the darkness during Alpha 60's rant, the unusual angles...and the music cues are similar too, though in another context to say Contempt. The score rises and falls, is repetitive, and it's lyrical in a sense threatening, mysterious, for a thriller that itself isn't entirely serious with itself.But perhaps the most wonderful thing I found about Alphaville was how Godard juggled the philosophical/societal issues and schematics in a underlying serious way (as most great sci-fi pieces do), and also made it satirical and funny. You have the theme of segregation (err, Nazism in a sense, in Alphaville only a few nationalities of people are allowed to assimilate, while all others commit suicide or get killed in roves), dehumanization (a running gag is that the residents say I'm very well, thank you very much), the power that technology holds over a race of people, and destruction through war powers. However, it isn't all thought-provoking carp for the brainy among the audience. He's too smart a filmmaker for that. So, like in Pierrot Le Fou, he lets the audience in on the fact that this IS after all a movie, and you can't have an intellectual heap accompanied by the photography/sound of a poetic-painter without having fun. If a viewer gives him/herself, as I did, one can laugh at the little one liners, and gestures, that one doesn't notice the first time. Overall, I was impressed immensely by this film, and it's a great one, though it isn't the kind of popular sci-fi that'll play on the major cable networks. A+ "},{"Title":"Dive in and enjoy this extraordinary film","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK s-meister, you've chosen to study Drama, Film and Television as your minor, and your first course will be Film Studies. Turn up at your lecturer's room on Monday and watch your first film, which will be...Alphaville.For a guy raised on mainstream Hollywood movies this was a baptism of fire! It's in black and white. No problem. It's SF with no hardware. Uh, huh. It starts some guy you've never heard of. It starts with a long tracking shot along a corridor, with a strange, guttural voice talking in French. Let me out! This is a film full of ideas, typically French, and wonderfully challenging. The voice of Alpha 60? I believe the extraordinary deep voice was that of a person who'd had a laryngectomy. If you had to speak by burping (see Jack Hawkins) you'd sound like that. The swimming pool executions? Watch carefully, first comes a shot, then the swimmers go in and their arms rise and fall as they knife the victim. Marks out of 10? Busby Berkely was never like this.If you want to see something extraordinary, see this instead of a Hollywood movie. If you can stick with it, you'll begin to experience la poésie. "},{"Title":"Should have given it to Pasolini","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really wanted to like the movie, firstly because I like the new wave of French cinema made in the 60's and secondly, because the plot seemed to be something that would strongly appeal to my cinematographic interests when it comes down to dystopian movies. Being a person that watched quite a few titles throughout his life I must say I was seldom more irritated by a movie like this one that managed to make me turn it off after as little as thirty minutes.I don't really know why Godard didn't manage to pull this off, I suppose that he wasn't entirely aware of what he should be doing in order to create a Orwellian, dictatorship driven, anti utopian movie. It starts off extremely unpromising, as the environment is a patchwork of symbols that were not by any means used in place, not to mention the sound used for the movie was the most inappropriate thriller - like type of sound that they could possibly pick up from just any half - decent crime movie made by the same time.If you manage to neglect the messed up environment that is a patchwork of this and that but never manages to make it up to the full picture that it should represent, there is no possible way you won't get extremely irritated by the computer - generated - Big brother - type of voice that brags nonsense that tries to sound as if it's brainwashing the listener. Beware that this is light-years behind 1984 - a movie, based on a great novel crafted to perfection - a dystopian masterpiece, that I can only praise.After wanting to smash my sound system and after trying to adjust it well enough so the inadequate sound effects won't damage the proper functions of my nerves, I started thinking how this movie would have been a masterpiece if created by Pasolini. I remember how he managed to pull out the entire Theorema using the sound of a church bell, which by no means sounded anywhere that inappropriate as the sound effects found here. Apart from that I do believe he would have done great job in implementing the political meaning into the movie. Godard failed in his attempt to be overly artsy in an environment that was probably chosen by himself - one that managed to fail his movie even more.As a conclusion, with a little bit of sadness I should admit that at least the cover art looks somehow acceptable and pleasant, and that is why I bother to give one star to this hour and a half tape of lost meanings. "},{"Title":"The birth of Retro-Scifi","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Amazing 60's sci-fi, all done without special effects. The lead character Lemmy Caution was a french created American spy hero, who Jean Luc Godard re-imagines as an intergallactic spy who goes to Alphaville; a planet/city/state where emotions and ideas like why are replaced with because. Godard fills this new pulp dimension with mentions of Flash Gordon and Dick Tracy as fellow Outworld agents like Caution. There are a lot of amazing scenes, the executions with the bikini girls with shark knives being one of the best. The romanitc oblique dialogue almost got too much for me, but works in keeping with the overall poetic themes of the the film. Not your average sci-fi, but beautiful conceptual noir. A true original from a great director. "},{"Title":"strange, intriguing and prescient","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" As with most of his work, but more so here, Godard's main accomplishment with Alphaville is taking from different established styles (sci-fi and film-noir in this case), adding his own easily recognizable style and philosophy, and making it into something completely original and quite bizarre. Brilliantly executed jump cuts, surreal flourishes (at one part Lemmy is captured by being told a joke so he's incapacitated by laughter), the use of film noir lighting techniques, gravely voiced philosophical voice-overs by the evil supercomputer Alpha 60, and use of flashes and beeps throughout the film, etc. all add up to creating a very unique mood. It also manages to spoof nearly everything that it references (film-noir, sci-fi, technology, Hollywood love, dystopian themes, spy movies) while still being serious in it's message and it's technique. There are essentially no special effects used and the set design is very similar to 60s Paris, conveying the sentiment that this bizzarro world where words and emotions are outlawed is not so far off from the modern world. The film begins with a voice over from Alpha 60 stating sometimes reality is too complex for oral communication., and that's the sentiment portrayed throughout the film. Words, emotions and expressions have been outlawed and the technological world is so pervasive that they don't seem even necessary. The world of Alphaville is quite incomprehensible, which Godard portrays through the use of film noir and sci-fi stylization, clever jump cuts, and strange happenings. Some detractors might say that this isn't exactly original and had been done, possibly better by George Orwell and Aldous Huxley, but Alphaville manages to spoof that while at the same time expressing the same ideas in a new way, and the imitation could also be interpreted as a comment on the recyclable nature of the modern world. Altogether, one of Godard's most satisfying and cohesive films, and easily on par with his other highly regarded 60's films. "},{"Title":"A very challenging film","Date":"7 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being my third Godard film, I was very excited to delve into this one, as I had liked the previous two I had seen (Breathless, and A Woman is A Woman). After all, the idea of combining Godard's French New Wave style with science fiction is very compelling. I had also read nothing about the plot or theme of the film beforehand, so it was a truly raw experience. That being said, I am very disappointed.I rarely call a film boring, because that's too easy of a response and usually not the case for most films. Nonetheless, Alphaville bored me. I didn't connect to the story or any of the characters, and was lost most of the time. The style was cool, but that's about all I found interesting about the film. Also, the voice of Alpha 60 is like nails-on-a-chalk-board; I was literally pulling on my hair when it gave those long monologues.I don't want to give the wrong impression, though. I can see how it influenced future sci-fi cinema (i.e. Blade Runner, 2001 A Space Odyssey), and it's a strikingly unique and original (albeit unconventional) piece, but it simply failed to engage me as a viewer. Whether or not this was Godard's intention, I don't know. Watch it only if you have a great passion for cinema and film history. All casual moviegoers beware. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable and Classic","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" What is most enjoyable about Alphaville is its sheer volume of pulp fiction and science fiction conceits. It is filled to the brim with those recognizable characters that are beginning to become archaic, references to high art, pop culture, and everything in between, and intertextuality that airs the feeling of influence throughout. Godard's early feelings around of his style make it almost a perfect comic-book movie frames roughly stuck next to each other that are still pleasurably visual instead of just jarring.What gives it its real impact, however, is a strange feeling of ineffability that is so subtle that it's never entirely dealt with in the plot. Sure there's the computer, Alpha 60, claiming its ultimate control over history, present, and future, but the true sense of a preconceived direction is much more undertoned than that. What I think is the best example of this feeling is when Caution gets out of a taxi in front of a glass door that has an arrow pointing to the right of the frame. Before the taxi parks, even before the viewer has a chance to register the mis-en-scene, one can already see Caution moving in that direction past the arrow, and when he does, it comes off as either a sense of deja vu and helpless inevitability. Similar feelings are created through the blinking lights, the sometimes sudden cutaways, the repetition of key shots, and a bizarre chase scene that is so lightly choreographed as opposed to fast and intense.I also like the repetition of several metaphors, the biggest one being of the ants. If the rest of this movie doesn't seem to be really striking, the mindless grasping of the citizens should still be effective, if for nothing else than its rather simple surrealism. The ending is just a melange of exciting craftmanship, as the everything, including the very structure of the movie itself, begins to fall apart.Those are the main things I took away from this highly enjoyable film by Godard, but there are many smaller things that were fun and interesting to notice too, mostly allusions and philosophical situations. However those are too numerous to even know where to start, so I'll just leave it that. Despite Godard's attractiveness to artsiness and film snobs, I feel very comfortable saying that this is a classic a wide range of people could really enjoy. It seems more open to the interests of fans of Sin City than it does fans of A Bout De Soufflé, though it has a lot of importance to both.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"I like this movie, but liking it is difficult.","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Its hard to say exactly how much I liked Alphaville.  Seeing it was a valuable experience, and at times was quite enjoyable.  However, there was definitely a part of me that couldn't wait for it to be over.Probably the best part of the movie was the general vibe.  I wholeheartedly approve of its all-around aesthetic.  Using (at the time) contemporary Paris was, in my opinion, a genius move.  It makes the film a lot more plausible- it's like saying, The future isn't some phoney-baloney Jetsons stuff.  It will probably look a lot like today.  Plus, in my opinion, special effects are the #1 contributing factor to making a movie seem dated, something that Alphaville doesn't need to worry about.  Either way, JLG succeeds in giving us a bleak, antiseptic vision of the future.  Unlike nearly all of the recent dystopic sci-fi, there's nothing whimsical about the future in Alphaville.  It is cold and realistic.However, I found that, at a lot of points, Alphaville tended to be rather slow.  Usually, these slower parts occurred when the movie more or less gave itself over to philosophical speculation (such as the Alpha 60's long monologues), and pretty much abandoned the idea of keeping our attention.  Don't get me wrong, I realize that the philosophical underpinnings are absolutely necessary to Alphaville- however, I think that JLG should have chosen to show, and not tell.  (Actually, I find this to be the case with a lot of sci-fi)And I really don't understand the various action sequences in the film.  (WHY would they have let him keep his gun, and take it with him when he's interrogated?)  I would say that this particular element lends credence to the theory that the whole movie was meant as sort of a spoof.In the end, I would probably recommend this film to my more open-minded friends, with the one proviso that they watch it early in the day, when they are less likely to fall asleep. "},{"Title":"No, wait... truth is.....BANG!... arrrghhhh! Thunk","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Why am I watching this silly movie? I knew it was silly the first (last) time I watched it forty thousand light years ago (as they say in the movie). I never even liked Godard very much. So why have I decided to watch a trio of his films? Who knows what reality is? Is Godard a pretentious Frenchy innalecktual? Am I an effete Ugly American? Why are we born only to suffer and die? What is the meaning of humanity. No, wait... truth is.....BANG!... arrrghhhh! Thunk.Once more to make the 10 line minimumWhy am I watching this silly movie? I knew it was silly the first (last) time I watched it forty thousand light years ago (as they say in the movie). I never even liked Godard very much. So why have I decided to watch a trio of his films? Who knows what reality is? Is Godard a pretentious Frenchy innalecktual? Am I an effete Ugly American? Why are we born only to suffer and die? What is the meaning of humanity. No, wait... truth is.....BANG!... arrrghhhh! Thunk. "},{"Title":"E=MCsquared?.... Ha!","Date":"30 May 2013","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" How do you spell Alphaville? Capital B-O-R-I-N-G! This movie was a sluggish, mind-numbingly dull snore-fest, if I've ever seen one.Set in the future (at an unspecified date), there was absolutely nothing at all futuristic about Alphaville in any way, shape, or form.I found Alphaville to basically be a staggeringly pretentious, 1960's, euro-trash mess. Filled with all sorts of idiotic symbolism, it completely lacked a coherent and worthwhile story enough to keep the viewer interested for more than just a few minutes at a time.Considered by many (I don't know why) to be very avant-garde, Alphaville was directed by French filmmaker Jean-Luc Godard who, in the 1960s, was literally churning out about 5 to 6 movies a year. So, just by that alone, you can get a pretty clear picture of exactly how much real thought and care was put into this film's story, its production and its overall character development.If nothing else, Alphaville is a really great sleeping pill that's sure to be of help to any of you frustrated insomniacs out there.Zzzzzzz! Nighty-Night! "},{"Title":"Eccentric pop culture homage/parody from Godard. Probably the first postmodernist science fiction movie.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Look I can't fool you into thinking I'm any kind of Godard expert, but I think 'Breathless' is wonderful, and I like both science fiction and film noir. So here we have 'Alphaville', still one of the strangest and most fascinating movies ever made. Eddie Constantine ('The Long Good Friday', 'Europa') is brilliantly cast as tough guy caricature Lemmy Caution sent on a mission to Alphaville, capital city of the galaxy, where love and poetry are outlawed. Caution is seeking renegade scientist Von Braun (Jess Franco regular Howard Vernon) Alphaville's dictator. Along the way he forms an odd relationship with Von Braun's estranged daughter Natacha (Godard regular and ex-wife Anna Karina), and fights a battle of wits against supercomputer Alpha 60. The plot is simple enough but Godard's approach to the material is anything but. Mixing parody and philosophical discourse, filming this future city in present day (mid-60s) Paris, and infusing the movie with sly references to everything from comic books to Jorge Luis Borges, makes this puzzling viewing and difficult to classify. Alternately boring and fascinating, with quite a large amount of quirky humour, 'Alphaville' is arguably the first postmodernist science fiction movie. I can't wholeheartedly recommend it but it's worth a look. Whatever you think of it this movie is definitely unique! "},{"Title":"Private-eye Lemmy  arrives in Alphaville  and  must  search for missing scientist  and kill the creator","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Suddenly the world is Alphaville , a trench-coat wearing secret agent is a breathless race against the Masters of future . As an extraordinarie Sleuth is sent into the future world and arrives in Alphaville . This is Lemmy Caution (Eddie Constantine), an American private-eye, who investigates at a futuristic and logic-constructed city located on another planet. Caution is moved from his usual twentieth century setting, and places him in a futuristic sci-fi dystopia, the technocratic dictatorship of Alphaville .His mission is to rescue a trapped scientific and chase the criminal brain , Nosferatu or Professor Von Braun (Howard Vernon , Jesus Franco's ordinary) . Here he meets Natacha Von Braun (Anna Karina who married Jean Luc Godard) and tried to arrange an interview with her father, saying he is a journalist. In the Red Star hotel he meets Henri Dickson (Akim Tamiroff) and happen weird events . The futuristic city called Alphavilled is run by an electronic brain computer that submits the citizens .Eddie Constantine came to the film through producer André Michelin, who had the actor under contract , he is good as super private-eye in this jumbled New Wave film . Constantine had become a popular actor in France and Germany through his portrayal of tough-guy detective Lemmy Caution in a series of earlier films and the character was originally created by British pulp novelist Peter Cheyney . It's Sam Spade type of story with Science-Fiction leanings and stretching rather far for some of the plot points . The picture is full of cinematic and literary references as Jorge Luis Borges , Raymond Chandler , and George Orwell , adding comic-book style . Like most of Godard's films, the performances and dialog in Alphaville were substantially improvised . Alphaville mingles the genres of Dystopian science fiction and film noir. Although set far in the future on another planet, there are no special effects or elaborate sets; in spite of , the movie was filmed in real locations in Paris by cameraman Raoul Coutard , Godard usual, in precious white and black photography , the night-time streets of the capital becoming the streets of Alphaville, while modernist glass and concrete buildings represent the city's interiors . Suspenseful and thrilling musical score by Paul Misraky . This low-budgeted motion picture is originally directed by Jean Luc Godard who created various masterpieces of the Nouvelle vague as ¨A Bout De Suffle , Pierrot Le Fou and La Chinoise ¨ . ¨Lemmy Caution¨ won the Golden Bear award of the 15th Berlin International Film Festival in 1965 but is recommended for New Wave fans , only . "},{"Title":"Goddard's Bouillabaisse(Sci-Fi, Film-Noir, Comic Books, Orwell, Kafka, Welles, Others)","Date":"23 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" An Audacious Amalgamation of Literature and Film, Goddard's Movie is bursting with Pop Cultural references. With a Philosophical Conceit, a Very Low-Budget, and Unlimited Energy from the Director, the Film was extremely Derivative and Influential. No Mean Feat.There are Incomprehensible Things, like one would likely Find in the Future, much of it doesn't make a whole lot of linear sense. The Hero (Detective, Secret Agent, Journalist), plucked Iconically From Film-Noir, says He drives a Ford Galaxy. It's actually a Mustang.This is a Tongue in Cheek Homage and its Strength is the Sharp, Flashing, Expressionistic Sets and Lighting. The Director's Expressionism comes from within the Camera and Not From SFX.There is much to Take In from Alphaville. You can siphon Nuggets almost Everywhere and Constantly, and its Blend of Styling, both Literary and Cinematic, are that of Sci-Fi, Film-Noir, Comic Books, Orwell, Kafka, Welles, and others. It's Goddard's Bouillabaisse. A Tasty Treat of Film-As-Art. Stimulating, Bizarre, Unique, Avant-Garde, Funny, and Entertaining. "},{"Title":"A blow against the budding technocratic society and a barrelful of laughs","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jean-Luc Godard's 1965 film ALPHAVILLE has one of the most bizarre premises in the history of cinema. Godard borrows the character of Lemmy Caution, a tough FBI agent/secret agent played by Eddie Constantine that had appeared in a number of French B movies, and then Godard drops Caution into a science-fiction film. And yet, this film taking place in a different galaxy far, far away doesn't use any specially created sets or fancy ray guns. Instead, Godard simply shot the film at examples of modernist architecture in Paris, in industrial buildings, and among the room-sized IBM mainframe computers of his time.In the dystopian city of Alphaville, all decisions are made by the gigantic Alpha 60 computer that pursues logic at all cost, banning human emotions and leaving the inhabitants zombified. Caution is sent from outside with the task of retrieving Alpha 60's creator, the rogue scientist Von Braun (Howard Vernon). Caution's femme fatale is Natasha Von Braun (Anna Karina), daughter of the scientist, whom she has never met. Though zombified like the other inhabitants of Alphaville, Natasha shows a budding individuality. Caution is baffled by the inexplicable behavior shown by the inhabitants of this city, but he remains focused on his goal to extracting Von Braun, no matter how many obstacles are thrown in his way.ALPHAVILLE is often categorized as a science-fiction film, but it's soon obvious that Godard was interested more in the changing world around him in the 1960s. He worried that the technocratic society, the desire to use technology to solve all manner of problems from food distribution to architecture, would rob the human race of a certain flexibility, of a certain liberty, and of a certain poetry. (It's interesting that Godard anticipated so much of the Sixties counterculture that would preoccupy the youth, though he was already well into his thirties, and themes that would later be explored by thinkers like Theodore Roszak.) Alpha 60 is less a vision of the far future, something from a time of intergalactic space travel, than a rising trend of the mid 20th-century.I had heard of the premise and much of the details before and I thought the film would be lame, but I absolutely loved it. I came to ALPHAVILLE after watching Godard's work to date, which features some remarkable imagery and avant-garde techniques, but is rarely very comedic. I had no idea that ALPHAVILLE would be so hilarious. As the film opens, we see Godard playing with the trope of the hardboiled detective or spy overcoming assassins sent to kill him, and this is exaggerated to the point it becomes slapstick. There are a lot of absurdist touches here, from a mass execution using bizarre methods (and where's the blood?) to the peculiar way our hero is at one point incapacitated by some goons sent to bring him to the feet of the villain.The performances here are great, too. In spite of the unusual script, which might have had some actors blowing off the director's concerns, Eddie Constantine unflappably maintains his noir style here. Akim Tamiroff turns in a great supporting role as Caution's fellow agent Dickson, and this already elderly actor brings in a lifetime of experience in comedic roles. Karina continues to show that, while Godard was originally interested in her merely as a pretty face, she had enormous talent. Some of the long shots are cleverly done, and the film includes an exciting car chase. "},{"Title":"My fifth Godard...","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not a fan of sci-fi, mostly I don't understand the need to imagine future worlds modeled after our own to begin to discuss something about the present. Isn't the world as we know it strange enough, fantastic? This in mind, I really appreciate the dystopia of Alphaville, but I decided to watch it as a noir. Not a kind of noir, but a straight one. It works marvelously, because noir itself is the cracked reflection of a world that is not ordinary, often it happens inside heads and thoughts or it adopts a kind of nightmare logic, and because the small details that would be only proper in a sci-fi world attain an uncanny quality in this context.This dichotomy between past and present is touched upon in the film too, we're told only the present matters because it's the only time we can live in rather than a time to remember or fear. Caught between a Mike Hammer or Sam Spade private dick and a HAL 9000, the remembrance of a Humphrey Bogart and the premonition of a Kubrick film to come, Alphaville seems to invite us to live in the present narative, in time as it happens. Lemmy Caution's habit of taking photographs of everything, ostensibly his espionage trade, attains a double meaning here; present time is captured for posterity in his camera, but also in Godard's. I love the scenes of urban nightlife captured by that fleeting camera, it's one of things I appreciated in Breathless, also one of the things I look for in my noirs like Blast of Silence. Not the studio lot, but the living city.Where it begins to go wrong for me is when it becomes a sci-fi film where we're ushered into clinical rooms with blinking lights and technological equipment or where extras dressed like doctors babble about circuits. There's not too much of it, but I prefer the Alphaville that takes place inside cheap hotels. It's also about the same time that Lemmy Caution starts shooting people, like the two film styles are duking it out inside the Godard film. Again with a Godard film I don't like the constant verbiage. It's the same with Bergman, I like him as a director of images but his literary ambition leaves me indifferent. Godard's barrage of poetic reference takes something out from the pleasure of watching the film for me; likely a director can be a poet with words, but I prefer it when he's a poet with a camera.What's again problematic for me is Godard himself, his persona that looms over the film. Like the Alpha 60, he speaks in his films from all directions, from the mouths of disparate characters. It's a tricky game to try and decipher what we're meant to take seriously, what is being mocked. I was ready to clap in the end when Anna Karina says I love you, a corny moment in any film, but finally there's emotional clarity, something is at last embraced or committed to in a Godard film. Then I read a user comment which read irony in that declaration. Does Natasha Vonbraun mean or know what she says and does Lemmy give a damn, I'm not too sure.This may be the genius of Godard, or our own folly. Do we take nothing of what he says seriously for fear that he pulled one over on us? It's like the Aesop myth with the sheep herder calling out for help. It's strange though how he went in just two years from the individualism of Alphaville to the call for revolution in Week End. Likely in that period he finally discovered a cause to adopt, a reason to make films other than the simple pleasure of it, but I like him better without one. "},{"Title":"Destroy Alpha 60...save those who weep!","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw 'Alphaville' on B.B.C.-2 in the early '70's. In those days, black-and-white foreign movies were a regular fixture of the schedules. As 'The Radio Times' billed it as 'science fiction', I decided to watch. The film was mostly impenetrable to my young eyes, but I did not switch off. Something compelled me to stay with it.In the early '90's, B.B.C.-2 included it as part of Alex Cox's 'Moviedrome' series ( why don't they bring that back? ). I still found it hard to fathom but was mesmerised by the unusual setting, story and performances.Hard-as-nails secret agent ( number 003 ) Lemmy Caution ( Eddie Constantine ) travels to Alphaville, a futuristic city on a distant planet, in search of his friend Henry Dickson ( Akim Tamiroff ). Other agents - including 'Dick Tracy' and 'Flash Gordon' - have vanished while searching for the scientist von Braun ( Howard Vernon ). Caution poses as 'Ivan Johnson', a journalist for 'Figaro-Pravda'. The girl who shows him to his hotel room offers to sleep with him, describing herself as a 'level-three seductress'. Caution turns her down. Then the first of several attempts on his life is made.The city is run by super computer Alpha 60, which has ordered citizens not to express emotions. Words like 'conscience' and 'love' do not exist here. In one of the film's most arresting scenes, people guilty of weeping in public are machine-gunned to death in a swimming baths.Alpha 60 is plotting to destroy the Outerlands by fermenting discontent. So it is up to Caution, aided by Von Braun's beautiful daughter Natascha ( Anna Karina ), to stop it...It sounds like a Bond knock-off but its the way it has been made which makes it so uniquely compelling. It effectively marries a sci-fi plot to a film noir look. Jean Luc Godard had no budget ( nor script ), shooting in the most modern parts of Paris he could find, and no special effects whatever. Yet still he produced a classic science fiction movie. Of course 'Alphaville' works on many other levels, but for me it is a stunning parable of what can happen when technology is allowed to run rampant. There are disturbing signs that our world is already heading in that direction.Constantine had played 'Caution' ( a character created by Peter Cheyney ) in a series of B-movie thrillers. Godard poached both actor and character in order to secure German funding. Though no great actor, Constantine is good here as an old fashioned hero bemused by a dystopian world. Godard's then-wife Anna Karina is fabulous as 'Natacha'. Throughout, she is totally emotionless, and then at the end, when Alpha 60 has been destroyed, finally manages to express her love for Caution, a heartbreaking moment.'Alphaville' will not be to everyone's taste ( certainly not for those who hate subtitles! ). At times it gets bogged down in long drawn out discussions about the nature of reality, but the ideas it conveys are fascinating. Influential? Ridley Scott later made a space age private eye film of his own - 1982's 'Blade Runner'. 'Alphaville' is a richly rewarding experience, one to be viewed many times over and over again. I will take this over the latest mega-budget rubbish from Hollywood any day of the week! "}{"Title":"New Wave meets Sci-Fi","Date":"20 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Alphaville, French New Wave 'auteur' Jean-Luc Godard visits a bleak, dreary totalitarian world with journalist Lemmy Caution. Lemmy has arrived from the Outlands, and he must first register with an agency as a temporary visitor. Alphaville resembles any city in the Soviet bloc except that it is run by an AI-equipped supercomputer. This unit&#x97;gently termed Alpha 60&#x97;evokes for me sci-fi classic 2001 A Space Odyssey. It can talk, communicate, and seemingly understand the thought processes of its subjects.In the first scene, women in a hotel lobby bore their eyes into Lemmy like robots. One escort who accompanies Lemmy to his room proceeds to disrobe and offer herself to him. He asks, Are you drugged? She replies, It's normal, sir. The collective hallucination of Alphaville citizens is a byproduct of Alpha 60's clenched fist approach to governing. He computes the actions and reactions of Alphaville's citizens. His voice&#x97;one of the better aspects of the film, if not a bit chilling at first&#x97;is that of Big Brother harsh, grating computer-speak intonation. The distortion in his voice mirrors the distorted world that Lemmy has suddenly found himself in. What is Alpha 60? We have occasional snippets of electric substations in the middle of nowhere. Through these 1.6 billion nerve centers that function as Alpha 60's brain, Alpha 60 issues directives and maintains control (without forgetting the anti-industrialist tendencies of Godard).The plot revolves around interactions between Natacha von Braun and Lemmy. Across the city, les grandes fetes (Grand Festivals) are happening. After meeting in the hotel, Lemmy, it seems, wants to have an affair with Natacha. After Natacha admits she doesn't have the concept of love (In love, what's that?), the two take a taxi. For the first time, we see a New Wave technique&#x97;man and woman have an existential conversation about love while driving through big, dark city. She is worse than frigid she doesn't have a concept of sex or intimacy. We learn that she was raised her whole life in this dystopia, though her father lived in a time before Alpha 60. This film is about imagination. Godard has dreamed up a totalitarian world in which characters lack imagination. A world devoid of actors or novelists. Godard then guides us to imagine what would happen when their fragile world falls apart.Over the course of their adventures, Lemmy becomes obsessed by the idea of destroying Alpha 60. Alpha 60 interrogates Lemmy, trying to understand his motives. What does Lemmy love? Gold and women. Throughout the terse, choppy dialogue, we see neon tubes that spell out e = mc^2. Science has become the religion in Alphaville.The film's strengths include the references of Soviet-era architecture and particular flavor of communism. One scene that is disgusting yet beautiful depicts an execution set in an Olympic-sized swimming pool. Men are lined up against one wall, guilty for acting in an illogical fashion. One by one, they are called to stand at the edge of the diving board. They issue final, terse declarations before being shot by a firing squad. As the victims sink to the bottom of a pool, women dive in one after the other, swim to the corpse, and stab it with their knives. They then return to their diving boards and restart, all with blank faces.This film is designed to shock us and yet inspire us at the same time. We learn to resent the heavy handed control and absolute logic of Alpha 60, and we cheer for Natacha at the end when she breaks free of Alpha 60's control as all other beings malfunction, wander aimlessly, and claw at the wall. Godard is at his peak as a creative 'auteur' here, and his debut in the dystopia-film genre isn't to go unnoticed. While not a pure New Wave film in the traditional sense, this film is experimental without seeming too forced. "},{"Title":"Eccentric and fascinating science fiction post-modernist film noir from Jean Luc Goddard","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I hate to sound like a film snob, but I genuinely enjoy the films of Jean Luc Goddard. While I'll admit his more experimental post-Weekend output is just far too self-indulgent and devoid of entertainment value, his work from before he became too avant-garde I just can't get enough of. They're fascinating, original, eccentric, and still remain to this day unique. And while some will disagree with me, finding them rambling and pretentious, I find his classic period work to be entertaining and full of effortless cool. Alphaville isn't his finest work (thats either Breathless or Band of Outsiders), but its still absolutely brilliant.The film works very well for several reasons. First off, there's a sense of post-modernism that truly asks the viewer to form their own opinions of the film. I can't tell whether its a parody or legitimate science fiction hypothesizing. I'm leaning more towards the former, but its such a deadpan and accurate spoofing that many could easily be fooled. Also, the sets are all typical art deco buildings from France in the 1960s, but since that is a culture very alien to my western eyes, it looks more like a retro future. The constant use of pop culture name drops (ranging from Nosferatu to Dick Tracy) add a nice sense of meta-fiction to the proceedings. Also, as usual, Goddard's direction is revolutionary. I don't even find it to be as slowly paced and unexciting as many of the negative reviews claim.Past that, the story in the film is quite compelling in its own bizarre way. You genuinely begin to feel for the two protagonists Lemmy Caution (Eddie Constantine) and Natacha Von Braun (the stunning Anna Karina). The film takes inspiration from 1984 and other dystopia works, but it creates something entirely its own. Plus, seeing familiar faces such as Akim Tamiroff and Jess Franco regular Howard Vernon is fun. Alphaville isn't for all tastes admittedly and may be a bit empty overall, but I find it to be one of the coolest art films ever made. (9/10) "},{"Title":"An Honest Masterpiece","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" When watching a Godard film one has to be in a certain mood -- it is best done sitting cross legged while wearing a striped shirt with a bottle of Cognac and an infinite supply of overpriced cigarettes. This one is stereotypically rough and hard to swallow all at once a sort of symphony of ideas mating with a certain ruggedness brought to the screen by Godard.It is shot beautifully yet not in a dishonest fashion -- the close-ups of Natasha and Ivan's faces are excellent and honest to their features; the film could never be popular portraying the pockmarked and wrinkled features of Eddie Constantine. Godard gives you what you want (that is, if you want the truth).Full of excellent quips and quotations -- a spoof of a genre yet at the same time a flattering to it in its' own right.Godard is a genius and you should watch this film, to put it simply. "},{"Title":"Godard makes a mystery film","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not a Godard fan. I think his time came and went and he was (and is), for the most part, a good film maker who thought he was smarter than he really was. Still he turned out some good movies along the way and this is one of them.Taking the Lemmy Caution character, played in a series of movies by Eddie Constantine, Godard has fashioned an existential or philosophical detective movie about Caution trying to track down a missing scientist on a future world that looks like 1968 Paris. A strange melding of detective films and philosophy this is a movie that is very likely to drive many people up the wall because of Godard's film making style which is filled with seeming non sequiturs and distractions that force you work with the film. Muddying things further is that much of the dialog seems slightly obtuse even when its straight forward because whats going on visual doesn't quite match up (For example a girl says she'll get the keys for the car and then they get into the back of a limo).I like the film a great deal (I also like the Caution films I've seen) but find the weird asides a bit of chore to get through. If Godard wasn't so intent on making an art film he might have turned out a really good straight forward thriller. At the same time I love the philosophical discourses that run through the film, some of which are quite enlightening even if they are utter nonsense. The best way, I find to watch the film is to concentrate n the story and let the rest wash over you.Is this worth seeing? Yes. If you are willing to take this film on its own terms its certainly worth it. Its also worth it if you've seen and liked any of the other Caution films and want to see what happens when they get turned into an art film. "},{"Title":"Alphaville, a strange adventure of Jean-Luc Godard..","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on a simple philosophical premise (Alphaville is a city where emotions are not allowed, everything is based on logic, everyone has a clear purpose imposed upon him, people that believe in ideals are executed etc), Jean-Luc Godard uses an arsenal of directorial tricks to transform this into a futuristic film-noir, a surrealist collage, a humanistic elegy, an off-beat comedy etc.In the end, Alphaville doesn't quite fully achieve it's potential. Some of the sequences look amateurish, some of the verbose scenes are too much etc. But it's a worthwhile watch for any cinephille. And even so early in his career, Godard shows a healthy desire to turn the rules upside down. "},{"Title":"HAL 9000's Uncle","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This commenter stumbled across 'Alphaville' while blindly channel surfing. Being new to Jean-Luc Godard, Eddy Constantine and knowing little French, it took some time playing catch-up to figure out the drift of this low budget, 'sci-fi' effort. But it was an interesting initiation.It's fun and a bit difficult to try and peg the year these older, non-US films were made. Judging by the early Dodge Dart that Caution's driving, Anna Karina's hair style and the computer hardware shown, it looked roughly mid Sixties.  Turns out to be 1965.The master brain's slow, syrupy, croaking voice gave a nice, baleful, individual touch. (Perhaps the progenitor of future vocal, cinema cpu's?)  Not to mention making it easier to follow the spoken French for the unpracticed. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi meets Film-Noir with Humor","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jean-Luc Godard directs a film that is very humorous. This is a Sci-Fi film with few special effects; although Alphaville is supposed to be a colony far away from The Land Without (similar to the western lands in the novel Brave New World), it is obviously a gloomy Paris. Godard obviously made this film on a shoestring budget, but that is compensated for with good wit.Although Godard's usual left-wing rhetoric and social commentary is present ( The secret agent, Lemmy Caution's cover job is as a reporter for Figaro-Pravda), it is much more palatable here than in 2 or 3 Things I Know About Her or the diatribe at the end of Weekend.There are numerous parodies present.  Lemmy Caution is Secret Agent # 003. The arch-enemy of his government is Professor Von Braun aka Professor Nosferatu. Professor Von Braun's henchmen are Heckel and Jeckel. Lemmy Caution slaps his dames around and drinks his whiskey straight.This film was clearly an inspiration for 2001, with the Alpha 60 computer controlling society and feeling that it is superior to humans.  The film draws inspiration from the novels, Brave New World and 1984.  The Alpha 60 decides when words should be removed from the dictionary every month because they are no longer needed.Lemmy Caution meets the beautiful Natasha Von Braun played by Godard's real-life girlfriend, Anna Karina.  She has no memory of her past, but Lemmy believes she may have been created by IBM. Shades of Blade Runner.Not an easy film to watch, but important and seminal in the Sci-Fi genre.7/10 "},{"Title":"A stepping stone of a movie","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alphaville was probably the most-awaited film of its year for cinephiles. After Une Femme Marieé and Le Mépris, Godard aesthetically was the hottest property in the cinema at that time. And Alphaville delivered in spades. It is difficult to explain to today's audience just how stylistically radical the film was, as so much of Godard's innovation has become an integral part of film grammar.It is also part of the on-going love affair between Godard and Anna Karina who, as Natascha von Braun, gives one of the most alluring performances in 60s cinema.But above all it is a film about light and darkness, both literal and metaphorical, and the first of three completely sensational films that Godard made about Paris (the other two being Masculin Feminin and Deux ou Trois Choses que je sais d'elle).  And even if Alphaville is the least of these, it still knocks spots of any other equivalent film of its era. "},{"Title":"The strange adventures of comicbook land.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The strange work of Peter Cheney finds its ultimate expression in Alphaville, a film where literally everything means something and nothing is as it seems. The City of Light, Paris, is mostly lit in strange ways; and the circular city, where even the main roads are known as roundabouts or circleways, yields a circular movie that ends where it begins, in one day, ending 24 hours after it began. Even the actors walk and talk in circles. An unforgettable excursion into phantasmogoria. "},{"Title":"Great atmosphere, gritty Lemmy is excellent and that computer voice is the creepiest I've heard in any film","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Godard creates a wonderful atmosphere in his futuristic city of Alphaville and although the general idea of this authoritarian state isn't so original (Orwell, Huxley etc.), it is carried off with style and with great cinematic touches - the meeting with an ex-agent, the swimming pool punishment scene, the shaky camera with people falling about in the image.  The computer's laboured, painfully slow vocal delivery and mechanical breathing are excellent too, giving a genuine sense of menace and mechanised, logical thinking. The main character of Lemmy is a gritty, street-savvy and intelligent 1950's noir-style detective, which is what he's modelled on, reflecting the French 60's New Wave directors admiration for old Hollywood genres.I highly recommend this title.  The general tone reminds me greatly of an early British adaptation of '1984' (starring Peter Cushing no less), which recreated the tenseness and paranoid nature of that story magnificently. Give the wobbly images and slightly confusing (early on) real-time plot a chance and just immerse yourself in the city and atmosphere of Alphaville. "}{"Title":"Watch the film more for the ideas, not for its potential to entertain.","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alphaville is a rather experimental piece done by Godard, a Nouvelle Vague film in the spirit of sci-fi/film-noir fusions such as Blade Runner. The story is interesting, but some scenes are fairly outlandish, and may take repeated viewings to understand. In short, you should probably watch this film if you're a film buff wanting something different, a novice filmmaker, or someone whose more interested in the the artistic/thematic ideas that film is able to capture. If you're looking for a night's worth of entertainment however, than this is definitely not your movie, and a waste of your time. You have to approach this film with a patient and willingly open perspective, and only then, you may be able to get a glimpse of what Godard is trying to do.A french-speaking American private-eye, Lemmy Caution (Eddie Constanine), sets out for the dystopia, Orwellian Alphaville, intent on stopping the master computer of the city, Alpha 60, and its inventor, Doctor Von Braun. He eventually meets up and falls in love with Natasha Von Braun (played by the ineluctable Anna Karina). There are many very admirable things Godard does with the plot, and how he is able to make a futuristic environment with relatively low-budget and common film-noir streets is a feat of creative imagination. The composition of some of the shots are a marvel to behold, and some of the framing of the conversation scenes with Natasha really capture the beauty of actress Anna Karina. However, Godard does take the experimentation to an extreme degree in some situations, (i.e. the inverse color vision, the strange dance/pose fight scene, random uses of a gun), but the one thing I did like was the use of the distorted voice of Alpha 60 and the directly Orwellian philosophical overtones (many of the ideas from the script are ripped straight out of 1984).In summary, watch this film more for the ideas (artistic, cinematic), and not for its potential to entertain. If you don't try so hard looking for a pleasing, entertaining experience, you'll find out that there's a lot to appreciate about this movie. Just try to examine its aspects and individual strengths and scene compositions, and perhaps after repeated viewings, you'll begin to maybe see and appreciate the originality of Godard's vision.  "},{"Title":"Misunderstood","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to say that the contributors who have addressed either factual errors, technical goofs, or otherwise apparently have little familiarity with the overall work of Jean-Luc Godard. This guy is not the least bit concerned with the standard questions of continuity, factual and contemporaneous representation, plagiarism, or almost any other standard which envelopes Hollywood films - indeed, he has spent his career demolishing these standards. Just a cursory glance at the filmic and literary references throughout the film should make it apparent Professor Vonbraun, who was originally named Leonard Nosferatu, Heckell and Jeckell, Dick Tracy! What more do you need to recognize that Godard will steal from anyone and anything, will deliberately obfuscate, will twist anything to his purpose... which is perhaps never entirely clear to anyone, maybe not even the director himself. "},{"Title":"If there were ever a film to test your patience on how much you really like, appreciate, and understand it, here it is, in stone-cold celluloid","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even though Alphaville is about the midpoint in Jean-Luc Godard's New Wave, sixties filmography, it's really unsurprising to see him attempt to make a film that explores and subverts the general visual and narrative quips of your archetypal film noir story. The result is an interesting, if ultimately kind of droll, exploration from a filmmaking known for defying all convention and expectations like it's his job.The film stars Eddie Constantine in the daunting lead role of Lemmy Caution, a secret agent who is entering a town called Alphaville, posing as a journalist named Ivan Johnson, claiming to work for the Figaro-Pravda. Caution is on a several top secret missions, one of which involves searching for a missing secret agent by the name of Henry Dickson (Akim Tamiroff), another is to exterminate the creator of Alphaville, who is Professor von Braun (Howard Vernon), and he has to destroy the computer that controls all of Alphaville, which is named the Alpha 60. Alpha 60 was created by von Braun and controls all of Alphaville, making the city one of the most artificial cities in the world. Alpha 60 has completely dismantled the ideas of free thought, individualism, and self-satisfaction, making concepts like love, poetry, feeling, emotion, and mood nonexistent and stripping people down to the bare basic living, breathing, and speaking organisms.Alphaville adheres to the aesthetic and visual chemistry of American film noir quite nicely, making its presence known through dark and brooding chic and familiar camera angles. Having this cold and extremely unique style mesh together with Godard's often deviant and unconventional cinematic structure make for two very fitting styles that mesh well in the presence of one another. This shows that while Godard is keen on replicating the well-known characteristics and visualizations brought together by film noir - such as extreme darkness, cold and isolated cityscapes, rain on empty streets, and heavy use of shadows and the unseen elements - he isn't afraid to continue doing what he has been doing, which is plugging in his style even where one would assume it doesn't fit.As an exercise in style and the subversion of it, Godard's Alphaville can be granted a fairly high honor. However, despite a plot that really questions individualist freedom and the value placed on freewill, Godard does another alienating and disguising of that central idea in what seems to be a frustrating attempt to keep audiences within arm's length of the film at all times. There was never any specific connection between myself and the characters of the film, and because of that, I relied on style for the one-hundred minutes, finding nothing but guttural emptiness and a frustrating lack of interest in their motivations and interactions with one another. Even when the gorgeous, scene-stealer Anna Karina walks on screen, playing Natacha von Braun, the daughter of the professor and creator of Alpha 60, who is introduced to the complex emotions and feelings of love and happiness upon being introduced to Ivan Johnson, she doesn't make much of a splash like she did in Godard's earlier works like Breathless and Vivre Sa Vie.Film noir has always been a genre of film that has alienated me, whether it was the classic Maltese Falcon or Godard's early venture into the area, I've always been completed turned off by the characters, the structure, and their motivation, with the only thing I can really find myself immersing in and embracing is the style and the genre's unique and beautiful visuals. Even with traditional, American film noir, I found a certain, almost indescribable emptiness to it, but put Godard, his filming techniques, and his convention-defying aesthetic inside an already cold and unwelcoming environment and you have me even further lost.With all that being said, Alphaville is still lucky to have Constantine and Karina as its two core performers, both of whom usher in identifiable chemistry in the later scenes, and both work off one another in their ambiguous performances. Even Raoul Coutard's incredible cinematography compliments the film to a higher state than most films would get on cinematography alone, as he continues to emphasize his love for crisp, clean shots as well as holding nothing back in terms of visuals. Despite these golden attributes, Alphaville still gets brought down to a lesser level thanks to a story structure that finds ways to purposefully mystify, as well provide a viewer with frustrating attributes such as a grating narration in efforts to only make an already disconnecting story more disconnecting as it goes on. If there were ever a film to test your patience on how much you really like, appreciate, and understand it, here it is, in stone-cold celluloid.Starring Eddie Constantine, Anna Karina, Akim Tamiroff, and Howard Vernon. Directed by Jean-Luc Godard. "},{"Title":"mankind vs computers - one of the best movies ever","Date":"18 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the first movie i've seen from this director and i'm completely stunned!!! And i've seen hundreds of different movies, from all genres etc. the idea behind the movie, the destructive (in this case) relation between poetry,love vs straight reason/logic is played brilliantly through out the movie. this relation is played out, almost poetically, i would dare to say. The acting is superb, very convincing in my opinion, i didn't know the actors but they did a very god job.Visually i liked a lot, the flashes through out the movie with the shining lights with the famous Einstein equations didn't bother me at all, it all makes sense. and the computer voice! goddamn it reminded me of Hall 9000 the most bad-ass computer in cinema history, but this one is sinister enough, it's the same concept. It's such a good movie that it's impossible to classify in a genre,i can only put it in the same basket as movies like Dr strange love, 2001 spaceodissey or Apocalypse now, MOVIES THAT TRANSCEND CINEMA AND BECAME PURE WORKS OF ART.Seriously, how can this movie not be present in IMDb top 250? it amazes me very very much. However this is a movie that won't appreciate everyone (romantic-comedy lovers for ex. run for your lives!!) and i can understand it, ART IS A SUBJECTIVE THING AND IN THE END OF IT, IT'S ALWAYS A MATTER OF PERSONAL OPINION. But if you have some imagination, and you like to use it by doing that spectacular process called THINKING, then this is the film for you, a definitively MUST SEE!!! sorry about the English "},{"Title":"A Melange of Fears","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am still perplexed by this film. I don't know if its overall strangeness really hits home. Nevertheless, having grown up in the fifties and sixties, I saw the fears and paranoia of that era in this movie. One can't help think of the existential parody going on here. Like so many films, it throws the whole thing at us and when we can't apply usual logic to it, it simply says, How about that? The main character is on a mission but is playing on a field that he can't understand because he is still a man of emotion. The folks who permeate this movie have given up emotion, including affection. I guess in the post war era with the threat of annihilation around every corner, a base and cold society isn't too far fetched. Just look at what East Berlin was like to understand it. I am uncertain how to finally judge this. I think another viewing would be worth the time, but only after some study of its origins. "},{"Title":"Artful future science.","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" enter a world of futuristic weirdness when Jean-Luc Godard takes you on a trip across the galaxy to a city filled with people who are told what to feel and what not to feel. there are forbidden words , love being one of them. it is also forbidden to cry or show any kind of emotion. reminds me a bit of Kurt Wimmer's Equilibrium actually. the ending was my favorite part as the climax explodes in violence and death. what better suited for such a community? Godard has a unique style that shows throughout the film in various camera angles and editing. this film is a must for a fan of the cinema and it's progress across the decades. "},{"Title":"Tarzan versus IBM","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" ''Alphaville'' was made in 1965 during Godard's stunning creative outburst. It's reputation is curious. It doesn't have the reputation of ''Contempt'' or ''Pierrot le Fou'' or even ''Masculin-Feminin'', nor the hipster edification of ''Band of Outsiders'' but it has had a strong cult and it's poetic take on science-fiction, it's sense of fashion and style has had a huge influence.Kubrick's HAL, the killer-computer is a child of Alpha60, the great machine that has power over the will and word of the citizens. The mix of a science-fiction premise with film noir makes this an ancestor of ''Blade Runner'', it's satirical edge foreshadows ''Brazil''. It also influenced a non-science-fiction Fassbinder's ''The Third Generation'' where, Eddie Constantine, the hero of ''Alphaville'', Tarzan, now works as a computer businessman, in effect serving his arch enemy IBM. More recently, it's vision of Technocractic paranoia informed The Matrix Trilogy.It's well known bit of film history that Godard initially, perhaps jokingly, considered calling this film ''Tarzan vs. IBM''. That essentially summarizes the feel of ''Alphaville'' which is cinematic and can't be adequately expressed on paper. Lemmy Caution(Eddie Constantine) is an agent from the Outlands who comes to Alphaville posing as a journalist but is actually looking for Leonard Von Braun, formerly Leonard Nosferatu who was exiled from the Outlands. He arrives only to find out that Nosferatu has become the architect of the totalitarian city where Bibles in every room are dictionaries regularly updated and deleted with newer words and shifting meanings. In the process of his investigation he meets and falls in love with the professor's daughter Natasha von Braun(played by who else...Anna Karina).Everybody who has seen ALPHAVILLE notes the most significant aspect of this film's lyrical visual design. It purports to be set in another galaxy in that far and distant future but the film looks just like Paris of 1965, the weapons are props from crime films. In short, it takes the opposite approach to science-fiction films set in the future, locating the seed of the future in the present rather than exaggerating and fantasizing the future. Godard's vision of the future is sparse and minimalistic focusing on the new modern buildings that were changing the city landscape across France(as can be seen in MON ONCLE and MURIEL) and the empty office spaces and labyrinthine hotel rooms that has become for most international commuters their Home. The chief recognizable aspect of this future is as Alpha60 intones, we are all alone. There is neither past nor future, but only the present. We have no connections with our past, it's society and it's values and we can't understand or have any control over the role we will play in the future as it's decided by technology and consumerism.These themes elevate ALPHAVILLE far and above 60s relics. But ALPHAVILLE is first and foremost a comedy and much of what happens in this film is quite funny. Like Lemmy Caution purports to work for a newspaper called Figaro-Pravda. Figaro is the reactionary old-guard Paris newspaper, Pravda is the official voice of USSR. Much of the film is a parody of Cold War anxiety over nuclear weapons and left-right divisions which Godard knew was being blurred on a daily basis. Godard also has a ball parodying his beloved crime films like KISS ME DEADLY(itself a noir-science fiction) and THE BIG SLEEP(a female cab driver) through his hero's deadpan acceptance of the world's absurdities(his facial resemblance to Buster Keaton helps immensely).A fiction film that's also a documentary of 60s Paris, a science-fiction that's also a fairy tale, pop-art yoked with surrealist poetry, existentialist angst yoked with a florid love story. ALPHAVILLE is another film that shows that it is not only possible but necessary to put everything into the cinema. "},{"Title":"Poetry","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alphaville is a hard film to define. It's futuristic but very much of its time, yet it also harks back to the past. It could be called science-fiction but it's themes transcend the genre and stylistically it is heavily influenced by Film Noir with a New Wave twist. The plot is complex- similar to what you might expect from an action film, but essentially the film is poetry. This is film as philosophy, deconstruction humanity as it does the medium itself. It may be hard to get into it, but when you do it's bewildering and thoughtful, social commentary as art. Above all, this is Goddard, and this is the film that makes me want to explore the rest of his work. "},{"Title":"Godard's legendary, pop-culture, science-fiction pastiche","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like much of Godard's work, particular from this era, Alphaville; a strange adventure of Lemmy Caution (1965) takes certain ideas that are both social and political - as well as being rooted as much in the realm of popular culture as they are in the lofty and intellectual - and attaches them to a narrative that draws parallels with a number of different sources - from American post-war melodrama, to news reel bulletins, to German Expressionism, to Pop Art and surrealism, to pulp fiction and comic-books, etc, etc - to create a kind of giddy kaleidoscope of styles, tones, textures and influences. It might not be one of his most challenging or even most important films, but nonetheless, the combination of po-faced melodrama grimacing in the face of an absurdist plot and the director's continual hall of mirrors-like abstractions mark it out as one of the most amusing, witty and slyly satirical films that Godard has ever directed.If you're looking for hidden depth, then you can still choose to view the film as a kind of critique on the system, or even as a work of arcane prophesising, with all the usual references to books like 1984 and A Brave New World. Alternatively, you can view it as a loving film-noir pastiche with roots in science fiction; with certain elements suggesting an almost spoof on the Hollywood detective genre, complete with brooding narration and stark black and white cinematography. Against this warped labyrinth of styles, tones and visual references, Godard presents us with a story that is seemingly superficial and yet complex to the point of incomprehensibility; presenting us with an iconic central character - in this instance, the laconic, super spy Private Investigator Lemmy Caution - brought vividly to life by cult actor Eddie Constantine as the typically stony-faced, gravel voiced Bogart-a-like. From here, Godard begins to structure both the film and the character around this continual free-style juxtaposition of various ideas, to the point in which the film transcends its various influences and the air of ostentatious deconstruction, and actually becomes a great deal of fun. Yes, it is a serious piece of film-making, rich with ideas and imagination, but at the same time, it's obviously meant to be taken as a piece of pure entertainment.As with cult Japanese filmmaker Seijun Suzuki's uncompromising hit man thriller Branded to Kill (1968), Alphaville could be seen as a work of pure style over substance; with both films deliberately setting out to challenge their audience's pre-conceptions about the genre, by setting up certain rules that we know and can identify with, only to then smash them into tiny little pieces. Again, as with Suzuki's film, Alphaville could also be interpreted as an existential dream play, in which the world of nightmare and fantasy are rendered in a combination of Orwellian dystopia, comic-book heroics and the ultra cool world of the American film-noir.With this in mind, Alphaville is often a hard film to fall in love with; with those meandering scenes that seem to be furthering the development of the plot - but aren't - and the escalating absurdity of what we are seeing all clearly designed to alienate the viewer in the same way that the more Brecht-inspired alienation techniques of Week End (1967) would in years to come. This idea is also clearly reflected in the film's unique approach to production design and appropriation of Cinéma-vérité type techniques in direct juxtaposition with the more stylised approach to movement, location and design. Right from the start, Alphaville paints one of the most uncharacteristically surreal views of a future society ever seen; possibly because it was filmed on the streets of sixties Paris, and looks it! Godard makes no attempt to disguise his production design, instead creating a world that is entirely retrogressive, to create yet another formal experiment designed to distance the audience even further from the kind of generic conventions and quirks that we might normally expect to see. As a result, the presentation of Alphaville could also be seen as a direct influence on subsequent science-fiction films such as Brazil (1985), Mauvais Sang (1986), Code 46 (2003), Time of the Wolf (2003) and 2046 (2004), to name but a few.I suppose in this day and age it is easy to look back on Godard's once radical use of cinematic experimentation - and his genuine desire to challenge the medium of film far beyond the usual presentation of conventions like character and narrative - and see it as something that is hollow and dated; a pseudo-intellectual exercise in cinematic deconstruction that is there to be endured, as opposed to enjoyed. Though this may still be true for some viewers - particularly those at odds with Godard's personal style and the very 60's idea that art could be entertainment and that anything was possible - there will be other viewers who are far more in tune with the notion of cinema for cinema's sake, and can better appreciate the film for what it truly is. Alphaville might not be one of Godard's true masterworks, but it does, regardless, continue his experiments into narrative deconstruction, and presents itself in a witty, clever and entirely entertaining way. "},{"Title":"the burps have it","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The burping narrator was inspirational!If you listened closely, you could hear him sucking in the requisite amount of air in preparation of his beautiful soliloquy of edifying philosophic sophistry.These deep belching moments of wisdom were infrequent enough,however,not to seriously detract from the film.It was not the content,but rather the method of delivery which was slightly disconcerting.I mean,what was the point?Maybe scarily serious and deep were not enough,but palpably disgusting was also needed in this fancy french fare.Seriously,if I lost my voice and the only way for me to talk was to burp,I would take a vow of silence.What if you were eating a nice meal and old grandpa migrated over to the table and donated his stomach's atmosphere to the innocent diners who wanted nothing more than to feed in peace.It is certainly not an appetizing thought.Aside from these rather ridiculous considerations,the movie was pedestrian enough not to immediately sicken,and yet not so simplistic as to not remind one of the adolescent tripe which is now the mainstay of cinema nowadays. "}{"Title":"Spooky, but thought provoking viewing!","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have just watched AlphaVille in film studies, and I have to say that if I hadn't already read books like Orwell's '1984' or 'The Handmaids Tail' by Margeret Atwood, then I probably would have found this film pretty hard going at times. Luckily for me I find this type subject fascinating, but also a bit scary! The problem with Alphaville is that it just throws you straight in there, the opening scenes show MrJohnson (Constantine) as he is arriving into Alphaville, and so if you did not have any background synopsis to the film it may take a while to work out what it is going on. However, when you get passed that you realise you are thrown into a strange world where love has been abolished(a man is executed in the film just for crying when his wife died),certain words are banned, with the dictionary is always changing. This whole system is controlled by a machine called Alpha 60, again with many references to Orwell, Big Brother and Newspeak. The difference with Alpha 60 in comparison to Big Brother is that you are much more aware of it being an active system of control, his voice is present throughout much of the film. Big Brother was just a form of control and most likely didn't even exist, which I find a much more sinister though. Anyway, I won't go on too long, but if you fancy watching something that will make you think about how the world may be going today then this is one to watch, perhaps the most scariest thought is that this was made in the 60's and a lot of it you could relate to today! "},{"Title":"existential dystopia","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw Alphaville in the late Seventies... it's pretentious, violent,sentimental, and i think, very funny... in some ways, of course ,it looks impossibly dated ...but the strongest images are still potent and iconic...it's like an existential film noir...with chandleresque overtones ..the lone ,chain-smoking detective... the voiceover comes from alpha itself...providing the big brother monologue.. and the love interest has literally lost her mind, as words lose there meaning...the performances of the principal actors are difficult to judge in that they don't appear to act at all and, overall, little concession is made to conventional plot ...youve just got to go with it and enjoy it as a total piece of art... its only really David Lynch that does this sort of thing these days...compared to more recent production values ... alphaville looks like a film made by and for art students...and why not... like eraserhead it really is timeless... "},{"Title":"One of the weirdest sci-fi movies","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometime in the future. Lemmy Caution, a private detective, arrives in Alphaville, a town placed in the middle of the Galaxy. His assignment is to find the missing professor Von Braun. He soon finds out the town is controlled by the intelligent computer Alpha 60 and that every emotion is forbidden. Non the less, he still falls in love with Natascha...I've seen a lot of Jean-Luc Godard movies in art cinema's, where a lot of the audience left the screening room because they din't have patience with his style. But while Alphaville was being screened, almost no one left. Everyone was hooked by this opulent film.---------- Alphaville is simply an excellent film manly because Godard was very disciplined in creating it's linear story in a very smooth manner, while abandoning his pretentiousness. Also, Eddie Constantine is wonderful as the cool detective Caution, imitating Humphrey Bogart. One of the funniest scenes is when he notices a strange, refrigerator like machine with a Insert money here sign. He puts some coins in it expecting to get a drink or something, but the only thing that comes out is a useless Thank you! sign, which he throws away. The oddest thing about this film is that it doesn't have any special effects, and that the futuristic Alphaville looks just like Paris in the 1960s, with normal cars and streetcars. The obvious message is that our future could end up just like our past, if we try to ignore our emotions and mind. Also, the intelligent computer Alpha 60, that Caution is fighting against, is a symbol for human conservative nature, that leaves every choice to be made for him from someone else. Filled with very interesting scenes ( in one part of the town it is snowing while at the other one it is night with bright sky ) and action sequences ( Caution driving over a bad guy with his car ), this film is a little jewel of sci-fi. And I'm glad that it got a very high average grade of 8.5/10 on the critic's site rotten-tomatoes.com.Grade 8/10 "},{"Title":"Science-Fiction According to the Nouvelle Vague","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film, from director Jean-Luc Godard, one of the luminaries behind the French Nouvelle Vague (or New Wave) film movement, is science-fiction like you've never seen before.The story tells of tough private-eye Lemmy Caution (Eddie Constantine), who arrives in the futuristic city of Alphaville to search for a missing scientist. Controlled by the powerful computer Alpha 60, the brainwashed citizens of Alphaville live lives devoted to logic and devoid of emotion.The film was made entirely on location in Paris, selectively shot to give the appearance of a futuristic city, and Lemmy Caution travels through intergalactic space in a Ford car. The film is interesting and quite entertaining if you know what to expect. Some viewers may find Godard's offbeat style irritating and the frequent, long academic discussions dull, but ti is worth making the attempt if only to experience something completely unexpected. Inevitably dated, the film has still aged quite well. Glamor is provided by the lovely Anna Karenina, Godard's wife at the time, as the scientists daughter.  "},{"Title":"the best fight I've ever seen","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, so I just saw Alphaville for the first time.  I enjoyed parts of it, other parts lost me.  All in all, I'd like to see it again and decide then whether I like it or not.  But I've got to say, that scene where Lemmy runs over the guy's head has to be the best movie fight ever!  I've been cracking up for hours, seriously. "},{"Title":"Movie of its time","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alphaville is an interesting French take on ideas that seem to have been of main concern in the 1960's - centralization of information and technology. Compared to, as others have indicated, The Outer Limits and Twilight Zone from earlier in that decade, Alphaville stands right in there. But, there is more to it than just the omnipotent computer to contend with. There is also the 'secret agent' aspect - as well as the lone individual beating a rigged system - a theme that would be considered again in some detail in the 1967 Patrick McGoohan series, The Prisoner.Finally, though the concern of computer-becomes-god was fully realized later, in the movie Colossus The Forbin Project. That too had its 'spy' like overtones with a unification of both US and Soviet computer systems into one supercomputer.We are now somewhat jaded almost 35 years after Alphaville. The nightmare existence predicted has yet to come to pass. Now that we know more about artificial intelligence, how computers work and the like, it seems unlikely that an Alpha 60 or Colossus type system could be created. Not with current technology. What is dangerous, though, is PEOPLE using the existing technology for inappropriate ends.Information... we want information, in formation... The PrisonerBe seeing you, Citizen. "},{"Title":"Silly, random, childish, unimaginative... and still rather enjoyable","Date":"3 October 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This review is mainly a getting of things off my chest.Firstly - the voice of the computer, Alpha 60 (and what a hugely imaginative name that is!), made me want to kill somebody. The director, most likely. Then I found out from Sometimesaccurateopedia that apparently the voice was that of a post-cancer surgery victim with a mechanical larynx, and I felt guilty for attacking this man's disability - I still felt fine about killing Jean-Luc Godard for getting him to do the computer's voice.Secondly - the entire dialogue, which purports to expound the 'plot', is a load of wishy-washy rubbish that can't make up its mind if it wants to be solipsist, romantic or humanist, and finally cops out with a resounding crash and settles on 'The Power Of Love Will Save Us All'.Thirdly - the SF is utter garbage. Concepts that were old and hackneyed even in 1964/5, and so many complete absurdities ('galaxies', using 'light-years' incorrectly...) that any science is pushed off stage-left - it must, then, be Art! Even if Alphaville is supposed to be taken as a spoof, it still proves one thing those with only Arts qualifications should not, ever, attempt Science Fiction.OK, my chest feels lighter.Reading up on this film I've seen it described in so many different ways by those who praise it - as in, literally a couple of dozen different ways - that I now have to conclude something it's a mess, and nobody really knows what it means - which means that it means... nothing.So - I hereby dump any attempt to analyse it.Instead I will swap to the positive, and say one last thingIt is, truly, beautiful to look at. It's just one, long, B&W, noir scene-experiment - and that's what kept me watching. That, and the surreality of it being set 'out' of time, in an unknown Paris.As a film, Alphaville is rubbish! As a moving object - with the sound off to get rid of the awful music and Alpha 60's nausitating voice - it's gorgeous! - -- --- "},{"Title":"Time is the substance of which I am made. Time is a river which carries me along. But I am time. It's a tiger, tearing me apart; but I am the tiger.","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I spent the entire first half of 'Alphaville' wondering what on Earth was actually going on. Perhaps this was Jean-Luc Godard's intention. In the world of spies and espionage, nothing is what is seems; alliances and loyalties are uncertain; the line between what is real and what is fake is blurred and indistinct. Lemmy Caution, a secret agent from the Outlands, enters Alphaville under the guise of Ivan Johnson, claiming to be a journalist for the 'Figaro-Pravda' (this title comes from the name of two actual newspapers, from France and the Soviet Union, respectively). Caution's first mission is to track down a missing agent, Henry Dickson, and to acquire (or, otherwise, kill) the brilliant creator of Alphaville, Professor Von Braun &#150; formerly Leonard Nosferatu (a nod to F.W. Murnau's classic 1922 horror film). Lastly, it is Caution's objective to destroy the dictatorial computer who is in complete control of Alphaville, Alpha60, thus also destroying the city itself.American-born actor Eddie Constantine had already portrayed the character of Lemmy Caution on a number of occasions, in a string of hard-boiled detective films based on the novels of Peter Cheyney. In 'Alphaville' (full translated title 'Alphaville, a Strange Adventure of Lemmy Caution'), Godard resurrected Constantine's character for this very strange venture in science-fiction. Not wishing to spend money on expensive futuristic sets, Godard shot the entire film at cleverly-selected real locations in Paris, with the night-time Parisian streets becoming the streets of Alphaville, and modernist glass and concrete buildings becoming the city's interiors.Alpha60, the coldly-logical AI controller of the city, speaks with a grating, throaty voice &#150; becoming, at times, almost unbearably torturous to listen to. The computer, an omnipresent narrator of events throughout the city, has made emotion a capital offence, holding mass executions for crimes as innocent as crying over a deceased love one, or even for simply using the words why or love. These executions occur ceremoniously alongside an eerie swimming pool, though there was a time &#150; when many people were required to be executed at once &#150; when Alpha60 used to simply electrocute them as they sat in a film theatre watching a picture.A truly baffling film to watch for the most part, 'Alphaville' picks up substantially in the final half an hour or so, partly because you begin to gather an understanding of what is happening, and also because this is when Caution starts to make good use of his pistol. Beautifully shot in crisp black-and-white by Raoul Coutard, the film also uses long takes to good effect. Though it is not perhaps a film that everybody will enjoy, Jean-Luc Godard's 'Alphaville' is a fascinating foray into science-fiction. "},{"Title":"Against The Dominion Of Reason","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Beyond being one of the most singularly brilliant directors in film history, I suspect that Jean-Luc Godard is also one of the most erudite. His best work (Masculin Feminin, Band Of Outsiders, Week End, Pierrot Le Fou and this film) all display a very keen grasp of postmodern crises and express a seizing urgency to confront and address them. All, of course, while referencing (unabashedly) the kaleidoscopic spectrum of Godard's cinematic influences and refracting them through a Brechtian prism. Given that we really haven't navigated out of the postmodern impasse (and in fact are much closer to realising the absurd realities capture in this movie), films like Alphaville are no less salient to our age than Godard's tumultuous sixties.The issue grappled with here is logocentrism, the apocalyptic (and ominous) nightmare that Jacques Derrida prophesied early in his philosophical career. Everything is subordinated to reason, and life's mercurial caprices are reduced to nought by an exact calculation of their probabilities. Alphaville's lexicon is precisely defined and canonized as intractable scripture, subversive terms being systematically erased on a daily basis. Clauses such as whys are replaced with terse becauses, the word conscience has become anathema to Alphaville life, so archaic and outmoded in discourse that it has been relegated to the oblivion of history. Public displays of affection are punishable by firing squad, as are tears. Sex is reduced to a vulgar and base urge, satisfied by slavish and automaton-like pleasure drones. A society of informants and M-like mutual suspicion is engendered, completing the totalitarian Panopticism of the project. The worst thing, of course, is that people *enjoy* the chimerical certainty that this Of course, there are avenues of escape from this sordid debacle. Suicide is encouraged as a reprieve, but crestfallen types who withdraw from economic production and idle about in maudlin reveries are discovered and put to the guillotine. It all sounds like an unfathomable dystopia, but I doubt that we, lest the meaning of conscience escapes us as well, can smother the resonances Alphaville has with our own mechanized information age.What separates us with the Alphavilleans is a delicate precipice, and we are close to fashioning the despotic mega-computer that will drain life of all its mystery and poetry. Why should we surrender the freedom of impulse to the unfeeling dictates of logic? History has shown us what happens when rationalism takes the helm- Nazism (whose logic is identical with that of the bloodthirsty Alphavilleans It's illogical for superior beings to refrain from attacking lesser ones!, and whose disdain/subsequent revision of history is again echoed here), Hiroshima, among other abominations.Among Godard's (seemingly innumerable) detractors, I assume that most decry Godard's maverick style- breakneck pace, self-conscious melodrama, Brechtian 'epic theatre' reflexivity, occasionally academic and seemingly impenetrable dialogue. Yet, I think that for all his intellectual rigor in Alphaville, Godard also poses an extremely important question- why do we always expect transparency in cinema, and a necessary correlation between reality and art? Why should we expect meanings to be evident without effort, or for there to be didactic meanings at all? This egoistic pragmatism would reduce the poetry of cinema to the same level as a toothbrush, an object whose worth is determined entirely by its being-at-hand (as Heidegger would say). People who obsess about meanings in films have no respect for the beauty of life itself, which is opaque, inscrutable, and endlessly enigmatic. In an epoch where Man is little more than a vessel of capital, laboring for immaterial/impossible/insatiable financial ideals, poetry restores him to himself. Godard is often regarded as a political figure, and though his Marxist sympathies obviously seem retrograde now, his sentiments regarding the function of art surely are not. The philosophy here is as crucial to our time as that of Georges Bataille, that of poetry for all....and cinema for all.Godard is right to indicate his concerns about the totalisation of language- as the semiologists have told us, the structures of language and the relationship between signifier/signified are illusory and arbitrary. All texts, in Derrida's thinking, undermine and contradict themselves from within- to insist that language is always transparent and self-revealing, and that only ONE discernible meaning can be discerned, is to be fascist and suppress public discourse and democratic discussion. Words unfettered from their everyday contexts, as Stephane Mallarme, the immortal symbolist poet has illustrated, reveal beautiful new horizons for meaning and the endless multiplicity of experience. If language, as Heidegger says, speaks man, why should we settle for threadbare definitions that have been inherited and taken for granted? Language should not merely be a functional apparatus used to propagate our mundane everydayness, because it is not a static thing. Godard expresses this throughout his entire corpus of work, defying the quotidian with unprecedented brio.Whether you like Godard or not, his quest to refashion film grammar created new frontiers and possibilities for film-making, and Alphaville, in some ways, is his thesis defence in front of po-faced classicists. This is also one of his most vigorous clairon calls for true liberty. Let us resist the fascist inside us, and refuse the humiliation of a society that reduces us all to slaves of commerce. "},{"Title":"Lemmy Outta Here!","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"         I'm a big fan of Godard's style of filmmaking, and Alphaville does nothing to dispel my enthusiasm for his art.  Alphaville is a triumph of style, if nothing else.  The story is pretty simple, French super-spy Lemmy Caution blows into town to destroy Alphaville and the tyrant Von Braun who runs the place with his computer, the Alpha 60. But this film is more detective noir than sci-fi and that's why it works, because Godard sticks with what he knows best. The sci-fi elements are presented in basic visuals the beaming light of Alpha 60, the neon sign reading e=mc2, and so on.       As usual, The photography and compositions are superb, as in the hotel room conversations between Eddie Constantin and Anna Karina, the sexy bellhop who escorts Constantin to his room and offers to bathe with him, the photo-negative stuff toward the end, and the swimming pool-execution scene, which is truly priceless.       If the film has weaknesses, it's in the conventional gangster shoot-em-up and the love story mixed in to the plot in a movie that is distinctly unconventional.  But in Alphaville, Godard creates another work of film art that is not to be forgotten.  3*** out of 4  "}{"Title":"why this movie turns me off....","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  normally I love this kind of film, dark experimental and true eye candy. BUT I cannot enjoy this film becuase it is billed as being a lemmy caution movie. Dont get me wrong, I love lemmy caution (eddie constantine), and lemmy caution is more or less the French version of James bond, But here somehow eddie constantine looks like an alien and lemmy in this movie is not the charmeur he is in the other lemmy movies. For me in this film two universes crashes together in utter chaos. On the one hand you have the art element and this movie IS art. But on the other hand you have the lemmy caution world which is best described as a james bond fantasy world  where the good guy gets the girl and saves the universe. I cannot make meself put these two worlds together. I expected a lemmy Caution and got a Kubrick film instead!!!!!!!!!!1 Now I love some of Kubricks films, but try to imagine a James Bond movie directed by Jim Jarmush and James Bond not being a hero but more like a fish pulled out of the water and thrown into the desert!!1Now if this was not called a Lemmy Caution movie I dont think I would have any problems.... hmmm guess this says more about me than about the film itself... "},{"Title":"An Orwellian nightmare","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alphaville is a town in which all emotion has been replaced with pure reason by the supercomputer Alpha 60.  Words are phased out as new dictionaries, which have replaced bibles, are printed.  The inhabitants of the town, walk around under a drug-induced daze, following orders mandated by the computer without question.  The plot has excellent potential, echoing many of the same concerns as George Orwell in his great novel 1984.  However, the movie itself does not live up to that potential, causing great confusion and providing little explanation to the viewer.  Overall, it is a movie worth seeing purely for its commentary on computers and society but is unfortunately bound to disappoint.  "},{"Title":"Reduced","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Time gives us great advantages. One of these is that we can see art in terms other than the artist used in creating it. The French New Wave was an interesting and timely set of cinematic ideas that were burdened at the time by clumsy theory and some frankly moronic critics.Now we can be free of this and judge them using terms that have some distance.What Goddard was all about was reduction reducing the story and characters to nothing, or perhaps just mechanical substrate, except for the one or two features on which he was elaborating. Always in that elaboration were cinematic effects, mostly dramatic.In this film, he was doubly hampered. The first problem isof all film genres, science fiction carries the most rigid expectations. So reducing from that is harder to follow than many of his usual appreciators can do. But that radicalism only makes this project stronger, not weaker. In fact, the very best Goddard is `King Lear,' which reduces an even more loaded idea, and in the process loses an even greater share of people who get it.The other thing that hampered him was a massive breakdown in French philosophy at the time. Not philosophy of the arts mind you, but simple knowledge. He is dealing with notions so childish, they embarrass the viewer.His basic idea is clever his films are about playing with sense and shifting realities by reducing sense. The less sense overall, the more emotional, intuitive and effective the whole thing.But he equates the kind of math computers can do with logic (which isn't such a stretch), and then logic to sense, the kind of expected sense he worries about. This is a really stupid notion, as if he were blurring Halloween into some sort of demonic force that threatens the world - which in fact is what many, similarly stupid films actually do.So he conflates a 1984-like repressive future with computer logic and with the kind of sense in film and reality he worries about. The problem is that the latter is far richer than the former can support as metaphor.Along the way, his film about not making sense uses his standard method of reducing the sense. Clever if you know what he is doing and you don't pay any attention to what he said at the time it just doesn't make any sense.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"A Pretentious Film by Godard","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is pretentious. The production values seem almost amateurish. Many fans of this film see it as a strange sort of Sam Spade meets 1984. I do not. It is obvious that all of the effects ,and even the props used are so fake that it made me aware that it was being filmed inside of warehouses and hotels in Paris. The exteriors for instance looked like Paris. In one of the last scenes where Alpha 60 was supposedly killing all life in Alphaville, we see cars zooming by on the Paris street, as though nothing has changed.The editing is also ameturish. There are many jump cuts that are poor transitions to the next scene, and again made me aware of the camera. The dialogue, which I suppose was meant to be clever, is verbose and purposefully confusing for effect sake. The ending is mundane,trite and very corny. I Love You? Overall this film was made to be weird for art's sake by Godard, so that artsy film lovers would say what a masterpiece of scifi film I'm not one of them. If you want to see a great sci-fi film that has great artistic values,watch Blade Runner,or Barbarella. "},{"Title":"Difficult","Date":"2 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now we have a movie that has the look of the old Twilight Zone movies created by Rod Serling. This might have been good for a late 1950's movies but today the look is much different especially for Star Trek and Star Wars. Remember Jean-Luc Godard can be very cerebral.He doesn't specialize in Science Fiction. That's why there isn't the action one expects to find. Cerebral films usually appeal to the critics but not to the average person.I could not give the film more than a 9.5 star rating. See the film and form your own opinions. "},{"Title":"A kind of proto-Blade Runner, with French New Wave charm","Date":"27 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alphaville is a sci-fi detective story, a kind of proto-Blade Runner, with French New Wave charm (the kind which makes your favorite electronica artist probably be in love with it). The film is both visionary and naive, stylish and gauche, but the plusses far overmaster the negatives. This is the type of film where you can see how good it is by noticing its flaws, and thinking Ah, but so what, this is still such a good movie. The one exception is the love story, there really is not much of any chemistry there, and it is a kind of anti-Casablanca, in that respect. (Yet even this flaw works, and is not such a flaw, if you think about why it does not work and the themes of the film.) Nonetheless, Alphaville is a must-see for lovers of art and film. "},{"Title":"Alphaville","Date":"26 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Something's not in orbit in the capital of this galaxy. Secret Agent Lemmy Caution has the mission of infiltrating the technocratic society of Alphaville, controlled by a supercomputer ordering its citizens through various methods (including violence and indoctrination) to incorporate logic instead of emotion in every part of their everyday lives. Can a riddle of poetry from Caution be the key to undermining this computer, Alpha 60, and halting their plans to obliterate any other galaxies (cities, societies) not in line with their religion of logic? I have to admit that Alphaville isn't one of my personal favorite Godard films, but I see why it is highly regarded. To me, the photography is its greatest asset. Wisely, to make sure that his vision of Alphaville being a futurecity, Godard shoots almost exclusively at night. That the way the architectural design of certain buildings favors possible cities of the future in 1965 on the inside, allowing us not to recognize that Alphaville is just Paris going through an architectural renaissance thanks to nighttime photography only emphasizing its windows and brief examinations of certain exteriors of the selected hotels and Alpha 60s control centers where Caution visits cleverly allows Godard to get away with a sci-fi film succumbing to noirish sensibilities. That an outsider (those who arrive in Alphaville are considered from the Outlands) can pollute the mechanical operation of life for the people of Alphaville through using intellect (that is the irony of the city's downfall) to inject a virus so that it self-destructs amused me to no end.I just think that a film which shows a society robotic in its movements, ideology, and functions day to day due to the influence of logic, including a hero which really acts and behaves, ironic enough, similarly, without much fire in the direction or plot to energetically show us their defeat&#x97;directed in logic, mechanically by Godard&#x97;could be a detriment to the message supposedly conveyed that love and emotion, freedom, are key to us each as individuals, thinking for ourselves, living for ourselves, allowed to dictate our own lives without the need of control over how and *why* we feel and operate as we do. That Alphaville's sheep fall into decline once Alpha 60 is debilitated by Caution's influence (those working in the control center think that Caution can help them defeat the Outside galaxies they're up against), spinning around or clutching to structures, seemingly unable to move or function without *guidance* does comment on the need to be individuals instead of under the control of any higher superior (government? Corporate entity? Religious philosophy?). All we need is love. Love is all we need.Eddie Constantine made a living out of Mike Hammer tough guy noirish anti-heroes, and he doesn't stray from that in Alphaville. He shoots those that threaten him, and in an early scene Lemmy batters an Alpha 60 stooge sent to incapacitate him in his hotel room. He incapacitates another stooge who tries to stab him in an elevator. Another instance, he roughs up yet another Alpha 60 agent, eventually running over his head! As this is a Godard film in the early-to-mid 60s, Anna Karina is a major part of the plot. She's the daughter of the creator of Alpha 60 (Jess Franco alum, Howard Vernon), eventually a romantic love interest of Caution. Caution needs to talk with her father, perhaps kill him if he continues to work in concert with the computer to execute dangerous plans for other galaxies. Karina could be argued (or agreed) by cineasts as one of the key actresses working in the early 60s in the world. Her work with Godard offers an impressive package of characters, allowing her a lot of freedom and range due to the content and room to improvise. Plus, she always looks fantastic and it never is a surprise the camera worships her. Godard obviously understood what he had with her, even if their relationship was volatile. Their output together, a string of successes that live on to this day, during this period of passion and volatility continues to hold up rather well, even if a product of its time. I won't lie, though, as this is such a clinically, dry, and matter-of-fact approach in its direction, I had a hard time really latching onto it. It is really nice looking, like its lead actress in it. Godard had learned from the masters; the noirish influence is alive and well. "},{"Title":"Hypnotic","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Godard was one of the most brilliant directors to ever make movies. His rebellious attitude and style simply puts some people off, which is unfortunate since Godard's movies are smart, well-crafted and, yes, entertaining.Alphaville is most often compared to movies that came after it, which goes to show how unique and groundbreaking it was (even if perhaps this has been obscured in hindsight). What Godard achieved is seen best at what HASN'T aged. Anytime you show computers and technology in a sci-fi movie it invariably will look dated years later. Yet Godard's stylized approach looks far beyond the superficiality of Alphaville. For example, the first scene with Lemmy Caution in Alpha 60 shows him monitored with microphones manipulated about his head. The jerky motion of the mics (equipment that isn't futuristic is the slightest) portray the mechanical control of Alpha 60 with cunning insight. The microphones are neither left static nor moved with fluid grace (just as another scene with discontinuous shots of a fight). The ominous, intermittent movements suggest the limitations of this computerized state.I like this movie in its correlation to William S. Burroughs' fictional world Interzone. Alphaville's Dr. Nosferatu (which translates into the undead, as in vampires) bears some resemblance to Burroughs' Dr. Benway. Alpha 60, the monstrous human/machine computer running Alphaville, functions much as Burroughs' Nova Mob. Concerns over science dehumanizing society are pervasive. The scene where Alphaville executes the poets using water ballet echoes the fictional dichotomy the state has drawn.Alphaville is hypnotic. The continuous use of flashing lights impresses this. The ending is what cracks me up. Ending with Natasha VonBraun (Anna Karina) straining to utter I...love...you. Is this all Lemmy Caution has fought for, some sentimental tripe? Maybe Godard subtly revised Hitchcock's ending to his second The Man Who Knew Too Little--Jimmy Stewart delivers the beyond-obvious line, Sorry I'm late, I just had to go pick up Henry.Alphaville throws together a multitude of increasingly aggressive styles. After Le Mepris in 1963, this movie (if one ever could) shows a transition to Godard's scathing Weekend in 1967. Godard made so many wonderful movies each its own treasure. Not that everybody should make movies like Godard, I do wish everyone could make movies as good as his are. "},{"Title":"Not his best","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am really afraid to say anything negative about this film, given the incredibly low level of critique demonstrated by the people here who didn't like it, but...I have never thought that this was anywhere near the best of his '60s films. But I jumped at the chance to see it on the big screen again yesterday. I hoped to revise my opinion. Which I did not.People who do not understand why the Paris of the moment when the film was made is used to represent a future dystopia should be condemned to never watching a film outside of the Mainstream ever again. The point is blindingly obvious dystopia is all around us. Using music and lighting and camera movement to represent that, rather than relying on triumphantly gaudy and expensive production design, shows that Godard is a filmmaker down to the tips of his toes. He learned so much from the American directors who had no recourse to expensive sets and had to use shadows and fog...I'm thinking of Lang on Man Hunt, Mann on G - Men. Of course, Ulmer on Detour, etc.All this is amazing. And there are great set pieces (the swimming pool, for example). And the use of the same couple of bars of music, over and over, is great, too.Look, I don't need to believe in the relationships and the ideas in Godard films in order to enjoy them. Karina and Constantine was perhaps a very inspired mismatch. And I've read and studied lots of Brecht. But Alphaville just doesn't SWING for me the way most of the others from this time do. But, you know what? I'm going to watch it again. "},{"Title":"1965 neo retro noir...","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The retro noir elements of ALPHAVILLE THE STRANGE ADVENTURE OF LEMMY CAUTION would eventually be used to even greater effect in BLADE RUNNER (in which Production Design more or less IS the movie); and, in both, the hero falls for a woman created by the technocracy running the galaxy. Suffering, we learn in ALPHAVILLE (city of whores, where women are tattooed with serial numbers), requires its own religion We are totally alone here, intones the Alpha 60 We are unique, dreadfully unique. This dump of yours isn't ALPHAville, Caution counters It's ZEROville. What is the privilege of the dead? the Alpha 60 asks. To die no more, Caution answers. Alpha 60 Do you know what illuminates the night? Poetry, Caution responds. Useful people are assimilated, unusable ones killed or recycled (re-educated). At one point, our hero discovers that the word conscience has been deleted from the dictionary. It's an interesting sequence, in which we come to see the correlation between being conscious and having a conscience. Or simply being conscious of conscience... The movie is rife with names like Lemmy Caution, Eckel and Jeckel, and Dr. Nosferatu, etc., and the overly-melodramatic music harks back to the aforementioned films noir- but the incorrect use of the term light years makes one wonder if maybe something hasn't been lost in translation. "}{"Title":"I refuse to become what you call normal.","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jean-Luc Godard is considered to be one of the top ten directors of all time. He influenced such luminaries as Martin Scorsese, Quentin Tarantino, Steven Soderbergh, Jim Jarmusch, Wong Kar-wai, Wim Wenders,Pier Paolo Pasolini, John Woo, Brian De Palma, and Oliver Stone.In this film, he spoofs typical detective movies. It is certainly one that is designed to get you thinking, as the setting is a controlled society where emotions are banned - banned to the point that they result in a death sentence.Eddie Constantine was perfect in the role of hard-boiled detective in a trench coat and fedora, ala Sam Spade. "},{"Title":"Alphaville","Date":"9 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" From director Jean-Luc Godard (Breathless, aka À Bout De soufflé), this French film was featured in the pages of the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, and I had to see if it was worth that acclaim. Basically American secret agent Lemmy Caution (Eddie Constantine), posing under the identity of journalist Ivan Johnson, has come from The Outlands to the futuristic city of Alphaville, located on another planet. Despite looking like a regular reporter with a tan overcoat, fedora hat and an Instamatic camera to photograph everything, significant or not, he also carries a pistol and he is on a series of missions. He must search for the missing secret agent Henri Dickson (Akim Tamiroff); he must capture or kill the creator of Alphaville, Prof. Leonard Nosferatu aka Von Braun (Howard Vernon); and he must destroy Alphaville itself, and specifically its dictatorial computer system, Alpha 60. The entire city is controlled by Alpha 60, so all the citizens obey the rules that there will never be any free will, individualism or expressionism, such as poetry, love and true emotion, and they will never ask why and will always answer because, and if these rules are broken they will be interrogated and eliminated, so everyone is essentially a mindless drone. The famous Albert Einstein formula equation E = mc², and E = hf, are seen in various places around Alphaville, suggesting a logical scientific ruling throughout the city. Caution does Dickson who dies making love to Seductress Third Class, so he enlists the help of Professor Von Braun's daughter Natacha (Anna Karina), a programmer of Alpha 60, and as time goes by she is unknowingly gaining emotion and going against the rules of the city laws. Caution is caught by the city authorities for ensuing these emotions and ideas in people when it is illegal, and he gets to meet Professor Von Braun who offers him the chance to join Alphaville, maybe even ruling the galaxy, but in the end he of course refuses and destroys the Alpha 60 computer, meaning that the city's population become normal, and he also rescues Natacha who declares she loves him. Also starring László Szabó as Chief Engineer, Michel Delahaye as Von Braun's Assistant, Jean-André Fieschi as Prof. Heckell and Jean-Louis Comolli as Prof. Jeckell. The performance by Constantine as the private eye on assignment is suitably world-weary, and everyone else with hardly any expression at all adds to the feeling of a soulless nightmare, it is a good blend of classic film noir and science-fiction together, a most interesting futuristic detective drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"Dystopia","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alphaville stands as a particular combination of different narratives. You have the noir, American detective story; the sci-fi element and even black comedy, all combined into one piece of filmmaking. Many people wonder if it could be consider a parody. And even when it's clear that Godard did not undressed his movie from any sense of humor, it would be unfair to point Alphaville as just a parody of sci-fi and detective stories. The dystopia factor is the key, and as it happens with any (well made)dystopia, there's social criticism behind it the absolute confidence in new technologies and rational calculation to (supposedly) improve our life quality may finish in the lost of freedom, specially when power is never something fairly distributed in society and the ones who retain the biggest amounts of it are the ones to dominate, the ones to ensure the founding of the rational calculation (It's not Alpha 60, the supercomputer, who rules the lives of the inhabitants; it's the people behind it's development and maintenance, with professor Vonbraun being the head, who does it. "},{"Title":"Alphaville, Une Étrange Aventure De Lemmy Caution","Date":"16 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alphaville, Une Étrage Aventure De Lemmy Caution follows a film noir detective called Lemmy Caution in his visit to Alphaville, the capital of an outer galaxy. His mission is to bring back to Earth a scientist who has created a supercomputer named Alpha 60, whose function is to control Alphaville becoming their leader in a 1984-esque way. Meanwhile, Lemmy has a relationship with a so-called seductress who doesn't know what love is.Alphaville, as most of Godard's films, can be viewed from different perspectives. It can be seen either as a meta-cinematic satire of everything it touches, sci-fi, film noir, 1984, James Bond or 1950's B-movies, but it can also be seen as Godard's serious take at a near future, where everything is sterilized and unemotional, where people have forgotten what true emotions are and it is forbidden to cry or express these feelings.Regardless of what Godard was trying to achieve, I find a more enjoying experience thinking it is a mixture of both. The ridiculousness of all the first half of the film, where we see a car as a spaceship or an ordinary phone booth as an intergalactic communication device, can only lead to chuckles and laughs, while in the second half, as it turns to a more serious direction, we start having feelings and even claustrophobia for out main character, ending in a genius, optimistic, yet emotional way.Alphaville,Une Étrange Aventure De Lemmy Caution is a satirical science-fiction B-movie with a top-notch direction and cinematography and excellent performances by Eddie Constantine and Godard's muse Anna Karina.Rating 4/5. "},{"Title":"A Borgian plot","Date":"16 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The most underrated sci-fi movie ever! I love dystopia histories since I was a kid, then this movie - summed up with the french touch to cinema and the amazing weird camera's positioning from Nouvelle Vague (especially to a sci-fi movie) - has made it one of my favorite movies of all times.And I confess that I was stoked when I found that he used a Borges citation in some scenes. Besides other references to my favorite writer.If I can share a little spoiler there, what most amaze me about Alpha 60 is the dichotomy between doesn't understanding poetry and actually citing them. Such a Borgian plot.Definitely a must watch. "},{"Title":"Oh My","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" An American secret agent (Eddie Constantine) is sent to the distant space city of Alphaville where he must find a missing person and free the city from its tyrannical ruler.I do not even know where to begin with this... a film noir combined with a science fiction film, set in a future which is also the past... and in French, with a very disturbing voice-over...I am not even going to try to review this. Amazing, yes, but I would not know how to express my thoughts or opinions on such a film... it is just bizarre. And then throw in the connection to Jean Cocteau and Greek mythology... "},{"Title":"Proceed with Caution","Date":"23 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Is it trashy art or arty trash? Who cares? The cinematography is pure heaven. The soundtrack is a buzz (even the moments of total silence rock). And the swimming pool scene? Well...you gotta see it to believe it, man. Still an influence on modern film and music, including albums released in 2011 by Bryan Ferry and Hyperbubble, Alphaville rewards repeated viewings with clues that you can't believe you missed the first time. It's rough, but sweet...brainy, yet fun...totally clichéd, yet totally imaginative. I cherish every frame. In a world flooded with films created for the purely logical reason of making money, Alphaville's visit from a galaxy where movies are made for the love of film is always welcome. "},{"Title":"Beautifully realized vision...","Date":"24 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jean-Luc Godard's ninth feature film which was exclusively filmed at real locations in Paris without using special effects, tells the story of Lemmy Caution, a middle-aged secret agent from New York who travels 9000 miles in order to investigate a futuristic place called Alphaville, where the ideal is a technically organized society. Lemmy Caution presents himself to the citizens of Alphaville as a reporter named Ivan Johnson who's reason for visiting Alphaville is to write an article for Figaro-Pravda about a professor named Von Braun. During his investigation he encounters the professor's daughter named Natacha Von Braun, who works as a programmer of a mindful computer system called Alpha 60 and claims to not know the meaning of the words conscious and love.From Raoul Coutard's fine black-and-white cinematography to Jean-Luc Godard's precise camera movements, the cogent narrative, the multiple voice-overs, the crucial sound, the credible acting and the suitable genre mix, this dialog-driven French production which was awarded with the Golden Bear at the 15th Berlinale in 1965, is a well-paced, mindful, romantic and visionary sci-fi Film-noir with existentialistic themes and an efficient foreboding atmosphere. This black-and-white cult classic is not the most characteristic Jean-Luc Godard film, but nevertheless an acutely directed, finely edited and beautifully realized vision of a remote future which is one of the greatest films in the science fiction genre. "},{"Title":"Poetic French New Wave Sci-Fi à la Jean-Luc Godard","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jean-Luc Godard is well known for being a big part of the French New Wave movement, with his companions Francois Truffaut, Eric Rohmer, Claude Chabrol and Jaqcues Rivette. After the era he continued making films, more personal, mature and perhaps in result of that not as well known. Before Alphaville he had made many films that had brought him up, such us Breathless, A Woman Is A Woman and Band of Outsiders. For the ones who have seen these, Alphaville once again offers something completely new and unique.The subtitle of Alphaville une étrange aventure de Lemmy Caution, means The strange adventure of Lemmy Caution. But the film is simply known as Alphaville, which refers to the city the film takes place in. An American private investigator, Lemmy Caution is sent on a mission to the futuristic city of Alphaville to convince professor Braun to return to the Outer Planets. The city is controlled by a computer, Alpha 60 and the city doesn't look very different compared to Paris in 1960's.Eddie Constantine was casted to play the role of Lemmy Caution. He was already known as the tough guy of cinema, so he was a perfect choice for the film. Anna Karina plays Natacha von Braun, a woman to whom Lemmy has to teach forbidden words, such as love. When the film comes to this, a man teaching the wonders of love and emotions to a woman, Alphaville turns into a brilliant picture poem. This is reinforced by the magnificent music, composed by Paul Misrak.Even that on the outside Alphaville doesn't differ much from Paris in 1960's, the people and the culture is very different. Their bible is a dictionary, police investigations are done by the computer, Alpha 60. In fact everything is controlled by it. People are depending on it, if the technology fails the people fail, if it shatters the people shatter. The aesthetics of Alphaville is brilliant, probably partly thanks to Raoul Coutard, who filmed Paris as a dystopia.I have seen Alphaville many times, and each time it gets better and I learn something new from it. I wouldn't blame someone for calling it dull and too weird, because that is Godard's style. He always creates something new and unconventional for us. At first time Alphaville might seem like a film, where everything is just thrown in a pile. The narrative, cinematography, dramaturgy etc. But usually as many great movies, clear up and get better by the second view.Alphaville is a fine piece of art. It pleases the eye, the heart and the mind of its audience. Anna Karina's superb acting is amazing and she manages to add a lot of heart to the film. Since all emotions, sadness, love, empathy and compassion are forbidden in Alphaville, Lemmy Caution has to teach them to Anna Karina's character. I must also say that the one who designed her dresses, is a genius. The last utterance by Anna's character always makes me clap my hands, I cannot help it. It's such a redeeming gesture, and it just perfectly summarizes everything - it's the tip of the film.So there are many reasons why Alphaville is so great. The intelligence of Godard, the experimental narrative of the French New Wave, the superb acting by Anna Karina and Eddie Constantine and the aesthetics of Alphaville created by Raoul Coutard, Jean-Luc Godard and Paul Misrak. The film manages to create a threatening vision of a totalitarian society, something none of us want. The main themes love and dependence on technology make us think of our own society. "},{"Title":"Is this serious?","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Definitively I and Jean-Luc Godard don't get along with each other in what concerns films and filming. I didn't like any of his films I have seen previously and didn't like this one either. What does it mean and what does he want to communicate or say to us in all his films? Is he serious or is he just kidding with crime or science-fi or even love stories? Does he want to pass on any message to us? Which is it? I am not so stupid but if he is considered one of the best movie directors of our times by most responsible critics maybe the fault is mine. This movie takes place in Alphaville, a supposed extraterrestrial town in some exterior galaxy but that looks like any current town or city in this world like New York or Paris for instance, peopled by apparently normal people normally dressed. Some scenes are quite ordinary, some dialogues too but some others show very odd behaviours and incoherent talking. You travel out of the galaxy by car and by road for instance. Which codes and symbols is Godard recurring to? He once said To make a movie we only need a gun and a woman. Is this the answer maybe? "}{"Title":"Slow and dated but influential Sci Fi","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a film about a special agent from the outer countries that is sent to Alphaville (a sort of centre of the universe city) to investigate what has happened to society there.It feels like a film noir, it is shot in black and white, on location in 60s Paris. Most of the picture follows the slightly weary agent, played by Eddie Constantie, as he visits various characters and places around the city and learns about the twisted society. ************ minor spoilers below ********************The Sci Fi plot could have come straight out of a Philp K Dick novel and focuses on a totalitarian state run by a computer where all decisions made by people must be logical, emotional responses can result on execution of an individual. This world may have been very shocking in the 1960s but today it feels like well trodden ground. Shows such as Star Trek and Dr Who have drawn upon such ideas, films such as the matrix have had the world ran by calculating machines. While Alphaville may have been one of the first films to search such questions as the value of human emotions, and to examine totalitarian states, this is such a staple of cinema that to me Alphaville felt dated. Perhaps a reason it is shot on location in 60s Paris is because Godard was critiquing where the Paris of his day was going, i don't know. Interestingly the protagonist agent is equally unemotional and logical as those he is seeking to thwart. For me this film didn't provide the immersion often delivered by Sci fi, or any critical insight into the world,it was not an entertaining action movie, or have any really gripping characters. On the plus side some of the dialogue is brilliant, and the film is shot in a very art house style.I give this film 6/10. Id only recommend it to obscure art house film fans and i wouldn't recommend buying it (rent or borrow). If you want to see a Godard picture id recommend Breathless (which is awesome). "},{"Title":"A Defense of Poetry and Imagination","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Secret agent Lemmy Caution travels to Alphaville. His purpose is indefinite, much like the movie that Jean-Luc Godard makes. One can call Alphaville many things and yet the movie's meanings will never be exhausted it's a homage to American noir, it's a love story, it's sci-fi, it's a spoof of sci-fi too, it's a defense of poetry and the imagination, it's a warning against technocracy, it's an experimental movie...Eddie Constantine plays Lemmy as a Humphrey Bogart character in an old noir tough, cool, relaxed, sarcastic, grave. He dazzles women, he solves everything through his fists or a gun, he drinks, drink, drinks, and smokes, smokes, smokes. If after a while the viewer doesn't start finding this a bit ridiculous, he's missing the point.Lemmy gets caught in a complicated story as he searches for the scientist ruling Alphaville, Dr. Von Braun, while falling in love with his daughter, Natascha. She may not be his real daughter, though, as most things aren't real in Alphaville. It's one of the strangest places on Earth... if it exists on Earth at all (Lemmy comes from the Outlands, which may be a place outside Alphaville or in space).In Alphaville there's a Bible in every room, and the Bible is a dictionary. And this dictionary gets smaller every time as words are erased because they stop having a purpose in this society (homage to Orwell?). The main computer, Alpha 60, rules with logic and mathematics. Being illogical - showing feelings, etc. - is a crime there's a lovely scene in the movie showing how such criminals are dealt with.Poetry and art don't exist, and only Lemmy seems to remember what it is. In the end, this mess of a movie comes down to this art vs. technology; two ways of seeing life, and one of them Godard clearly prefers to the other. Lemmy reads poetry and says illogical things all the time, little strings of poetry. And through his efforts he shows Natascha what love is. The point of the movie is not complicated, although the movie takes a complicated route to show it.There are all sort of bizarries in the movie scenes when the colors are inverted, splicing of drawings and diagrams with shots of the actors, etc. And then more elegant things, like the long takes Godard uses, the exterior long shots that capture the shadows of the city so well, the mechanic, creepy voice of Alpha 60.Godard deserves credit for having created such a restrained science fiction movie, one that achieves a real sense of estrangement without special effects or elaborate sets, but mostly through innuendos in the dialogue. Although it's not the best movie I've ever seen, its ambition cannot be forgotten. "},{"Title":"my first film by Godard","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alphaville was the first film I saw by Jean-Luc Godard. I think there's no way I wouldn't like it. Godard must be a very intelligent man. Well, that's what I concluded when I watched this film. Some people may say it's just a fiction story, but I tell you it's much more than that. Behind the quite simple plot, there's a voice over that says lots of interesting things about capitalism, liberty and perception. The moral of the story may vary from people to people, according to each one's understanding and opinion, but I think everybody agrees that the film is about, in a general idea, freedom. And it's not only freedom in a physical situation, but specially freedom of the mind.With a scaring expectation of the future, Alphaville is not another fiction story. It's a kind of alert for all mankind. I don't mean we run the risk of living in a society like Alphaville (well, we don't really run this risk? - *LOTS OF LAUGHS*), but the film opens a possibility of thought and imagination. My grade 7/10 "},{"Title":"A weird masterpiece","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film takes the detective story of the 1940's and mixes it with elements of 1960's pop culture, as well as the science fiction genre of the 1970's (truly putting this film ahead of its time.)  The references to Dick Tracy and Charlie Brown add a kind of surreal humor to the seriousness of Lemmy Caution's situation, as he's being chased by Alpha 60 for not conforming to society's standards. "},{"Title":"Boring movie is boring","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Snobbies gonna loves. This movie is really bad  annoying, bad direction, bad actors, bad scenario, bad costumes, bad sceneries, bad anticipations, bad science fictions, everything is so wrong... This is not science fiction. Just some poor, really poor, projection of the 50's technology. This movie is just ridiculous, the science fiction label is clearly here a simple marketing argument. Include the love story is a total fail, the drama is not a drama, it's just boring as hell. If you want to watch some great Godard movies, have a look to Pierrot Le Fou, because Alphaville is probably the worst Godard film ever. "},{"Title":"Dystopic, Surreal, Pretentious!","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dystopic, Surreal, Pretentious! A vision of a dystopic technocracy, centrally controlled by Alpha-60, told through the experience of a supersidereal secret agent.  Much worse than it sounds! The best parts are the interiors, the spiral staircases, the urban landscapes, the tracking shots. Everything else is pretentious artsy-fartsy avant-garde phony-baloney.  The use of music is absolutely terrible!  The story and dialogue are merde, the soundtrack is a hash, the continuity ISN'T; the acting is especially bad in the long scenes, where actors wander about without ANY sense of reality of interaction. You can see lots of walking tracking shots in corridors (best accomplished in GoodFellas.)  You can see face-closeups of weird stylistic characters (best accomplished in Fargo.)  "},{"Title":"I wish there were more films like this, lot's more","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Anyone who criticizes Godard and his work, especially Alphaville, must be some sort of horrendous, filth-ridden film snob. Godard represents a very important part of film history and to call him hack and so forth is a great injustice, not only to him but to anyone who enjoys his work.Godard is a deconstructionist. His films are designed and structured(?) with the intent that there be no easy or simple interpretation. This, I believe, is best illustrated by Alphaville. In this film Godard is doing two things 1) he is expressing his fear that humanity is moving into a future in which emotion is sacrificed for logic, and 2) he is using his ingeniously creative visual and narrative style to point fun at the pretentious slickness of big budget studio films. Many simple minded film watchers, numbed and drained of any natural intuitive understanding for art by the studios, view this film as pure gobbeldegook. An example of this might be the scene in which Caution is being interrogated by Alpha 60. The machine is doing its best to penetrate into Caution's mind by using its seemingly infinite logic. In response Caution fires back with poetry, a form of expression that follows no certain logic and yet is infinitely expressive; something that confounds the machine. As I said before, many viewers may consider this scene to be incomprehensible. I suggest that perhaps that was exactly Godard's intent. If you are unable to gather any insight from this film, it is not because Godard makes no sense, but because you, probably longing for a slickster Michael Bay movie as you watch this film, have become like Alpha 60, a being incapable of abstract thought. I assume that is why Godard shot the film using modern architecture instead of sets. He is making a point this dark, soulless future is now. "},{"Title":"Maybe it loses something in the translation?","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, maybe my rating of 2/10 is a little unfair as I only watched about half of it. Maybe it gets better nearer the end, but it takes one hell of a bad movie to make me stop half way through. And Alphaville is one hell of a bad movie.I'm sure Alphaville makes some important points about technology, or totalitarianism, or whatever, but if that's the case why hide it behind such an unwatchable film? The camerawork is shaky, the picture quality is grainy, the fantastic cinematography seems to consist of some shots of buildings with all the lights on, and most of the dialogue seems to have no purpose and makes no sense.But the thing that really out me off was the endless, annoying symbolism. Wow, flashing lights that do nothing but hurt my eyes for a minute; that's deep, that is. Oh my God, a flashing arrow - I understand it all now. Well, you get the picture. It's all just being self-consciously arty for the sake of it.The disappointing thing is that I was really looking forward to this movie and expecting to like it. I'm not the kind of person who can only understand brainless action movies, and more films that try to include intelligent ideas should only be a good thing, but Alphaville is the kind of film that gives them a bad name. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Strange Indeed. Godard Inspires THE PRISONER","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This bizarre but compelling science-fiction noir evokes the uncomfortably accurate future-world of George Orwell's 1984 and foreshadows Patrick McGoohan's TV series THE PRISONER, made shortly afterwards and surely influenced by Godard's movie.The nightmarish totalitarian world of ALPHVILLE, which may be another planet or simply a reworked European superstate, sits well against a backdrop of avant garde 1960s architectural monstrosities. Like cowboy films, Sci-Fi movies always seems to reflect the era in which they are made more strongly that the imagined future in which they are set. ALPHAVILLE strives to be the future but is rooted in the hipness of the mid 60s every bit as securely as BLOW-UP or HELP. Chanderlesque private-eye Lemmy Caution strides through the movie with grim expression and gnarled features, a gun in the pocket of his trench coat and a soul-less girl on every hotel landing ready to tend to his every desire, should he ask her. Normally he simply shoves her away and tells her to clear off! In the midst of vast empty corridors and sparsely-populated offices, with the kind of all pervading surveillance devices that would have been familiar to NUMBER 6 in THE PRISONER, Caution witnesses bizarre ritualistic executions of those who've been 'caught' feeling forbidden emotion....at a swimming pool.... and takes up with the stunningly attractive daughter of the dictator Von Baun, played by Godard's wife, the wonderful Anna Karina. The story is frequently hard to follow and it's political edge is sometimes overbearing but at the denouement, which makes sense and is truly surreal at the same time , it leaves one more intrigued than frustrated and keen to re-watch it. A common trait with Godard's work of the period. Eddie Constantine is really rather well cast as Caution; the lived-in face and gruff persona fit the part. Karina is just gorgeous and the whole film would be worth staying with for her performance alone. She's spell-binding. Not an easy film to watch but one that is often starkly compelling and uncomfortably accurate in foretelling the world we now live in. Viewed now almost 50 years after it was made, ALPHAVILLE is , in it's own way, a film about political correctness and the inevitable slide towards impersonal Super-States and endlessly tightening control. "},{"Title":"pretty but empty","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was the third Godard film I saw, and I saw it at a time when I was still eagerly building the base of my film knowledge. I found it dull and incomprehensible, but it seemed like interesting filmmaking (at the time Breathless was the most amazing, original, and refreshing film that I had ever seen). It, and the second Godard film I saw, Contempt, put me off of the fellow for at least two more years (I still need to see Contempt a second time). I finally fell in love with him on that fourth and fifth film, watched on the same night, Une femme est une femme and (more particularly) Vivre sa vie. After that I was a huge Godard fan, but it still took me almost two years to go back to Alphaville. I hoped that four extra years and about a thousand new films would have helped me appreciate the film; either that or help me understand why the film wasn't any good. The verdict on this second viewing it improved a little, but I still feel it's one of Godard's weakest films. By turns fascinating, silly, and just plain pretentious, Alphaville is at the very least an extraordinarily visually beautiful film. If I find the plot and themes somewhat trite, I can always marvel at the almost constantly artful black and white composition. Perhaps what the film really needed was a more interesting central character than Lemmy Caution, and a more interesting actor than Eddie Constantine (whom I do love in Lars von Trier's Europa, which I believe was his last film). Caution/Constantine bored me, and I was constantly waiting for Anna Karina to reappear. Truth be told, she's not especially great, either. I've seen, I think, all but one of her collaborations with JLG, and this is easily her least interesting performance. Well, she's still pretty enough to look at. Again, beautiful, but, again, empty. "}{"Title":"Too minimalistic and low-budget for my taste.","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A low-budget science-fiction movie can actually work out really well, as some other movies have shown in the past but this movie is really lacking in true creativity and fantasy to consider this a successful attempt.It's a movie that picks an artistic approach and thinks that because of that can get away with just about everything. It's a science-fiction movie without any science-fiction. The movie is supposed to be set in the future and on a different planet as well, while it clearly is 1960's Paris the entire movie is being set in. Just about nothing in this movie indicates that this is a different and futuristic planet the entire movie takes place on. Must be some artistic statement with a deeper meaning to it perhaps but I just don't get it and it really took me out of the movie.But even as an artistic movie, the movie is really suffering from its low-budget. No real lighting got ever used and the sound was really poor for most part. Even some of the artistic compositions of some of the sequences were obviously not as originally intended. I'm sure they had plenty of good ideas with this movie but the execution of it all is seriously lacking.It's not really a movie you will watch for a story (don't even ask me what the story is all about) but more because of its visuals and the approach it takes. Even though it was lacking, I still can't say I hated the approach of director Jean-Luc Godard. It still makes the movie an interesting one, though it's not really one that ever truly fascinates or impresses.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"'You shouldn't call this dump Alphaville, it's Zeroville.'","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film by Jean Luc-Godard is an intentional mixture of the profound and the ridiculous, which is part of its existentialist satirical plan. Eddie Constantine satirizes himself and much else besides as Lemmy Caution, Spy 003 from the Outer Countries who has been sent to Alphaville, the capital of another galaxy. Three years earlier he had already made fun of himself as the archetypal tough guy detective in the spoof film L'EMPIRE DE LA NUIT (THE EMPIRE OF NIGHT, 1962). Since Eddie reached Alphaville (despite its being in another galaxy) by car, we later learn that it can be reached by driving along the Boulevard Périphérique all night. (For those unfamiliar with Paris, the Boulevard Périphérique is the Paris ring road.) Eddie disguises himself as Ivan Johnson, a journalist working for the newspaper Figaro-Pravda. For those too young to remember, Pravda was the name of the newspaper of the Soviet Union, and Le Figaro is the conservative newspaper of Paris; the idea of their having merged at this unknown time in the future is one of Godard's dozens of little jokes. Some of the humour was funnier in the sixties than now, but much of it is still amusing. In most scenes, Eddie wears his trenchcoat with the collar turned up and his hat, whether indoors or out. He often flails his automatic pistol in his hand and shoots lots of people to right and to left, who obligingly drop down dead. Godard uses hyper-dramatic music just like what was used in the American films noir of the forties and fifties, and he plays it on purpose at the most inappropriate moments more intentional hysterical fun. Many of the jokes are of a cinematic nature, so you have to know your movies. The French New Wave directors adored Hitchcock and Hollywood noir films, so the satire is always mixed with homage. Alphaville is populated by futuristic 'mutants' who have moved beyond feelings and follow perfect logic, to form a new perfect species. Anyone who feels anything is executed. There is an amazing scene where a man who dared to grieve when his wife died is machine-gunned to death on a diving board and falls into the swimming pool. Such eruptions of surrealism are common in the film, as are mournful expressions of existentialist anguish narrated on the sound track. Every week, several words such as 'tendresse' ('tenderness') are erased from the Bible (their name for the dictionary of permitted words), and anyone uttering them is executed. No one in Alphaville has ever heard the word 'love' or the word 'conscience'. All women are branded with tattooed numbers like inmates of the Nazi death camps, and all are sex slaves, at least the attractive ones. There are no unattractive women in the film, so perhaps they were also all executed for the offence of being ugly. At the time he made this film, Godard still had talent and had not yet deteriorated into whatever he became twenty years later, when he made what I have described in my review of it as 'the most pretentious film ever made', namely DÉTECTIVE (1985, see my review). The female lead in this film is the mysterious and alluring Anna Karina, who had many men round the world gasping at that time, although when she gives those long lingering looks in loving closeups she does seem a bit too conscious of her own charms sometimes. But then, that has also been a fault of Emmanuelle Béart, and female vanity when it becomes visible can be most unsettling, not to say irritating. Karina plays Natacha von Braun, the daughter of Professor von Braun who was expelled to Alphaville in 1964 (the year this film was being made), bringing his daughter with him who is now, in the future, all grown up and beautiful but unable to know how to say those magic words 'I love you.' However, as she is not really a native of Alphaville, Eddie sees some hope for her. Her father, whom she tells Eddie she has never met, had worked at Los Alamos, and is clearly intended as a reference to the SS officer and rocket scientist Werner von Braun who created the American space programme, though the exact point of the satire concerning this point is lost on me, I am sad to say. Nearly every scene of this film contains interesting lines, either of dialogue or of voice-over, much of it poetry. Among other things, we are told that poetry 'turns darkness into light'. This film, in between all the foolery, is a plea for love, beauty, and poetry. If it did not relentlessly make fun of itself, we might be tempted to say it takes itself too seriously, but it does a balancing act between farce and anguished existentialism, as if Sartre had suddenly become Groucho Marx (and who is to say he never did, or was not all along?) Alphaville is run by a giant computer with 1.4 billion 'nodes', or terminals, called Alpha 60. It has a deep grumbly voice which gives the impression of being several octaves lower than Orson Welles. Alpha 60 wants to wage war on the Outer Countries such as Earth in order to eradicate emotion and feeling, but instead, in the latter part of the film, the inhabitants of Alphaville are all staggering round and falling down dead because of lack of love. Perhaps they did not know whether to laugh or to cry, anymore than we do when watching this, and died of incoherence. (One wonders whether Al-Ghazzali died of it also, or whether he perished from a simple excess of orthodoxy.) The final words spoken in the film are the most important, and confirm our suspicions that this film had a profound and serious purpose, but I cannot reveal them to the uninitiated, any more than I can explain the point of a dagger against the bared chest. "},{"Title":"pretense aside...","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While '60s french thought and film is filled with silly hats and sunglasses, that is no reason to disregard the thought of the time.  Reading most of these comments I think there needs to be a little explanation of structuralist/ deconstructionist/poststructuralist thought, so that people more in touch with analytical thought can get what is going on.  Basically, it all comes out of Marxist/postmarxist Frankfurt School thought that says rationality is part of the states power and singular thought systems are mental walls of control. This works by making words concrete (think national languages) and connotation isn't allowed.  While this is really really boiled down, it might help to those who are writing trite tripe comments etc. As a second note, this movie is very much like the matrix reloaded except while the matrix is nihilistic this film offers the artists own drum beat. Godard makes sure we are not ourselves in the matrix (at least while watching the film). For some reading to do with this movie see Baudrillard's procession of the simulacra, Debord/s Society of the Spectacle or Deleuze's Difference and Repetition. This movie is all about sticking it to the man. "},{"Title":"I see what you mean but","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I see what you mean about difficult to follow but i always thought it was mean to be an interpretation of the orpheus legend mixed up with all the film noir/orwell knock offs.This movie puts me in a good mood for some reason everytime i watch it. Maybe it is cos its dumb or maybe cos its good i don't know. But by jimminy it works.The flashing lights and stuff i think is a good visual analog for the anti-techno vibe.I would agree with whichever one of you guys was saying that it paved the way for many of the classic sci fi movies that followed. The whole cyberpunk thing is there like 20 years early and maybe closer in spirit to P K Dick's books than Blade Runner and Total Recall. Well it is isn't it.  "},{"Title":"when the lack of creativity is decorated with absurd ideas","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't judge how this film was perceived in 1965. maybe it was great. in 2001, anyway, there is virtually nothing on offer here. A tough guy Lemmy Caution comes to a no-where place, an anti-utopian town, where the machine controls the lives of people. we don't know what his business is. In the mean time, while he stays in a hotel, the bourgeois morality is attacked some whores try to lure our hero to bed. Not too original, i'm afraid, but all this is made with a ludicrous air of profound discovery and self-importance. What next? It turns out that Lemmy Caution has got to kill the chief engineer in charge with the ruling machine. But he falls in love with the engineer's daughter. So his love is contrasted with the mechanistic existence the people of Alphaville lead. Ok, maybe technology kills some traits of humanity, but you must show it *how* this happens. Instead M. Godard satisfies himself with declarations of faith. This is no doubt much easier than to explore in minute details, or in a parable, how technology affects humanity. And even then, technology doesn't kill all humanity. Caution travels in a car--is he less human because of that? Another thing the absurd attack on logic. What is it? You may claim that logical reasoning is no substitute for poetry, for example, or that poetry sometimes doesn't obey logic, but does it mean that logic should be abolished? Perhaps Godard wanted also to show the reality of oppression, of totalitarianism. But totalitarianism does not require technology, even if it is more effective with it. If totalitarianism was the target, the film missed it.In sum, the film is not creative, not convincing, packed with far-fetched ideas, and generally annoying. Rating 4.0 "},{"Title":"Not All Art is Great","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alphaville (1965) * (out of 4) Jean-Luc Godard's classic science fiction film about a detective (Eddie Constantine) who arrives in the futuristic city of Alphaville to rescue a scientist and destroy an evil robot that has taken away love and sympathy. You put an American director's name on this film and this thing would only get reviewed in the Golden Turkey Awards book. It's rather amazing at how bad this film was on nearly 96% of all levels. I'll give credit where it's due and say that Godard made a nice looking film with some wonderful cinematography but this guy couldn't tell this story to save his life. The story to this film is as bad as anything Ed Wood or Roger Corman dealt with and I'd go even further to call this one of the worst science fiction films ever made. I'm sure fans of the film think I'm coming down too hard on this film but I hated it that much. Overly talky doesn't begin to describe this thing and the dialogue is on the level of a Wood film (one and one equals two...oh, how deep). I thought Flesh for Frankenstein was the worst film Criterion ever released but I believe that honor goes to this title. "},{"Title":"I don't know that word","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lately I have been interested in watching films that have a strong leftist political feel to them. In the realm of Japanese film I have been viewing and purchasing films from the 1960s that have connections with the leftist theatrical troupes and student and social movements. Of course directors like Oshima Nagisa, Imamura Shohei, and Susumu Hani play an important role during this movement so I have picked up a number of their films. Anyway, I am slowly, but surely, developing an interest in films from America, France, etc. that also deal with this same time period and it is quite interesting to compare both diverse and intermingling themes within these films.In the realm of French cinema, especially that of French New Wave Cinema, the director who has some of the strongest leftist sensibilities is Jean-Luc Godard. I have been trying to watch quite a number of Godard's films and some of them have left me completely cold, but perhaps that is due to general lack of interest on my part when I attempted t view said films, while others I enjoyed quite a bit. Band of Outsiders is still my favorite Godard film. Anyway, the most recent Godard film that I watched is Alphaville (1965).Alphaville is a Sci-Fi mystery film that honestly has very few elements that can label it a Sci-Fi film. There are no futuristic settings and one does not witness any spectacular scientific inventions. However, there is one glaring exception to this, and that is the presence of Alpha 60 a massive, sentient computer with a nearly omniscient mind about the happenings with Alphaville and with a voice that might remind one of a French Hal who has smoked way too many cigarettes. Whatever its purposes might be, Alpha 60 represents the ultimate in mind control. Basing everything on logic, Alpha 60 eliminates anyone who displays emotion, including a man who cried after his wife died. Such a lovely place to live, isn't it? Well for most of the people who live in Alphaville this is the only world that they know. A world in which words are constantly being eliminated, such as tenderness, because they call up emotions and one in which the dictionary, which is always changing because words are constantly being changed, has replaced the bible as the key holy book.However, in the Outlands people still have that own thoughts and feelings and the spy Lemmy Caution, disguised as the reporter Ivan Johnson, has received orders to find his fellow spy Henri Dickson, a Dr. Von Braun, who he is either to return to the Outlands or liquidate, and destroy Alpha 60. Around forty-five, dressed in a beat up trench coat, and a chain smoker, Lemmy Caution looks more like a gumshoe than a spy from the future, but he is highly capable At least, until he meets Natasha Von Braun, the daughter of Dr. Van Braun and an example of someone who might possibly be extricated from the power of Alpha 60.The first fifteen minutes or so of Alphaville were hard for me to watch because I had a hard time getting into the right frame of mind for a Sci-Fi film that looked like it was filmed in the backstreets of Paris, which it was, but I was able to get drawn into the film a bit more as it continued. Godard's film is not only an attack on Communist policies, i.e. Stalinist policies, but it is also an attack on Capitalism as well. While brainwashed, most of the residents of Alphaville material desires are satiated by the system. However, can material items truly replace deeply engrained human emotion? Hopefully not, but Godard's film shows how an oppressive government attempts to mold the minds of its citizens. A must for fans of New Wave cinema and recommended for casual foreign movie fans, Alphaville might not be an enjoyable movie experience, but it will at least get the brain juices flowing. "},{"Title":"A head on collision in Godard's brain","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Godard's done petty criminals and the like, but now he wanted to do a sci-fi metaphor so the result is a mish mash of ideas cribbed from Orwell, Huxley, Sartre, Film Noir, Lefty pseudo-intellectualism, you name it.  Some bits make me cringe with the pretentiousness of it; such as the stylised fight scenes which would have looked far better if they were still photos but wobbly posed shots don't work here.  But Anna Karina is gorgeous, Eddie Constantine is suitably hard boiled and it has enough interesting things going on to merit a watch.I love the voice of the computer  AL-PHA-VILLEEEE said as though it's half belching its words.  One bit that me and my film geek friends love quoting is when Lemmy is going down a corridor trying to find the right room and the computer is saying OCCUPE!  OCCUPE!  OCCUPE!......LIBRE!  Don't know why that sounds cool, but it does. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was very disappointed by this one. The concept was interesting, but if you really look beyond the surface, as Gertrude Stein once said There is no there there. This film seems as though it has ideas to impart, but it doesn't really. Just because the story is about a Big Brother-type society doesn't mean it has ideas; there has to be something more, such as what led to this society in the first place? And the female lead (whose name I can't remember, probably because she was so insipid) wasn't even remotely believable. You can't have a character who undergoes a major transformation without making the viewer understand how this happened.(And her transformation didn't make her any less boring.) Truffaut didn't succeed on this level. The movie is a bunch of events that fail to make a meaningful statement. Just watch 1984 and you'll see what a movie with this type of plot can really accomplish. "},{"Title":"Set design was not a factor here","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While a galactic super agent named Lemmy Caution is moving about like a mouse in a puzzling maze, we are treated to dialogue based on yet another dreary, circuitous stab at intellectualizing existence.Part of this is delivered from a master computer brain issuing various malign pronouncements and conducting interrogations in a voice that sounds like having a conversation with the drain in your kitchen sink. Actually, it's a wonderful touch.As low buck as this movie is, it's beatnik crafting stays with you. "}{"Title":"Great in Theory; Utterly Taxing in Fact","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had just seen a Clouzot film from the 50s, the satisfying symmetry and classic film language of it fresh in my mind, when I sat down to watch this film, knowing it only from its glowing rep. I had to go back a second day to take another run at it. I can't tell you now how it ended. It occurs to me that perhaps if I hadn't watched that Clouzot so shortly before seeing Alphaville, Godard's technical off-handedness, the visual opposite of style and structure, wouldn't have put me off so completely. But what's done is done. Alphaville feels like a home movie shot for fifteen dollars, completely eschewing the most basic visual niceties of real feature films, and improvised, or feeling that way-- apparently rambling along, to its eternal detriment, without a plan.This film has an ultra-cool rep which I somewhat appreciate. But it's like Warhol, Velvet Underground, Nico, Gimme Shelter-era Stones, mod London, etc, in that the heady gestalt accompanying it (its phenom, its legend, if you will) has finally transcended the experience of the thing itself. Too much has been made of it by fetishists of Godard and the 60s. An aside I can only imagine what Hitchcock must have made of Godard's (and much of the new wave's) lack of visual rigor. He must have been flat appalled, but ever too genteel (and grateful for their attention) to say so.I wanted to like Alphaville. Those often-seen noir stills of Eddie Constantine with that hat and trench coat are perfect icons of the mid-to-late 60s, seeming to spring from the heart of the personality poster boom. That era was acutely attuned to the pop icon Dean and Bogart and Marilyn captured forever in a 3 by 5 foot dorm poster, their trademark stance, expression, gesture, props and clothes positively charged with meaning for a generation in search of a transcendent attitude. But where those still images succeed as vivid evocations of something more than you see when you look at them, I think the film fails. It finally evokes nothing more than its sense of its own importance, and itself. An art happening/a dead end. A film about film that seems too contemptuous toward film language and style -- the conventions or givens of film -- to become a satisfying film experience. As far as the film being pretentious, which I keep reading here, let's say this. Perhaps one need not automatically regard a film that features chunks of philosophy regurgitated whole on the soundtrack as pretentious. Perhaps. But even if you do not, the sure sign of the director's pretentiousness, for this viewer, comes in the fact that Godard clearly is so assured of his genius that he doesn't try very hard to make the audience interested. He thinks he can carelessly present negligible material, and we will gobble it up as work of the import of a new symphony from Beethoven. THAT is pretentious. Right off, he gets a strike against him for this attitude, which lies so close to the topmost layer of this shoddy little film.Four of ten stars. And I advise you You must want to LOVE it, before you spend time with this film. Even that may not be enough to salvage it for you, as I found. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi Anti-Utopian Film presents logical totalitarian society defeated by Good Guy American's Conscience and Poetry","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me first just say, thank you FilmSnobby, I don't know Goddard that well and was about to decide definitively against learning. But ultimately, Goddard's laughing with us cynics, and at all those who write such things as great movie, deep, wow, profound, etc. The most enjoyable way I can conceive of watching this film is as a satire of love, conscience, Freedom, and the American way- These are not romantic and timeless elements of human nature, but the West's version of thegreater good or enemies of the people, our own particular form of propaganda ideology. Ostensibly, we're told that Caution the American Private eye is battling against the evils of Totalitarianism, but it soon becomes clear that if the Authoritarian Computer represents the Left deviation, Agent Caution clearly represents the Right, and as Stalin would say, they are both worse . The film can best be understood by an explication of the his name; Agent Caution. Is not this a critique of serious Anti-Utopian films, those films that dissuade all progressive activity with the anti-Utopian slippery slope message that it all ends with totalitarianism, the Mr. Cautions of the World who caution us into inactivity. The political themes here are blatant, that in Mr. Cautions hand's poetry (i.e., art, film) becomes a kitschy absurdity and seems quite compatible with such lines as- Computer-what do you value most?, Caution- Gold and Women, as well as I'm too old to argue, now I just shoot. The ultimate message is that alpha-ville is already in the heart and mind of anyone who can watch this movie and enjoy it as a serious, and perhaps profound, political sentiment. My favorite lines come when Caution tells his AlphaVille sweetheart something like I cannot tell you the word (love), you must come up with it yourself, but if you can't you will die just like the rest back at AlphaVille. Some Great Freedom that is offered! And Goddard follows the Party Line to its most subversive orthodoxy, making a ridiculous clown of, well... us. To all those who took this film seriously I can only wonder, did you really think Goddard was going to let the American save the day with his six shooter?Another favorite line- The Germans, Americans, and the Swedes can usually be reformed and indoctrinated (with the Alphaville ideology), but the rest must be executed. OK. so the Germans killed 6 million Jews and we all know the Americans enjoy their own alternative to argument (see above), but what did the Swedes do ? "},{"Title":"Great idea, poor realization.","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Great plot and idea. Poor visuals due to early years of production. Very weak actors (in my opinion).AND THE MOST ANNOYING- DISTURBING- DISGUSTING-GURGLING-WOBBLING NARRATOR COMPUTER VOICE EVER. It almost destroyed my poor ears during film watching. But luckily, i survived. Sound effects and music design is miserable too, considering the main theme of the movie. Story line of video-film is V-E-R-Y S-L-O-W and have no dynamic scenes at all, but this is common stuff for 60s, 70s movies.Hoping, that Brazil (1985) with similar storyline will be far better! Can't say anything more. "},{"Title":"A lazy bum, indeed&#133;","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" More cheap Kafka imitations coming your way&#133; This very French philosophical sci-fi is basically an excuse for Godard to unleash his favourite thoughts about mankind and life onto the viewing public. There is no story to speak of, just a bunch of absurd scenes - and not particularly interesting at that - filled with various very very very very deep thoughts. Do I even have to use the p word? Pretentious. The unavoidable word when it comes to reviewing so much of the vastly overrated European crap.Alphaville is NOT a city of the future. It's a 60s city which hasn't heard of moon-travel, let alone galactic travel - which is so laughably mentioned at one point. (Lemmy Clochard at one point refers to Alphaville as Zeroville, and he pretty much speaks the truth.) If you don't have a sufficient budget, either don't do your own version of Metropolis at all, or use your directorial imagination as to what you should film in order to create the illusion of such a city with what little money you have. But Godard is no Tarkovsky (Solaris/Stalker), not even at knee-level. He desperately needed that 50-mil budget. In fact, I can see why Billy Wilder called Godard a lazy bum this little Frenchman (I assume he's little) wasn't bothered much with either the look of the movie or the story. He just got a cameraman, a crew, some very average actors, and his damn I-wrote-it-in-an-afternoon script. Any of Godard's philosophical preachings could have been placed anywhere in the movie he literally stuck them anywhere, most of the time. By having no meaningful plot, he established a perfect terrain for himself to throw in any speech about anything anywhere in the movie. For example, that stuff about Communism and Capitalism needing to establish plans might as well have been in the first 5 minutes or the last 5. The movie actually starts out fairly interestingly. While some people may be put off by the narrator's voice, I liked it - at least for a while, until its overuse undermined the overall effect it could have had. (Less is more.) Nevermind that computers don't sound like fat old Euro-trash grease-balls with encroaching throat cancer, but the voice did lend the movie some much-needed atmosphere. (But to suggest Kubrick's Hal 3000 is in any way related to this computer's voice is quite silly.) The music at first seems appropriate, or at least an interesting choice, but the repetitive nature of it very quickly becomes headache-inducing. (Less is more. But this particular piece of fortune-cookie movie-making true-and-tried philosophy is something Godard has never heard of, being too immersed in the works of Sartre or Hegel to have time to learn the craft of film-making.) After only 10 minutes I realized that this movie isn't going to make much sense and won't have a story, so I basically decided to patiently sit it out, hoping that at least I might find something interesting/worthwhile in it.I've checked Godard's filmography and - sure enough - the man made about 4-5 films per year, in the mid-60s. This movie is a rushed job, and it's obvious. On the other hand, considering how quickly he did it, it's not even that bad! Maybe he's some kind of genius after all.How can Godard have his characters use light-years as a replacement term for years or decades? Did this divine intellectual wannabe have no time to read up on some BASIC science, especially physics, in-between all those mostly bulls**t philosophical ramblings from the exalted German, Greek and French household names? What's with the French Bogart's description of the leading lady's teeth being sharp and vampire-like? Only moments later we are shown her face - as she smiles - and her teeth seemed absolutely normal. Or maybe I'm just too DUMB to understand the rationalization (i.e. bulls**t explanation) behind this? Nah...Maybe the French Bogey is delusional for saying this (about the vampire teeth) hence I missed out on an essential clue regarding his character? More evidence of Godard's embarrassing lack of knowledge about science comes in form of this supposed future world having conquered not just our Solar system, not just the neighbouring stars, not even just our galaxy, but OTHER galaxies, too! In the meantime, this superior human race (at least the ones in Zeroville) can't even guard their own most important control buildings, hence any clochard like Lemmy Clochard can just barge in and out of them, killing everyone in sight with his cheap pistol.And then the movie ends in a silly finale in which Godard hired all of Paris's unemployed mimes to stumble around like drunken fools. Apparently, the computer had been screwed over by Lemmy Scarface in some way, and the inhabitants of Crapoville are disoriented. Whatever... And then the movie's final words I love you. How cheesy. Love conquers technology you can't get any more poetic than that! (Nevermind that Lemmy has a face only a mother can love (unless the girl was referring to love for mankind or some such crap), provided of course that his mother is a lizard.)This is the kind of movie best enjoyed by people with an inferiority complex regarding their own intellect i.e. lack of it, the kind that insist on liking and understanding Picasso, just so they can prove to themselves and others how smart they are...Btw, if you want a chuckle, check up on a black and white photo of Godard looking at a film-reel &#150; with his sun-glasses! WAY too cool, way way too cool for this world&#133; Charlatan...(This comment is dedicated to all the hard-working French syndicate members who are seeking a 30-hour work-week.) "},{"Title":"A strange adventure indeed....","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I guess I'm missing the boat with this Godard SF-Mystery.  Images are compelling even though no special effects are utilized.  It is not difficult to follow the film, yet one is left with the impression that everything is strange.  I suppose this isn't bad as an art film, but I expected a lot more.  To me it's slightly below average and I gave it a 5. "},{"Title":"Not the best Godard","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Alphaville Godard made sort of a cocktail with spy cinema and sci-fi and deep reflections about to be or not to be... Everything's set in a future pretty similar to Orwell's 1984 where everything seems to be controlled by the authorities... I ain't an easy movie to see, you have to be prepared for what you're about to see. I mean, this ain't American Pie.A good movie, but not one of my favorites from Godard's.*My rate 6/10---------------------------------------------------------------------- "},{"Title":"Interesting Ideas Weakened by Poor Production Quality and Muddled Start","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have nothing against low-budget films, and I don't believe you have to flash a lot of hardware to make good sci-fi (an excellent example is the recent PRIMER). But ALPHAVILLE (une étrange aventure de Lemmy Caution) is a poor mix of vivid imagination and all-too-casual production. Was the swinging back-and-forth of a few large studio microphones on their boom stands supposed to invoke a futuristic tension? What about the sloppy placement of current or older model cars in 1960's city locations that rarely appear to be futuristic? These elements can, with careful setup or editing, work in a story like this. But here they seem as if they were last minute decisions, with no pretense, thoughtlessly thrown in to substitute for better set design or art production or locations. If these elements were supposed to help the satire, it was lost on me. I think what Rod Serling and crew accomplished with the use of light and shadow and often limited sets, in his original The Twilight Zone series a few years earlier, was generally more effective (and affective) in the genre than what we have in ALPHVILLE.Also not to my liking is the editing and lack of momentum for the first 30 minutes or so. I liked most of the film that followed, and found the eventual plot points fairly involving, but the introduction to this world of ALPHAVILLE lacked anything to push us forward into it. Rather than enjoying the more nonsensical aspects at the top, I only felt confused, and often bored. I'll admit that some of the cinematography is outright clever, if not just plain fun; but at other times equally dull and awkward, almost as if there were a second unit of student filmmakers, whose shots were inter-cut with Godard and crew's work. These kind of inconsistencies were annoying at best, but often frustrating - and that's not where an audience needs to go in experiencing even the most experimental types of cinema.Once we do get enough of the story to understand what we're seeing, however, there's more than a few very fine moments, and some fairly memorable scenes. There are fine performances, especially from Anna Karina, and the film is often thoughtful (even if much of the subject matter has been covered in many stories after this one). But the beginning gave me such a lost-at-sea feeling, that it's difficult to recommend wading through it to enjoy the more intelligent, creative and even exciting moments of the film.IMHO, art-house films have a tendency to get away with poorly or hastily conceived production and story elements in the name of experimentalism, but I'm not letting ALPHAVILLE off the hook. All involved could have given us a brilliant work, but there are too many problems for me to excuse. View only if you're a true Godard die-hard, or want to see how a well-crafted ending doesn't always mean a good beginning. At least the title is correct this film is certainly a strange adventure. 5 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Annoying and weird hommage to film noir.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've never been a fan of Godard and this film definitely didn't change my opinion It's rather boring and weird without purpose. It tries to be an hommage to film noir, it tries to be meaningful - and fails, especially in that last department. It's pulp, nothing more, and by trying to infuse deeper meaning into it, Godard ruins it. There are some good things, however, which start with the voice of the computer. That's just a very scary voice. Even thinking about that voice gives me the creeps. I also appreciated Constantines low key acting which is perfectly noir. I can even understand how someone could love the movie because it's different to what you get fed by Hollywood and sometimes it is intelectually stimulating. But it just didn't move me at all. I was only bored and wanted Lenny to leave Alphaville so the movie would end.Rating 4/10 "},{"Title":"Something to look back on","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not a great film by any means. I didn't find much in watching this Godard landscape that hasn't been pieced together in some episode of the Outer Limits or Twilight Zone. There is a quirkiness to the film which does have its enticements. For instance, the Alpha 60 is perhaps the most philosopher-king-like computer of any on the screen; it sure goes far beyond the HAL 9000. Yet, there's not much eerie here and there's not much suspense to keep the viewer very interested in what's going on. The ending is fairly predictable and anti-climatic. In between all the characters are an odd jumble of movements and thoughts, which says something about the future of mankind, but not enough to make me care either way. "},{"Title":"Great director but wrong material","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jean-Luc Godard was absolutely wrong to direct this film just like Francois Truffaut and Fahrenheit 451. But at least that was easier to follow and understand. This film is sad to say incomprehensible for a lot of the duration. The dialogue rambles in a manner that when two characters are talking they seem to be talking about two different things! No original set designs, costumes or gadgets. Just real French locations. This is just a French New Wave film disguised as a science fiction movie. Anna Karina does have some decent moments during the last 15 minutes of the film but by then its woefully too late. Filmed in grainy black and white which is another flaw. Futuristic films are better off in color to look modern unless its used to establish a bleak mood like 1984. What was Godard thinking? He could have used Jack Arnold on the set to give him some pointers. "}{"Title":"Some movies age well...","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"11 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... but Alphaville is certainly not one of them.The unbelievably cheap talk about artists and their role in society might have been acceptable for the naive 60s, but it's plain hilarious today.Oh yeah, the photography is real good. Big thing. "},{"Title":"It's so...French","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"10 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ALPHAVILLE is a dreadfully ordinary and derivative dystopian future tale told in the pretentious cinematic language of the French New Wave and dressed up as an homage to film noir, so everyone thinks it's brilliant.Eddie Constantine as Bogart-manqué Lemmy Caution misses all the charm, vulnerability, and passion that allowed Bogart to transcend the stereotypical tough guy role. You could believe Bogart deeply loved Bergman (or Bacall, or Hepburn, or Gloria Grahame). Here, Constantine and Anna Karina produce as many romantic sparks as a pile of damp gym socks. I can't imagine ever caring what happens to these dullards.And am I the first to notice that M. Godard doesn't know what light year means, or just the first to have the bad manners to point it out (funny, people didn't ignore George Lucas's 12 parsecs error in a certain much-better film)? "},{"Title":"terrible--like a French version of Plan 9 From Outer Space","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"29 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" OVERRATED ART FILM ALERT The following film is adored by sophisticated and with it film fans. The fact that the average person may find the whole thing unfunny and bland is due to their just not being smart enough to understand and appreciate this masterpiece.One reviewer wrote minimalism isn't a crime. No it is not, though creating a horrible and pretentious film and labeling it art should be. This is a terrible movie and there's practically NOTHING positive I can say about the film. Yet, mysteriously it receives a lot of critical praise while the average viewer might find themselves dumbfounded by its banality--sort of like the old story of the Emperor's New Clothes! Like the little boy that yelled out the Emperor is nekkid!, I am yelling this film STINKS! in the hope that it will prevent you from wasting your time watching it.As I said above, the movie reminded me of Plan 9--mostly because of the incredibly amateurish camera work, choppiness of the film and the $1.98 that was spent on sets and props! Some say this is because it is part of the French New Wave Cinema Movement. I might agree if that's another way of saying bad French films. For example, the computer that rules Alphaville with an iron fist looks like an old space heater (and I really think it is) and the film looks like it was shot in 8mm! If this film was NOT by Godard and if it was not labeled new wave, it would have been seen as pretentious crap with no real reason to watch it (unless you want an unintentional laugh).The acting was generally on par with the average zombie film (though with less emotion) and talented people, such as Akim Tamiroff, were completely wasted. The music, at first seemed pretty good, though after a while its repetitiveness really annoyed me.Now this brings me to Jean-Luc Godard. Although this director has an exceptional reputation, I just don't see why. When I saw his most famous work, Breathless, I was not particularly impressed--it's at best an average film about some nasty people who most viewers will care less about. However, since then I have seen a few other of his films and now realize this MIGHT just be his best film! Pretentious crap like Alphaville, First Name Carmen (Prénom Carmen), and Pierre le Fou are terrible films no matter how artistic they might be.Judging by how many found this review helpful and how many did not, it is obvious that there are widely divergent views on this film. Go ahead and see it for yourself--just don't say I didn't warn you! "},{"Title":"Weird","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While it does not come off as art for art's sake, it nevertheless lost me. Actually, I don't so much think that it lost me as that there was not much there.  The plot is weak.  The film is largely snippets of a society gone amuck, ruled by a computer that makes Hal seem nice.  When love gets dragged into the mix, it does not wash, as the film does nothing to show the viewer any love between the lead characters.  On the Star Trek scale from Spock's Brain to City on the Edge of Forever, this is a Spock's Brain.  "}]