[{"Title":"It makes my heart ache just to think about it...","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"85 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Some things are so wonderful you can't quite believe they exist. A technicolour heaven with a young Catherine Deneuve at her most beguiling and beautiful in a film that's entirely sung in the most exquisite way? Pinch me, I still can't get over the fact this film exists.Everyone has a film they return to when they're feeling jaded, sick of Hollywood or simply because it's raining outside. I have two films I turn to at these times. One is Singin' in the Rain; the other is this little gem. Both transport me to a world of colour, joy and heartache, yet both stay just the right side of sentimental too.Of course the plot is a little convoluted; of course the entirely sung script makes it a little jarring at first - but just sit back and let Les Parapluies do its magic. You won't regret it. I promise ;-) "},{"Title":"I Will Wait for You","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"61 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Maybe not. Les Parapluies de Cherbourg is one of the most beautiful movies ever made with an enchanting and haunting score by Michel Le Grande, and totally focused, sharp and creative direction by Jacques Demy. Catherine Deneuve gives a fine performance in pinkish white makeup with her blonde hair pulled away from her famous face, at twenty playing a seventeen-year-old shopkeeper's daughter who falls in love with a garage mechanic. He is called away to the war in Algeria after making her pregnant. Will she wait for him as the award-winning song proclaims? Will their love endure the long separation?All the dialogue is sung. The script is terse with nothing extraneous to the bittersweet story. Because the dialogue is stripped to the barest essentials, the singing seems natural and enhances the dream-like quality established early with the rain falling on the umbrellas and the cobblestone streets of the seacoast town. The sets are splashed in vivid color. Everything is superficially romantic, but the events are the starkest realism.When a young girl if forced to choose between love and security, which does she choose? It depends on the circumstances, and sometimes circumstances and the passage of time can change her heart.I was a teenager in France when this was made in the sixties. The backdrops of the white Esso gas station, the red and yellow passenger train cars, the bouffant hair styles on the girls, their eyes heavily made up with mascara and black eyeliner, the ubiquitous bicycles and the little French cigarette roller cars all brought back vivid memories of youth as did the musical score. A question what ever happened to the other girl, Ellen Farner who played Madeleine? To be honest I found her more attractive than Deneuve who of course went on to become a great star and an acclaimed international beauty.Farner was never heard from again.Some scenes made more effective by their simplicity When Genevière (Deneuve) returns home after a late evening with Guy, her mother (Anne Vernon) surveys her daughter and exclaims, What have you done? Genevière retorts sharply, Mama! and it is clear what she has done. Also, as Guy is going off to the army Madeleine arrives upon the scene as he is saying good-bye to his stepmother who is ill. They exchange glances that reveal Madeleine's love for him. And then she sings out softly in the heartfelt regret of parting, Adieu, Guy. We know these are not the last words that will pass between them. Additionally, the brief, beautifully structured, final scene at the shiny new Esso gas station is not to be forgotten.The scenes with Roland Cassard (Marc Michel), the suave, traveling man of means who sells Madame Emery's jewelry so she can pay the taxes on her umbrella shop, are nicely staged so that we can see at a glance that he is enormously taken with Genevière and that the mother will do everything possible to further his case. It is agreeable for those identifying with Genevière that Roland is not only well off financially, but is as handsome as the garage mechanic. But will he still want her when he learns that she is pregnant with another man's child?Jacques Demy who also wrote the script is to be commended for the effortless pace and tight focus of this romantic tale of star crossed lovers. I wish every director had such an ability to cut the extraneous and concentrate on the essentials without intrusion. The tale is an atmospheric tour de force of love lost and gained, of bourgeois values triumphant.This might be a bit precious for some, but upon seeing this for the third time, I can tell you I was enchanted anew.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Toto, I've a feeling we're not in Kansas anymore.","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"50 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  A glorious film just a few things to add to what everyone else has saidNB SPOILERS towards the bottom of the page - not that the plot is exactly a suspense- It's a realistic story on the face of it. The whole thing is reminiscent of the verismo Italian operas from the end of the 19th century, like Cavalleria Rusticana, where soap-opera plots about ordinary people are set to emotionally stunning over-the-top drama-queen music - inherently a democratic kind of style, saying that shopworkers and little old ladies have as much right to passion and glory as kings or gangsters or movie stars.- Yes, the singing is silly. But the film knows this - in the very first scene the men in the washroom joke about Carmen (another example of the same style) and one of them sings something like I'm going to see a film, I don't like Opera, I can't stand all the singing. Its a film that *knows* mechanics don't (usually) sing arias while they check the oil, and makes a joke about it. Buffy fans will have got the same point from Once more with feeling - the Fundamental Problem of the Musical is why is everybody singing?- But there is something unrealistic about it, the beauty. Everyone and everything is good-looking. The people are beautiful. The dirty old town is beautiful. Cheap bars are beautiful. Squalid damp flats are beautiful. Abandoned hulk ships are beautiful. A garage forecourt with petrol pumps and a canopy is beautiful. All the men are good-looking. And as for the women - someone asked why more men than women like this weepy film. The obvious answer is Catherine Deneuve. But Anne Vernon playing her mother is cuter than anyone her age has a right to be. And as for Ellen Farner... Guy has not one but two stupendously attractive women after him, which is about 1.99 more than the average member of the audience.- The costumes match the background far too often for it to be anything but deliberate. At first its even more confusing than the singing. Madame Emery dresses differently to match the wallpaper of the shop and her flat, sometimes her clothes even seem to change colour for no reason other than to match the scenery. Genevieve stands in front of a window while a truck that's exactly the same shade as her cardigan pulls up behind her. When she tries on her maternity dress it has the same combination of royal blue background and pink flowers as the wallpaper behind her. When she walks past the docks with Roland they are both wearing different shades of off-white - hers matches the rusting paint on the old ships, his matches the cliffs visible in the distance. When Guy and Madeleine sit next to each other outside the cafe her orange-brown clothes and even her lipstick match the door behind her while his dark brown jacket matches not only the wood behind him but also her hair - exactly the same trick we've seen when he was sitting next to the prostitute Jenny with her red dress on front of the red screen inside the other bar. We are in fantasy land here, even if it looks a little like Cherbourg. - but this is all the same as the singing. To ask how does a poor family afford such clothes? or why is the delivery van exactly that shade of yellow? is to miss the point as much as to ask why does a shopkeeper sing to his customers? or why does it always rain when we say goodbye?. In this movie, in this fantasy land, the world is turned upside down, the meek can inherit the earth (or at least look as if they might), small-town Cherbourg is as romantic as Paris, sailors and truck-drivers sing while they work, the poor wear clothes that money can't buy, the scenery changes colour to match your wardrobe, every man looks like a leading man, and every shop-girl truly is as beautiful as any duchess. - This is Singing in the Rain set in the backroom of a shop instead of the back lot of a Hollywood studio, this is West Side Story without the violence, this is a small-town Moulin Rouge, this is Brief Encounter on acid.- It's not a tragic ending, any more than the endings of Casablanca or Brief Encounter are tragic. It's the right ending. We're not so much sad for Genevieve - even though we are crying - as we are happy for Roland (who deserves a break. Even though we know he's probably a crook) If we are crying its because Guy needs to hug Francoise. We expect that the marriages will work out in the end - maybe they have worked out already. If these people are not going to be happy its not because they married the wrong partners. - and what other film has had hundreds of thousands of viewers in floods of tears watching an aerial shot of an Esso service station?  "},{"Title":"Just simply the most beautiful romantic film ever made","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"50 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" In 1957 France a 17 year old shop girl (Catherine Deneuve) is in love with a gas station worker (Nino Castelnuovo). Her mother is totally against the romance. He's called off to serve in the war for two years. They must part but have sex before he leaves. Then she discovers she's pregnant...Sounds terrible but it isn't. All the dialogue is sung and the film is done in just breathtaking color--all the sets are decorated to take advantage of this. The colors just leap out at you and some of the scenes are unbelievably beautiful. The musical score is haunting and Deneuve (who became known by this film) and Castelnuovo make a very attractive, sympathetic couple.The film is just gorgeous--I can't stress enough how beautiful it is and the music (especially the title theme) is so moving. It all leads up to a finale that has me crying every single time I see it. It IS a happy ending (sort of) but the emotions of the two characters really tear you apart.The acting is good, the film moves quickly (90 minutes) and--quite simply--this is one of the best foreign films ever made. It's not for everybody but if you're a romantic (like me) you'll love it. But be warned--have PLENTY of tissue handy for the end. I've seen it four times and I STILL cry at the end! A definite must see. A 10+. "},{"Title":"9/10","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"49 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The first of the three segments is perhaps the sunniest film ever made. It's a totally original film (at least from what I've seen); so original, in fact, that at first it's kind of off-putting -- the artificiality of the bubble gum colors (in the first segment, as they change slightly as each moves into the next), the constantly moving camera, and the fact that all of the lines are sung makes it hard to get situated within the film, for the same reason that you turn the car radio down when you're driving down a street trying to read house numbers. (I can't follow the plot, they keep singing...) And yet Demy isn't satisfied with just being sunny (and his brightness is never garish); each segment has a specific feel, the grandest being the last, with an ending that's just right. (Though it should be said that Demy never once sacrifices the pleasure he creates, nor does he fall into any stale conventions, even while his story is based on the oldest of movie clichés -- wait for me!).I hesitate to use the word melodrama, but that's essentially what the film is, both for the meaning of the word melo (music) and for the heightened emotions brought on my the music. It feels like we've got our head in the clouds, not least of all because the acting is aided by, well, the singing. The music, which is nearly always splendid (and never song-and-dancey), compliments the actors. At first the acting is very plain; or at least, it seems that way. I think that's due to the unconventional approach. Deneuve's loveliness as a young woman keeps us from responding to much aside from her beauty (and she starts off as a typical love-struck sixteen year-old), but by the end she's quite a different person, and to overuse a term applied to Deneuve, she becomes elegant. (I kept looking at her handsome costar thinking Alain Delon would have been perfect in the role; then I learned his most noteworthy film aside from this one was the Delon-starring Visconti film, Rocco and His Brothers.) Surely some people would probably vomit at a film of such shameless exhibitionism and style, but I was left astonished, thinking, How in the hell did they pull it off? 9/10 "},{"Title":"Most unfortunate if you can't bear singing in movies.","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"43 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" 1. Coloring, that is absolutely matchless 2. Even the first notes of the main theme make you cry 3. Unique way of singing in a musical 4. One of the most touching love stories 5. Beautiful Catherine Deneuve 6. It's not American 7. Made in the sixties 8. You can watch it over and over again 9. Since you've once seen it.. you must watch it over and over again 10. Esso-sceneTen more or less good reasons why this just might be the one.. the favorite movie of mine. I partly understand people who hate it, the singing is the main reason i think. But the unique way of singing! Not in the traditional way this is a musical, people just happen to sing when they talk. And the music (especially main theme) is so hauntingly beautiful it really does make you want to cry when you hear the first notes.The coloring is like in no other film. The clothing and background have been matched in every single scene of the movie. That's real cinema, that's beautiful! And if that's beautiful already, then what comes when the 20-year old Catherine Deneuve is in the lead role! Just WOW! Once again I don't bother explaining any of the plot, because there's no point really...but one of the saddest scenes in movie history, is the Esso-scene in this one. Watch it! if you're not too busy watching the latest Van-Damme. "},{"Title":"An offbeat but beautifully stylised and colourful piece of cinema","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"39 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This must be amongst the most distinctive, idiosyncratic and exquisite films I have seen in a long while. There is nothing particularly new about the plot, which is a straightforward and uncomplicated love story divided into three acts, but the beauty of this film is in the telling of it.All the dialogue in this film is sung, which at first is a little unsettling, but it actually takes very little time to adjust to. The verse/chorus format of popular music and the musical genre is eschewed for an approach more resembling a modern opera, as the characters croon their lines to each other over a continuous score. This gives the most banal of lines a rhythm and cadence of their own. Because of this I found the French a lot easier to understand than with more naturalistic films, which was fairly handy for me as the print I was watching was with Dutch subtitles! I must confess, I did find that the music (written by Michel Legrand) began to grate towards the end of the 87 minute running time but even so there is still much to admire here. Visually it's stunning, with a bold and vibrant colour palette of almost hallucinogenic intensity and sumptuous costume and set design (that wallpaper!). The opening credit sequence sets the mood perfectly a birds eye view of the inhabitants of Cherbourg in the rain beneath their umbrellas as they walk across the frame is reduced to a colourful abstraction. Catherine Deneuve is predictably gorgeous and the first act of the young couples courtship is one of the most beautifully pure pieces of cinema I can think of. It reminded me a bit of 'Jacques Brel is Alive and Well and Living in Paris', a film which I saw in television a long time ago and would do absolutely anything to get hold of a copy. 'Les Parapluies de Cherbourg' is a wonderful, sincere and uplifting film that everyone should go and see at least once, and preferably on a big screen. Once seen, never forgotten.  "},{"Title":"Pure romance with a beautiful score","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"32 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie in 1964 when I was 11 years old.  It was my introduction to heartbreaking love and this movie probably influenced my love life or how I imagined love was supposed to be.  My mother had to lead me from the theatre when it was over because I was blinded with tears.  Many years passed until I was able to order the film in VHS and watch it again (about 3 years ago). I still love it.  The vivid colors, Genevieve and Guy's beauty and youth, and the beautiful score by Michele LeGrande combine to transport you to a magical place.   I loved the fact that every word was sung, but it was not like opera at all.  After a few minutes it was as if every word is always sung and talking doesn't exist.  Catherine Deneuve was so beautiful!  I love this movie and highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Beautifully sad; a must-see! (SPOILER)","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I heard so much about this film but missed seeing it in 1964 during its first release simply because it was never shown here. I finally got to see it 40 years after its debut and it remains as fresh and enchanting as I imagined it to be. The film is quite heartbreaking because Genevieve (Catherine Deneuve) did not persevere in her love for Guy. I can only imagine what pain Guy had to bear facing war in Algeria knowing his fiancée back home was pregnant with his child and he couldn't do anything about it. The blaze of colors in the movie was a contrast to the somber atmosphere of infidelity and lost love. I suppose they both had fairly good marriages but we can gleam that they did not reach the pinnacle of joy and had to settle for second best in the end. It sort of reminded me of Elia Kazan's Splendor in the Grass--Warren Beatty's character and Natalie Wood's character--they did not live happily ever after--they just settled for second best. It is very clear that Genevieve continued to carry the memory of her lost love--otherwise she would not have made the detour to Cherbourg and meet Guy accidentally...It was such a heartbreaking scene--they meet each other after many many years and they have named their children with the same name--the name they planned to give their first-born as they made their future plans together before he leaves for his army stint. I wonder, would it still be as beautiful if it ended happily? In any case, it is one of the most unforgettable films I have ever seen. Try to get hold of the DVD copy for your collection. -) "},{"Title":"If cotton candy were a movie...","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" A very French, very idiosyncratic musical that while lacking any discernible 'songs' or dance routines manages to be one of the most affecting musicals ever written. Remy says he was inspired by American musicals, and yet a more non-American could hardly be imagined. Can we really pretend that an American studio in 1963 would endorse the story of pre-marital sex and the romance of marrying a 17-year old girl pregnant with another man's child and not feel the need to moralize or condemn? Only in France, and thank God for it. All the cast are brilliant - charming and charismatic; the production design looks like a psychedelic gingerbread house; the score is exceptional; the singing genuinely heart-felt and moving; and the whole thing is carried off with such effortless confidence and unreserved joy that it's impossible not to fall in love with it. "}{"Title":"Changing The Wallpaper","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Absolutely wonderful French musical featuring twenty-year old Catherine Denevue singing every word of dialogue along with a cast of well-known (at the time) French actors. The production is opera as only the French knew how to do it. The tale is from old Europe -- love, betrayal, remorse but cast against the last years of France's Algerian crisis. The music, well it starts to sound like side 2 of a Sergio Mendes & Brasil '66 record after awhile, nevertheless it does catch your attention and makes you focus on the story. A truly unique movie-going experience, Umbrellas is sure to entertain from its giddy start to its surprisingly poignant end. Find it! "},{"Title":"Bold Series of Uninterrupted Recitatives Constitute Demy's Brightly Colored But Sad Love Story","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" In 1964, filmmaker Jacques Demy made an audacious move by directing a deceptively simple love story completely in song. I would be hard pressed to call this movie a musical, opera or even an operetta since there are neither show-stopping production numbers nor soul-bearing arias on the soundtrack. Instead, we are presented everyday dialogue in a series of recitatives that bring a dramatic urgency to the most mundane of events. Why it works is that the story is not the happy-go-lucky romance one would suspect it will be from the bright colors of the production but rather a melancholy tale of love unfulfilled and the tenuousness of longing in the face of harsh realities. It is a Gallic version of Romeo and Juliet by way of William Inge's tale of teenage lust, Splendor in the Grass (in fact, Demy's ending bears a striking resemblance to the last scenes of Elia Kazan's film three years earlier).The plot focuses on teen-aged star-crossed lovers Genevieve and Guy, who develop a relationship through clandestine meetings despite the disapproval of Genevieve's mother, who thinks a gas station mechanic is beneath her daughter. The lovers eventually consummate their relationship once Guy finds he has been drafted to serve for France during the Algerian conflict. With Guy away, Genevieve discovers she is pregnant and must decide whether to wait for Guy's uncertain return or marry the rich diamond dealer, Roland Cassard, her mother's preference given the failing business of her umbrella shop. The story develops in subtle strokes almost like a Yasujiro Ozu film in that there aren't really any melodramatic confrontation scenes but instead moments of revelation. The wondrous Catherine Deneuve, all of twenty, had her first important role as Genevieve, and it's no wonder her career seems assured from her ethereal performance. With his earthy good looks and open-hearted manner, Nino Castelnuovo complements Deneuve as Guy, and their romance is palpable even in an amusingly contrived shot where they are obviously on a conveyor belt moving down the street. Anne Vernon lends a robust presence as Genevieve's mother as she plots her daughter's fate, and Marc Michel is appropriately bland as Roland.Along with the vibrant colors faithfully recaptured in a 1996 restoration, such artifices really add to the film's charm. However, just as essential is Michel Legrand's score with his swooning romanticism at its most cinematic (and a precursor to the music he composed for Barbra Streisand's 1983 Yentl), as it fills the dramatic arcs from start to finish. You will likely recognize the lounge standard melodies for the Americanized translations, I Will Wait for You and Watch What Happens, as they are pervasive through the recitatives. I enjoyed the movie very much but realize this will not be everyone's cup of tea, especially those already alienated by the musical genre. One can see this as an even more exaggerated form, but you can probably tell by the first two minutes whether you will be enraptured by it. The DVD also includes an excerpt from Demy's widow Agnes Varda's illuminating 1995 documentary, The World of Jacques Demy. "},{"Title":"Magical with 3 great scenes","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The first time I rented this movie, I fell asleep. I was not ready for singing gas station attendance in an absurd world of extreme colors. The one thing I picked up from that partial viewing was that this movie was unique.Years later I gave Umbrellas a second chance...knowing what I was in store for. Once I got past that 'god this is silly' feeling, the movie started to grow on me. The movie kind of meanders with trite situations, almost setting the story up for three peak moments ***SPOILERS*** The first masterpiece scene is of course I Will Wait For You. The song is beautiful, and by this time in the movie you're perfectly willing to accept the fact that the couple can 'glide' down the street...they don't need to walk, they're in love.The second great scene is the closing of Act One at the Train Station. I love the fact that it's short and without the overkill Shakespearian dialog. My Love and I love you...simple and painful.The ending of this movie may very well be the best ending to a movie ever. Part of it's brilliance is that it just comes out from nowhere...December 1963 is the only warning. It looks like another random scene at the gas station, then a car rolls up and that familiar music begins to play (it's like the music to Jaws...you just know something is about to happen.) The tension is as thick as any war or action movie...I mean just the guy asking what type of gas she wanted was stressful. It's perfect, probably because it seems so real (and they're still singing that crazy dialog.) This movie is not for all taste. But if you can get into it, it's magic. I've seen the movie now over 10+ times...it's sickening how it grows on you. "},{"Title":"Bittersweet brilliance","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Pure cinematic joy - and that's just on a 32 TV. I would love to see this on the big screen.Let yourself be transported by the beautiful images and music. This film is life-affirming and moving, without ever resorting to over-sentimentality. I keep hearing the main theme tune in my head and welling up inside. A haunting and beautiful experience.*** Spoilers follow *** Guy's decision to forego an embrace with the daughter he has never seen has to be one of the most moving moments in film. It is this, rather than meeting his ex-love once more that is heart-breaking. At the same time, it indicates that Guy is the one to have truly moved on and probably ended up with the right partner too. The moment his wife and son return outside the garage is equally moving. The end is therefore uplifting and brutally crushing at the same time. Bittersweet brilliance. "},{"Title":"I can't believed how much I loved this film","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I still can't believe that I LOVED a film in which EVERY line of dialog was sung by the actors! When I first heard about this, I was VERY hesitant to watch, but decided to give it a shot. After all, I really like French films.The story concerns the love between a young girl and her slightly older boyfriend who is called up for military service. Can their love survive the many obstacles in its way? --Other than that, I'd rather not reveal the plot or the twists, as I'd hate to spoil it for the reader.Suffice to say, this is an absolutely beautiful film throughout--especially the incredible cinematography. So beautiful and engaging that I found myself in tears as the movie concluded--and the ending is one of my favorites in film history. This says a lot, as I don't usually find myself so affected by movies. Have some Kleenex handy! "},{"Title":"Unusual, romantic and realistic (Spoilers)","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The umbrellas of Cheurborg is an very unusual musical. They're is no dancing or talking. I enjoyed the singing and melody.I think it's interesting that they never stop singing, because it probably is fairly difficult and needs a lot of talent. And that's what they indeed have! The singing becomes so natural, that you even stop thinking about it! I was surprised to hear someone talk after the movie. Also, the colors are extremely bright. Especially the pink wallpapers in the heroines house and her green dress she wears in the beginning. It's also interesting how it starts with the hero, then switches to the heroine, and ends with the hero. Catherine Deneuve has a charming charisma, and is a real treasure. She and Nino Castelnuovo have a nice chemistry, which makes the film successful in the romantic elements. The heroine's mother is a typical way of portraying parents in films, but Anne Vernon pulls it of so well that it didn't bother me at all. All characters are believable and even the end is realistic. I won't tell you how it ends, but believe me, it ain't no stupid Hollywood ending! Everyone I know have dedated whether the endings sad or not- personally I don't think so. I have to also say, the translation is perfect! I have come across a few fairly awful ones, so it was a pleasant surprise to see that they had really tried with this one. The directer, Jacques Demy, impressed me with his brilliant, superb, moving writings and directions. He has created one of the most beautiful love stories. And I just don't like any romance stories, so believe me, this one works perfectly! It's also one of the most spectacular musicals. It a movie everyone should see, from youngsters to adults. "},{"Title":"The majority of comments seem to miss the real meaning of the ending.","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"30 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Many people seem to think that both Guy and Genvieve are aware that they have settled for second best.I don't think that was Demey's real intent. Guy is handsome, but not motivated to work hard enough to please a girl who sees herself as fit for a crown. The buffont hair, mink coat,& finery. Roland's trophy wife ala 1964 at 22! Madeline, on the other hand is every man's wet dream. Beautiful to the same extant as Genvieve, just STILL WATER RUNS DEEP sexier, and does she love their life together.? and does he? You bet they do!!The ending is the very greatest affirmation of sensual marriage and healthy family value ever committed to film! It is a secular moral revelation! It is a moral lesson like A Place in the Sun, which taught that you shouldn't have ongoing sex with someone you know is unsuitable for marriage. I saw that at about 10...my father wanted me to start learning some practical morality! "},{"Title":"Truly a masterpiece","Date":"28 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie many years ago, when I was still a boy. It must have been shortly after its release, when I was 11-12 years old. I went with my best friend; the film was recommended to us by my friends mother. She talked about how the dialogue was all singing. We thought that sounded weird, but we went anyway. I remember that I was truly moved by this movie. I remember that I thought the singing dialogue was weird at first, but after a very short while, it appeared natural, and I didn't think about it anymore. I remember, that I was truly in love with the lovely Catherine Deneuve. I remember, that her choices and her fate was not wrong. It was only sad. I remember how the wonderful tune of the main character touched my heart and stayed with me ever since.I only saw the movie again a few days ago. So many films from the 50's and 60's loose their magic when you see them again after many years. Not so with Les Parapluies de Cherbourg! The dialogue is not quaint like so often felt. Perhaps, the singing dialogue keeps it forever young. The words ring true and fresh like ever. The dilemma of love and life is present as a real and forever relevant question. The acting is subtle and discrete, underplayed almost, free of theatrical overacting and dramatization. The music is amazing. Les Parapluis de Cherbourg is a truly timeless, moving and worthwhile masterpiece. A true gem. Watch this movie with someone you love. "},{"Title":"Timeless musical romance","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It was a rare privilege to be present at a film house screening of the restored print of this timeless musical romance. Seldom do I find myself actually holding my breath at such beauty, but that's what happened. The restoration was astonishing, and the years slipped away and the audience was there in 1964.  The accolades awarded this remarkable achievement have been duly expressed.  I can only concur and sing this film's praises, too.  It is a one-of-a-kind work, with all elements of the production uniting into a masterpiece.Legrand's score weaves its through-composed themes utilizing leitmotifs, recurring patterns, Faure-like harmonic designs, and structural forms into a hypnotic flow.  His recitatives are perfectly blended into the rich texture, and move naturally and beautifully, recalling such ingenious French opera realizations as Bizet.  Yet, Legrand's main songs are likewise woven into the score, like arias--haunting in their simplicity and sweetness.  The singers on the soundtrack are excellent, and the choice of actors to match the vocal work is done to perfection.  Nowhere in the annals of cinema can one find a work like this lovely creation.  Thanks to the painstaking task of restoration, all can once again thrill to the original French version of The Umbrellas of Cherbourg.   "},{"Title":"magical","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" What can I say, this is one of the most magical and beautiful films I've ever seen. It does sound a bit silly at the beginning, with all that singing in the garage, but then it just takes over you entirely. A word of warning though don't watch it with your girlfriend. Because, sorry, but it is not about her, it is about the past. About things that were happening once, that were so great while they lasted, but that did not last long. That you want to forget, and yet don't want to forget. If you were ever young and full of love, and then the world collapsed, and yet you now feel masochistic enough to actually want to re-live every single moment of it, then this film is for you.What amazes me most is that this film is actually so incredibly simple. Despite all the singing, there is no high poetry, dying of love, pompous gestures, and all that stuff. But that's precisely what gets you, what makes it so true and so how it actually happens. You just come, and she is gone, and then nothing makes sense any more. End of the world is actually amazingly simple, the world just ends.And about what happened to the Guy next. One might say that he moved on too soon. But I can tell you that the most unbearable thing at this stage is _not_ having someone next to you. When it used to fill all your life and now there is just void, it is simply beyond what you can comprehend or live with.And the finale! Wow. And again, there are hardly a few words there, How are you - fine. Yet that's exactly how it happens. You want to say so much, you want to bring it back all over again. And yet you don't want it, you know that it won't do anybody any good, and it won't really happen. You cannot walk into the same river twice. The river is not the same, and you are not the same.And I haven't even mentioned the music. Which is absolutely magical. And again (did I mention it), it is so simple, yet it completely blows you away. It pours with rain, with snow, with sunshine. It promises, it worries, it straggles, it swipes with all the rain and sadness, it brings the past back. Every time you hear those accords, it just brings the tears to your eyes.It is so sad and yet so beautiful. "}{"Title":"Powerful, stylized art!","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I wasn't planning on watching this movie when it aired on TCM last night. The on-screen TV guide's synopsis sounded dreadful a movie with the dialogue entirely sung? Um, no thanks! But it came on after a movie that I _was_ watching, and I was elsewhere in the house and didn't bother turning of the TV, and on came The Umbrellas of Cherbourg. About 10 minutes into it, I found myself loving the music. The French was so beautiful, and the voices were so clear and melodic. I went back into the TV room and rewound the movie to the beginning (thank you Tivo!) and watched the entire thing. It was just that captivating! The music, the singing, the bold colors, the attractive actors, the sweet and sad story ... it all hooked me and reeled me in. I would imagine this is a film that you'd either love or hate, as it's so out there style-wise.The story is told simply -- not simplistically, but simply. Like with a good silent film, we don't need tons of dialogue to understand what's going on -- we can supply the details and the emotions ourselves, and that makes us part of the picture ourselves, not just mere observers. I felt that somewhat with Umbrellas as well -- the singing dialogue briefly touches on the underlying emotions, and we fill that in with our own experience and emotions. And of course helping with this is the music, which has its own language and touches you in places words can't reach or describe. I found the whole conceit of the movie to be quite effective, and not gimmicky at all ... it was a genuine, artistic, and powerful means of conveying an all-too common story and making it so much more. It is a beautiful piece of moving art! "},{"Title":"An absolute gem - possible spoiler","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Just saw this film at long last on Sundance channel. I was in high school the year it came out and remembered the theme music which enjoyed a fair measure of radio play at the time. And, I had seen other films by Catherine Deneuve, so I was pleased when I happened on it. The non-stop singing and the vivid colors were a bit much at the beginning - I was a bit reminded of Baz Luhrman's Moulin Rouge although that had much larger sets and more obvious camera movement. Following sub-titles is also a challenge - three and a half years of studying French in school has left me with a limited ability to read French and almost no ability to follow a conversation, let alone songs. And yet, the music is so good and so much of the film just makes sense emotionally that you could almost figure out what is going on without any words at all. The use of explicit titles to identify year and month as the story jumps across several years helps to keep the audience on track with the development of the characters and there relationships, as does the obvious clues to the seasons (flowers in spring, snow in winter). The snow falling in the final scene just before Christmas helps to set the mood as snow makes everything perfect and new and covers all the hurts of the past. BTW, I don't know if they did product placements in films in those days, but a few scenes (especially the end) almost look like a commercial for Esso petroleum products. "},{"Title":"Sixties French Magic","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Most outstanding in this 1964 restored classic is the score, an outstanding '60s soundtrack by Michel Lagrand and dialogue by director Jacques Demy. Stars Catherine Deneuve as Geneviève, the story is about her and her boyfriend Guy (Nino Castelnuovo) who wants to marry her, but has been drafted in the Army to fight in Algeria.All elements converge to create '60s French magic as much sweet sorrow's invoked.Also here is great cinematography and it should be said this is not one of those schmaltzy Rogers and Hammerstein-type musicals...well just a bit of schmaltz, but the plot's got an edge, as does the style. You don't have to be into musicals to like/love this, just into great film and music. "},{"Title":"There's a reason why I'm obsessed...","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  There's a reason why The Umbrellas of Cherbourg garnered the Palme d'Or at Cannes when it was released; it's a cinematic experience unlike any other. Agnes Varda, wife of deceased director Jacques Demy, had the film restored and resurrected in 1996, and the new print makes the film all the more visually stunning.  Demy as a director was heavily influenced by the musicals of the forties and fifties, as well as his native France.  His meticulous attention to detail, however, took the concept of the musical to new levels with this film.  Yes, the film relies on melodrama, but the world that Demy created, all sung, all brightly colored fluorescents and pastels, is one that we can only dream of inhabiting.  Don't miss it for anything. "},{"Title":"My favourite movie of all time!","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie at the cinema a few months ago - and I instantly fell in love with it!I didn't know anything about it beforehand - and when I found out it was an all singing musical I almost left the cinema because I normally hate musicals (all that singing gives me a pain ;-)However, after the initial ridiculous lines such as Is my car ready yet ... the engine knocks a bit when its cold but thats normal ... merci it develops into a beautiful tragic love story with enough room for you to make up your own mind as to what went wrong.The sets / costumes are beautiful (never thought I'd say that in relation to a movie.), Catherine Denevue is gorgeous (lets face it, she still is 36 years on!) and the music is wonderful.Take my advice - if you haven't already seen it, go out and buy the DVD! If you don't have a DVD player then get one of them too!  (I've watched it so often I'd have worn out a VHS tape by now!)Incidentally, its interesting that stereotypically its women who are into romantic movies - and yet most of the comments about this one are from males - other than the only negative one I've seen!   "},{"Title":"The Most Beautiful Movie Ever Made","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Jacques Demy's direction and story, Michel Legrand's score, Jean Rabier's cinematography, Bernard Evein's design, and of course, Catherine Deneuve. Any one of these alone would put this film in the running for such a title, but this combination of exquisite music, stunning visuals and especially the heartbreakingly poignant tale of young love make this a film that stands alone and above.  I return to this film again and again. "},{"Title":"A NOT-TO-BE-MISSED VISUAL TREAT!!!","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Les Parapluies de Cherbourg is a unique film that incorporates all that is good in movie making.  Catherine Deneuve and Nino Castelnuovo are superb in their roles, the colors are surreal, the dialog poignant, but the absolute best part is the haunting score. NE ME QUITTE PAS will echo through your mind long after you have seen this film. It is the best movie I have ever seen in my whole life. I can recommend it without reservations, even to those who do not speak French or are not ardent Francophiles. Try it and experience the joy for yourself! "},{"Title":"A film for lovers, and for lovers of film...","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Imagine the pitch to `le studio` A realist Algerian wartime romance set to music with all dialogue sung `en francais`, which takes place in the nondescript fishing port of Cherbourg...Strange, then, that The Umbrellas of Cherbourg is a milestone of  European cinema. Superficially it has a simple storyline garage mechanic boy falls in love with umbrella shop-girl; girl gets pregnant; boy is drafted to Algeria, love tragically compromised; boy returns; girl has begun lifeless marriage to jewel dealer, film ends on snowy garage forecourt. But from these banal `quotidien` details emerges Demy`s brilliantly  willful blend of continuous jazz-score, hyper-real colouring and sheer French style. A critic at the time commented that even the wallpaper should be Oscar-nominated, and viewing the wonderful 1996 re-print one can only concur. The music undeniably drives the film along, and central themes `I will wait for you` and `Watch what happens (theme de Cassard)` went on to be hits for Frank Sinatra, Tony Bennet and Jack Jones. Michel Legrand`s imaginative use of traditional orchestra with big-band jazz lead him to be approached for similar duties on `The Thomas Crowne Affair' some years later. Notable also for Catherine Deneuve`s cinematic debut as shop-girl Genevieve, the film simply dances in front of your eyes. (No mean  achievement for a story set in Cherbourg.)A film for lovers, and for lovers of film. If you want to know just what stylish direction looks and sounds like... you will be enchanted. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"C'est si bon!","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this film a few weeks ago and I was blown away. I loved the colors and the costumes (they match the wallpaper!!!) The music stays with you for days and the images are unforgettable. I suggest seeing Jaquot after seeing Umbrella's. It really gave me an understanding of Demy's motivations. Happy screening!  "},{"Title":"A New Genre","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  A wise man once said a great song becomes a picture in which you can imagine the words. Now imagine a visually created musical universe of individual thoughts, all created by the same words, the same song. I know that might sound a little heady but even a MUSICAL has dialogue; words.Les Parapluies de Cherbourg, an unwise man once commented, WAS a musical, it is not! After a while of watching the film you forget the dialogue is entirely composed of song, and even though there were no songs that i went away humming from this picture, the images slowly became something other than film, and the songs became something other than song.With Les Parapluies de Cherbourg, Jacques Demy created something entirely new, something no other film maker has been able to achieve with film and music. Sure the great silent films of cinema's early days were able to achieve an atmosphere of people worship to which the entire film making industry the world over still suffers and although there was no dialogue and very little music, sometimes accompanied live with the showing of the film, silent films were never as Magical as this, simply because i have watched a few... and we always knew we were watching a film no matter how impressionable we were...Not only does Demy manage to create a world in which nothing is real seem real, he creates a place, love and a film along with A song that you wish were a part of. No!!! that isn't what I want to say...what I want to say is this... If you see this film it becomes a part of you and you will become a part of it. And as I like to think...in ALL the old cinema's and film festivals and private living rooms where this film could, can, and will be played... I know where ever it is showing it just isn't the same without me.Les Parapluies de Cherbourg stands as the only film ever made that is its very own genre. Others may have tried...but what sense does any art make if it doesn't at least attempt to be something original? "}{"Title":"Is there a lovelier film than this?","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  LES PARAPLUIES DE CHERBOURG (THE UMBRELLAS OF CHERBOURG) (1964) 9/10I'm a fan of musicals. From TOP HAT to CABARET, from SINGIN' IN THE RAIN to MOULIN ROUGE, I just love them in every possible way. But I must confess that I was a bit worried before watching THE UMBRELLAS OF CHERBOURG, directed by Jacques Demy and starring the wonderful Catherine Deneuve. Not because it's French- some of my favorite movies are French (THE DISCREET CHARM OF THE BOURGEOISIE, BELLE DE JOUR, JULES ET JIM, SMALL CHANGE). That was because every line in this film is sung, something that made me love and hate EVITA. Watching it, I discovered one of the most lovely and beautiful films ever made, and also one of the most realistic musicals. If the characters talked instead of singing, this would still be a great film. But the music adds a charming, irresistible atmosphere that is never cheap or schmaltzy. Deneuve never looked better as the girl whose passion for a young man suffers all kinds of trouble. The ending will make some people cry, but naturally. Naturally as the lines are sweetly sung by the actors.This is not the kind of movie you are used to watching, not even the usual kind of musical. It's just a wonderful film that will make you forget the world out there. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Beautiful visually. One of those films where you can't help but notice the importance placed on colour as it relates to set design, costume, props, etc. Painterly precision. Wanna teach someone the possibilities of great mise-en-scene? Almost every frame in this film could serve your purpose.Then there's the film's gimmick all the dialogue is sung. When I was watching this film, I kept thinking one could write a really great paper comparing this film to Moulin Rouge. Both unorthodox musicals. Both quite melodramatic. Love is the main theme in each. But to me, Moulin Rouge was multicolored whip cream compared to the sumptuous sundae, with rich ice cream, fresh fruit, and tasty chocolate syrup, that is Umbrellas. I preferred the latter film in a major way. Of course, there are some who would prefer Umbrellas before even seeing it. Rare French New Wave flick vs. hyped Hollywood production? For elitist moviegoers, the choice is already made. That's not me, though. It's just, Moulin Rouge's in-your-face approach represents the excited overachiever and Demy's film represents the calm ACHIEVER. See both and tell me you disagree.What makes Umbrellas so rich? It's a package. The story may be melodrama, but it is fascinating, beautifully-structured melodrama that holds you in its grasp as it unfolds. The story is extremely well-done and the movie has THE best ending I've ever seen in a romantic film. I won't reveal it, but let's just say that those ready to dismiss the film as sentimental before seeing it are missing out on pure genius. But the sentimental will enjoy this film as well. You have these baby boomers who look back fondly on stuff like Zeffirelli's Romeo & Juliet when this is 10x better. Anyway, characterization - amazing. Each character is fleshed out well and engrossing in their own way. Add to that impressive, touching, memorable performances as well as striking attractiveness (that last one is not something I look for in a film's characters, but for those who do...). Then there's the realness of the story - the way it touches on the politics and current events of the time (the war with Algeria, etc. - French colonialist pigs!).As I said, it's a package. Any complaint this movie could inspire would sound petty. I'll come out and say it - it's a masterpiece. If I made it, any slump I hit, I'd remind myself, I've made a masterpiece. I've made a valid contribution to the world of art. I am satisfied. If you get the chance, check it out. Without a doubt.   "},{"Title":"What about Nino Castelnuovo?","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I have read through many - but not all -- of the comments on this movie, and I am shocked -- just shocked -- not to find any praise for Nino Castelnuovo who plays the mechanic-draftee Guy.  Everyone seems to be captivated with Catherine Deneuve -- which fascination is understandable, I admit.  But lack of attention to the centrality of Guy's role -- loved, betrayed, redeemed -- and blindness to the acting and handsomeness of Nino, are totally, totally unforgivable! IMHO. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the greatest French film ever made","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Although I am a fan of French cinema, I feel this movie can be enjoyed by everyone.  The story of two lovers separated by unfortunate circumstances has been told so many times that by now it has to be sung.  The beautiful music, the lovely singing, the bright colors and the gorgeous young couple betray the harshness of life in Cherbourg.  Ultimately, the wonderful gloss of the movie can not hide the pain experienced by everyone involved when the realistic wrong path is chosen by Deneuve.    "},{"Title":"A dazzling but slightly flawed jewel","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This film is powerfully rooted in a particular time and place (1950s France - specifically Cherbourg, during the Algerian War). At the same time, however, the director addresses universal themes of love, absence, opportunity and regret.The glimpses of Cherbourg are tantalizing, and somehow achingly beautiful for anyone who has ever spent any time there, and the color palette is simply stunning.Catherine Deneuve looks stunning too (she never looked quite like this again - even in the second half of the film she has already changed). The simple plot is carried along, at least in the first half, by the convincing nature of the relationship between Deneuve's character and her mechanic boyfriend.The film is slightly spoiled, however, by the rather disjointed plot in the second half, and the lack of variation in some of the sung dialogue (in fact there are no spoken words in the entire movie). However, it is worth watching for the look alone. The best music comes in the scene at the railway station, which somehow manages to feel emotionally authentic despite being so stylized.So watch the movie if you can. There is no other like it. "},{"Title":"Great French musical about passionate love","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This French musical is about tragic love between young people and interesting ideas about changes in one's life after passionate, but tragic love affair.Well, this French musical unlike American musicals My Fair Lady, West Side Story, Oklahoma, Chicago (2002), The Phantom of the Opera (2004) will undoubtedly make the viewer think more deeply about passionate love and true-to life situations, catharsis of the musical due to many aspects in setting, language, and plot.The setting, the plot the language are French style, so it means you can expect passionate twists, suspense and intrigue. Also the music does create interesting mix of jazz, instrumental and classical tunes, which are merged with the spoken language of the characters.The characters of the movie reveal tragic social changes in lives due to different social status (mechanic, the daughter of the lone mother, the jeweler who had tragic love affair, the ill old woman). On the one hand it looks that the love affair of the mechanic and young daughter is romantic, bears resemblance to Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet story, but on the other hand it is shown that young people do not have patience to fight for their love ignoring social status, money. Because of that it is shown that young people suffer.The work of the film director, and other people is interesting to watch because of different camera angles, very colorful interior of the houses, and atypical for the French or American musical end of the love story.A musical worth watching and thinking about the message. "},{"Title":"Excellent musical","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" A wonderful musical film from Jacques Demy. Set in a fantasy Cherbourg (a French seaside town famous for its rainy weather) during the late 50s and going on for several years, it consists in three acts. First act Genevieve (a very young Catherine Deneuve) is a teenager living with her mother, with whom she works in a shop that sells umbrellas. She fells in love with Guy (a car mechanic, played by Nino Castelnuovo), who is only a little older than she is. Her mother opposes the romance, as she sees Genevieve as too young and Guy as too poor. Guy is drafted to the Algerian war for two years, but not before leaving Genevieve pregnant. Act two Genevieve's mother not only has now an unwed pregnant daughter, but the financial situation of her shop is dire. Fortunately for her, a diamond dealer in love with Genevieve agrees to pay her debts. He wants to marry Genevieve (despite being pregnant with other man), and eventually Genevieve will agree. Third Act Guy returns from the war with a limp in one of his legs. He goes to Genevieve's shop, but sees that mother and daughter have gone. He becomes bitter, is soon fired from his job. His beloved aunt dies, and after that, he marries her caretaker, Madeleine. With his aunt's legacy, he is able to buy a gas station. He and Madeleine have a boy. Final Scene Christmas Eve. Genevieve, now married and with a daughter, arrives with her car to Guy's gas station. Surprised to see each other, they decide to go inside the station to talk, but they both soon realize that their relationship belongs to the past. She goes away, and soon Madeleine and their boy arrive, and they celebrate Christmas by throwing each other snow balls. End of movie. All this is done through sung lines (rather than songs proper). It's an extremely entertaining and amazingly fluid movie, despite not having the traditional happiness of musical movies. Demy tried to repeat the magic a few years later with Les Demoiselles de Rochefort (also with Deneuve), but he couldn't; that's a much weaker movie. Only quibble with Cherbourg Isn't the constant product placement for Esso a bit too much? "},{"Title":"Glorously romantic yet surprisingly clear eyed","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" A semi followup to Jacques Demy's Lola - both Michel Legrand's main theme and Marc Marcel's character return - The Umbrellas of Cherbourg is surprisingly upbeat despite its subject matter. A traditional lost love story set against the backdrop of the Algerian War that separates the lovers, it opts for a less than traditional realistic ending that shows how their lives change, not necessarily for the worse, after they are parted. It's last act is darker than people give it credit, dealing with the young hero's disillusion on his return, oddly enough made more affecting by the triteness of what precedes it. While shot in some of the most glorious colour imagery ever seen, the dialogue is little more than sung banalities, whether it's a declaration of undying love or an extra asking where the paint shop is, which somehow grounds it. Even the location of the finale, an Esso filling station, is ultimately mundane, yet somehow becomes a gloriously romantic location for a wistfully bitter parting. "},{"Title":"the highest artistic level without speaking - without speaking of glorious words","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The most original and one of the most wonderful musicals I've ever seen. Masterpiece of the times, when European artists were able to make pleasant, not difficult films at the highest artistic level. Les parapluies de Cherbourg is a kind of fairy tale without happy-end. There is a beautiful photography colored with taste and lyricism but without realism; courageous idea of singing simple, ordinary words during whole film; incredibly beautiful music of Michel Legrand and not worse, lovely Catherine Deneuve as a naive teenager fallen in love. But there is also a realism - in characters' feelings, in the way they love and suffer. And this is the only thing important in the story. "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Little more I can add that has already be said, other than that this has the most heartbreaking ending of any film I can think of. The stoical way the guy turns down the chance to see the daughter he has never seen and gets on with looking after his petrol station slays me every time.Everything that is great about French cinema is here. The emphasis on human relationships over plot, the disregard for tradition, the love of women, the love of life.I would recommend anyone who likes this film to check out Coppola's One From The Heart too. "}{"Title":"beauty beyond violence","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Monsieur Jaques Demy deserve more attention than he receives now. he made lot of brilliant films always clever and playing with borderlines close to fall in situations that could be very ridiculous, but he never fail and gives like in Parapluies de Cherbourg some of the most beautiful films ever. Les Parapluies are color, real color like nobody give us before(color as statement),is songs, never before a film was entirely sung, meaning every simple dialogue, a simple yes or no, is sung, is happiness but no an artificial one, happiness surrounded with problems like in real life; is locations that everybody knows(like a garage) in a middle of a musical, is the intelligence to tell a story beyond the easy plot solutions full of violence of these days; its a film that your old auntie can enjoy beside you and both can obtain something great for your own lives. Where at the start you just see a kitsch film, slowly becomes a masterpiece because the intelligent and coherent style of Monsieur Démy.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful music, beautiful love story","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  In the beginning the fact that the characters are singing all the time is a bit ackward, but don't give up on the movie, you quickly get used to it. Some of the songs are wonderful, the kind you can't keep from humming for days afterwards.You have to know a little French to enjoy the movie fully, it certainly wouldn't work in another language. I'm not too much of a French speaker myself, but the singing actually makes it much easier to grasp the words.Ok, I admit, the young Catherine Deneuve was one of the reasons I watched the movie in the first place, and I wasn't disappointed, she's truly magnificent. The story about the lost love between a mechanic and an umbrella girl is probably both simple and banal, but I love it. Don't miss this film. "},{"Title":"Genius. Gallic Genius.","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This film is a glorious and beguilling mix of radiant Hollywood-esquire musical and melancholic Gallic melodrama. If it doesn't have you humming along to the tunes and drawn in to the story then you must be just about dead. The raindrenched streets and technicolour sets are nods to the great Hollywood musicals of the fifties, but this film is not about usual musical love story, it is about as real as you will get with singing characters. There is an almost perverse depression that pervades this film. A darkness. Lost youthful love clings to this film.The first act has all the romance of that first love, the second act is a quite beautiful meditation on a tough decision and the third act has all the redemptive darkness of a great character study.Catherine Devenue is stunning in the lead role, her luminous beauty and the characters understated sense of humour makes you understand Guys feelings in the third act.This film will make you sing, smile and cry. It is that good. "},{"Title":"The Wallpapers Of Our Lives","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Young lovers Guy and Genevieve (Catherine Deneuve, with  superstar written all over her pale, flawless face) are torn apart by circumstance in 1957 France, but not before their breathless teen love results in a French bun in the oven. Genevieve is forced to make the choice of a lifetime, whether to wait for pretty playguy Guy to return from war, or to forego true amour for stable moneybags Cassard. Her naivete gradually unravels, and as in all coming-of-age tales, she must kiss her innocence good-bye forever. Though often dated in its technicolor sensibility and melodramatic delivery, this simple love story melts like a tasty, psychedelic confection. So eye-popping is each frame, in fact, that it's easy to visualize an army of harried set designers feverishly concocting the brilliant hues and geometries of its palette. Given the haunting presentation of life's heavy, inescapable issues and the bitter aftertaste of life's sweetest moments, this idealized musicartoon still mesmerizes with sexy jubilation(don't miss Genevieve's widowed mother shamelessly flirting with every Frenchman in sight!)and the realization that things will, at least for some of us, somehow work out in the end ... as long as we keep singing to the invisible orchestra. "},{"Title":"Creative, but not unique","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The Umbrellas of Cherbourg is a beautifully filmed story of Romance in '50s France.  It's about young love that just can't be because of a disapproving mother, a war, and a mild surprise in part 2.The film in one way is a novelty since ALL of the dialogue is sung.  It's not just a musical with spoken dialogue and musical numbers.  But it's not a greatly original concept.   It's really a filmed opera with fancier sets.   Like an opera, the story is told in 3 acts (or parts).  And like an opera, all of the dialogue is sung.   A typical opera usually consists of an overture, preludes to acts, arias, recitatives, and choruses.  There's little to any in the way of recitatives (i.e. monologues) or choruses, but is plenty of the rest.Michel LeGrand had the unenviable task of scoring all but about 30-seconds of this 87-minute film.   That said, he did a fantastic job, and managed to use probably no more than 6-8 themes for the entire film.  Of course, this means you may get tired of some of the music after a while... but at the same time, you become familiar with the music and are able to pay less attention to that, and more attention to the story as it develops.By no means, is it the greatest film or even musical, but it is very enjoyable.  Rating 9 of 10. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I love french cinema, and I love Catherine Deneuve.  This film makes me gush.  I don't think there's anything more romantic than Part One, and even though the film takes the turn it takes, it somehow retains the romanticism. Umbrella's is truly a masterpiece....from Legrand's score to Demy's direction and brilliant use of color.  The restoration is amazing and the film is suddenly widely available - so there's no excuse to miss this classic. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film with entirely sung script and marvellous wallpaper.","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Proof that style can transcend plot, Umbrellas of Cherbourg is one of my favourite films, even though its simple story of lost love is nothing special, though very moving and uncliched in the way it develops. What makes it extraordinary is that the entire script is sung. The film is also visually stunning, with an amazing sequence of costume-coordinated wallpapers. "},{"Title":"emotional, powerful and corny","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is perhaps one of the greatest french movies ever made. It could only be done in french - it simply would not work in english. And any attempt for Hollywood to do so would be a farce. It is a fantastic film because of the way it handles its characters and manipulates us to perceive them the way it wants. Yes, the ending is sad, but definitely the right one. I remember first watching it and although it took a short while to get used to the non-stop singing, the film soon grabs hold of you and you're not even aware of it. The signature tracks are all super and emotion-stirring too. The scene where Guy and Genevieve are with each other in the cafe, heads locked intertwined together, is perhaps the most heart-wrenching in the film. I had goosebumps. It is a corny film. And that is the best thing about it, there should be more like this today. The lack of them is a reflection of how our society has become.  "},{"Title":"A musical that compares the expectations of love with the harsh realities. The heart sings and breaks.","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Umbrellas of Cherbourg is a unique film experiment. It's a musical where every line is sung. Even the mundane lines which have little to do with the film. While this style could be expected to be under threat of being too sweet, the film avoids this by approaching sentimentality with heart-wrenching reality, which the musical aspect of the film highlights. It's a love story. And the film is aware that it begins as a movie love story, addressed by the fact that the protagonist genuinely expects to die if they are parted. Instead of dying, the film explores one of my favourite deep subjects in art, by comparing the expectations of love brought on by pop culture with the harsh reality without being overdramatic. It's nostalgic and extremely genuine.As expected, the omnipresent music is absolutely wonderful and can speak for the film's emotion even without translation. How they managed to fit in the dialogue so fluently is incredible, let alone perform it. The set decoration and costume design is another highlight as well, with bright and bold colours, which the sweeping camera movement compliments perfectly. Despite the broad story, the film is surprisingly small scale with a limited use of sets, but the colour palette makes the world feel huge. There's some incredible use of match cuts as well. Though this film has a fantastic and charming atmosphere, it's the simple and effective storytelling that makes it, particularly the heartbreaking and subtle end. Bona fide classic.9/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" 1. Coloring, that is absolutely matchless 2. Even the first notes of the main theme make you cry 3. Unique way of singing in a musical 4. One of the most touching love stories 5. Beautiful Catherine Deneuve 6. It's not American 7. Made in the sixties 8. You can watch it over and over again 9. Since you've once seen it.. you must watch it over and over again 10. Esso-scene Ten more or less good reasons why this just might be the one.. the favorite movie of mine. I partly understand people who hate it, the singing is the main reason i think. But the unique way of singing! Not in the traditional way this is a musical, people just happen to sing when they talk. And the music (especially main theme) is so hauntingly beautiful it really does make you want to cry when you hear the first notes.The coloring is like in no other film. The clothing and background have been matched in every single scene of the movie. That's real cinema, that's beautiful! And if that's beautiful already, then what comes when the 20-year old Catherine Deneuve is in the lead role! Just WOW! Once again I don't bother explaining any of the plot, because there's no point really...but one of the saddest scenes in movie history, is the Esso-scene in this one. Watch it! if you're not too busy watching the latest Van-Damme. "}{"Title":"One of my favourites","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I love musical films and movies with romance, so The Umbrellas of Cherbourg when I first saw it a year ago was more than ideal. I loved it then, and since then I've seen it many times and find something new to love about it each time. It is such a beautiful movie, in the gorgeous music- one of my favourite movie musical scores actually-, the colourful visuals, the charming and touching(if slightly convoluted occasionally)story and Catherine Deneuve at her most irresistible. And it is also a unique one, not only in the sparkling sung dialogue but in how it's sung too, it always surprises me at how interesting the singing is and how the singing is done. The cast are uniformly excellent, though it is Deneuve that makes The Umbrellas of Cherbourg so good, the film moves quickly and the direction is sharp. All in all, a real bon-bon of a movie. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Interesting and respectable classic","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" For me, this is one of those movies that become delightful and thoroughly likable once you know it in its entirety. In other words, it is not about the surprise's force&#151;but about the meaning of the acquirement. The film's force comes from its conception, from its aesthetic principles. The content is skillfully distributed. Excellent and satisfying shape, that uses but six characters&#151;a minimum of characters.It is Deneuve's film, undoubtedly. Exquisite and even thrilling beauty, Deneuve made the '60s her decade. She had several opportunities&#151;she used them fully. Les Parapluies De Cherbourg came when Catherine Deneuve was 21. Throughout the movies, she looks stunning. By then, she was already a mother&#151;she had a son with Roger Vadim, Christian Vadim-- born in '63. (Roger Vadim was the first of her more famous liaisons , followed by other four men--David Bailey, François Truffaut, Marcello Mastroianni and Pierre Lescure).It's also obvious that the director understood well the advantages of this highly stylized dramatic form, and he gave it a decent content. When Demy used them, these melodramatic devices were no longer real internal necessities&#151;on the contrary, as conventions they were a luxury. It is Demy's merit that he abstained from turning them into whims. He made them work is this film. He gave them some meaning. Demy gave his stories and intelligent and unconventional air. It is known that each frame is a plastic and color composition. The musical theme that signals the couple's scenes knows a deserved fame. On the other hand, there aren't any other songs worthy of mention in this film. Les Parapluies &#133; is one of the giant machineries conceived by Demy, and meant to startle, amuse and amaze. Here the canvas is very small &#150;only a few characters, as I said, and a masterful pace--,yet the impression is of a big machinery , a big machine made by Demy for it's own sake, a pure demonstration of the virtues of a genre. In this sense, Demy's reputation is fair, he is rightly perceived as a creator of such intelligent delightful machineries that have as purpose the grand fun. Demy's whole career as a director was a project&#151;an experimental project. Fortunately, it was also a successful one. He achieved to manage this fancy genre he had patented as if it were a popular genre, though it obviously wasn't. In cinema, I love bold projects, experiments, large scales, the dynamic continuity, the identity. I like the achievements, the ideas that manage to be transformed into a functional work of art. Demy's career is one of the success stories.The masterpieces&#151;or at least very good movies-- that Deneuve made in the '60s are well known&#151;several delightful classics&#151;between '64 and '67-- Les Parapluies De Cherbourg, Repulsion and Belle De Jour&#151;or, in other words, Jacques Demy, Roman Polanski, Luis Buñuel. Her best roles are, I think, in the last two of the films indicated. In Les Parapluies &#133;,Deneuve is not required, of course, to give any extraordinary creation; on the other hand, she looks quite glamorous, and there are some moments when she is endearing. The role doesn't elicit much _expressivity, and the performance given by Deneuve is understated, of a praiseworthy undertone. "},{"Title":"Monsieur Dubourg's singing voice","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I was wondering if anyone knows who sang the short part of Monsieur Dubourg (the jeweller in the scene where Cassard first sees Genevieve, who has come into the shop with her mother to sell her pearls). The part played by Harald Wolff, who was also in State of Siege. The scene I'm talking about is set to the same melody as Recit de Cassard and is the first instance of that melody in the film. Unlike the other characters, the singing voice for Dubourg is not listed , either in the IMDb cast/credit list or on the CD of the soundtrack. Whoever sang for Harald Wolff was one of the better male singers in the film, a great baritone in my opinion. "},{"Title":"A perfect movie","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie with no translation as I can speak french, the lyrics are selected with a great sensation , the music is superb and completely harmonized with each word, this movie can be considered as one of the best musical films in the 20 century. The movie theme is unforgettable , you can hear it playing in your mind when ever you remember the romantic scene of Geneviève and Guy. The master scene in this movie is the last scene when Guy asked Geneviève to leave and then his wife Madeleine and his kid Francois returned and he started to play with his kid insisting on forgetting his old love. I think that no one can ever do such a master piece except with Catherine Deneuve and Nino Castelnuovo. "},{"Title":"Doomed Love","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Young love becomes thwarted by circumstances out of their control in Jacques Demy's musical masterpiece THE UMBRELLAS OF CHERBOURG, and released at the bracket of years when Hollywood was turning out behemoths like MY FAIR LADY, THE SOUND OF MUSIC, and MARY POPPINS, among others, this one remains the most experimental of them all. Where the traditional musical features pauses in between songs and have energetic dance numbers (a style Demy would exercise in his companion piece THE YOUNG GIRLS OF ROCHEFORT) UMBRELLAS is about as close as anyone can get to an opera without having trained singers a la Maria Callas and Placido Domingo ever appear. All the lines are sung (dubbed by singers who replace the actors). As it is, it predates EVITA by thirty years, and is most important in succeeding in its innovative style. Another crucial difference between UMBRELLAS and its American counterparts is the fact that despite the explosion of color from all sides, it's a fairly tragic affair; a sad story that at times becomes heart-wrenching, particularly in two key moments when Genevieve says good-bye to Guy at the Cherbourg train station, and when they finally meet up again years later, both clearly changed individuals who have set up families with a vague remembrance of a lost chance at love and happiness. Even so, it's not a depressing movie UMBRELLAS simply doesn't decide to go overboard with an delusional attitude towards love and relationships -- that would happen in YOUNG GIRLS, where the movie would shriek out the longing and the exuberance that is absent in the former. Young love sows its seeds, even when the parties involved may have to part ways. This film marked a breakthrough for Catherine Deneuve who at age 20 is ethereal and luminous and nobly suffers throughout the entire story; after this she would set forth a career that continues alive today. "},{"Title":"Tres Bien!","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Here is a film where I knew many of the songs before I got a chance to see the film.I bumped into this gem one morning recently...and what got my attention was the songs. I have heard these songs as piped in elevator music in the 70's when I was a very young child waiting for the doctor or dentist. Since I saw the doctor and dentist on a regular basis, I grew familiar with a few of the songs in this film. But I had NO idea it was in a movie until now. When I finally saw the film, I started humming the songs! What an interesting film this is. My first all singing film without it being a musical per ce was Tommy and I thought that was the first one, now I know it was not. This one was surreal. The colors were meant to stand out, you can't help but notice.But here is a love story we all want to avoid - to fall deeply in love with someone only to have a parent not let you be with him/her because he's/she's not rich enough. Love happens and most times, it's without money being the driving factor. And this is what happens to our two leads. They love for love, but...it's not enough. Not for momma.But throughout time, we discover that for many, money is a driving factor in love. In this film...there are two people who fall in love with each other, belong together who settle for...and yes, I will say it...second best ... thanks to the almighty dollar. A tale told time and time again, this time in glorious surrealism and music.I really liked this film - and it's interpretation really is rich for the early sixties. I would think that as you watch it, you will decide how you think what the ending really means and that is one of the joys of the film. Let's you figure out where YOUR heart is.A true gem. "},{"Title":"intertextuality","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" one of the most interesting things about this movie is the sub-text of the mother's infatuation with the diamond-seller. On the surface, she's trying mightily to make a match between her daughter and this guy, but when she finds out he's interested more in her daughter--!! It's a nice complication, and quite subtly done.I really have little more to say, but I see I must have at least ten lines, so I will also admit that the music of this piece will haunt you for the rest of your life, and it doesn't hurt that you get to spend 90 minutes in the company of one of the most beautiful women in the world--but I did wonder, at times, if she actually sung those lines. "},{"Title":"Some kind of Lola 2.","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" At the end of Lola,Roland (Marc Michel) is rejected by the heroine.We find him back in Cherbourg,where he will play an important part in the plot.Les parapluies de Cherbourg is an unique movie,not only in French cinema it extended the Musicals concept by using an entirely sung dialogue.It does not work without some ludicrous lines ,which the non -French -speaking audience cannot notice.Singing in a garage about a broken-down car would be guaranteed to net nothing but horselaugh..but there's the magician Demy,abetted by talented Michel Legrand.Legrand's score integrates snatches of Bizet and the great organ during the wedding scene.The scenery is bright,with vivid colors.The town is daubed with green and blue pastels,candy pink and mauve.All the actors give successful performances, Anne Vernon iis as effective as her daughter Deneuve.Strangely,the characters recall the thirties Pagnol movies,and the ending has got something from splendor in the grass.Demy would try to repeat his sung dialogue in une chambre en ville(1984) ,but time had passed and the main drawback which was mastered in les parapluies (singing about things that are too down to earth!)ruined the eighties work.NBThe lead female part was intended for a real singer ,Isabelle Aubret.Because of a car crash,she was not able to play it. "},{"Title":"Only the French Could Have Made a Movie Like This!","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  What a beautiful and sad movie this was!  The score, as everyone before me has no doubt already noted, haunting and beautiful, and I loved the fact that every word of the script was sung.  It's amazing how much music can add to the feeling of a movie.  If the characters were to simply speak the simple lyrics (at least as they were translated into subtitles), it would have seemed banal and trivial.  But the way they are presented here -- c'est magnifique! "},{"Title":"wonderful movie indeed","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I like French movies; they always have a realism to them. I also like them cause they're almost always done in a very artsy way, and this one was no different. The artsy part is the way the colors are shone in the film. They kind of stick out from the rainy back-drop. Another notable thing about the film is how it was all done in a singing style. The director has to be commended for that.  "}{"Title":"fresh, innocent and sad","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I recommend this to everybody except to the following folks those who don't like musicals, those who like fast-paced movies, and those who don't like sad endings. "},{"Title":"Technicolour, European Sirk musical. Seriously.","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Essentially, this is a highly stylised European reworking of a Douglas Sirk drama. Despite beginning and ending with the male protagonist, Guy (Nino Castelnuovo), the story is really about the unarguable star Catherine Deneuve. She works in her neurotic mother's umbrella shop and pulls the other, more benign women into the drama via her love for Guy. Remarkably the film takes the form of a through-sung musical (i.e. no spoken dialogue). This has mixed fortune Michel Legrand's score manages to be light and fluid enough to remain unobtrusive whilst providing melodic tweaks for the principal characters; the stylistic nature of the music means that it's crooned, which allows for plenty of effective close-up work and consistently accurate lip-synching.However, the dramatic range of the actors is necessarily restricted to the score and the measured manner of its delivery - the drama has to rely on the story and its development (sensibly kept lively by Jacques Demy). One gets the impression that the operatic proforma of the film acts as a sugaring of the pill - or a gaudy umbrella to keep out the rain of reality, the symbol of the title credits in fact.If the project succeeds, which I think it just does, it's basically down to the conviction of the production team and cast. There's no postmodern sniggering at the awkward naivety (unlike the audience at the screening I saw). The joy and heartbreak are sincere, if dated, and the production pursues this authenticity given its medium to make a grown up film. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A unique jewel of a movie","Date":"17 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I first happened on this exquisite jewel of a movie several years ago after my teenage son told me he'd watched an unusually poignant episode of Futurama featuring a song called I Will Wait For You. Intrigued, i did some research and found that it was written by Michel Legrand and Jacques Demy and was from a cult French musical movie called The Umbrellas of Cherbourg, in which every word of dialogue was sung. This i had to see, so I ordered it up on DVD. From the minute i first started watching it i was entranced, and i still am today. My son watched it with me, and so was he. This unique film is almost beyond criticism. I don't agree with the often levelled objection that the central theme is slight. The pain of young love, and the dawning realisation of how the world really works, these are things of universal importance. I love the way the movie raises so many questions that could have so many different answers. Did Genevieve ever really love Guy? Did she/will she ever really get over him? Did he/will he ever really get over her? I love the way it creates the drama using believable characters who in their own ways, despite the mistakes they make, are all actually rather likable. The use of colour and attention to detail are amazing, the music striking and memorable, and the English subtitles are terrific. A lot of films are let down by their subtitles, but these are literate, witty and often quite subtle. (At least they are in one of the two versions I've come across. The other, which from its reference to gasoline rather than petrol I assume to be American in origin, is considerably inferior.)For all those reasons i would already have considered it my favourite movie ever, even before i recently and belatedly bought on DVD Demy's earlier film Lola. Watching that movie has brought a whole new dimension to Umbrellas. It features one of the characters in Umbrellas, Roland Cassard, and his love for a dancer, which is recapped briefly in the later film. We learn how although Lola has a good heart and cares for Roland, she can't return his love because her heart belongs to another man, Michel, the father of her child, who left seven years before and has never come back. She has never quite given up hoping that he will, but tells Roland she plans to go away for a couple of months to think about things, implying that there may be a chance for them when they meet again. Roland meanwhile is himself about to go abroad on business, so will also have a chance to put his thoughts in order. The situation is further complicated by Roland's friendship, mirroring what happens in Umbrellas, with an attractive widow who is obviously interested in Roland and has a precocious teenage daughter (though this one is 14 rather than 16).Lola the movie ends with Roland about to leave for Johannesburg, unaware that Michel has just returned unexpectedly and Lola has committed her future to him. Roland has spent most of his life up till now in his home city of Nantes drifting through a series of unsuitable jobs, and in desperation has agreed to a decidedly dodgy assignment involving the smuggling of diamonds. When we next see him a few years later in Cherbourg, 200 miles from Nantes, he's a rich and successful businessman in the jewellery trade who's always away on mysterious business trips. So what is he doing in Cherbourg? Has it got anything to do with the fact that the widow's daughter Cecile went there when she ran away from home? Was he bitter when he found out about Lola and Michel and how did it alter his view of the world? Is his wealth based on the proceeds from smuggling, and if so is Genevieve at any time aware of this? Why can't Roland aspire to anything more than a marriage of convenience? What's the real significance of the parallel between the two widows and their daughters? Could Umbrellas possibly have a darker subtext than is commonly suspected? You could keep returning to these questions again and again over the course of a lifetime, and that, more than anything else, is why i like this movie so much. "},{"Title":"The Umbrellas of Cherbourg","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" When I read the title for this film in the book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die I knew it was a foreign film, from France, but I had no idea it was a musical, so I was most intrigued to watch, from director Jacques Demy (Lola, The Young Girls of Rochefort). Basically seventeen year old Geneviève Emery (Catherine Deneuve) lives in an umbrella shop in Cherbourg with her widowed mother Madame Emery (Anne Vernon), and she is secretly in love with twenty year old auto mechanic Guy Foucher (Nino Castelnuovo), and the two of them want to get married. She reveals this to her mother however, and she objects thinking that her daughter is too young and that he is not mature and well-established enough, and he may be required to do military service, and shortly later he is sent to Algeria after being drafted to serve in the war, but before leaving he and Geneviève consummate their love. Following this Geneviève is pregnant, while he is away he hardly communicates and they have drifted apart, so she listens to her mother's strong encouragement to accept a marriage proposal from Roland Cassard (Marc Michel) (he previously appeared as the same character in the film Lola), the affluent gem dealer who is in love with her and promises to bring her child up as his own. Guy is discharged from service before his two year term is up due to being wounded, he returns home and finds out Geneviève is married with a child and has moved away, and following this he sinks into deep depression and anger, which he struggles to control. But Guy recovers from his state when he falls in love and married young Madeleine (Ellen Farner) who had been caring for his aunt Élise (Mireille Perrey), who is now deceased, and she left him an inheritance which he uses to fulfil his ambition to open a service station. Years pass, and Geneviève, who is now discernibly wealthy, has returned home with Françoise (Rosalie Varda), her and Guy's daughter, and have an accidental meeting at his service station, their short conversation is obviously filled with unuttered fondness and regret, and in the end they finally part ways. Also starring Jean Champion as Aubin and Harald Wolff as Monsieur Dubourg. Deneuve is beautiful and gives a great delicate performance as the young woman longing for love from one man until fate changes everything, Castelnuovo is interesting as the man who is in and out of her life, and Michel is likable as the wealthy man with good intentions. The story is relatively simple, complicated romance, but what makes this musically distinctive is that every scene has singing, from the most mundane conversations to emotionally charging moments every word is spoken and sun in tune, and the picture has good use of vivid colour and design as well, it is a fantastic musical. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for I Will Wait for You, Best Original Music for Michel Legrand and Jacques Demy, Best Music Adaptation or Treatment for Michel Legrand, Best Writing, Story and Screenplay - Written Directly for the Screen for Demy and Best Foreign Language Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Foreign-Language Foreign Film. Very good! "},{"Title":"A very bright movie visually but not with a standard happy story in it.","Date":"16 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie was actually quite a surprise. I had liked Jacques Demy movies in the past so I had no doubt about it that I would like this movie as well but what I didn't expected was that this was an actual musical. Something that Jacques Demy had never done before.And not just any musical; this movie has only sung dialog in it. It's a non-stop musical, in which even everyday lines like 'hello' and 'is the tea ready' get sung. This was something i really had to get used to and to be frank, I also didn't really liked watching the movie at first and probably also wouldn't had liked it by the end (at least not as much as everyone else seems to), were it not for its story.Of course it has a sweet romantic story in it but what I especially like about it is that it really isn't a standard formulaic one. Even though the movie looks very bright and cheerful, the story is actually quite dramatic and also doesn't progresses in a way that you would expect from a romantic musical. You expect the two main characters to remain together, no matter what all of the obstacles are and what people opposing them throw in their way. But the movie really doesn't pick a standard approach and also lets its characters do some unexpected things, which all really makes this movie original and also really unique of its sort.Once you really start thinking about it and start analyzing the movie you'll notice how big the contrast actually is between the movie its look and atmosphere and its actual story. But somehow these two completely opposing things strengthen each other and make the movie work on all kinds of different levels. It works as a charming and happy, harmless movie, as well as a more dramatic and heartfelt one.But it remain mostly the visuals of the movie that stick with people. It's an incredibly bright movie, using deliberately bright colors for mostly the movie its backgrounds. And yes, the movie is visually impressive to look at and features some nice camera-work as well. It just only seems to make people forget what a great story Les parapluies de Cherbourg actually does has in it.Just stick with it, even if you don't like it at first. Chances are you really end up loving it by the end!8/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"By rights, it should have been a disaster, but it turned out to be a classic!","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Imagine an American producer coming up with an idea like this Let's do a boy-dates-girl, boy-loses-girl type story. But, instead of having ordinary spoken lines, we'll have everyone SING their lines to music composed by Michel Legrand. Not highbrow or poetic or witty operatic lines, but really mundane prose. Like, when the mother asks her 17 year old daughter how she got pregnant, the daughter will say, Well, just like everybody else. We'll cast it with the most attractive actors we can find, and have the dialogue dubbed by people with decent singing voices.Then, to keep the audience's eyes busy, not only will we have Catherine Deneuve at the height of her beauty, but we'll add some dazzling color to the movie sets. We'll paint walls and doors and building in impossibly bright crayon colors, and the interiors will be covered with brilliant,almost psychedelic, floral and striped wallpaper. And,hey! Let's not end the movie with the usual Boy Gets Girlformula----let's have them both end up with somebody else. Sounds like a potential flop in the making, doesn't it? And yet it works. I don't know why it works, but it does. The gaudy colors and sung dialogue actually enhance rather than distract from the story----and it stays with you for days after seeing it.An achingly beautiful young Catherine Deneuve plays the impoverished bourgeoise Geneviève, and the Italian actor Nino Castelnuovo her poor working class lover. Marc Michel, who starred as Lola's admirer in Jacques Demy's 1961 Lola, reprises his Roland Cassard role, several years later, as Geneviève's wealthy admirer. Will she settle for unconditional love from a man she doesn't love? Will she find happiness with the father of her unborn child? Will her dress coordinate with the brilliant wallpaper in the dining room? The end is no more formulaic than the sung dialogue or the brightly colored sets. But somehow it's satisfying, and a movie to watch again and again. "},{"Title":"The film became an international sensation, turning neophyte Deneuve into a star.","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" A French shopgirl (Catherine Deneuve) loves a gas station attendant (Nino Castelnuovo), but when he goes off to the Algerian War, she finds she is pregnant and marries another man (Marc Michel). Years later the couple reunite briefly and accidentally.The Umbrellas Of Cherbourg is a unique, delightfully colourful piece, with sung-through dialogue and camera work that enhances its faintly magical, fairy-tale quality. This was Deneuve's breakthrough film role, and she makes the most of it. In a category all by itself, this admittedly flimsy narrative has remained a perennial favourite, partly for its swooningly lovely music and for its moving, tear-jerking qualities. Umbrellas is the middle film in an informal romantic trilogy of Demy films that share some of the same actors, characters and overall look; it comes after Lola (1961) and before The Young Girls Of Rochefort (1967). "},{"Title":"the colours of Cherbourg","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is an unusual film, even for a musical, as every line is spoken in song. At first it was a little hard to adjust to this, but as I moved along I found I could get used to this world that Jacques Demy has created.I think the most striking aspect of the film though is its colour palette. Watching the film is like entering a confection store, except that it's your eyes that are getting a feast. While most of the scenes have this nice, pastel look, there is one key scene at a station that has a grey palette which is suitable for the sombre mood of Guy's departure.Which brings me to the film's stars. This is the second film of Catherine Deneuve's which I have seen (the first was Repulsion, another unique film experience) and my, how gorgeous she looks in this. She portrays Genevieve's young love woes really well in this. The other main characters put in good performances too (and there's nice singing a-plenty), but the standout among them for me is Madame Emery. She portrays very well the mother who wants her daughter to be securely settled.This is a beautiful film to look at, but also beautiful to hear. The score and the cinematography are perfectly teamed and work well to give the film its unique atmosphere. Highly recommended viewing. "},{"Title":"Candy-coated tragedies and operatic first loves","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" A quick bit of personal history I first saw this in May 1996 theatrically, in a newly-restored print. It was about a month after breaking up a 6-year relationship which I didn't want to end, though I should have. She was probably the least-romantic person I've ever met - not that she didn't have romantic notions in the larger sense, nearly everyone does, but the romantic part of relationships she didn't get. Or her idea of romance was just so remote and unexplainable that I could never figure it out, and she could never have told me. Why 6 years, I'll never know. She probably hated this film. I, on the other hand, am as enraptured by it now as I was on that first viewing 13 years ago and the couple of times in between. From the first shot of the harbor of Cherbourg panning gracefully down to an overhead shot of candy-colored umbrellas in the rain, to the final mirroring shot of an equally artificial-looking Esso station in the snow five years later, it's pure sentimental, stylized magic. Some have mentioned that there isn't much in the way of character development in this admittedly very simple story of young lovers parted by war and ultimately finding new relationships and lives apart from each other - but I think they're missing the point. It's not supposed to be terribly real, or rather it is suffused throughout with a sense of heightened reality, exemplified most obviously in the entirely sung dialog and in the brightness of the color scheme, but also in the intensity of emotions that could, after all, be experienced by any of us. It doesn't matter that I don't really know Geneviève or Guy - they are any young lovers and what the film is about, it seems to me, is that bittersweet feeling we all have towards our first loves. At the end of the film, both are married and it is fairly clear that they have made the right choices - one thing I find fascinating is that the two leads are both rather weak and passive, and in both cases they end up with stronger, more aggressive and more competent partners. Had they ended up with each other, what kind of future would they have had? The music - well, you can't take the music out, or it does, in fact, show its thinness. Here's a great quote from Jonathan Rosenbaum's long review regarding composer Michel Legrand's contribution to the film Though Legrand isn't credited as the film's co-writer, his collaboration with Demy, who wrote the lyrics, suggests that he may well deserve to be, for this is a film in which the score and the narrative are inseparable, shaped to the same architecture. Demy once noted that Umbrellas should be described as a film 'in song' the way that some films are 'in color.' If one can't get past the notion that this is, in fact, a romantic fantasy amped up to the nth degree through color, through its plot absurdities (one night of passion resulting in Geneviève having to marry the diamond merchant, Guy's beloved godmother dying on the same day he learns of Geneviève's marriage and quits his job, etc) and most of all through the hyper-romantic music which runs the gamut from jazz to chanson, then there's not much I can say. You have to fall under the spell and take it as it is, not ask for what it doesn't provide - asking for more realism in the relationships seems to me to be missing the point. For me the only real flaw in the film at all is Deneuve, who at 21 really is a little too old for the naiveté of Geneviève, but this is a very minor point in a film that I can never grow tired of. I like Demy's next musical, The Young Girls of Rochefort, possibly even more -- and I'd suggest all who love this to make that a priority. All who hated this of course should avoid it like the plague, unless they can find a way to put themselves under the spell that they somehow missed in watching this sublime confection... "},{"Title":"A  film for all lovers of the world, the young and the old","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Winner of Cannes Film Festival's Golden Palm in 1964 and five times Oscar nominee, Jacques Demy's/Michell Legrand The Umbrellas of Cherbourg, is a superb romantic movie. It tells a very simple story of love lost but not forgotten in such enchanting, unusual, and ambitious way with such delightful results that no other musical or romance was able to achieve since. The beauty of the film lies in the unique combination of color and sound. Every word is sung with no spoken dialogs, and every scene has perfect harmony in colors with the clothes of the characters matching the interiors and exteriors of the sets. The movie made a superstar out of 20 years old Catherine Denueve as teenager Genevieve, a girl madly in love with Guy (Nino Castelnuovo), a garage mechanic. I have not seen the film for long time and should admit that while re-watching it last night, for the first ten or 15 minutes, I had some doubts and reservations about constant music and singing that make The Umbrellas of Cherbourg more of the filmed opera than a musical. But the more I watched, the more I became overwhelmed by its kind and sweet tenderness and I enjoyed with all my heart the unique romantic delight. "}{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" To all the usual praise, let me add something about the excellent acting. Everyone is taken, rightly, by Catherine Deneuve, but so much that they perhaps tend to miss the others.There is a lot of real, completely non-cynical tenderness in the acting. Nino Castelnuovo is very good as Guy, particularly in the first part, where his portrayal of unalloyed joy is wonderful. I love the scene with his aunt before he goes to the theatre. I'm surprised this film did not make him a star. Perhaps he was unlucky to have Deneuve as his co-star.Geneviève's mother (Anne Vernon) is fabulous, and so is Roland Cassard (Marc Michel) who does a great job as the tentative and kind substitute husband. I could go on about the aunt and Madeleine -- they are all great.And what a brave film this was to make -- quite unlike any film before or since. "},{"Title":"intertextuality","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" one of the most interesting things about this movie is the sub-text of the mother's infatuation with the diamond-seller. On the surface, she's trying mightily to make a match between her daughter and this guy, but when she finds out he's interested more in her daughter--!! It's a nice complication, and quite subtly done.I really have little more to say, but I see I must have at least ten lines, so I will also admit that the music of this piece will haunt you for the rest of your life, and it doesn't hurt that you get to spend 90 minutes in the company of one of the most beautiful women in the world--but I did wonder, at times, if she actually sung those lines. "},{"Title":"Great film. One minor continuity error","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Boy, I love this movie! I saw it on the big screen last night.I noticed a minor continuity error At one point Genevieve approaches the shop door dusted with snow then enters snowless in the next shot.I love how Demy brought a character (Roland Cassard) forward here from his earlier film Lola. I'll have to watch Lola again to fully appreciate his appearance here. Apparently he brought Lola's story itself forward in his 'Model Shop' film, but I haven't managed to see that one (dreadful by all accounts, but how bad could it be, really?)I've also enjoyed Demy's films Bay of Angels, Young Girls of Rochefort and Donkey Skin. I also recommend Agnes Vardas semi-Demy-biographical film Jacquot de Nantes for some interesting references to Umbrellas in the scenes that take place in his father's auto repair shop. "},{"Title":"It's raining on the heart","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" To my knowledge the only musical in film history that is based solely on song and music. It takes a while adjusting to this highly unusual way of making a film, but after a while you get quite compelled by this. It is a surprising work of art, this movie, extremely aesthetic but also very complex and very profound too, as is the case with most of Jacques Demy's (1931-1990) films. Regardless of what one might think about this film, it must be acknowledged as a great piece of work from a thematic as well as an aesthetic point of view. A beautiful but also heartbreaking experience, Michel Legrand's score is simply unforgettable. I think that it is a film that transcends the genre of musicals. It is much more than just song and dance. "},{"Title":"Unique and very enjoyable","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I bought this DVD mainly for the beautiful title, which I've loved since first hearing it in the mists of childhood. I knew they sang, I knew Catherine Deneuve was in it, I'd heard the theme song. When I watched it, however, I was still pleasantly surprised. This movie is truly original - I don't think I've ever seen anything quite like it. It's a Musical/operetta (and they sing ALL the time) but with a very realistic and quite dark storyline. The story could very well have been told as a regular drama, totally without music, and would probably have worked very well. This does not, however, mean that the operetta treatment is superfluous. Rather it adds a dimension, something eternal and bittersweet, which only enhances the poignancy of Guy and Genevieve's bleak story. This would probably be a good starting point for everyone out there who claims not to like Musicals. First, there are no transitions (people bursting out into song) since every line is sung. Second, the music never causes you to lose track of the story or the feelings it conveys. Technically, I can wholeheartedly recommend the Tartan edition from 2001. ( ASIN B00005B5YE, Catalogue Number TVD3326). It's letterbox, the colors and picture quality are great for a forty-year-old movie, as is the sound (quite important). Not much in the way of extras, but some interesting notes on director Jaques Remy and the actors. "},{"Title":"Deeply sad and profoundly beautiful ---POSSIBLE SPOILERS","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Jacques Demy's Les Parapluies de Cherbourg is an enchanting and melancholy film.  It chronicles the love story of Genevieve and Guy, and their final separation.The first part of the film evokes a sense of giddy love with its music and vibrant colors.  All the dialogue is sung, and while none of the music is particularly impressive, it is pleasant, charming, and often moving. The sets are dominated by bright, pastel colors, which convey the sentiment of the love story, and make the film one of the most visually attractive and distinctive I have seen.  It truly is a stunning movie.As the events of the film unfold, these elements, instead of producing the joyous feelings associated with a love story, enhance the sadness. Ultimately, Les Parapluies de Cherbourg is a very sorrowful movie, and the bright and charming elements, by evoking sentiments of love, emphasize that the characters' love story has come to an end, and so make the film more profoundly sad.For those who enjoy melancholy beauty, Les Parapluies de Cherbourg should be a wonderful experience.   "},{"Title":"a treat","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It's films like The Umbrellas of Cherbourg that are examples of how beautiful cinema can be. The love story here is one for the romantics - I still find it moving even after numerous viewings. The direction is stunning, it's wonderfully filmed, colorful, and very dynamic. It's a film that can help you escape from the misery of the world and absorb yourself in. Sung from the beginning to the end, it may not have the best vocal talent in the world on display, but being such an ambitious project, it's easy to get swept in. Whatever your views are on French cinema, or musicals, The Umbrellas of Cherbourg is capable of dismissing them with its romance and color. "},{"Title":"Magnifique!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  What a wonderful wonderful film. From the bittersweet singing, to the intriguing camera positions, to the story which is romantic without ever becoming melodramatic, to the music -a masterpiece in its own- , to the atmosphere, (watch that final scene with the gas-station in the snow and you'll get the point) all is styled so delicately.Sure, you've got to get used to the format.  Every line, every word, every whisper in this movie is sung.But it's well worth the effort. This movie is about ordinary people. In a surreal setting. And the beautiful thing is that the singing itself serves a purpose and you somehow feel the movie wouldn't grab you like it does now. It does so innocently. But deadly. "},{"Title":"Sound of my youth","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I must have been twelve when I saw this movie for the first time (1970). My mother, two younger sisters and I used to watch every romantic movie we could lay our hands on. The melody of the song Les parapluies de Cherbourg has stayed with me ever since. Every now and again I would hum it, never meeting anyone who recognized it. Seeing it again after such a long time was a new experience. Never expected it to be a cult-movie. Even my husband (he likes a movie when they're weird) liked it! Admitted, it's a strange movie, but I'll always feel that thoroughly romantic sensation when I think of it, as if I were twelve again!  "},{"Title":"Something completely different!","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  With a perfect mix of sound and images, Cherbourg stands apart from all other movies. From the establishing shot, the visuals are breathtaking; expressionistic colour and lighting are used to set the stage for this tragic story of lost love. Meanwhile, modern music sets the tone for each scene and for the dialogue, which is entirely sung. However, although this is a musical, the film remains realistic and it seems as if none of the story is impossible or ludicrous. In fact, the actors are not even wonderful singers, but rather average players upon the stage of the world which seems to turn in spite of their efforts to stop it. This is by far something wholly different from any other movie ever made. The only drawback is the often poor translation of the dialogue that may leave some of those who do not speak French with a bad taste in the mouth, but not without a tear in their eye! A Romance Classic!!!!!   "}{"Title":"Hello Brolly","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Okay, here's a superficial smart-ass take on this entry We're in a French port, there's a guy who loves a gal and a gal who loves him right back, arguably she loves him just a tad more than he loves her. He goes away for a couple of years but not without leaving her pregnant. There's an older guy, richer guy in love with her for whom until now she had no time. She levels about her situation and he marries her anyway and raises the child as his own. Now, hands up all those who said 'That's Marius by Marcel Pagnol, the first part of his great trilogy'. While you're wiping the egg off your faces I'll try a less frivolous take. IF Pagnol had been born in the North instead of the South of France it's just feasible that he may have written a story set in the Northern French port of Cherbourg, called his male protagonist Guy and not Marius, had him conscripted into the army for his obligatory two years National Service spent in Algeria and called his female protagonist Genvieve instead of Fanny. Jacques Demy may well have had Marius in mind albeit subconsciously when he wrote and directed The Umbrellas Of Cherbourg - and it was, incidentally, just about the same time that Harold Rome wrote the words and music for a condensed and musical version of Pagnol's trilogy which, as 'Fanny' was produced on Broadway by David Merrick - but nobody creates in a vacuum and Demy has come up with a charming, not to say enchanting movie. How referential it actually is can be left to the quasi-academic pseuds but it might be worth noting in passing Demy's self-referential nod to his earlier equally romantic movie 'Lola' in which the character of Roland Cossard (played here by the same actor, Marc Michel) was the protagonist in love with Anouk Aimee's eponymous Lola, the background music was also by Michel Legrand whose main love theme turns up again here. Younger viewers will most likely be unaware of the two half-decent lyrics that were written for the two main themes of Umbrellas and enjoyed no little success as respectively 'I Will Wait For You' and 'Watch What Happens' and those who DO remember will marvel at the banality of Demy's original words - 'lyrics' may be stretching it. It might be interesting to discover which came first, Demy's pedestrian words or Legrand's lush melodies. It's fun at that to imagine Legrand, faced with something like 'pass the salt', 'it looks like a nice day', 'the girls are wearing their hair shorter this year', etc and coming up with those gorgeous melodies (I'd rather not dwell on the opposite). Ultimately this is a movie it's hard not to like, from the muted pastels, reminiscent of Les Grands Manouvres, to the Audrey Hepburn-lite sub-Givenchy outfits worn by Deneuve and Ann Vernon as her mother. Cynics may say that it's just one large chocolate-box full of soft centres and they'd have a point but it's not too long and it does offer both entertainment and escape. "},{"Title":"Simply enchanting","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  We started watching this thinking, what the......? Within minutes  we were completely enthralled. Incredible cinematography. The costumes match the sets. A great example of how beautiful the French language is. English (read American) could never be this romantic. No songs...just sung dialogue. BRILLIANT! "},{"Title":"Wonderful music, charming story","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I was in Vietnam when this movie was released and only recently discovered it on late night TV.  Once viewed I had to obtain a copy.  Don't let subtitles stop you from seeing this film.  The sound track is available on CD and contains the complete musical dialogue of the film.  The theme melody is haunting and you find yourself mumming it for days. "},{"Title":"Pleasant surprise","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I usually detest romantic movies.  But this film totally charmed me, the most cynical person around the block.  The ending is very satisfying, and the rail station scene is pure movie experience.  Nostalgically I thought that bus station or airport couldn't do nearly as well as railway for romantic farewell.  Amtrak could really use it as their commercial. )The singing stopped bothering me 5 min. after the beginning.  Although other than four sentence of the main theme, no other music segment really stand out.   The theme was just repeated over and over, it did annoy me a little when I re-watch it the 2nd time, as soon as I watched it the 1st time.I thought was Ellen Farner (Madeleine) acted really well.  Her first scene, first glance clearly told audience everything between her and Guy, without saying a word.  Made me shake my head in envy (of her acting, not of Guy's good luck ) "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Excellent movie following in the tradition of the French New Wave. The film wonderfully pokes fun at common conventions of the American musical. Every line of dialogue is sung, and the mis-en-scene is beautifully exaggerated to an extent that makes the viewer laugh at its silliness and gaulk at its beauty. Pay attention to the dialogue and mis-en-scene.  Note the people and how they are dressed in the dance hall.  For those unfamiliar with the French New Wave, this film is not to be taken seriously (i.e. alot of it is just a joke). "},{"Title":"One of the 10 best films ever made","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Everything is perfect, the opening scene with the rain and umbrellas from above, the colours, the music (Legrands) the location and the cast (Deneuve is so lovely). The initial shock after the first singing, instead of normal talking, disappears after a short time. It´s natural, why not? It´s the sad love story that matters and Demy stands above all the others in French cinema, he has a heart, a big warm human heart. He and Truffaut are the true human directors after Renoir. Do not miss Demy's other masterpiece, Lola (60) and his wife Agnes Varda´s film about his youth, Jacquot des Nantes.  "},{"Title":"A Strange and Beautiful Film","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The Umbrellas of Cherbourg as it's known in English is hard to explain. It's a modern (well, mid 20th century) French opera set to a 60's euro MOR/pop score. It's a visual and aural treat. If you don't like it you just don't get it. "},{"Title":"It's true, it's a beautiful movie","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I never went to see this movie growing up in France, mostly because my parents loved it. I might not have loved it then (I was 15 years old) but I sure loved it now. So if there are any other French guys out there who haven't seen it, go rent it and be surprised and proud of at least one French musical. "},{"Title":"Pretty","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I guess my memory colored this. I remembered it fondly, and pulled it recently as something to watch to warm the heart here.I wanted a movie that wasn't much work, that would come to me, sugared and served. That's what I got, but I recall some nourishment from the past that seems to have seeped out of it. The anti-war message seemed strong enough at the time, but that was before the bloody lies of Vietnam, and the thing just doesn't register now. The edge is so soft it becomes a pretty protest, a decoration on history.Another French notion that fades.But there is one lovely and powerful cinematic technique here. It begins with the notion that humans create their environment. Here, it is a matter of the key people in this literally coloring the surface behind them. The last time I saw this as effectively was Emma Thompson's Nanny McPhee.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Is there an Oscar for wallpaper?","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The story is on the level of soap-opera, the music is generic French-ballade (the main tune seems to be a rip-off of the folk-song Moscow Nights), but the pictorial composition makes this film worthwhile. Every frame should be studied by decorators and dressmakers,and constitutes an art-work in its own right.It's novel the way every line of dialogue is sung, while sounding thoroughly natural, though Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk (1992) manages the same thing with much more force.Recommended for its visual beauty, but don't expect to be swept away by it. "}{"Title":"Stirs echo at the bottom of music","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Demy challenged himself in a simple way here; portray an ordinary life of hindrance and difficulty as we might know it, so a melodramatic plot about a love affair that is quashed by distance, and layer this through the desire to flow to a further distance than just hurt; release.So he makes opera, the plot is fully sang, colors are fierce and bright in celebration of a life that we would like to be in this other way, more musical than it is and yet this desirous life breaks down on the way. None of this interest me overmuch, that is to say as artifice. But it achieves an airy feel; French is such an airy language, full of vowels, unlike the marching sounds from the other side of the Rhein. It grants the cinematic breath free passage.Oh there are melodramatic obstructions the characters face, obstacles in the path of love - the girl's beau has to spend two years in Algeria in the army, there's a lot of dismay over absence, his at first, hers when he gets back. But even more important is the evocative finale where they meet again after years one night, these last two minutes are everything; there could be friction, recrimination, ego and drama, but the film lets go, grants free passage.Indeed if you decide to track this it shouldn't be just for mellifluous song and bright colors, mere aesthetics; it should be also to contemplate release in the last gesture. Demy does it as best he can without a transcendent tradition to work from, which the French don't have.But something lingered in mind after watching. How much release is there, or how much drama that goes unspoken and is carried after they part? No clear answer other than what you embody of course.But see now. The film is an extension of a previous one by Demy, Lola. The protagonist there returns as a character here, there are other parallels. Previous knowledge isn't required of course. But the choice, to deliberately echo things we may have known from a previous life (if only we have lived through that previous life), factors in what we're saying, about drama - internal narrative - that continues to echo.And more tantalizing is to note how a third film, Le Bonheur, annotates this one and the last scene, made by the wife of Demy, Agnes Varda, obviously inspired by the work of her husband and released a year later. It's not a scholarly connection I'm after; here we have work by soulmates for whom love and romance were things they shared in life, not tropes. In Bonheur we see a husband and wife who could be the boy and girl of this one had everything worked out, whose married life is as blissful as the romance here hoped to materialize. Both films are about happiness and betrayal. Even more pertinently; both are about distance, empty space, in which internal narrative begins to form.Here every emotion is externalized in earnest, the distance is explicit; he goes away to Algeria, she to Paris. There, every emotion is externalized too - by the man - and yet the distance is implicit, masterfully so, in the women keeping silent. Varda creates empty space in which we pour our internal narrative of betrayal and come to disbelieve our senses; hauntingly rendered as an ambiguous scene of death that viewers anxious for certainty interpret unambiguously.Varda goes beyond but in my eyes the inspiration is founded on Demy's marvelous last scene where everything - we presume - is let go of; except all that lingers and you carry in life only you'll know. For a few nights of marvelous introspection you will see this together with Lola and Le Bonheur. "},{"Title":"Charming (At First)","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" When this movie began, I was madly in love with it. I loved the colors and the cinematography and the opening titles and everything about the first sequence. And then we meet the characters, and we are charmed by their voices and how adorable the movie is, and the entire film keeps you invested. I was really into it until the last 20 minutes when the charm sort of wore itself off after a while. And that is NOT saying that the ending is bad, it isn't; it's just that this film might be a little longer than it needs to be. But the beautiful colors and glamor of the actors make this movie enjoyable, and the music is very nice to listen to. It sort of is like a modern day (well, 1960s) opera. No words are spoken; they are just sung. And it works, and the characters are interesting and the scenario is interesting. It's just that as it god near the end, I was looking at my watch a little more and more. It is worth checking out, and it is adorable, and it is a piece of film history. It's a wonderful experience that I think I could enjoy once, but not again after that. "},{"Title":"Much Better Than I Expected","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" As I sat down to watch this movie, I did not expect to like it. First of all, it is the worst kind of foreign film, which is to say, it is French. I won't elaborate. You are either with me on this or you are not.Then I discovered it is a musical. I like musicals well enough, but when I realized that every line of dialogue was going to be sung throughout, I groaned. One of the great improvements of Hollywood musicals over operas is that in the former, ordinary dialogue is merely spoken, whereas in operas, everything is sung relentlessly, even if it is just a husband asking his wife, What's for dinner? There are a couple of real songs in the movie, but by the time it got to them, I was a little worn out from all the singing that preceded.Finally, the story promises to be a cliché. Guy and Geneviève want to get married. However, he is drafted to fight the war in Algeria. On his last night before leaving, they make love. And you know what that means. When a woman in a movie has sex with a man just once, she gets pregnant. We then figure that either Guy will forget about her and fall in love with someone else, or he will be killed in the war. Either that, or she will be so desperate about covering up the shame of her pregnancy that she will marry someone else.Much to my amazement, I actually became engrossed in this movie, especially when the story went against my expectations. After only four months, Geneviève starts to forget about Guy. She says it feels as though he has been gone for years, and that she is losing the feeling she had for him. She has to look at his picture to remember what he looks like. It is true that she has only received one letter from him in four months, but you have to figure that a man fighting a war might not have the luxury of writing regularly (in fact, he is wounded by a grenade).And so she ends up marrying another man. The movie could have given her the standard motive of a woman desperate to cover up the shame of her pregnancy, but it does not. Neither she nor her mother seems unduly concerned about the matter. And in the one letter she receives from Guy, he writes that he is looking forward to coming home after his military service is over, marrying her, and seeing their child. It is unlikely that she would have married the other man had she not been pregnant, but we still get the sense that her decision to opt for a marriage of convenience was made possible by the brute fact that her love for Guy had faded.Before Guy and Geneviève separate, they sing the song we in America are familiar with as I Will Wait for You. The lyrics in the movie are a bit different, but the thrust is the same. The two lovers express their undying love for each other. It reminds me of the movie Oliver (1968), in which Nancy sings the song As Long as He Needs Me, referring to her lover Bill, who has no need for her at all, and ends up murdering her. We have a similar irony with the song I Will Wait for You. Although the lyrics in the American version of the song say, If it takes forever, I will wait for you, Geneviève does not even manage to wait more than four months. But the movie does not condemn her. It merely states the cold truth about love, that it creates an illusion that it will last forever, and then simply dissipates, despite our efforts to hold on to it.Guy eventually returns to find that Geneviève has married another man. Eventually, he marries too. When Guy and Geneviève finally meet again by accident, we see that they still have feelings for each other, but it is more a feeling of a love that was lost than of a love that still is. "},{"Title":"Demy's Breakthrough","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" A young girl separated from her lover by war faces a life altering decision.This is the film that Jacques Demy will always be known for (his other films say from the director of this one on the cover). While not necessarily the best (that could be debated with Donkey Skin), this really exhibits Demy's sense of color and broad range of music that he had not really been able to express before and would go on to be known for.Catherine Deneuve as Geneviève Emery is the film's highlight, although Danielle Licari provided the signing (and with an all-singing musical, that makes Licari every bit as big a star as Deneuve). This film certainly helped launch Licari's career, as she did not release her first album until the following year with La Geographie en Chansons. "},{"Title":"a lovely treat for eyeballs and eardrums equally","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" A three-act musical (or four if one counts the final reunion independently) with all dialogue sung by its characters, the second of its unique kind I've watched so far, the previous one is Tom Hooper's LES MISÉRABLES (2012, 6/10), THE UMBRELLAS OF CHERBOURG is director Jacques Demy's third feature, a controversial Palme d'Or winner, more for its groundbreaking technique than its own substance, nevertheless it instantly launched the starlet Catherine Deneuve into stardom and has initiated her extended and illustrious career not only limited in the French cinema.Denueve's glacial beauty is her calling card even in her earlier stage (the dismissive DONKEY SKIN 1970, 4/10, another Demy-Denueve collaboration, does her wrong to disguise her as a free-spirit and spontaneous princess), at the age of 20, she plays a young girl Geneviève living with her widow mother Madame Emery (Vernon), they are running a chic umbrella shop in Cherbourg in 1957, Geneviève's sweetheart is Guy (Castelnuovo), a young boy working in the local garage and lives with his auntie Élise (Perrey) and an orphan girl Madeleine (Farner). The film is slickly divided into three parts departure, absence and return, Guy is mandatorily drafted in the army in 1958, two lovers have to be split for two years. In the second act, told in Geneviève's perspective, she is pregnant with Guy's baby, but gradually persuaded by her mother to marry an affluent man Roland Cassard (Michel) and they left Cherbourg after the wedlock; and in the third act, Guy returns from the war, becomes despondent of Geneviève's betrayal, but life must go on, he inherits some fortune from Élise and marries Madeleine, and they have a boy named François.Years later, they inadvertently meet at the gas station owned by Guy, Geneviève is accompanied by their young daughter Françoise, always the most awkward reunion for two former lovers, the film ends in a more rational note when they gingerly trade conversations, leaving too many unsaid undertones flowing torrentially, and a timely farewell is a befitting coda to the lingering blues. The story may be a bit sad and nondescript, but the biggest asset is its varicolored locale settings, costumes and coiffure à la mode, even for the not-so-rich protagonists. Guy's brown suit ill-matches his black shoe, nevertheless his azure and pink shirts are divine, as for Denueve and Vernon, the daughter-mother pair dominates the show every time with their distinctive flair for haute couture and color compatibility.Also, let's not forget it is an out-and-out musical, singing voices are all dubbed at post- production nevertheless, French is already mellifluous in speaking, so the singing part sounds like an unremitting bombardment of chansons, which inconveniently degrades into monotony soon after, thus it does demand a more tonality-friendly ear to revel in the excessiveness, after all, it is a love letter to the sentimental romantics, a lovely treat for eyeballs and eardrums equally. "},{"Title":"no... thats how you spell neorealism","Date":"11 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" when I was in high school, taking french, the teacher would occasionally push a tape into a slot and show a movie. the idea was for us kids to hear the language. well, this was one of the movies. at the time, my feelings concerning umbrellas were... truthfully, I didn't know what to think. as a seventeen year old I don't think I would have recommended it. channel surfing last night I came across it again on TCM. what a difference 9000 days makes. this is a very unique film. it's not a musical, even with the sung dialog, jazzy score and saturated colors. it's stylish camera work/art direction doesn't contradict the neorealism aspect either. It enhances it.even with the star crossed lovers aspect, the film isn't sentimental or corny. and the socio-economic angle is also treated tastefully.This is an ART film in the true sense of the term. and Anne Vernon. Je t'aime. "},{"Title":"Ageless jazz opera","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" A film like this makes me think of my own life choices.It starts out like a painting that comes to life, set in the ancient port town of Cherbourg. (I was surprised to read on Wikipedia that a U.S. Civil War battle was fought off its shores.)From the cobblestone streets to the jewel-box storefronts to the grease monkeys at Guy's garage, this film is a joy to behold. And with Michel LeGrand's score, a delight to listen to. As a Francophile, I wish I could find a copy of its script. I enjoyed the crisp simplicity of the entirely sung dialogue.Adding to the satisfying unity of Parapluies is its perfect casting.Catherine Deneuve convinces as a rebellious daughter, infatuated teen, and bemused unwed woman with child. Her own mother, played fascinatingly by Anne Vernon, probably experienced the same type of out-of-wedlock pregnancy as her daughter does. Clearly, Mme. Emery is attracted to M. Cassard, yet her only conscious wish is for the security of her only child. The mother-daughter relationship here is one of almost-total miscomprehension. Cassard (a dapper Marc Michel) is interesting to watch as the wealthy, somewhat bloodless suitor who actually travels with a crown, ready-made to place on his lady love's head!Nino Castelnuovo is superb as Guy, along with Ellen Farner as Madeleine. I enjoyed the range that Castelnuovo demonstrated, going from carefree lover to ready-to-serve draftee, to depressed and acting-out Algerian War vet. The conversation between Guy and Madeleine, prior to marriage, is one of stunningly convincing depth, though its words are few.Of course, the final scene of this film is unforgettable. I've seen Parapluies no fewer than five times and this viewing I cried perhaps more than ever, due to evermore bittersweet experience of my own under my belt.This must be one of those movies that never grows old. Its haunting melodies soothe and inspire me. "},{"Title":"115 reviews so far...","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" ... and they condense every possible information and observation one can make about this awesome movie. I will see it again out of an intense curiosity and nostalgia (I saw it many years ago and left me flabbergasted --patidifuso-- with all its fantastic beauty) after having listened the radio program I mention further down.I write these lines not to review one more time the film, but just to comment that I was listening a radio program from France Culture radio and they made a reportage about Cherbourg, where this movie was shot FIFTY YEARS AGO... and they are celebrating that anniversary in Cherbourg pulling out all the stops.It seems that the filming on that location 50 years ago was a big happening for this small and quiet coal town, apparently very dirty and facing away from the waterfront (now they have changed that concept and all new buildings are facing the waters) since then the huge popularity of this movie worldwide was such a ground shaking event for the inhabitants that they became aware of their own ignored potential and started to change everything, renovating shops and cleaning the city, to such an extent that nowadays the place is unrecognizable from its past dreary image.Japanese tourist go there to visit the umbrella shop where part of the action takes place (still looking and functioning like then) and even French people go there to visit the shop and take pictures!! During these fifty years Catherine Deneuve appeared in 117 films, leaving behind an enormous quantity of documentation to her legendary ice blonde beauty. "},{"Title":"Sweet Film.","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Art cannot be for someone who fears. The director's approach fits in this quote. When I learned (before seeing the film) that it was a musical, I expected a rip off of the sound of Music. But when I started watching, everything started to look weird. All the dialogs in the film are in a musical way. You start to feel funny and irritated at the same time. The story is a very general, so do not expect much from it. It is just one normal love story that has a neutral ending with a good message. But what makes the film a must watch is its colorful cinematography. If for the first few minutes you are feeling irritated because of the musical dialogs then just wait some more and you will find yourself completely immersed in the film. After a time the dialogs, with music and everything look so normal that even such a predictable story can make you feel happy. It needed a lot of faith to make a film like this. The director has given a beautiful film which is definitely going to make you feel lighter. The most charming thing of the film is that none of the characters is shown as evil. It is the circumstances that are acting here as the obstacles. The film made me remember the films of Ghibli studios by Hayao Miyazaki. The film won the Palme d or in its time. But this is not the reason why you should be watching this, but that it is very much watchable in its own weird way.MESSAGE LifeVERDICT A recommended watch. "},{"Title":"Watch it for the music, the colors, the story, and for the diving Ms. Deneuve","Date":"30 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I have always associated my favorite musicals with Broadway, apart from this one, which is up there with my top three favorites. Filed as a love story, it also makes my top three. And Catherine Deneuve? She's definitely in my top three most beautiful actresses of all time. Then there's Michel Legrand, my second favorite composer (after Chopin, and if you must know, the third ones would be the Lennon/McCartney collaboration). How does one get so willingly hooked to a movie? Just sample the first five minutes of it, you don't even wait for the first lines of song to realize you're in for a gem of a film. Before you hear any of it, the sets are bound to get you. For the colors, those vibrant, palpable colors are a veritable visual feast. And have I mentioned the divine Catherine Deneuve? If there's anything most likely to distract your attention from the sets, it would be her presence. And last, but not least, for long after you may have forgotten the plot, you will never forget this that melodious, hummable music, a song most of us associate with having heard from childhood, that beautifully threads the scenes of the story together--and you have the perfect musical. The most poignant love story (reminiscent of Splendor in the Grass, another coming-of-age film with a most genetically- blessed lead actors), with an ending that breaks the heart, but one which I completely approve of! "}{"Title":"Beautiful--But Where's the Blu-Ray?","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" One of the most beautiful movies ever made deserves a Blu-Ray release. I first saw The Umbrellas of Cherbourg a few years ago on cable with a dinosaur CRT television, and even in that format it glowed. I want to buy the disc, but I'm holding out for Blu-Ray.The movie is stunning in every way. I can imagine a couple of female friends sharing a bottle of wine and a box of Kleenex and having a good, purifying cry. It is everything that a filmed romance should be, an amazing sung story of lost love, with a poignant ending that is--depending on your viewpoint--sweetly happy or deliciously sad.If you haven't seen it yet, don't wait--see it now on DVD. Those of us who have already seen it will patiently await the Blu-Ray. "},{"Title":"A movie hasn't made me shed tears since A.I. until I watched this.","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" As the credits rolled, I sat there with a tear streak still remaining on my face from a minute passed. I was bewildered. Bewildered by how this movie managed to invoke such strong emotion in me. It isn't a particularly sad movie. I'm not a even French movie buff. I'm not sure if I've even seen a French movie before. The movie is set in the small town of Cherbourg, France from 1957 to 1963. The walls are still all brick and mortar, covered with vibrant colors, hand painted on. Young Genevieve (Catherine Deneuve) lives with her protective mother (Anne Vernon) and together they run a quaint Umbrella shop in Cherbourg, France. Genevieve and Guy (Nino Castelnuovo) , a car mechanic at a local garage, are deeply in love and contemplate marriage but they are forced to put everything on hold as Guy (prounounced Gee in Geese) goes to serve his mandatory two years in the French army. Can their love survive the separation while she is being pushed by her mother to marry a rich jewel merchant by the name of Cassard (Marc Michel) in Guy's absence? It is a quintessential love story.Catherine Deneuve is breathtakingly beautiful. The characters are memorable and their personalities distinct. You might find that their relationship interactions a bit funny by modern standards but remember, this is set in the late 50s. Back when it was normal for ladies to lean on their partner's chest and caress his hands lovingly with their face.....while being pet like a cat. Still it added to the charm of the movie. The daintiness of the Genevieve that is, not the petting. The movie breaks down into four acts. After each act the movie fades to black and you are briefed on the next act. If you went and saw this movie upon its release, you went to the theater to watch......theater.One thing to note is that this is a different form of musical. ALL of the dialogue is sung instead of having musical numbers fitted in between spoken dialogue. The only other movie I've ever seen that has all the dialogue sung is Repo the Genetic Opera. Imagine a gothicized Paris doing a musical number; Enough said. This one's much better.Back to the movie at hand, Michael Legrand could not have composed a more beautiful and fitting orchestral score. I must mention that the score is continuous throughout the whole movie from beginning to end. And it led to a beautiful song covered many great artists. The definitive and most haunting version by Connie Francis; Titled, I will wait for you.The cinematography translates the charm of Cherbourg to film, wonderfully. The shots are simple and effective. My favorite shot in the movie is that of a departing train. I have seen my share of train scenes but I don't remember seeing it ever done this way.I recommend this movie, unless you despise theater, can't stand orchestral music and refer to French fries as Freedom Fries. I recommend watching it with your significant other (for maximum effect) and staring into their soul after the movie ends. Then put on some Marvin Gaye and get it on while keeping in mind that tomorrow may never come. "},{"Title":"Sort of like MADAME BUTTERFLY,  with a sunnier ending","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Or, for those of post-operatic sensibilities, it's kind of like a version of MISS SAIGON in which only the old people pass away. Certainly it is a stepping stone to that recently overwhelming musical and visual treat, ACROSS THE UNIVERSE. While many others see this story as sad, bittersweet, and poignant, it strikes me as more of a case of just desserts being dished out to ALL of the lead characters. If you watch THE BATTLE OF ALGIERS, which came out about the same time as UMBRELLAS, the terrorists win. On the other hand, though the French misadventure in Algeria plays the pivotal role in the lives of UMBRELLAS' lead characters, life goes on for them with only the amount of bad karma they collectively deserve for living in such a country. Americans may best understand the distinctions between these two cinematic approaches to the French war against Algeria by viewing BATTLE OF ALGIERS as that conflict's THE DEERHUNTER, while UMBRELLAS takes the position analogous to GOOD MORNING, V1ETNAM! But apart from any parallels, UMBRELLAS is an incomparable feast of ear- and eye-candy that should not be missed. "},{"Title":"Singing into people's hearts","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Madame Emery has a boutique with her daughter Geneviéve in the coastal town of Cherbourg, in Normandy, France, where they sell umbrellas.Geneviéve is in love with Guy Foucher, a mechanic who lives with his sickly aunt and godmother Elise along with her quiet and dedicated care-giver Madeleine, who's secretly in love with Guy.Geneviéve's heart is broken when Guy is drafted and he has to leave to fight in the Algerian War.The night before he leaves, they make love and she becomes pregnant, as she soon finds out.She feels like Guy has abandoned her, since he doesn't write too often.A Parisian jeweler called Roland Cassard shows interest in her and they get married.After two years Guy returns from the war with an injured leg.He finds out how things are, that her sweetheart has married another man and also the umbrella store is gone.Soon her aunt dies and he feels all alone.But there still is Madeleine whose love for Guy hasn't died.He marries her and he also becomes an owner of an Esso gas station.Les Parapluies de Cherbourg (The Umbrellas of Cherbourg) from 1964 is directed by Jacques Demy.The story is presented in three parts The Departure, The Absence and The Return.It takes place during the years 1957 and 1963.It's a great French romantic musical drama of which all the dialogue is sung.And it works, it really works.Catherine Deneuve gives such a memorable and lovable performance as Geneviéve Emery.She's able to bring both naivety and maturity into her character.Nino Castelnuovo also brings a lot of depth into Guy's character.Anne Vernon is wonderful as Madame Emery.Marc Michel is terrific as Roland Cassard.Ellen Farner gives a sweet performance as Madeleine.Mireille Perrey is brilliant as Aunt Élise.Jean Champion is great as Aubin.Michel Legrand has done a remarkable job with the music.In this movie we see these people sing their lines as if they're living in some magical fantasy world.But they also face the harsh reality of life.The movie has combined those elements in a fantastic way.It's sad and beautiful when Guy tells Geneviéve that he's leaving to fight in the Algerian War, as they sing the theme song.And also when they see for the last time at the Esso gas station and the famous tune is heard.They have both started lives of their own, but there shall always remain a place in their hearts for each other. "},{"Title":"not perfect, but so wonderful that it can inspire joy in the most depressed","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Umbrellas of Cherbourg was a film that screened in a modern European film class at my old college. This is the ideal setting to see the film (even if, as happened to me, the teacher talked and laughed incessantly throughout), since it's the kind of movie that transcends the academia setting and just lets you escape into the clouds in terms of a cinematic experience. The funny thing about the film, directed by the inimitable Jacques Demy, is that it's not entirely a light story, but it's told and expressed in such a way that you can't help but smile from first frame to last. Not every line of dialog sung clicks, but most of them do, strongly, and what would otherwise be a very sad story is elevated to a pure melodrama beat.There's credit obviously due to Michael Legrand, who has to be as painstakingly detailed in his movements with the notes and beats as does the director. Whereas if the lines and emotion were delivered as in reality, there wouldn't be a lot of hubub and sentimentality. But Legrand and Demy latch on to exactly what makes it sentimental and gives it uplift and pathos. At the same time in the story of Genevieve and Guy's romance, and the downers of unplanned pregnancy and Guy's induction to the army, is told with some humor mixed in with the drama, Demy films it as if he wants to make every color bounce off into the audience. It's the direction, not so much the story, that should garner attention for most film buffs, as it embraces color film in the same mold as did the Hollywood directors when color could first be utilized to beautiful effect in the 40s and 50s. Its subversive quality as an opera is conflated by it being very basic and very alive in every moment.But wait, what about Catherine Deneuve in her debut? If you don't see her appeal here, right before she broke out as a huge star with Repulsion and Belle de jour among many other classic or not so classic films of the 60s, then you never will. This is Deneuve with a light but totally affecting beauty, delicate enough that she can be loved (for lack of a better or more accurate description) by the camera; she looks and is very young here, and it serves the character and the story while cementing her own iconic status. Other actors like Nino Castelnuovo Anne Vernon fare well, but if there's a reason more people watch the film today it's for Deneuve, and maybe for the bright colors and ironically sunny music. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Power of the theme music","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The emotion I had still remains in me. The melody of the theme music still remains in my brain, and I can't help singing it. I don't know any other film in which the theme music is that important. It is as if the theme music is the film itself, and the plot and acting are adjunct to it.All lines are sung, but complete music is the theme music only. By this format, you don't have to care about the logic behind the plot or about detail of acting. The whole film invokes strong empathy of the audience. And you may recall the memory of your own love affair long ago.Personally, it is why I was so moved that the memory 38 years ago came back. One day, I met my former lover at Tokyo station with my 3 years old son. Watching the film, I recollected the complicated, wistful, awkward feeling of the time. I could not help tearing at the last scene.By the way, the most outstanding point of the film is that all the lines are sung. Even the line I don't like Opera, I can't stand all the singing is sung. Is it successful? Yes it is. By singing all, the lines have to be blunt. But this enhances the emotion of the love story, because love does not need reasoning. After Guy's aunt died, Madeleine says she is leaving the house. Guy asks her to stay, and she soon changes her mind. The conversation is so simple, that you know they are already attracted to each other.Another point is that everything is beautiful in the film. How beautiful Geneviève's mother is! And this town looks so beautiful by raining. "},{"Title":"A film with a unique style that grows on you","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This film is not only a one-off in cinema terms, it is in terms of any art form. It is not in the style of a usual musical or even an opera. While all the dialogue is sung as recitative as in opera, it doesn't have the regular musical highlights that musicals and opera provide. There are a number of very distinctive musical themes - most of which have been recorded by other artistes with completely different words - but at no point do we get an intended show-stopper - and there's definitely no dancing! So a first viewing can be a complete culture shock. I almost didn't persevere past the first ten minutes, but, if nothing else, the presence of Catherine Deneuve (whom I would watch singing the Paris phone book) persuaded me to continue. I did start to get the measure of things, but had it not been for the dramatic, sad, and possibly ambiguous last few minutes I'm not sure I would have returned to the film again. I did however do so, again taking a while to adjust to the 'rules' but getting increasingly involved again as it moved to the the conclusion. It was only on a third viewing after a break of several years and being ready for it that I fully enjoyed the whole enterprise - the bright colours, the town of Cherbourg which I know from a long time ago, Catherine Deneuve (I may have mentioned her already), the music with its restrained orchestration, the plot, and that ending. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, colourful musical","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" 'Les Parapluies de Cherbourg/The Umbrellas of Cherbourg' is one of those musicals which shouldn't really work, but does. It lacks big song and dance numbers (the only song which has really gone into the public consciousness is the one known in English as 'I Will Wait For You'), but nevertheless, Michel Legrand's score is addictive and effective.In Jacques Demy's film everything, even the most dull and ordinary of settings, bursts with life and colour. The film boasts one of the most beautiful colour palettes ever seen on the screen, right from the opening scene of umbrellas in primary colours rushed by anonymous people through a rainstorm.And the film has the young Catherine Deneuve. She is of course as luminous and colourful as her surroundings. As Genevieve, her love affair with Guy represents the first part of the the film, the second and third parts following each of them exclusively. The film says that life choices can't always be what we want, and mistakes have to be made. It is a bittersweet message which means that this film is no fairytale. "},{"Title":"Wet but wonderful","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It's no news that Catherine Deneuve circa 1964 is the loveliest thing on the planet, or that Michel Legrand excels at writing wistful, ineffably French ballads (though they get rather over-recycled here). What makes this fantasy-musical-grounded-in-reality so watchable is Demy's graceful mise-en-scene, pastel palette, and uniformly attractive cast. The soap-opera plotting is nothing special, and Demy doesn't even bother to stay in period -- his 1957 looks just like 1964, the better to show off Deneuve's wardrobe. (And how does she afford those clothes on a shopgirl's budget?) But carping over details is useless in an endeavor as unique and sublimely romantic as this. The bittersweet ending feels just right. And you'd probably end up humming I Will Wait for You if Legrand hadn't programmed about forty reprises of it. "},{"Title":"The most beautiful film ever made!!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This film is absolutely brilliant.  From the colors to the historic shot to the haunting soundtrack, this film is, without a doubt, a masterpiece.  It's one that lingers in the mind for days after viewing and a film that one will want to see over and over again. I'm moved to tears everytime!   "}{"Title":"Stunning","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  A simply stunning film. Following its 1992 restoration it's out now on video - do *not* miss this chance. "},{"Title":"The First Film Musical Ever Produced","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  One fundamental and innovative feature of this movie may be difficult to detect by present-day users. Even in 1964 many professional experts overlooked it. 'LES PARAPLUIS' STARTED AN ENTIRELY NEW GENRE, viz. THE FILM MUSICAL. Without any exception, the music of every previous musical was created with the aim of functioning appropriately in the theatre. By contrast, in 'Les parapluis' the team of the director (Jacques Demy) and the composer (Michel Legrand) for the first time decided to produce a work in which the sound should be 100% film music. No one had previously attempted such a task. - This innovation may seem less conspicuous today, because theatre musicals and cinema musicals have reciprocally learned from each other. But note! Even though some musical techniques and phenomena may function well in both the theatre and the cinema, this is by no means true of all techniques and phenomena. - Today it is no revolutionary view that 'West Side Story' and 'Les parapluis' belong to the ten best musicals ever made for the screen. But Swedish reviewers in the 1960s had limited musical competence. Leonard Bernstein's contribution to the former movie was called 'a heap of banal hits', and the latter movie was depreciated as 'a sugary Hollywood melodrama'. - It is definitely not my intention to belittle the non-musical merits of the movie. Even if all music had been deleted, I would still consider it a great movie. Nevertheless, I asked myself whether the music of any other film is of a comparable quality, while being at the same time congenial with the action and situations. I think there is one and only one rival, viz. 'Phaedra' by Jules Dassin, with music by Mikis Theodorakis. However, in 'Les parapluis' all music reaches the highest quality, from the first to the last note. In 'Phaedra' the same thing is true of at most two tunes, among them the love theme. - The DVD version is 31 seconds shorter than the cinema and the video versions the penultimate 31 seconds have been cut away to ensure that the picture and the music should finish at exactly the same time. It would be vainly to complain about such re-editing. However, the technique with a rotating playback-and-record-head has existed since forty years. If this technique had been applied, the cut would not have been annoying to musicians. But most regrettably, the cut is performed with ordinary scissors. - Users who do not love music, or not this kind of music, would more often than not be disappointed by this movie (although not necessarily so). - The action is very simple. Guy and Geneviève love each other. He is a motor mechanic, and she works in her mother's umbrella shop. When he is enlisted and sent to the North African colonies, she is pregnant. Continual war activity makes it difficult for him to write many letters. Geneviève's mother is worried about her pregnancy. Her pressure eventually makes Geneviève marry a jeweller, whose love may well be as sincere as Guy's. But we are not told whether Geneviève feels more than gratitude because he saves her from becoming an unmarried mother. - When Guy returns from the war and Geneviève has left the town, he becomes very depressed. But he eventually marries the nurse who had for years taken care of his godmother. All the time she had secretly been in love with Guy. - After some years Guy and Geneviève accidentally meet again, but nothing much happen at this meeting. - What so many people admire is the moods and the atmosphere of each scene; not least the transparency and depth of the emotions of the persons. Some people even feel as if they themselves experienced the events and situations on the screen.  "},{"Title":"Under my umbrella (Ella ella eh eh eh)","Date":"16 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Checking a selection of Euro Art-films which my dad had kindly picked up on Video for me,I was pleased to see that one of the movies starred an actress who I had first her about in connection to a 1977 Giallo called Anima Persa.Taking another look at the case for the Catherine Deneuve movie,something about its title clicked with me in an odd way.Searching round on IMDb,I quickly got the answer,when I found that the film had been chosen for the IMDb's Indian Cinema board's next joint viewing,which led me to grabbing my umbrella,and getting ready to come face to face with Deneuve for the first time.The plotReturning home from a wonderful date with the man of her dreamsRoland Cassard,Genevieve Emery is met with the stern face from her mother,who drains all the joy out of Genevieve's cheeks.Ignoring her mum's (who also works with her daughter in an umbrella shop) extremely vocal disagreement's about her not knowing what real love is,and also that it is Far too soon to be talking about marriage, Genevieve continues to have fantastic dates with Cassard.Feeling a deeper sense of intimacy with Roland, Genevieve decides to show the passion and intimacy that has grown between herself and Cassard by going to bed with him.Basking in the glow of the tightening of their bond, Genevieve and Cassard's romance is torn in two,due to Roland being drafted for a 2 year tour of duty in the Algerian War.Shortly after Roland leaves for his tour of duty, Genevieve discovers that she is pregnant with Cassard's child.As the months go by, Genevieve starts to fearfully take her mums words to heart,that Roland may possibly never return to her from his tour of duty. View on the filmUsing the opening of the movie to have Roland Cassard take the audience into the film's startling Technicolour world,writer/director Jacques Demy teams up with costume designer Jacquline Moreau to smartly contrast the dark troubles facing Roland and Genevieve's families by aw-ashing the film in dazzling,flowing colours,which along with perfectly matching the detailed costume work of Moreau,also creates a lively atmosphere as the couples relationship increases in passion.Along with the shining colours, Demy also uses expertly stylised constantly moving,long tracking shots to show the life is so exciting and fast moving that Genevieve and Roland don't have a change to notice the changing backgrounds,until freezing the camera,to show the harsh,war light of reality hitting the couple's dream.For the screenplay, (all of which is sung!) Demy shows an impressive restrain of not including any fiddly,overly complicated words,but to instead go for something much more brilliantly simplistic,that allows the viewing to be completely caught,in the pure joy of Genevieve and Cassard's dates.With sharing almost every scene with each other for the first half the film, the beautiful Catherine Deneuve and Marc Michel each give splendid performances that perfectly compliment each other,with Deneuve showing Genevieve to have stars in her eyes every time she looks at Cassard,whilst Michel shows Roland to be someone who desperately wants to see the same stars that Genevieve does,but is sadly unable to get away from the harsh reality taking place around them. "},{"Title":"Sweet France","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Typical French story of the sixties of last century, a mixture of romanticism and realism this time shown through beautiful very sentimental lyrics (it's a musical after all). A very simple love story full of encounters and disenchantments anyway. It's well told in images and dialogues and of course Catherine Deneuve is so beautiful... But that mother of hers (role done by Anne Vernon) spoiled her romance with her greed and conventional ideas. And the war in Algeria contributed no less to it too.A good movie indeed and if it isn't a masterpiece it's only because the story is too simple and unsophisticated. "},{"Title":"The Umbrellas of Cherbourg","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Jaques Demy's Umbrellas of Cherbourg is a relentlessly colorful and jazzy screen opera set against the backdrop of France's Algerian War in which literally every line of dialog is sung. This non-stop musicality is often fun and funny, particularly in the context of our blue-collar protagonist's gas station job checking oil and taking extra shifts seems positively joyous when rendered in swing music; it almost seems as if this film was made to pacify the French proletariat. That joy is short-lived, however, and as the plot shifts into the two leads' endlessly repetitive romantic introspection, Cherbourg begins to drag. Without any musical down time, I found myself becoming acclimated to the ceaseless music, and by the half-way point wasn't really conscious of it; unfortunately, the story is pretty boring once that happens. The Umbrellas of Cherbourg's extreme take on the musical is what makes it notable, but it also negates the musical's usual magic of a song's beginning and ending; it's an interesting experiment, but not an entirely successful one. -TK 9/28/10 "},{"Title":"I don't get the praise for this one","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Yes, the song that later became known as I Will Wait For You is a wonderfully melodic piece and becomes a thematic one too during the film. It is beautiful, but the rest of the music??? Not so memorable. Deneuve and Castelnuovo are beautiful people too and they do fairly well. But the latter pars of the film are too rushed, I felt. We only got a glimpse of his despair at the news that Deneuve had remarried. Why didn't he ever try to find her after the death of his aunt? He seemed to accept the situation too easily..he asks about the child, but gets no answer and that's that. He doesn't try to find out for himself about his child. And Demy should have tied things symbolically at the end by having it rain, not snowing!!! The papapluies disappear and never come back! Deneuve should have got out of that car with her Cherbourg umbrella and he should have come out to fill er up carrying his umbrella and they meet again under the umbrellas as their love theme music swells!!! Anyway, with the unmemorable recitatives (to borrow a word from opera, which is amazing that Legrand even wanted to compose to the mostly small talk of the script, I found this film a big yawn. And some of the ugliest wallpapered walls ever put on film!!! The set designers must have gone through a lot of those big discontinued wallpaper sample books to find such hideous colors and patterns...the kind when you see them and say to yourself who would ever put that on their walls!! "},{"Title":"Good, but not Marvelous","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I liked the Umbrellas of Cherbourg, but was acutely aware that it was gimmicky. The American musicals of the 1950s obviously influenced this film quite a bit, and that genre was already nearly dead in the world as filmmaking began to move into the more artistic (American) films of the 1960s, like Bonnie and Clyde or Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. The gimmick, to have every line, no matter how mundane, sung by the actors, is interesting at first, but after about 30 minutes, it gets old. The music is never all that great in the first place, and it is really repetitive. Also, the actors aren't very good singers. What I did like was the art direction and the costumes. The color schemes are very interesting throughout the film. But even this, the best part of the film, owes a lot of debt to the American musicals of the 1950s, especially An American in Paris and Singin' in the Rain. Remember the color schemes in the extended musical number sequence near the end of Singing in the Rain where Gene Kelly proposes the grand finale of the film they are making? It involves a goofily dressed Kelly trying to find a job as a dancer. Especially memorable in this scene is his dance with Cyd Charisse, decked in a gorgeous green flapper dress. Basically, the Umbrellas of Cherbourg constantly looks like it takes place in the same world as that scene in Singin' in the Rain. I would suggest renting those two films before The Umbrellas of Cherbourg. And if you want a French musical, I suggest Le Million.As for the rest of the movie, i.e., the plot, the dialogue, etc., it is extraordinarily light. It is very two-dimensional and it is instantly forgettable. It isn't very romantic, and it is very predictable. It reminded me a bit of Elia Kazan's Splendor in the Grass in its plot, but it doesn't produce the same feelings in me that Splendor did. All in all, I would still recommend it if you're a lover of world cinema, but I'd just warn you not to expect the masterpiece that it is often touted as. I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"I'm sorry, but no","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Imagine that one day, people just start singing at you -- not singing songs or hymns or arias, but just pointlessly warbling everything they have to say, from Good morning to You want fries with that? How long do you think it would take before you slapped someone across the face and screamed, STOP SINGING! Talk like a normal human being! For me, it would take about twenty minutes. And that's what I learned from *The Umbrellas of Cherbourg*.The music seems primarily to serve the purpose of stretching a fairly thin plot across ninety minutes of screen time. In a real musical, with good songs and dancing, this can actually work (see, e.g., *Singin' in the Rain* and *On the Town*). But this isn't a real musical, more's the pity.Apart from the cinematography (and even that gets cloying by the end) and the opening title sequence (which is truly wonderful), I honestly can't see what so many people see in this film. "},{"Title":"Bad idea","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I couldn't stand this film, it was my first Demy but I had pretty high expectations due to Catherine Deneuve being my favorite actress and I had heard nothing but good things.I should start by saying that I rarely like musicals but this film was just plain bad. The story was great or at least good and Demy is obviously not a hack! The frames, camera movement and the overall look was very good. The actors didn't really do anything wrong but the movie just couldn't help sucking.The score though good could not help the musical numbers, it was just people talking with each other with music behind it. Next to no musical timing nor good songs at all. In fact there was no songs just what they wanted to pass off as singing. This so called singing annoyed me so much that I couldn't even think of the possibility of liking it.Because of all the positive (story, frames, camera movement, cinematography and acting) I will not give it a 1 nor a 2. Though it was nearly painful to watch some of it I will be nice enough to give it a weak 3/10. "},{"Title":"Death by treacle","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"11 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Your jaw will drop in disbelief at this. Adult people in a hideously childish world - with so many primary colours that you expect to see Noddy and Big-ears drive by in a little yellow car - singing their way through a story of mind-bending banality - well, not exactly singing&#133; more like wailing in a meaninglessly undulating voice to odd, inappropriate bursts of music. It's all as unendurable as the pink-n-purple wallpaper in their house.No, we don't ask for gritty neo-realism in all our movies, but as an audience - and I presume to speak even for children also - I do expect to be credited with more depth and intelligence than a Barbie doll. This is just so much trivial nonsense, cretinously superficial, for those who like sugar, sugar, sugar, and more sugar in their tea - in fact, forget the tea, have some more sugar. If you survive more than five minutes of this you will have the sticky feeling of being slowly suffocated in molasses, and by the end you will have aged perceptibly out of pure despair.Possibly the most monumental lapse of taste in cinema, and my candidate for the most appalling good film ever made. "}{"Title":"They are singing. Now they stopped. Oh wait, they are singing again. And again. And again. And again. And again...","Date":"18 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Like Tati, Jacques Demy knows how to create beautiful sets and scenery. And yes, just like Tati, he doesn't know jack about writing a good story that can keep us entertained. While Americans were making classic after classic during and after the Golden Age of Cinema, the French filmmakers were experimenting with dialogue, with sets, with pacing, and with the way films are made. In this case, we have a musical that runs from the beginning to the very end. Every word of dialogue is sung, every last word. Only the French language (and maybe Spanish) could craft such a type of work, since their language tends to roll off the tongue easier than English and especially German. However, with that being said, it becomes quite tedious, and the musical becomes irritating when the dialogue refuses to mature past (It's cold outside,Come inside,Its warmer here).Les Parapluies de Cherbourg follows a relationship of two people (Guy and Genevieve) that suddenly deteriorates for various reasons as Guy heads off to war. This sets off a series of events that chronicles Guy's attempt to mentally and emotionally recover as Genevieve is nowhere to be seen. It's the average love story with a bitter twist, and it never quite dwells any deeper than it should. He loves her. He is happy. She loves him. She is happy. It does not dig any deeper, there is little dialogue that shows these two were in love and were meant to be with each other forever and ever. All the dialogue is little bits and pieces of obvious observations (It's cold now&#151;if you see snow and have it fall on you, how else would the weather be!?!?). It has been decades since romance classics like Casablanca, Gone With the Wind, City Lights, etc., and you still don't realize that the heart of a love movie is the chemistry of the main characters? There's about as much chemistry here than a math problem.The singing itself isn't bad, and they could have taken advantage of this if they had reduces a bit of the singing and worked on the actual emotions. There are about four facial expressions throughout the entire film. Catherine Deneuve and Nino Castelnuovo could sing, but can't really act. Maybe that's why they turned it into a full-fledged musical. Then again, it's hard to truly showcase your skills when most of your sentences tend to be five words or less. Dialogue can kill an entire acting performance, and in this case hinders the performance of everybody involved.Jacques Demy repainted an entire town for the natural look of the setting in this film. The sets themselves look magnificent and contain plenty of detail. The mere idea of using an already-developed area for a colorful film was smart; since it doesn't require as much money to fix a city rather than build one from scratch (Jacques Tati probably wouldn't have hit bankruptcy if he had followed this formula). The walls, the umbrellas, the houses, they all looked magnificent. The French nailed it in terms of eye candy back in the 50s and 60s, something the American filmmakers at the time didn't focus on as much. If there is a reason to keep your eye on the movie, it's because France looks beautiful throughout the film. He isn't too bad at moving the camera around to capture the beauty. The idea of the whole life-is-one-big-musical thing isn't exactly terrible, but the execution was extremely poor, as when you sing all the time with little raises and dips in tone, it fails to create any sort of emotion or ability to elicit a reaction from the viewer.The musical score itself was shooting for epic, but comes off as laughable as the music tries to match the emotions running through during the scene, resulting in some hilarity. When you shift the tone of music from happy to sad to depression in mere seconds, it doesn't sound good to the ears, and comes off as melodramatic. Of course, there is one well-known piece that has stood the test of time, which is I Will Wait For You, the best musical number in the film. But, aside from the sets and little bit of music, this film is a total mess. Just more pathetic, overrated garble that's praised to the high heavens from stuck-up critics and film snobs that turn their backs on anything modern and fall in love with anything old-school. Experimentation with music can be entertaining, with Silly Symphonies from Disney being an older example, but Silly Symphonies had a bit of heart and personality along with the testing of what music can do to film. Les Parapluies de Cherbourg has about as much heart as a ruthless dictator that eats souls and kicks puppies as a hobby.Bottom Line This film is an utter mess, because it's another example of French eye candy dwelling as deep as a kiddie pool. Film is about visually telling a story, not incoherently deciding to make everyone sing about obvious observations that the audience can figure out. Film is not about being able to predict the next line of dialogue or the next major event that occurs. Film is not about showing people resembling wooden puppets and creating no entertainment value whatsoever. Why else would we remember the American classics but none of these so-called masterpieces from overseas? Because the Americans built likable characters, grand epic stories, and tales that we hadn't seen or heard about time and time again. Demy proves that people can sing a whole movie&#151;but nothing more. We can't dissect this film into multiple layers, and we can even do that with some action films of today. There's nothing to dig here; what you see is what you get&#151;and that is singing, singing, bickering while singing, and showing an eternal pout face while singing.Sing this with me This movie reeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeks! "},{"Title":"an empty exercise of style","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This movies is a reference (joke, homage, rescue) of Hollywood-technicolor-musicals,and ..... and....and nothing more. I had got nothing more from this movie than an empty exercise of style. (The only exception C. Deneuve's beauty.)This is an all-musical film and the songs are not poor-melodic, just a few notes for each line, with no imagination. So, you have a 90 min set of bad songs, bad dialog (lyrics) e a more-than-usual love history.I think that experimenting with formats is not enough, the movie has to offer content!  "},{"Title":"You will be hearing it for weeks afterward","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Les Parapluies De Cherbourg has only two good points in my mind, aside from the ending. It was cute and very colorful. Other than that, I can find no reason other than insanity to continue to watch this movie past the opening credits. In my high school French class, we watched this and I was amazed by the praise it was receiving. Personally, I found the constant singing to be well beyond over the top, nails across a chalkboard annoying, and ridiculously repetitive and mundane. I love a good musical as much as anyone but when the same tune is repeated throughout the entirety of the movie with no deviation, it becomes absolutely moronic. I can even look past the singing of such simple unimportant sayings as 'Hello, how are you' 'fine, isn't it a lovely day', I mean, honestly doesn't it get to anybody else but me?Another thing is the storyline. I can handle almost any movie no matter how annoying it was made as long as there's a good story to follow, but this movie not only lacks the complexity of a decent movie but the intelligence to make the ending a surprise. The girl is pea-brained and unromantic, only wishing for security and not romance while the boy is at war only thinking of his pregnant girl at home. It was more than obvious that she would ditch him and at the end where she met him again, after years of being with Roland, the other man, and where they both now have children they named them the same, it wraps the entire fiasco into a tacky hallmark card celebration of a lack of imagination and skill. If you can look past the singing of petty phrases, the constant repeating of the same tune over and over and over again, and the more than easily predictable plot, then I would recommend this movie for you. It might lack in a lot of things, and overcompensate in the worst places, but overall it has the possibility of being a good movie. I think I might even had enjoyed it if only it was on mute. "},{"Title":"A French jape?","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'd rate the film at two stars for the color photography, the beauty of Deneuve, and the two songs I Will Wait for You and Watch What Happens, both of which are merely used as musical background to accompany some incredibly trite and silly dialogue. Yes, the photography is marvelous--but once you've seen one ESSO gas station in the snow, you've seen them all. The opening shots of the umbrellas are beautiful--but gone very quickly. The plot is annoyingly predictable; the singing of the bland dialogue is equally bland. I can't imagine French audiences taking all this seriously--seeing the subtitles was at least a very slight improvement of actually understanding what the cast was singing. I found very little that was engaging or memorable aside from Deneuve's beauty, some of the photography, and those two marvelous LeGrand songs. Any number of Hollywood musicals are far better. Try Funny Face with Audrey Hepburn and Fred Astaire if you want great photography, a great (Gershwin) score, a witty and sophisticated screenplay, and a superbly sophisticated supporting cast, notably marvelous Kay Thompson. The scene of Hepburn descending the stairs in the red gown is worth all of The Umbrella of Cherbourg. "},{"Title":"Beautiful but Empty","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" We saw this at a museum screening in the mid 60's when it was brand new on the scene. The museum director apologized to the crowd after the screening because everyone was so disappointed in the film.The scenery was breathtaking. The music was heart stirring. The story and dialog, that's another story.This is a great movie if you're illiterate. Some maniac decided that the dialog had to be translated literally, so musical passages are translated into brilliant statements like Next week we'd better rotate the tires on your Fiat, or something like that.And the story is no great shakes, either. Young girl loves a boy whom her family consider unworthy. War in Algeria. Heartbreak.To use a French word, banal.Fast forward to the 21st century when the movie comes on Turner Classic Movies. Same reaction. About twenty minutes did it for me.Instead of translating the dialog, a summary of what's happening would have been so much better. The girl announces that she's pregnant. The boy tells her he's going into the army.Demy more than redeemed himself with THE YOUNG GIRLS OF ROCHEFORT three years later. Great, great movie, finally available on DVD.Buy the CD. Avoid the movie, unless the DVD allows you to play it without any subtitles at all. "}]