[{"Title":"Mission Impossible","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"58 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of the most entertaining heist films of all time. Full of original ideas, smartly written and joyfully directed. And, if all that wasn't enough, Peter Ustinov! He won his second Oscar as best supporting actor for this creation - an unsuccessful small time crook, intelligent enough to know that he's not intelligent enough - without country and without future. Ustinov soars. He is surrounded by a group of Euro-heavy weights, Melina Mercouri, Maximilian Schell, Robert Morley, Akim Tammiroff. The suspense, fun filled entrance to the Topkapi museum was stolen and disguised with a multi dollar budget by Brian De Palma and his accomplices in the first Mission Impossible without being able to duplicate the suspense, the fun, the humanity or the innocence of the proceedings. The locations are another treat, the music, the costumes and the honesty with which the dishonesty of the characters is portrayed. A true delight. "},{"Title":"A fascinating guide to the jewel of the Dardanelles...","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"57 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Melina Mercouri introduces herself as a thief who doesn't hide the way she feels about the most wonderful emeralds&#133; She wants to rob a dagger encrusted with fascinating gemstones&#133; One of her potential partners is her former lover Maximilian Schell, a very distinguished crook who fights at his best when he fights in a corner&#133; Schell wants to pick his crew from amateurs with no police records, and strike the most protected fortress&#133; Peter Ustinov won his first Best Supporting Oscar for his amusing performance as the clever middle-aged 'nobody' who could have gone far but he always plays for small stakes&#133; Ustinov is the victim of circumstances, caught at the Turkish border with a riffle and six grenades&#133; For that, his mission is to spy on the spies, and report to the Turkish security everything he overhears-no matter how trivial it may seem to him&#133; The police gives him a chance to prove that he is not a terrorist&#133; He accepts to work with them&#133; With a funny toy man who proposes to get into the palace museum without touching the floor; a mute acrobat who talks with his whole body; a mad muscle man who hates a drunken cook; a showman with no problems at the customs border; plus Islamic mosques; ancient streets; colorful bazaars; oiled wrestlers; talented belly dancers; and fable roofs; Topkapi overlooks both the Sea of Marmara and the Bosphorus, offering bright moments with a final suspense sequence in the 'Rififi' manner&#133; "},{"Title":"Flawless Heist Film","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"62 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Geez, I can't get over all the sour comments about this film on this site. Long?  Boring?  These must be the feelings of MTV kids who can't focus on an image for longer than thirty seconds...  For the rest of you looking for the perfect caper film, look no farther.  Exotic locale... great cast... memorable score... Topkapi has it all.  In my opinion, this is a far superior film to Jules Dassin's earlier Riffifi.  Topkapi is glamorous, funny, exciting -- but above all, fun. "},{"Title":"Astounding film about a heist with pretty humor","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"29 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The film talks a hold-up to Turkish museum carried out by a motley group  Melina Mercouri , Maximiliam Schell , Jess Hahn , Gilles Segal . They are pursued by a chief policeman who blackmails to Peter Ustinov to get undercover in the band.From the beginning until ending the good mood and humor is continued . The plot is very amusing and the final has got an extraordinary surprise . In the movie there are comedy , action , tongue-in-cheek , giggles and results to be very bemusing . The highlight and great climax , of course , is the heist which is developed with imposing tension and intrigue . The robbing has been imitated thousand times in European films as well as American movies (Mission impossible). This picture along with ¨Rififi¨(also by Jules Dassin) created during the 60s and forward an authentic genre . The title of the film refers to the Topkapi palace built by the Ottoman Sultan Mehmed II in 1459, after the fall of the Byzantine Empire , the Ottoman sultans made their main residence in the Topkapi palace for 400 years , it became a museum in 1924 . The motion picture attained a lot of success and originated copies , rip offs and awful imitations . Actors's interpretation are excellent , Peter Ustinov is magnificent and Robert Morley is top-notch specially . Manos Hadjidakis' musical score is cheerful and enjoyable . The picture was very well directed by Jules Dassin (Melina Mercouri's husband).The yarn will appeal to comedy enthusiasts and robbery genre fans . Rating  Above average . Well worth watching . "},{"Title":"Marvelous Caper Flick","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"38 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Topkapi is a wonderful caper film that established the genre of the light heist flick. Much copied even to this day, it was a big international hit back in '64. Marvelous international cast (Ustinov's Oscar winning performance among them), exotic settings and a great climax is pure entertainment. Ustinov, Melina Mercouri, Max Shell, Robert Morley, Akim Tamiroff (demented!) and more. What a terrific international all star cast! Exciting movie in it's day, though some of the effects are dated to the 60's. If it seems a bit slow at the beginning (by today's standards), give it a chance. The climax art museum theft scene is one of the great moments in film - don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Hard-to-beat in the big caper category.  A fun film.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Before Mission Impossible made every big heist a challenge for technology, there were movie efforts like Topkapi which played the human element in the big scam.A wonderful and truly international cast is assembled here for this 60's effort that showcases Istanbul.  Melina Mercouri is marvelous, blending humor and sensuality with her hard side.  Maximillian Schell is excellent as the leading man with all the answers while Peter Ustinov is the classic bumbler.  Akim Tamiroff adds additional levity as the irascible cook.Not sure I was totally satisfied with the outcome but it's such a rollicking and colorful ride, give director Jules Dassin top marks anyway. "},{"Title":"Lots of fun and thrills in this colourful tongue in cheek heist adventure.","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jules Dassin directed the classic hard-boiled 'Rififi' in the mid-50s. Ten years later he's at the heist genre again, but 'Topkapi' is a very different kind of movie. Gone is the realism and darkness of 'Rififi', which influenced many subsequent crime thrillers. Instead we have a good old fashioned adventure, which is quite tongue in cheek and very colourful and fun. The eclectic ensemble cast are all very good - Dassin's wife Melina Mercouri, Maximilian Schell, Robert Morley, and especially a knockout performance from Peter Ustinov, an actor I usually have little time for. The robbery sequence was borrowed thirty years later by Brian De Palma for 'Mission Impossible', but 'Topkapi' is the better of the two movies by far.  "},{"Title":"Eric Ambler's Masterpiece?","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In the pantheon of fine thriller and adventure novelists of the 20th Century, Eric Ambler has always been in a shadow. He began writing in the 1930s, and continued turning out novels (and screenplays) until his death in the 1980s. With a few exceptions these novels were all quite good. But he was in the shadow of his fellow Britain Graham Greene.Greene (like Ambler) wrote political thrillers and spy novels, but Greene (a serious supporter of Catholicism) was able to examine the universal hold of the Catholic religion in his novels like The End Of The Affair and The Power And The Glory. In particular, like Alfred Hitchcock, Greene enjoyed looking at how guilt makes us all shared sinners - like his Candide traveler innocent Holly Martins plunged into betraying his old friend Harry Lime in The Third Man.Ambler never (sorry to say this) had that kind of depth in his writing. He did reveal the hidden connections between economic realities and international politics in books like A Coffin For Demetrios, or Cause For Alarm or The Intercom Conspiracy. But he was not pushing a religious agenda and philosophy in his novels. So while he had (and still has)deserved popularity and readers, he never could achieve the thoughtful criticism that Greene could (and still does) arouse.His 1963 novel, The Light Of Day, was a kind of break from his usual. Instead of concentrating a plot dealing with the political realities of Europe or the Far East, The Light Of Day was a first person narrative of one Arthur Simpson (played in the film by Peter Ustinov). Simpson is a small time con-man, who is hired to transport a car secretly full of illegal weapons to Istanbul from Greece. As relations between the two countries were fragile (and still are), it would not be good for him to be caught by the Turkish Secret Service with those weapons. Unfortunately for him he is so caught. The mastermind of the crime has set things up for the registration of the car and the bill of sale for the arms to be in Simpson's name. But the frantic man manages to convince the Turkish officer interrogating him to believe he knew nothing about the weapons. Simpson has to continue on his way to Istanbul to keep an eye on the people behind this. He is kept on as a chauffeur, and subsequently discovers that the weapons are not part of an assassination plot or a plan to overthrow the government, but part of a robbery scheme.That is the plot of the novel. But Ambler makes Simpson an engaging rogue, and one fully ambivalent to the forces that make him feel like a tennis ball. By the time the novel is finished one does not care for the cynic who plans the crime, or for the Turkish police official. Both only see the fruition of their plans as important. Simpson is quite amusing, first in his honesty in seeing what a lowly toad of a small-time crook he is, and secondly his repeated abilities to create situations that make him believe he is controlling events when he really is not in such a position. As a comic novel, this may be Ambler's masterpiece.When the novel was turned into this first rate crime caper comedy, Jules Daissin had been making films in Europe for over a decade. Starting in Hollywood in the late 1940s, his best work (The Naked City) suggested a major career in film here. But Daissin had left wing political ideas, and he was blacklisted. Unlike many of the victims of the blacklist, Daissin moved to France and continued movie making. His biggest hit was Rafifi, his painstaking look at a crime heist (a jewelry robbery, no less), where he played the lead role as the safe cracker. The movie also showed the success of the robbery collapse when the thieves fall out over personal matters.After his marriage to Melina Mercouri, Daissin moved to Greece, and would make his two masterpiece comedies Topkapi and Never On Sunday (again he starred as Homer, opposite Mercouri in that film). But Daissin also took advantage, when he made Topkapi, to alter the script.In the novel there is no character like Mercouri's Elizabeth Lipp. The scheme is totally planned by the male character that Maximillian Schell plays. The weapons are involved in the jewel robbery scheme, but here there is a difference that Daissin brought into Ambler's story. Simpson (in the novel) never goes into great detail about the robbery - he is only there as the chauffeur for the getaway car, so he is sitting outside when the robbery takes place. But for the creator of RIFIFI, Daissin could not resist creating a second complicated robbery scheme, involving setting up an alibi at a public wrestling match, delaying the movement of a lighthouse, using pulleys and tackle to lower a man through a window into the main room of a museum, and criss-crossing the Topkapi Palace/Museum roof without being seen. He does this very well. The cast ably assists, with Mercouri as an honest nymphomaniac who loves jewelry, Schell as her partner and sometimes lover, Robert Morley as a mechanical genius who manages to wipe axle grease on his face in a quick comedy highlight, Akim Tamiroff as a drunken Turkish cook who hates the foreigners (except Simpson) and only likes the British, and best - Ustinov as the sweaty, hopelessly over-his-head Simpson. It was a role that won Ustinov his second Best Supporting Actor Oscar.I notice there is a lament that, despite the ending, there was never any sequel film. I suspect this was due to Ambler, who did write a second novel narrated by Simpson, about a land grab in Africa. It is not as good as The Light Of Day, and has never been filmed. "},{"Title":"Classic Jewel Heist à la Jean Reno set in Istanbul","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  With beautiful camerawork in Istanbul and Greece and an equally intriguing plot, Jules Dassin brings to the screen a film worthy to be considered alongside his masterpieces Du rififi chez les hommes and Naked City. Peter Ustinov follows up his Oscar-winning performance in Spartacus with a second award for best supporting actor, while playing a schmo--a lowly, disgraceful, British rogue living in Greece as the self-proclaimed un-crowned king of the nightlife Arthur Simon Simpson.  Getting involved in much more than he bargained for, Simpson enters a ring of double-crosses as an informer for Turkish Intelligence while still hoping to line his pockets with filthy lucre.The show, however, is stolen by the seductive, raspy-voiced Elizabeth Lipp, played by Greek beauty Melina Mercouri (who was also in the starring role of Dassin's Phaedra two years earlier--as well as Pote tin Kyriaki (1960), La Legge (1958), and Celui qui doit mourir (1957)--and whom the director would marry two years later).  The curvy enchantress draws in Walter Harper (Maximilian Schell) and Cedric Page (Robert Morley I), offering them their cut on the biggest heist ever--the theft of the sultan's jewel-encrusted dagger from the Istanbul Museum.However, there is a problem.  The museum is impenetrable, equipped with a state-of-the-art alarm system that requires a strong man to hoist an acrobat from above the museum and slowly lower him into the treasure trove while avoiding security (à la Mission Impossible and Oceans Eleven).  An unattended, even ironic, ending makes this film a classic in the genre as the dénouement keeps the viewer attached to the screen all the way up to the credits.Not quite the masterpiece of a Bob le Flambeur or Rififi, this film is in the top ten of its genre and is crucial in its intrigue and influence on future heist (casse) films.  Highly enjoyable, with the right balance of humor, suspense and allure (thanks to Melina Mercouri) to establish it as a touchstone in the genre, Dassin's caper is a cinema classic. "},{"Title":"A Classic Heist","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Topkapi is a classic.  In it, a group of criminals with a plan to break into the Topkapi Palace Museum in Istanbul, and steal a jewel-encrusted dagger.  Melina Mercouri stars as Elizabeth Lipp, the mastermind behind the heist.  Peter Ustinov is along for the ride as Arthur Simon Simpson, who does a good turn of comic relief.  The movie shows beautiful shots of Greece and Turkey on its wild trip.  It's similar to the original Ocean's Eleven, as you root for the thieves.  You find yourself hoping crime will pay!  The last shot of the movie shows more of the fun spirit present in the movie.  In the end, I wondered a little about the continuing adventures of the characters.  Surely, this caper deserves investigation! "}{"Title":"Ustinov Carries This Heist Flick","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Heist stories are usually appealing to me, and this one is, too, despite the fact the actual jewelry heist doesn't take place until the last 15 minutes out of two- hour movie! Today, this would probably be considered way too slow, compared to most modern crime movies.Nonetheless, I thought the story of it all was interesting enough to keep one's attention, Peter Ustinov won honors for his performance which, indeed, steals the spotlight from the two others stars of the film, Melina Mercouri and Maximllian Shell.For a leading lady, and one who is portrayed or at least has the air of a sexy woman, I found Mercouri anything but that. In fact, I thought she bordered on being repulsive, especially with those 1960s fake eyelashes. She was the worst part of this film.There is decent photography in here and some good Greek music which plays throughout the film. It gives the movie a unique flavor, something akin to the zither played in The Third Man.Overall, a pretty good movie but a bit overrated by the critics. "},{"Title":"A Charming and Colorful Adventure","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beautiful location scenes in Turkey and at the Topkapi Palace in Istanbul. Memorable and enjoyable characters. A taught burglary - copied by Tom Cruise in the awful Mission Imposible movie. This sums up this good-natured film about the involved plot to steal a priceless jeweled dagger from the heart of the former sultan's palace despite state-of-the-art security. A charming, colorful movie. Peter Ustinov is especially good.    "},{"Title":"Great Comic Thriller","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Someone called this movie the greatest of all thrillers.  Although it is very good, it is certainly NOT the best, however it ranks with the very best.  Having no great name in the directorial or production credits, it surely had to have good acting, a good script, good direction, good cinematography and a good overall supervision in order to succeed.  It has them all. At the beginning, until the principals say that they are about to steal the dagger from the museum, it is a bit slow and no-one knows exactly what's going and what the thieves have in mind. However, once they start planning things, the movie starts to rush till the final bomb. Ustinov is great in his part - he never played the intellectual idiot so well.  Mercouri is excellent as the voracious thief who gets excited physically by men and jewels.  The rest are very good as well.   The on location footage in Istanbul, with the occasional Turkish words in the background, help to give more identity to the story. The robbery sequence is exceptional.  The running about on the roofs of the museum is so well done that it gave me the shivers. Later on, when Giulio is hanging upside down, stealing the dagger and placing the case back in place, the close ups and the slow movement in order not to send off the alarm made my heatbeat accelerate. The ending could not have been any better.  Getting caught because of a bloody bird may seem as an anti-climax for such a great robbery, however after some thought, one realises that it could not have been otherwise in order to make the movie so good.  The movie had that comic stream all the way through, so no-one would have taken a happy ending seriously - when Mercouri says that now she wants the Romanovs' jewels, one realises how fitting the ending was.  It is going to start all over again.  Very gripping, thrilling and funny! "},{"Title":"The perfect crew, the perfect prize, the perfect crime . . .","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you like Sneekers, The Sting, or The Thomas Crown Affair (or at least what Thomas Crown was trying to do) then Topkapi is for you.  The story starts quickly and directly--this is a group of thieves who want the ultimate prize an emerald studded dagger found in the Topkapi museum in Turkey.  For the next 2 hours we follow them with clever and understated cinematography through all levels of their deception.  The characters are each interesting and idiosyncratic, and the writing is light hearted and comedic.The story is also truly cinematic in a very Hitchcockian way there are long segments without dialogue where you are simply forced to concentrate on the action (shot from frightening angles) and deal with the awful (yet wonderful) syncopation created by the ambient sounds and the action in the shot.  The film also has an interesting homoerotic edge (very Hitchcock) which ads a nice subversive edge to anyone interested in such readings.Except for the hokie closing credit scene--this movie is one of the best heist films ever. "},{"Title":"Entertaining movie with a great climax","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Topkapi is a movie filled with great locations, good acting and a funny story that, although ridiculous at some points is smart and provides a great finale. The scene where the robbery takes place is so intense I couldn't stop holding my breath. All in all a great character movie that doesn't disappoint. Melina Mercouri's teeth do look terribly fake, but hey. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A timeless masterpiece","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of the greatest early 60's colour pro-to caper movies. Yes, we had the Ealing films but nothing like this glam, very European creation. Hugely influential on films such as 'The Italian Job', 'The Hot Rock' right through to 'Oceans 11'on. Perfect casting, top drawer acting, sparkling innovative direction, great photography. The great shot (among others) of the camera coming down the rope with Schell and how did they shoot those dangerous high rooftop scenes with the real actors?! Mercouri was really luminous here, she is terrific, crackling with energy and that rare thing in a film, a full-on, fully formed mature female character. The film is full of 'characters' because these actors lived a life outside and before acting and it shows. Making this movie must have been a gas! I first saw this film a child and it has stayed with me ever since. I recently saw it again on telly and i knew i had to buy it at once. This film just gets better and better with ever single viewing. The perfect film for a Sunday afternoon, like seeing an old friend. Pierce Brosnan is working on a remake? Boo hoo! Remakes come and go, a reflection of the artistic bankruptcy in much of Hollywood (But not all). Being second is nowhere. It is being first that counts and nothing can detract from this the first, and one of the best caper movies of all time. Merci, I don my cap to you M. Dassin! "},{"Title":"Yes!  IT IS GREAT!!!","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Hey, the great scene with the traditional Turkish wrestlers oiling themselves and wrestling to the tune of traditional music is worth the price of admission alone!  Let alone, the loose-ends story, the scenery and 60's Istanbul.  The theft scene is a spine tingler and the ending, a riot.  My only regret was there was no sequel... No mind.  It would have been tough to top Topkapi. "},{"Title":"A joyously fun caper comedy","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't know how anybody couldn't like this movie!  Rarely have I had such a fun time watching a flick.  This joyously fun caper comedy is the one that started them all and while it lacks the techno whiz of all the modern imitators (like Soderbergh's leaden Ocean's 11), it makes up for that with wit, style, and panache.  Topkapi is alternately gripping and hilarious, cast to perfection with Melina, Peter, Maximilian, et al, just having a ball!  And that last scene--wow, what a great way to end the movie!  Sit back, relax and have fun!!! "},{"Title":"excellent in spots","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The strongest aspects of the films are a stellar comic performance by Peter Ustinov, another classic Dassin jewel heist and the glorious use of location.  The rest of the cast is rather stiff and they're given a lot of lines that are supposed to come off as zany and outrageous, but don't really work.  Maximilian Schell is okay and Robert Morley takes his arch banker-gone-mad thing a bit far, but the weirdest performance is the one given by Melina Mercouri.  There are at least a dozen scenes where her character's horny purring is supposed to be setting the audience and cast ablaze while keeping the plot running.  It's creepy somehow.  If this lacquered matron can't get Ustinov all hot and bothered enough to drag her on a couch towards him, the gang won't know if he's up to the job.It's hardly a classic except in bits and pieces.  The power of the heist scene is obvious enough considering how many times it's been imitated.  If I had to think of another heist as good, the first thing that springs to mind is Dassin's Riffifi (a film that has perfect acting and cinematography to go along with its heist).  Ustinov is so completely into his role that I swear the rest of the cast improves just by acting around him.  The time-capsule glimpse at Istanbul in the 1960's is a lot of fun.When Topkapi isn't being a good film, it's at least weirdly bad.  "},{"Title":"Excellent! (No Spoilers)","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  (No Spoilers)  Topkapi was perfect  perfect, that is, as long as you're looking for a crime story with lots of adventure, comedy, and plot twists.  I can't remember the last time I had so much fun watching a movie.  I highly recommend Topkapi. "}{"Title":"Dassin strikes again ...","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although I much preferred Dassins' earlier heist film, 'Rififi', 'Topkapi' was a lot of fun, and once again used silence to create a great suspense sequence during the heist. People seem to give Ustinov a lot of credit for his performance, but I think the entire band of thieves deserves a handshake and a lollipop for creating a group of memorable characters. Not once did they seem unconvincing or lazy with their acting. In fact, I would have much preferred Tom Cruise in 'Mission Impossible' (which was, in at least some aspects, a very direct rip-off) if he would have been mute. The kaleidoscope intro was a bit out of place and almost campy, but it started the film off lightheartedly, which set a nice tone. A film that can have fun with itself, I think, is one worth watching, and 'Topkapi' definitely had a party. Rating 28/40 "},{"Title":"Hang on for the Museum Jewel Heist","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Outside of the Jewel Dagger heist and the ultimate comeuppance. There is little to gleam from this film. Melina Mercouri is standard kitzy. Peter Ustinov however does the poor everyman out of his element par excellence. The build-up to the heist is often stilted at times and some sequences don't even fit in. Like the parts with Turkish intelligence, suspecting arms smuggling. Running hither and thither. I still rate this as one of my guilty pleasures. Not a Great film but a great movie.Moreover, If plagiarism is the sincerest form of flattery. Then there are many producers, directors and screenwriters who are continually singing their praise over this movie.Topkapi preceded the Mission Impossible TV series by two years. Six weeks after the film was released, a similar, real life heist took place at a New York City Museum. Though 22 gems were stolen they were recovered within 48 hours. Talk about Life imitating Art. Enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Stealing From The Seraglio","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When watching Topkapi, kindly remember that whole complex was the living quarters of the Ottoman Sultans back in their day and was called the Seraglio. Quite a layout those sultans had and in does stand today as the most successful Moslem based dynasty ever in history.It's a big old museum and there's an item in at that Melina Mercouri wants to possess real bad. A curved Ottoman dagger with three precious emeralds on the hilt.Melina recruits her team some of which consists of Maxmilian Schell, Robert Morley and Akim Tamiroff. Schell says they need a fall guy, a klutz who they can leave holding the bag so the team can make a getaway. The fall guy is Peter Ustinov a small time chiseler who operates in Greece in that netherworld of law and lawlessness. Perfect for their plans so they think.Topkapi was responsible for Peter Ustinov getting his second Oscar for Best Supporting Actor. In the scenes he's in, Ustinov steals the film completely. According to a recent biography of Sal Mineo, Mineo resented mightily that Ustinov got his first Oscar for Spartacus, beating out among others, Mineo in Exodus. Pre-Oscar publicity had Mineo the favorite and Sal never got over it. This second win for Topkapi must have put Sal over the edge.The characters are so engaging, I'm surprised a sequel was never done. Especially Ustinov's character. He reminds of another famous bumbler who was on the right side of the law.What a film that would have made if Peter Sellers as Inspector Clouseau was sent to go after Ustinov as Arthur Simpson.Why didn't anyone think of it? "},{"Title":"Multicultural caper movie seems a hollow period piece","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jules Dassin's Topkapi was one of the lavish heist movies, set in touristy locales, that were all the vogue four decades ago.  And Dassin executes the heist itself -- of an emerald-encrusted dagger from the famed museum in Istanbul -- with grace, precision and suspense.  But it's a very long time coming.Dassin seems reluctant even to start the movie, dilly-dallying with a proto-psychedelic opening sequence involving games of chance and glittering gems.  Then Melina Mercouri, shot in an iridescent haze, bulldozes her way out to address the audience but fails owing to her thick-as-moussaka accent.  Finally we get to the rounding up of the gang of amateurs who will pull off the caper mastermind Maximilian Schell, Robert Morley, Peter Ustinov, Gilles Segal (as a deaf-mute gymnast), and Mercouri.The plotting and rehearsing of the crime take up most of the movie, leaving us to be entertained by the characters, none of which is really written.  So instead we get each actor's idiosyncratic bag of tricks.  And while Morley and Ustinov reliably amuse us, Schell flaunts his Continental-cool duds with a smug smirk frozen on his face.  Mercouri, meanwhile, vamps it up like a demented drag queen doing Joan Crawford.  What little friction exists among the cast members gets played for laughs -- no subversive subplots, no separate agendas are afoot.Dassin made his reputation directing tough, unsentimental films in the noir cycle Brute Force, Thieves' Highway, Night and the City.  When forced back to Europe by the Hollywood blacklist, he did a superior caper film, Rififi; Topkapi seems a belated attempt to recapture it.  But the chilled-down, ironic style that came into fashion in the early 1960s doesn't suit his earnest talents.  Topkapi remains professional and pleasant but is now looking more and more like a period piece. "},{"Title":"Bottom-kapi","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" International thieves plot the heist of a valuable art piece from an Istanbul museum. This one is famed for its heist sequence, and that is pretty good, but the rest of the film is a disappointment on pretty much every level. The script is uninteresting, the direction is sloppy, and the acting ranges from good (Ustinov is amusing) to bad (Schell overacts) to terrible (Mercouri is annoying). Mercouri can't act, she looks creepy, she has a grating voice, and her accent is so thick that it's hard to understand most of her lines. Why was this filmed in English, anyway? This one is a far cry from Dassin's earlier caper film Rififi. And what's with the homo-erotic wrestling scene? "},{"Title":"Candy-colored heist flick...amusing, even if dissatisfaction clouds the final returns","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jules Dassin's film version of Eric Ambler's book The Light of Day seems more like a light-hearted variation of his French heist-drama Rififi from 1955. A glamorous Greek thief and her Swiss lover concoct an ingenious plan to rob an emerald-studded dagger from the Topkapi Museum in Istanbul with help from a disparate group of wily characters. Peter Ustinov (wonderful) received the Supporting Actor Oscar as a British con-artist in Turkey who is initially recruited by Turkish security to keep an eye on this raffish team. The picture works mostly on a visual level, with a bravura use of color coupled with spiky editing to propel the story. If only the screenplay had been wittier, Dassin and company might have turned out a masterpiece of the genre. The movie simply isn't as sharp or funny as one might hope. The heist sequence is breathlessly intricate, and the sardonic finale is also a dandy...and yet there is a puzzling feeling of dissatisfaction which hangs over the end results. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Blah-kapi","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Okay, it had some nice travel-porn and Peter Ustinov absolutely transcends the material here (he was the best thing in this)...but this flick is screaming out for a glamorous remake. Nothing too slick and I don't want everyone in the remake to be gorgeous but seriously...it needs a remake. Also, my husband came up with a much better ending than the one here.So...nice scenery, including a ridiculously good-looking Max Schell, but Ms. Mercouri nearly ruined this movie. She was just too weird. Was she supposed to be alluring? I just found her to be scary looking and I couldn't believe these guys would be falling all over her. I don't mean to be catty...I'm actually older than she was when she made this film but I'm still calling her out on being a little too witch- like. That voice! Like a much-later Lucille Ball after a couple of packs of cigarettes. Puh-leeze. "},{"Title":"Top Caper","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was the perfect bookend to Rififi, even though that was black & white and French while this one was very much colourful and Pan-European, but both were excellent tense Jules Dassin robbery thrillers.Scintillating plot has jewel heist from the Topkapi museum planned minutely by suave Schell in charge of an eccentric happy-go-lucky gang of thieves including sexpot Mercouri, mechanised Morley, and eventually the crown jewel of the film, Carbuncle (On The Behind Of Humanity) Ustinov. Akim Tamiroff was hardly used but was still unforgettable as the ferociously sentimental drunken cook. Things go wrong but all problems are got round by the brainwork of Schell. Favourite bits from so many Ustinov's frozen face as the door opens on an ugly guy in the police interrogation room; the vivid humanity on display at the wrestling festival; clambering about in their suits but getting out onto the museum roof and getting into position for the robbery; the ingenious way of lifting the jewels. It's all intricately performed, the letdown being the hurried corny ending (definitely not a Good Idea) &#x96; but at least it was still jolly. An even bigger letdown was that there was no sequel!It's fantastic but faulty and bright and breezy but barmy, it led to 7 years of Mission Impossible on TV &#x96; which was good too though never as lighthearted as this masterpiece. And the closest this gets to sex is probably the scene with a belly dancer in the background, for violence you would have to make do with the scene of a door being slammed on someone's hands! You really can't go wrong if what you're looking for is 2 hours of inconsequential solid entertainment. "},{"Title":"Topkapi is top rate","Date":"3 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This buoyant and spry caper film is one of the best of the Sixties. Charmingly acted along with being excellently photographed and edited, ex-patriot noir director Jules Dassin displays the same adept style in outrageous color with the same suspense mastery evidenced in Riffifi over a decade earlier.Elizabeth Lipps (Melina Mercouri ) has an insatiable desire for men, diamonds and adventure. Enlisting international jewel thief Walter Harper (Maxmillian Schell) she sets her sights on making off with a valuable jade from the Topkapi Museum in Istanbul. Rather than work with pros Harper opts for amateurs to assist including the bumbling Arthur Simpson ( Peter Ustinov ) who from the outset is ill suited for the work. Aware they are being shadowed by the Turkish police the gang pushes forward with the plan.Topkapi is an excellent blend of comedy and suspense filled with wonderful performances, especially by the comically sympathetic Ustinov. In addition to the leads Robert Morely and Akim Tamiroff bolster the supporting cast while the exotic local of Istanbul serves the storyline well with its ornate museum, teeming street activity and an all day wrestling competition at a stadium. Dassin keeps the mood light most of the way leading up to the job at which time he grippingly builds the suspense with a heist scene that merits classic status. As breezy caper films go Topkapi is at the top of the heap. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece, but&#x85;","Date":"3 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A real masterpiece, important also for the images it offers of an Istanbul which does not exist anymore (nostalgia&#x85;)Who knows if they still practice that fascinating wrestling with oil&#x85;And those small traveling circuses, with distorting glasses and merry-go-rounds and sugar floss?The problem though, is the terrible English pronunciation of Melina Mercouri (let alone her teeth&#x85;)Her fictional name is Elizabeth, she pronounces it Elishabesh. When she wants to say Sit here, she says Shit here, which is not very beautiful&#x85;But Ustinov, Morley, Tamiroff (!) and the others&#x85; Wonderful "}{"Title":"Deliciously tongue-in-cheek caper-comedy","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Topkapi (Jules Dassin, 1964) is among the highlights of the '60s caper-comedy boom, which also produced Charade, Gambit, Arabesque and How to Steal a Million. Helmed by Jules Dassin, the French filmmaker behind heist movie blueprint Rififi (with its legendary silent central set-piece - all 20 minutes of it), it's clever, stylistically showy and deliciously tongue-in-cheek. Maximillian Schell is the criminal mastermind who recruits a team of amateurs as he plots to steal a priceless emerald-studded dagger from an Istanbul museum. He's nicking it for Melina Mercouri, his nymphomaniac former lover, whose fondness for men is exceeded only by that passion for jewels. Schell's protegees include alarms expert Robert Morley, strongman Jess Hahn and human fly Gilles Segal, while whimpering, half-Egyptian tour guide Peter Ustinov and drunken servant Akim Tamiroff (one of the great character actors of the Golden Age, whose fans included Orson Welles) also buzz around. Ustinov's an unwilling plant for the cops, who thinks the group are terrorists. Tamiroff comes with the villa where they're staying; he's convinced they're Russische spies. It takes a little while for the film's disparate pieces to slot into place, and the variety of European accents can be a struggle, but the second half is utterly superb, with a heist sequence that's tense, funny and mirth-inducingly ingenious, and a gem of an ending. Ustinov got an Oscar for his hilarious turn as the incompetent Arthur Simpson, but the whole ensemble does a neat job, and Tamiroff is very amusing as the bitter, suspicious, misguided, constantly slurring would-be informant. Particularly when he starts talking about fish. "},{"Title":"Beguiling and Entertaining","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ustinov is accompanied by generous talent in the way of co-stars in this intriguing caper. The plot is more intricate than one would first notice, and if proper attention is devoted to the actual storyline, there are intrigues throughout.I found this completely beguiling and wholly entertaining. Peter Ustinov is young here. He seems younger than his actual age of 43. The vista shots, locations, and rich details add immensely to the enjoyment of this work.All in all, this runs like your basic heist flick. All the common elements are in place, you get to see Tom Cruise's skylight entry via a much more talented actor thirty years prior, and you can almost lose yourself in the atmospheric splendor of 1964 Istanbul. I would say this is great viewing anytime, even on a Friday or Saturday night.It rates an 8.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"steal away to greatness","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In what may be the greatest heist movie of all time, a group of people set out to steal a dagger from an Istanbul museum. Director Jules Dassin had met Melina Mercouri a few years earlier on the set of Never on Sunday, and they married shortly thereafter, eventually collaborating again with this supremely cool story.One thing that I have to say about this movie is that the heist itself is truly the highlight; in some movies, I find the events leading up to the heist more interesting than the heist itself, but here the heist is definitely the best part. Not to mention that the viewer gets to see Istanbul (it looks like one fine place). And above all, Melina Mercouri is SO HOT! My Big Fat Greek Wedding should have mentioned her as another one of Greece's contributions to the world.Look, you just gotta see Topkapi. I can't imagine how anyone could find this film bad. Also starring Maximilian Schell, Peter Ustinov (who won a well deserved Oscar), Robert Morley and Akim Tamiroff. "},{"Title":"Filming","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I am wondering what other locations besides Istanbul this movie what shot. Especially at the beginning of the film -- Having traveled in both Turkey and Greece I am curious as so many places look familiar. Of course I am sure that nowadays things have changed very much and the landscapes have probably been completely re done. This is a spectacular movie that takes me back to wonderful Istanbul each time I view it. The acting is superb. I have probably seen the movie more than 10 times and never get tired of it. OK, I guess I have another few lines I must add to get this in I am going back to Crete or Southern Turkey next year and am really psyched. I will most likely eat too many Gyros again as well. But I will love it. "},{"Title":"The grandaddy of caper films","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This has been one of the most admired and imitated caper films of all time. Sure, it was made in the 60's, so don't look for MTV -type edits, but the story is a lot of fun, keeps you guessing right up until the end, and the characters and settings are very memorable. Peter Ustinov won an Academy Award for his performance, certainly one of his best -- and that's saying a lot. If you're in the business, and haven't yet seen Topkapi, you owe it to yourself to see it. Leonard Maltin rates it 4 stars, his highest rating. "},{"Title":"A Carnival Of Thieves","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The word Topkapi refers to a real-life grand fortress in Istanbul, formerly a royal palace that dates back to the fifteenth century. Today, the palace is a museum. The film of the same name is set mostly in and around Istanbul. And the story centers on a pack of high-class thieves who set out to rob the Topkapi museum. The specific object of their attention is a world-class dagger that contains priceless emeralds the four greatest emeralds the world has ever known, intones Elizabeth Lipp (glamorous, blonde-haired Melina Mercouri). She wears false eyelashes, and has a deliciously European accent.A beautifully exotic character with conspicuous teeth, Ms. Lipp is the person around whom the heist is envisioned and planned, aided with class by other eccentric characters, including Walter Harper (Max Schell), Cedric Page (Robert Morley), and several others. Peter Ustinov plays Arthur Simpson, a hapless con artist schmo who gets suckered into the scheme.The planning and execution of the heist is the main plot line. But the film's kaleidoscopic colors, the music, the costumes, and the striking scenery are so interesting that they almost overpower the story. In addition to mundane mechanical techniques, the heist also makes use of more artistic ploys that render the project interesting for viewers. Indeed, the film's tone is humorously carnivalistic.The cinematography is competent. Production design is spectacular. Outdoor scenery is beautifully strange.The actual robbery takes place near the end of the film. Here, sound effects and minimal dialogue enhance suspense. One sequence contains four minutes during which there is no dialogue ... at all.Topkapi is a colorful film wherein interestingly exotic thieves use humor, violence, intelligence, laughter, physical dexterity, and bold initiatives to plan, and then execute, a high-class robbery. The film has the look of a 1960s James Bond movie, but with an airy, whimsical, breezy feel. Although perhaps lacking in deep thematic value, the film is unusual and entertaining. "},{"Title":"Influential and entertaining heist caper film","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Topkapi is one of those films everyone should see once a basically silly but very entertaining crime/comedy heist caper film, with an improbable plot, but beautifully photographed, marvelously acted, making full and authentic use of its Greek and Turkish locales, and with a fine musical score by great Greek composer Manos Hadjidakis. These strong points mean that the film's two hour running time passes without tedium. As has been pointed out by others here, the film created a sort of sub-genre of the stylish 1960s caper film. Topkapi gains in interest if you've seen the same director's Rififi, considered by many to be the definitive heist caper film, since Topkapi is partly a remake of Rififi, partly an attempt to surpass it, and partly a parody of it. "},{"Title":"Topkapi You can't beat success","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I just finished watching Topkapi and am always taken in by the story. I saw Topkapi when it opened and it was a huge success. It has not lost it's luster yet. Melina Mercouri made world splash in her international hit Never On Sunday directed by her later to be husband Jules Dassin. Although I follow movies and Riffi was released during the great international movie exchange I forgot that it too was directed by Mr Dassin. Jules Dassin had to leave the US during the McCarthy era and unlike so many film personalities who were destroyed was able to continue directing in Europe. He was Lucky. He directed good and great films and met the mercurial Ms Mercouri. I see where Tom Cruise and Brian De Palma tried using this theme in a Mission Impossible movie, but me not being a fan of Cruise didn't see his turkey. I'm sorry to see how the international movie exchange has dried up, movies from Japan, France, England and Europe were daily fare now all we seem to get is fodder and dreck from the US studios. And borrowing from American directors. Too bad. I'd like to see some American director borrow the oiled wrestling scene,the blue noses and annal retentive in this country (the US) would have a s******g hemorrhage. This scene alone shows just how much the world thinks of human bodies, they see no shame in the erotic event. Anyway, Topkapi is still one of my favorite films and once in a while I'll drag it out and enjoy it immensely-again. If you haven't see Topkapi you owe it to yourself. Have fun!!!! "},{"Title":"A Lightweight Classic","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If Jules Dassin had decided to make Rififi as a comedy and in color it might have looked something like this. The plot, though based on Eric Ambler's book The Light of Day, is not dissimilar. A group of sundry crooks plan to steal a jewelled dagger from the Topkapi Museum in Istanbul, but where Rififi showed the tragedy that occurs when there is dishonor amongst thieves Topkapi plays it for laughs.Dassin's wife, Melina Mercouri, is the glamorous thief who organizes the heist and Peter Ustinov won his second Oscar for playing 'the schmo' roped in on the scheme. This is the kind of film where you want the thieves to get away with it because they are an infinitely more likable bunch than the authorities who pursue them. It may be a slight affair but it's ingeniously plotted, (the robbery is just as exciting as the one in Rififi), very enjoyable and the location photography is outstanding. "},{"Title":"Hidden gem (pun intended- ha ha)","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Except for the 60's-tastic kaleidoscope opening sequence and a kind of creepy female lead, this is a classic heist flick that not too many people (that I know anyway), have heard of.  If you've stumbled across this page looking for a good heist flick and haven't seen this one yet- you've found it.  Don't read any more, just go find this one and rent it.  Great location shoots, decent characters, and some unexpected plot twists are all just the bread and condiments that lead up to the huge, juicy 1/2 lb hamburger patty that is the actual heist.  Puts any recent heist movies you've seen like Entrapment or Mission Impossible (which borrows heavily from this flick) to shame.  And a fun ending to boot.  "}{"Title":"I should have read some reviews first","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Since I love Rififi, I had to see this film.  Wow is it different!  Unlike Rififi, which I would call a heist film, Topkapi is a brightly colored, loud, busy caper film.  Poor Melina, she may have been a world-class sexpot at the time, but now she's like a caricature.  I kept thinking of Joan Crawford in her older, wild-eyed, bouffant dotage.  It's hard enough to decipher her accent, but the poor woman had a set of terrible store-bought upper teeth that made it worse.(SPOILERS)  Some backstory on these people would have been nice.  We know she's a thief because ... well, because she tells us.  Is she any good, well-known, rich, washed-up?  And why is she obsessed with this dagger?  Just where do you pawn something like that?  I just couldn't care about the macguffin in this film.Mr. Schell, they attempt to introduce him with the foggy scene in Paris, but what exactly is he doing to that guyand the gun business?  Who knows? Using only amateurs is a great idea, but Melina and Schell seem to be world-class thieves so they would immediately be suspects.And why do they think that they can sneak that Lincoln into Turkey with only a cursory glance at customs?  Perhaps a beat-up old Fiat, but not a car that screams wealth like that.  It takes the border guards what, 10 seconds to find the stuff?It's almost worth waiting for the scene in the museum, except every time I got involved in it I would think, They're doing all this for a stupid dagger that she just feels like having?One nice Dassin touch is how things keep going wrong, and they have to come up with plans B and C.  But this movie is a relic, almost more like It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World and certainly not the French noir policier I was expecting/hoping for. "},{"Title":"Going nowhere","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Topkapi is a great example of those silly ass, slapstick comedies of the 60's, that look like a vaudeville cabaret, and not like a movie. Those films were not funny enough to be a straight forward comedy, and were too silly to be taken for a crime, thriller or any other genre it was supposed to be. Topkapi is a such case in it's purest form. The character that should have carried the comedy part here is Peter Ustinov, and he just can't do it, first because he's no Peter Sellers, and second because the script has very few punch lines for him, so the comedy part rests solely on circus acts, clown and acrobatic, and that makes the whole thing look rather stupid.Maximilian Schell is the only one who looks half as decent and the casting of Melina Mercouri is the biggest mistake of all. I know that she was director's girlfriend, at the time the movie was made,(later his wife) but come on? Could they have hired more inappropriate actress for this role in those days. She looks like a wicked witch of the east, and ruins any comedic pleasantry that this movie could have possessed with her sinister gaze that chills you to the bone, and laughter that sounds like it's been taken from a Roger Corman horror film. And she uses both with no restrain, so after a while it makes you really sick. You can think of any other major actress of the day, and she would be more appropriate for the film that is supposed to be funny and nice to look at. There is no story for 120 minutes here, so it goes nowhere most of the time, and the dreary Turkish scenery doesn't help at all. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Female lead roles should be just that","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was a good movie except for the awful lead female. For at least 3/4 of the movie we were going it's a guy in drag. Seriously, even in the 1960s sexy was sexy, but in this trans-gender casting we just couldn't tell. The story is good, maybe even very good, the script is OK, the score good and the cinematography excellent. Some of the more American actors grate but hey!, that's Americans for you. So, overall, this could have been a classic 60's movie. The miscasting of Ms X was a fatal flaw. We're sorry, but it's just not good enough. And it wasn't back then either. Why IMDb needs 10 lines I don't know, after all it's supposed to be a review not a step-by-step analysis of each and every scene in the movie. "},{"Title":"A mostly ineffectual heist film","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Based on the 1962 novel The Light of Day by Eric Ambler, this is a mostly ineffectual heist film. The script by Monja Danischewsky is pretty mediocre and seldom as funny as it thinks it is. Jules Dassin's direction is not much better but there are some nice shots here and there and he makes good use of the locations. It is too competent to be awful. The plot concerns an attempt to steal a dagger encrusted with four priceless emeralds, which once belonged to the Ottoman Sultan Mahmud I, from the Topkapi Palace in Istanbul. As ideas for heist films go, this is a belter and it is part of what attracted me to the film in the first place. However, as with the heist itself, it is all in the execution and the execution was sorely lacking. That said, it does have one major saving grace.The film stars the superlative Peter Ustinov in a wonderful performance as Arthur Simon Simpson, a small-time English swindler who operates out of the Greek port city Kavala where he attempts to sell cheap tat to tourists. He is recruited by a gang of thieves to drive a car filled with explosives, guns and other materiel which police forces tend to frown upon across the Turkish border. However, said materiel is discovered by the Turkish customs when the car is searched. After Arthur convinces the police that he is not part of the presumed assassination plot, he becomes an informer and the plotters are forced to accept his presence due to a police's claim that only the person who drove the car or the owner - the fictional Mr. Plimpton - are legally permitted to drive it. Arthur, who is not the brightest spark, lets this slip and is recruited yet again, this time as an active participant in the plot to steal the dagger. Ustinov effortlessly steals the show, which sadly was not worth nearly as much as four emeralds, as Arthur and all of the best bits of the film belong to him. In fact, I have never seen Ustinov in a film in which he had more than one scene where this was not the case. Arthur is a very sympathetic and likable character who claims that his father once described him as a carbuncle on the behind of humanity, which is the best line in the film. As Arthur, Ustinov won his second and final Best Supporting Actor Oscar, the first being for Spartacus, but really it should have been the Best Actor Oscar since he is the male lead.A major and almost fatal flaw in the film is the casting of the horrendous actress Melina Mercouri as Elizabeth Lipp, a brilliant career criminal / nymphomaniac and the mastermind behind the heist. She fails to deliver a single line in what even approaches a remotely convincing fashion and there are at least a dozen actresses that I would have preferred to have seen in the role. Sophia Loren is the first name that springs to mind. However, that was never on the cards as Mercouri just so happened to be the director's then girlfriend and future wife. Ah, nepotism. I have nothing against it when it works well and the relatives in question have something resembling talent but this is a particularly unsuccessful example. Her scenes with Ustinov should have been hilarious but they were no more than tolerable. They would not have even been that if a lesser actor had been cast as Arthur. While Ustinov's acting was a breath of fresh air, hers was a gust of ill-wind. Their scenes together are like the agony and the ecstasy. She was the agony. Amazingly, she was not nominated for an Oscar. The scenes in which they recorded her laughter on the toy parrot were a little weird, particularly the one in her boudoir, and I began to wonder if this scene was made more for Dassin's private consumption than anything else. Mercouri later left acting - I can't imagine why - and entered Greek politics, most notably serving as the Minister for Culture on two occasions. For the sake of the country's artistic endeavours, I hope that this was a bit better at that than she was at acting. She could hardly have been much worse, to be fair.Maximilian Schell is an excellent actor in any language and he is certainly suave but I couldn't shake the feeling that he was miscast as the Swiss master criminal Walter Harper. His performance is good but it's not one of his best. Harper is Lipp's ex-lover and they have several would-be romantic / sexy scenes between them but they have no chemistry. However, this is more the fault of the director's talentless girlfriend...I mean, the female lead. In stark, stark, stark contrast to her, Robert Morley is a wonderful actor and he was perfectly cast as the eccentric toymaker Cedric Page. He is the strongest cast member after Ustinov. Akim Tamiroff has a very funny supporting role as the alcoholic cook Gerven but none of the other actors really stood out, good, bad or indifferent. Overall, this is not a very good film at all. The fault, dear Brutus, is not in the stars...except for Melina Mercouri. "},{"Title":"Istanbul gets naked, Jules Dassin style!","Date":"12 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" First off, Jules Dassin is still, even with all of the attention he gets for being one of the Hollywood Ten, one of the most underrated autuers to ever originate from Hollywood. This seemingly lighthearted work may have been received as minor, but in fact in encapsulates the themes apparent in Dassin's oeuvre and moves his political critique in a bold new direction.Dassin's ability to construct suspense is, I think, worthy of comparison to that of Hitchcock. His appreciation for architecture as an extension of natural landscapes reminds me of that of Antonioni. He again lives up to those comparisons with this film. This movie brings many of the qualities of Dassin's best, older films together the on-location semi-documentarian urban intensity of Naked City, the concern for Classical values being turned against themselves as manifested by Greco-Roman wrestling from Night and the City, and the appreciation of crime as a collaborative and conspiratorial art form previously depicted by Dassin in Rififi. It seems to me no wonder Dassin would admire conspirators. Did not the Blacklist force him and his fellow commie artists to conspire against the oppression they faced in '50s Hollywood? What is unique about this movie in relation to Dassin's other work is his comfort here with female desire. The lead character, a lady thief, becomes visibly desirous of the athletic, male wrestlers, as well as of wealth. With this piece of work, Dassin's political message, if a bit more allegorical than it was pre-Blacklist, is both more despairing and more hopeful than before. One of the first faces seen in the film is that of Stalin, but not the actual man, rather a puppet at a circus, equated with the marionette leaders of the capitalist world,Roosevelt and Churchill, sitting with Joe. The film ends with an idea of liberation suggested as such. What if, in addition to the sabotage of capitalist wealth and desire, someone tried to rob the Czarist jewels locked deep inside the Soviet Kremlin? Can such a purification of the socialist imagination be responsibly made? Dassin seems to think such a suggestion should be made, whether or not it should be realized. . "},{"Title":"A Great Cast in a Disappointing Film","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I consider this film to be far from classic. I almost turned it off after the first few minutes. It starts with some horribly annoying credits. Then there is a bit where Melina Mercouri addresses the audience to explain where the final sequence of the movie will take place. This part feels like it was tacked on after filming.Then next portion of the film involves the setup for the final section. This part is uneven, but it does contain some humor.Finally, we get to the actual caper, a Mission Impossible-like, daring heist that plays out in real time, which I appreciate. The ending of the film feels unimportant.The best thing about this movie, besides the heist, is it seems like the cast is having fun. It's a great cast, even if they are somewhat underutilized. I know Mercouri's character is supposed to be sexy and mercurial, able to entice and seduce all the male characters, but I feel the character falls short in this area though, again, it seems like she is having fun. "},{"Title":"Heist film maestro Jules Dassin has made an average film about a botched robbery !!!!","Date":"7 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" We all know that a film can look good on paper as long as there are film fans who have not seen it.It is only by watching a particular film that a film fan is in a position to decide whether it is a masterpiece or a terrible piece of entertainment ? Topkapi is known as a brilliant heist film but film critic Lalit Rao could not really get to appreciate it as this film's lead players choose to spend their time in pursuing other pleasure activities instead of concentrating on their heist plans.It is due to this and other plot related inconsistencies that Topkapi can be considered as an absolutely weak effort by maestro of heist film genre Monsieur Jules Dassin.He is known to have made better films where action spoke louder than words. While watching Topkapi,one can surely notice that there are too many nice views of Turkey.It is not known whether it was all intentionally relevant or director Jules Dassin wanted to achieve a kind of exotic nirvana in order to find spiritual enlightenment in Istanbul.It is due to these reasons that there are moments in this film where it appears as if it is nothing but a glamorous propaganda film made for Turkish government with a sole objective of giving a boost to local tourism industry.It is only for 20 minutes of its heist sequence that Topkapi is able to cement interest in viewers' minds.Alas,by that time viewers must surely have made up their mind to stop paying any attention to what is happening with the film. "},{"Title":"Colorful Caper.","Date":"22 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's a lot of fun and it's suspenseful as well, if you haven't seen it before. The acting is sometimes outrageously hammy but it fits neatly into the general atmosphere, which is almost always excessive -- the music, the performances, the flamboyant tourist attractions, the stunts, the jokes, the impossible caper itself.The caper is, well, if not impossible, highly improbable because it involves the most intricate planning and is pulled off without practice and without a flaw. If you or I were to try it, scampering across the sky-high domes of museums in Istanbul, pulling ropes a predetermined number of millimeters, coordinating the escape plans, the first thing we'd do is fall off the roof and die.Maximilian Schell is the brains behind the burglary, an excellent actor who doesn't have much to do except show his mile-wide grin. Melina Mercouri is his girl friend who is treated as a semi-maniacal nymphomaniac, kind of unconvincingly, although she has a neatly assembled, lanky, supple figure. Her cracked, throaty voice sounds cured by years of smoking Papastratos. Peter Ustinov, the schmo who is inducted into the gang, provides most of the humor and he's very effective, especially in his dealings with the crazy, drunken cook played by Akim Tamirov. Tamirov, intoxicated and mangling his English, whispers hoarsely to Ustinov that he is here to identify Russian spies. You mean -- are you here, umm, officially? Fishily? NO, NO, not fishily, I give you good MEAT. No FISHILY. And Tamirov brandishes a hideous wrinkled smoked fish under Ustinov's nose.The general impression is that the cast and crew had a good time, and the viewer probably will too. "},{"Title":"Topkapi","Date":"26 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" My second Jules Dassin's film after NIGHT AND THE CITY (1950, 7/10), and out of my expectation it's an exotic Turkish heist adventurer with a blithe tone and meticulous detail- solidification with regard to the theft action.The film starts with a tawdry but foxy Melina Mercouri (Dassin's muse and future wife) enigmatically introducing her craving to steal the most precious jewelled dagger from Topkapi museum, her kitschy costume and the settings are antiquated enough to divert the film into a burlesque frivolousness, but when her entire team assembles (including the male-counterpart mastermind Maximilian Schell), with an additional interlope, a small-con schmo (the Oscar- winning Peter Ustinov), the film regains its vigour and flair in its strongest form to manoeuvre a seamless treasure-replacement theft, benchmarks an exemplar of its genre which haven't been overshadowed since then, the escape strategy during a Turkish old-wrestling (Kırkpınar) pageantry is no less pleasant to watch against the trickery's predictability, and far more thrilling is the actual stunts which thoroughly generate a gravitating magnetism on the screen lest as little as one needle's dropping would scupper the plan. But the pathos-bathos irrefutably comes in the end, in the public media, where no one should dare wrote an ode to theft, no matter how benevolent those convicts are in person, thus the finale has to be a received compromise which still is in line with the filmic light-hearted air. Ustinov, is so congenital and always oozes a screen-friendly affability and warmth in his presence, whose second Oscar win of a borderline supporting role is well-earned by lifting the entertainment-heavy film onto a stratum of character-engaging experience. An appearance combo of Debra Messing and Anne Bancroft, the nymphomaniac Melina Mercouri stands still as the shallow and narrow-written role of an anti-femme fatale brain, and a gorgeous Maximilian Schell is shamefully eclipsed by his chubby sidekick, whose circumscribed performance nevertheless at least arouse my curiosity to delve into his filmography a bit deeper. "},{"Title":"Who killed the caper flick?","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's been many decades since Topkapi or the wonder of Peter O'Toole and that apogee of chic herself Audrey Hepburn delighted us in How to Steal a Million. These are exceedingly clever movies starring very attractive people wearing seriously good clothes while hanging out in exotic and/or luxurious locations and driving autos as erotic as the white Lincoln suicide-door convertible in Topkapi or Peter O'T.'s mint XKE sportster. Hey, life was good! Not only that, the dialogue was witty and multi-leveled. I'd forgotten the homoerotic subtext in Topkapi, made pretty damn explicit in the Turkish Wrestler sequence, which is not even remotely gay, but definitely hot, and a hoot, to boot! Observe Melina Mercouri struggle to contain herself watching the big oiled-up dudes in leather pants writhe about as the Turkish secret police are equally preoccupied. We're almost talking NC-17, but happily Topkapi predates that absurdist system. Most contemporary comedies&#x97;even the dominant gross-out variety&#x97;seem old-maidish by comparison. Both mastermind Maximilian Schell (never more handsome) and the hunky gymnast Gilles Ségal flirt with everybody in sight irrespective of gender. Even the bumbling, Oscar-collecting schmo Peter Ustinov gets an ardent male admirer. Nor is there a whiff of homophobia to dampen the mood. It may have been 1964, but these people are way more hip and sophisticated than, say, George Clooney, to cite a typical example from the current talent pool.Gilles Ségal never speaks a word in the English language Topkapi, yet he deftly steers clear of mime's clichés for an eloquent performance. Albeit unknown in the States, he's terrific, yet but one of many pleasures in this classic of the caper genre. The formidable Melina Mercouri usually gets all the attention, and very true movie stars of the stratospheric Sophia Loren variety have vanished from the cinematic heavens. Still, it's the men who not only pull off the heist, but likewise effortlessly do the heavy lifting that keeps this picture as satisfying as good champagne.Here's a conversational gambit for a phellow philm phreak How would you cast the remake? What about your choice for a director? I'd say Topkapi is at least as ripe as Ocean's 11 for a revisit. Just don't give Clooney the Maximillian Schell role. For one, he's too old, and for another, it really should be a Euro. How about Nicolas Cazalé? Or Jean Dujardin was brilliant in the OSS-117 spoofs, which hardly anybody saw outside of France or pre-Artist. Then again, Tom Hardy seems like he can do anything, especially a slightly dangerous sexuality.I'm stumped, though on the Melina Mercouri, and my best guess so far is Angelina Jolie. Don't snicker. She was amazing in Salt. "}{"Title":"Just for Fun","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I hope they paid Ustinov by the bucket load. Because he sweats more than any human should be allowed. It's tongue-in-cheek the whole way as a motley gang of thieves steals some big Turkish jewels. No doubt about it, the cast is having fun, especially Mercouri who mugs it up as the gang's, uh, girlfriend. But why shouldn't they be enjoying it. Here they are in scenic Greece and Turkey, no doubt on an expense account, and with all these assorted European types to entertain one another. Looks to me like director Dassin is redoing his classic Rififi (1955), but this time for chuckles. Still, the heist's a real nail-biter, getting across the rooftops of downtown Istanbul or hanging spider-like from a domed ceiling. As I recall, the movie caper was a smash hit back in '64, and still holds up pretty darn well. Just don't let any of that sweat get on you. "},{"Title":"Jules Dassin has a slow starter but a Great Heist","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" For over an hour, Topkapi is little more than colorful location footage, nicely presented by director Jules Dassin. You have the assembling of the heist team, led by brassy blonde Melina Mercouri (as Elizabeth Lipp). The main recruitment is hapless Peter Ustinov (as Arthur Simpson). He won an Academy Award as Best Supporting Actor for the year, but both the end credits and screen time agree Mr. Ustinov is the film's leading actor. Probably, they didn't consider Ustinov or his role the leading man type... After much ado, we come to the actual robbery - of an jeweled dagger from the Topkapi museum. This is the part you should not miss. The robbery - starring Ustinov, Maximilian Schell (as William Walter) and human fly gymnast Gilles Ségal (as Giulio) - is excellent.******** Topkapi (9/2/64) Jules Dassin ~ Melina Mercouri, Peter Ustinov, Maximilian Schell, Gilles Segal "},{"Title":"Caper Impossible!","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Connecticut-born, HUAC blacklisted, director-in-exile Jules Dassin of Brute Force fame pokes fun at his earlier crime caper movie Rififi (French-1955) with Topkapi. This leisurely, light-hearted lark about an elaborate crime set in Constantinople in the early 1960s loosely is based on an Eric Ambler's novel Light of Day. Topkapi qualifies as one of the top ten heist capers of all time. Mind you, the filmmakers had to abide by the censorship rules of the day which dictated that crime could not pay. Adroitly, they skirt the issue so that realism never intrudes too serious on their amoral shenanigans. The actual heist itself is a breath-taking. Naturally, later filmmakers would imitate it.Larcenous Elizabeth Lipp (Melina Mercouri of Never On Sunday) must steal a priceless sultan's jewel-encrusted dagger from the Topkapi Palace museum in Istanbul. She induces a former lover, Walter Harper (Maximilian Schell of Avalanche Express), to plot the operation. A Swiss native who's the epitome of efficiency and urbanity, Walter lays down several ground rules that he forces Elizabeth to accept. He demands that their accomplices all be amateurs without criminal records. Since they have no criminal records, they should be able to elude the world's best policemen. He stipulates the three cardinal rules of thief. First, plot meticulously. Second, execute cleanly. Third, don't get caught before, during, or afterward. Indeed, Walter doesn't want anybody with a criminal record as a participant.The first conspirator that Walter recruits is portly Cedric Page (Robert Morley of Beat the Devil) who is a genius with all things mechanical. He creates all sorts of toys in his studio, including a cute, little mechanical dog that walks and barks. He has a facsimile of a parrot that records voices and plays them back. He explains to Elizabeth and Walter that the museum boasts a complex alarm system. If you so much as bounce a ping-pong ball on the museum floor, it will trigger their sophisticated alarm system. Clearly, stealing the dagger cannot be accomplished with the usual smash and grab tactics of conventional crime thriller.Instead, Walter concocts an intricate plan for entering the museum without touching off the alarms and he brings in a strong man, Hans Fisher (Jess Hahn of Bad Man's River), and an aerial artist Giulio the Human Fly (Gilles Ségal of Without Apparent Motive), who work together in tandem. Rather than enter the museum in the obvious, ordinary way, the thieves plan to ascend from the roof. Next, Walter pulls in a con artist, Arthur Simon Simpson (Peter Ustinov), a small potatoes thief who takes advantage of tourists and looks for schmucks. Elizabeth and Walter hire him to take a Lincoln convertible across the border to Istanbul and leave the keys for a Mrs. Plimpton. Arthur is likable enough because he is a bumbling thief. He is so cretinous that he doesn't even realize that his Egyptian passport has expired so that when he tries to pass through customs, the Turks detain him, point out his expired passport, and then thoroughly search his automobile and discover a dismantled rifle and several grenades.Initially, they accuse Arthur of being a terrorist, but he convinces them that he hasn't a terrorist bone in his ample torso. The authorities accept his explanation that he is just ferrying the car across the border, but they still insist that he is part of a terrorist plot to kill their leaders in an important day not far off called Army Day. The Turkish authorities agree to release Arthur as long as he serves as their informant. They instruct him in how to pass messages to them without his bosses knowing about his perfidy. They tell him to hide his messages in a cigarette package that is empty and throw it away as litter and their agents shadowing him in a Volkswagen will retrieve them. Reluctantly, in over his head more than he could have imagined, Arthur has to go along with their plan.The beauty of Danischewsky's screenplay is the way she creates obstacles that not only the thieves but also the authorities encounter. Once Arthur delivers the car, he has no reason to continue as part of Walter's well-thought out scenario. The authorities refuse to let Cedric drive the car because he is neither the owner nor does he have a driver's license. Only the owner or a qualified driver, the police explain, can drive the car in Turkey. Cedric calls on Arthur and Walter has a new knot in his plan that he doesn't like but must unravel for the success of the heist. The authorities are constantly on the tails of our thieves. Plans go further awry when Jess tries to get tough with Arthur and Arthur slams Jess's hands in an iron grate, ruining them. Originally, the heist called for Jess to use his enormous strength to hold the ropes that they planned to use to suspend Giulio from the roof of the museum. The suspense escalates when Arthur accidentally reveals that the Turks suspect them of being terrorists, not thieves. Furthermore, the Turks&#x97;who keep them under constant surveillance&#x97;have taken many photos of them, only to learn that none of these people have a criminal dossier! Dassin's wife Melina Mercouri toplines a top-drawer cast, including a hilarious Peter Ustinov who received not only the Best Supporting Actor Oscar, but also copped the Golden Laurel award, along with similar Best Supporting Actor Golden Globe nomination. Scenic and suspenseful and shot on actual locations, this spine-tingling tale about several intrepid thieves is a delight to watch, unless you are afflicted with attention-deficit-syndrome. Like its intricate crime, Topkapi spins out a lot of plot in Battle of the Sexes scenarist Monja Danischewsky's screenplay that adds one character to Ambler's original story and shuffles the others in order of priority. Nevertheless, you'll quickly understand why Peter Ustinov walks off with top acting honors. He ushers in hilarity and bolsters the suspense with is dizzy antics. "},{"Title":"Classic 1964 Film","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Enjoyed this film because it had plenty of drama and the story deals with a flawless theft of an emerald jeweled dagger from the Istanbul, Turkey museum. Elizabeth Lipp, (Melina Mercouri) plays the role of a craft woman who fell in love with the emeralds and decided to work with her friend, Walter Harper, (Maximilian Schell) who is a professional thief. Walter decides to hire amateurs for this robbery which is well planned and they contact Arthur Simon Simpson, (Peter Ustinov) to drive a car from Greece into Turkey with all kinds of guns and gas bombs inside in doors of the car. There are many twists and turns in this film and lots of comedy throughout the entire film. Elizabeth Lipp also plays the role of a woman who just can't get enough love making from men and even goes to bed with a wrestler in her many endeavors. Peter Ustinov won an Oscar for his best supporting role in this film and this is a great film which was entirely on location in Greece and Turkey. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Delightful, intriguing caper film","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Topkapi, released in 1964, is a fun caper movie, and its popularity spawned many imitators. It stars Melina Mercouri, Maximilian Schell, Robert Morley, Akim Tamiroff and Peter Ustinov in an Oscar-winning performance. Mercouri plays a thief, Elizabeth Lipp, who desperately wants an emerald-encrusted dagger from an Istanbul museum. She enlists the help of a former beau, Walter Harper (Schell). He lines up a crew of people who have no police record and hires a small-time crook, Arthur Simon Simpson (Ustinov) to drive a car containing explosives needed for the job across the border, figuring that if he's caught, he's dispensable. The car is to be picked up by one of the other crooks, Cedric (Morley) for a Mr. Plimpton who doesn't exist. Poor Arthur, of course, is picked up by the authorities. They do find the grenades and a rifle. Thinking that the car belongs to terrorists, and realizing that the nervous wreck Simpson isn't one, the authorities recruit him to work for them. Cedric isn't allowed to drive the car home by authorities, so Elizabeth and Walter get stuck with Simpson for the entire job. Since he doesn't mention that the explosives were found at the border and that he's now a spy, the group continues to plan and execute the heist. Meanwhile, Arthur is throwing empty cigarette packs with notes in them (one claims the thieves are Russian spies) out of windows so they can be picked up by a following car.Mercouri's husband, Jules Dassin, does an excellent job of directing this film, which is based on a novel by Eric Ambler. Over a 40+ year career, Ambler was responsible for some very good books, teleplays and screenplays, including Journey into Fear, Epitaph for a Spy, The Wreck of the Mary Deare, A Night to Remember, and 70 episodes of the TV show Checkmate. Topkapi is very clever as well as humorous; Dassin made substantial changes in it, including the addition of the character of Elizabeth. The best scene is the actual heist in the museum, copied in the first Mission Impossible. Copied, but never equaled. Shot in Greece and Turkey, the scenery is stunning, and the film is accompanied by some distinctive Greek music.Mercouri is dazzling as Elizabeth, both sexy and funny; Schell is handsome and intense. Tamiroff is a riot as a cook, and Morley gives a good performance as a man with some clever toys and a technique to bypass the sensitive base on which the mannequin with the dagger stands.Of course, the film is Ustinov's. He is hilarious as a bumbler who is stuck having to help pull off this sophisticated heist and spy at the same time. Scaling heights despite fear and vertigo, pulling heavy weight despite being a weakling - Ustinov is fabulous, creating a marvelously funny and sympathetic character.Highly recommended to see the comedy caper film that begot movies like Oceans 11, Gambit, The Sting and many others. "},{"Title":"Ustinov and the 1963 Lincoln Continental convertible","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I remember seeing this heist movie when it was released. I recently viewed the DVD version.  Melina Mercouri was a bit old to play her character in the movie. This is more than obvious to the average viewer. The opening frames are a bit dated and cheesy as my son would say. The story is good, especially the robbery scenes.  Ustinov's performance is the best by far. In fact his character carries the picture in my opinion. The other supporting actor that helps this film, but has no credits, is the 1963 Lincoln Continental convertible.  I own an identical Lincoln convertible of the same year.  The only difference is the interior color. Mine is blue, not black.  The Lincoln is seen throughout the picture.  This is a nice little movie to watch on a rainy day. "},{"Title":"Not that good.","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Topkapi was very dated.  The credits and the beginning featured a freewheeling 1960's style that looks goofy today.  Melina Mercouri was miscast.  She had an exotic appeal but was way too old to play the hot babe.  Peter Ustinov was somewhat of an irritant.  He played his character well but that character was just a hindrance to the caper and would have never been included in a serious crime.  Robert Morley was good but Jess Hahn and Gilles Ségal were just playing types, competent but they didn't really stand out in their roles.  Akim Tamiroff was a waste of time.  I was disappointed in the movie.  It was too light to be considered seriously and not really a comedy.  The actual robbery scene was good but rest of the movie was tiresome.  Watch Du rififi chez les hommes to see a good caper movie.  "},{"Title":"A silly caper film, in which only Peter Ustinov shines","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jules Dassin directed this film, starring his wife Melina Mercouri, supported by Peter Ustinov and Maximillian Schell, who were all big names in those days. The film was very successful when it came out. But seeing it now, it is a shoddy piece of work. Melina Mercouri's talents, which were very great, were misused and largely wasted. She plays a woman who is obsessed with stealing an Ottoman sultan's dagger inlaid with huge emeralds which is on display to the public at Topkapi Palace in Istanbul, but under the most stringent security. Although there are some wonderful shots of Istanbul as it was in the 1960s (alas, how many of those old wooden Ottoman houses have been pulled down!), the story is nonsensical and the film is mostly devoted to the procedures of the theft, how to get into Topkapi, how to evade detection, and all that usual sort of thing which is so hackneyed and ultimately so boring. (OK, so they nearly fall off the roof several times and it is all very tense, but frankly, who cares.) Schell has little acting to do, and so doesn't. The only saving grace of this film, apart from the location shots, is the wonderfully funny performance by Peter Ustinov, who really did a most superb job. I suppose the film is worth watching just to see that. "},{"Title":"fin little cape and love the exotic locales","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Elizabeth Lipp (Melina Mercouri) is enchanted by the emerald dagger of Sultan Mahmud I that is located in Istanbul. She recruits Swiss criminal Walter Harper (Maximilian Schell) who wants only amateurs unknown to the police for this job. Cedric Page (Robert Morley) is a mechanical genius. Arthur Simon Simpson (Peter Ustinov) is a small time hustler who they intend to use as a shmole. They hire him to drive a car packed with smoke bombs across the border into Turkey which the guards find. The Turkish secret police uses Simpson to spy on the group. Lipp and Harper are shocked when Simpson unexpectedly shows up. Simpson tries to tell the police that they are Russian spies. When a member of the team injures his hands, they reluctantly use Simpson.This is a fun little caper movie. I love the exotic locations. Melina Mercouri is quite a broad. The caper is a little bit confused and it takes some time to develop. Walking on the roof is great. The Turkish wrestling is fascinating but a bit too long. The hanging from the ceiling is long too but that is riveting. Ustinov is great as a second rate criminal. I'm still not sure why they send the car with the weapons. At the very least, why would they pick up the car at the hotel? It seems like a very difficult way to establish an alibi. "},{"Title":"A very good film but better than Rififi?!","Date":"8 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Topkapi is a very good film, but I noticed that a reviewer thought this film was better than director Dassin's earlier brilliant caper film, Rififi. Well, I certainly would not go that far, as Rififi is probably the best or one of the very best robbery films of all time. It is interesting, however, how Jules Dassin seemed to almost make a specialty of these sort of films! What it does have that Rififi does not is a sense of humor, but that just isn't enough to make it better than the earlier French film noir masterpiece.Possibly the best thing going for Topkapi is the locale. After all, it's wonderful to see the wonderful city of Istanbul showcased like this--and scenes with the crooks on the rooftops looking at the cityscape are just breathtaking--so much so I would have loved to have seen this on the big screen. The other good things the film has in its favor is a masterful director, a very good ensemble cast and an interesting script--though one clearly derrived from similar films that preceded it (apart from Rififi, also The Killing, Big Deal on Madonna Street, Bob le Flambeur and even The Pink Panther). In fact, because the film is a bit derivative, I had to knock a point off my vote. Still, it's a nice film and the heist sequence was done well---very tense and meticulous.By the way, although the film never seemed to get much attention, another very good caper film is Grand Slam (1967). Again, it suffers a bit from being a not wholly original idea, but it's a dandy film as well. "}{"Title":"Heist film maestro Jules Dassin directs an average film about a botched robbery !!!!","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" We all know that a film can look good on paper as long as there are film fans who have not seen it.It is only by watching a particular film that a film fan is in a position to decide whether it is a masterpiece or a terrible piece of entertainment ? Topkapi is known as a brilliant heist film but film critic Lalit Rao could not really get to appreciate it as this film's lead players choose to spend their time in pursuing other pleasure activities instead of concentrating on their heist plans.It is due to this and other plot related inconsistencies that Topkapi can be considered as an absolutely weak effort by maestro of heist film genre Monsieur Jules Dassin.He is known to have made better films where action spoke louder than words. While watching Topkapi,one can surely notice that there are too many nice views of Turkey.It is not known whether it was all intentionally relevant or director Jules Dassin wanted to achieve a kind of exotic nirvana in order to find spiritual enlightenment in Istanbul.It is due to these reasons that there are moments in this film where it appears as if it is nothing but a glamorous propaganda film made for Turkish government with a sole objective of giving a boost to local tourism industry.It is only for 20 minutes of its heist sequence that Topkapi is able to cement interest in viewers' minds.Alas,by that time viewers must surely have made up their mind to stop paying any attention to what is happening with the film. "},{"Title":"Dated But Excellent","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is such a skilfully contrived heist drama that it is easy to dismiss the sheer fun of it. Even without the humour it would be a cracker of excitement. And with less serious attention to detail it would still be a joyful romp. In short; it's got just about everything.I find Melina Mercouri's preamble in the museum very well played and enjoyable. Her addiction to emeralds, and that preposterously feminine hip-swinging walk had me in stitches the first time I saw it. I suspect quite a few cross-dressers have used her as inspiration. Other commentators have dismissed her looks. Actually, she was 44 when this film was released so it would be silly to expect a baby-doll. She has had no cosmetic surgery either, unlike the desperate divas of today. For me (a mature man, like Schell) her sparky personality more than makes up for any decline in appearance. And her silky, burring voice? That could cause erections in a mortuary. In any case, she's not a model, she's an actress; so isn't that how she should be judged? Nobody slags-off Morley or Ustinov for being flabby, unprepossessing slobs, so why pick on her?I also find the chemistry between herself and Maximillian Schell entirely believable. They really do look like a flirting couple and I wonder if something wasn't actually going on when the camera stopped rolling. Schell himself has always struck me as an underrated actor. All too often he has featured as a star of B-movies, when this piece clearly shows that he can be a front-man, extremely versatile and plausible - far better in his time than the over-hyped Tom Cruise is today. His leadership and determination is touched with genuine humanity.Peter Ustinov, on the other hand, has always seemed lacking. Although an extremely funny entertainer, he appears only ever to play the craven bumbler, whether in this, 'Logan's Run' or even 'Spartacus'. Personally I would have given any Oscar to Schell.All the other actors earn their pay-cheques with conviction. Akim Tamiroff has a drunken, obnoxious cook to the letter, and trumps the more famous Ustinov in each of their exchanges.There is some excellent location camera work, particularly the opening montage of old Turkey and that scampering about across the palace roof complex with the Bosphorous shipping in the background. And haven't we seen some of those heist details ripped-off by 'Mission Impossible' and later 'Father Ted'? Flattery indeed.The music score is well chosen, too. It hits just the right cord of fun, excitement and cultural placement.If there's a weakness in any detail it is the sudden appearance of the bird. Where did that come from? It would hardly have approached the window with the gymnast sitting on the sill. I think one of those little rock-climbing lizards that are to be found all over the Mediterranean would have been more believable, it could easily have sneaked in without being seen. But that would have stymied the 'little bird told me so' line. And it's a nit-pick anyway.The thing's over 40 years old now, so like Ms Mercouri it's bound to be showing its age. Yet despite all of the modern developments in Dolby, special effects and so on, I would still prefer to dally an hour or two with this little gem than Tom Cruise's pretentious, over-blown, and needlessly violent outing. I cared for these characters, and that's what story is about. "},{"Title":"Good but Melina was in better caper flick 2 years later.....","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I just watched Topkapki last night. Got it free out of my library. Unbelievably I had never seen this famous movie. I enjoyed it! Fun and all, but really not very good!! All the criticisms mentioned in other reviews are true! If you want to see a REALLY cool 60s, slick, sexy, jewel caper flick, AND with the incomparable and rarely seen on film, Melina Mercouri, see A MAN COULD GET KILLED, http//imdb.com/title/tt0060662/ done just two years later. Co-starring James Garner at his most suave and sex kitten Sandra Dee and 60s stud Tony Franciosa, the film has all the pluses of Topkapi with none of the drawbacks!  "},{"Title":"Too damm cheeky","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Topkapi wasn't a bad idea for a movie. It turned out to be just another one of those talky, self-consciously-sophisticated boredom factories that emerged from too many snappy, international playboy directors in the 1960's. Hardly an honest laugh in the entire experience, except once or twice grinning at Ustinov. Other than that, I laughed at the script's multicultural pretence and excruciating euro- centrism. It's clear that Jules Dassin is trying to widen my experience and enlarge my hick American mind with comedy he thinks is urbane, but he tries too hard with actors whose noses are just lifted too damm high. Such a premise WOULD be funny if one of the stylish and refined characters surprised the audience and turned out to be nothing but an uneducated, coached & scripted dolt; they audience wants the veil pierced but it never happens, except to Ustinov, who we already know as an awkward fraud that the others can make fun of. "},{"Title":"Wow!  What a waste of two hours","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think there was a whole 20 - 25 minutes where I was intrigued and in suspense.  Ustinov, as others have noted, made the movie.  One scene made me BUST out laughing.  The film deserves credit for the beginnings of Mission Impossible suspense.  But WHAT A LET DOWN!I watched this movie because of IMDB user comments.  They probably wanted to fool someone else like me to waste two hours of their life like they did so that they wouldn't be alone.  NO, the cinematography was not interesting. No, the characters were not interesting.  No, the plot was not interesting.SAVE YOURSELVES!  If you must watch it, only bother with the last 45 minutes. "},{"Title":"Two different endings exist. Which did you see?","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" SPOILER ALERT! - I first saw this movie decades ago on home video. I just finished watching it for the second time on TCM, the TCM ending is different than the one I remember! In the first version I saw, the crew gets away with the robbery, but as Elizabeth (Melina Mercouri) stands outside, holding her purse with the dagger in it, a common street thief comes along, rips off her purse, and gets away. The twist the perfect heist is undone by a common thug.In the TCM version, the crew is caught and sent to jail, where Elizabeth concocts plans to steal Russian jewels -- and that's it!!! I believe the different endings account for the extreme reviews to the movie seen in this comments section.Please let me know if any of you remember the first ending I mentioned above! This rating is based on that ending. "},{"Title":"Possible spoilers -- alternate ending?","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" SPOILER ALERT! - I first saw this movie a number of years ago on home video. I just finished watching it for the second time off a recording I made from Turner Classic Movies. If my memory serves me correctly, the TCM ending is different than the one I remember seeing years ago!!!In the first version I saw, the crew gets away with the robbery, but as Elizabeth (Melina Mercouri) is standing outside somewhere, holding her purse with the dagger in it, a common street thief comes along and rips off her purse. The point was that all their effort is undone by a common thug.In the TCM version, the crew is caught and sent to jail, where Elizabeth begins concocting new plans to steal Russian jewels -- and that's it!!! I believe that the different endings may account for the different reactions to the movie seen in this comments section.Please let me know if any of you remember the first ending I mentioned above!!! "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"26 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not nearly as good as the series that was based on it, Mission Impossible.  In fact, it's rather slow.  Only the break-in sequence (subsequently  borrowed in the Mission Impossible movie, but also in many forms in the TV series) is truly interesting. "},{"Title":"I agree; overrated.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Undoubtedly this film played better in the 60s.  Pretty to look at in all its technicolor meditteranean glory.  Maximilian Schell makes a real good con/gang leader, and those two pros Robert Morley and Peter Ustinov are always worth watching, but frankly Ms Mercouri looks haggish (forgive the chauvanism, but she does have the cheesecake role) and the plot drags and has annoying characters (Akim Tamiroff's cook; he is a good performer but the role wasnt much).  The actual heist looks like the inspiration for the one in 'Entrapment'.  Movie is worth a look but nothing special. "},{"Title":"Numbs the Mind","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Forty minutes into this dull 'caper' movie I switched off, I could find nothing to redeem it save some pretty panoramics of Istanbul. The two leads must be the dullest, most uncharismatic heist leaders of all time, and then there's Peter Ustinov popping up with his 'hilarious' depiction of a clueless, bumbling local. How Blake Edwards must have thanked his lucky stars he went with Peter Sellers as Clouseau instead.Terribly drear, and the sort of 1960s films that finds national stereotypes awfully funny, quite why Pierce Brosnan would want to remake this I have no idea, unless he's following the principle that you should only remake rubbish films. "}{"Title":"dismal","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A dismal hangover from the filmmaking of the 50s. Silence but for the action; labored. Mercouri is appalling, a death-mask of pretention - but lightens gradually during the film, which hangs entirely on the talent of Peter Ustinov, which is fortunately real.As WWII ended cinema-goers expected exotic travelogues. At times the director appears to wash his hands of it, and offers that mode. But, really, he shouldnt be working. "},{"Title":"Cute fluffy caper","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This one takes a while to build up steam. While waiting for it to accelerate, enjoy the scenery of Mr. Schell and the limber Gilles Ségal. The caper itself looks familiar today - Gilles does the whole Tom Cruise hanging from the ceiling act, but in a leather harness...scuse me...Okay, anyway, the moment is suspenseful, with the added uncertainty of Ustinov's strength and loyalty. Oh, and there's dozens of oiled-up wrestling Turks. Sighhhh.However, what was with Melina Mercouri? She was supposed to be a sex kitten?! She came off as creeeeepy. When she leers at men (Ustinov even!), I just want to gargle. Fortunately her role diminishes later on. Sorry, straight boys, she's cringe worthy.That aside, it's worth a look at least once. "},{"Title":"It was OK","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I watched it for the first time today. I thought is was pretty good for its time. I liked Ustinov and Schell's characters. I even busted out laughing a couple of times. But.......OMG.......the lead role for the woman(i can't recall her name at the moment, although i would like to forget her) She looked like someone beat her with an ugly stick..no no not a stick AN UGLY TREE. And that laugh......it made me cringe...i hit the mute button. It's ashame that Sophia Loren, Audrey Hepburn or a 3rd rate x-tra was not available for the role. I'm sure they would've done A lot better.But all in all, I liked the movie. Nice location, story, and some nice plot twists. "},{"Title":"Topkapi ending?","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Both Jeremy and Tiger Mendez mention an end where the dagger gets stolen by yet another thief. Isn't that the movie Grand Slam with Janet Leigh and Edward G. Robinson? But it isn't a dagger the thief steals. It is a bag full of jewels and the thief ripped it off riding past on a Vespa scooter. Mary Ann wanted to call the police. Prof. James Anders cautioned that would not be a good idea. When I saw this movie years ago I thought it was silly. But for some reason I cannot remember how it ended. I get a chance to rectify that by watching it again early on New Years eve on my local PBS channel. Maybe like fine wine it will improve with age. But I think the reason I cannot remember how it ended was because I couldn't take the absurdity any more and walked away before it ended. I believe the I Spy TV series with Bill Cosby was also patterned a lot from this movie. I did enjoy I Spy despite it being silly. But there you had only 45 minutes with ads interspersed throughout it. Maybe 70 minutes all in one shot is just too much for some people to handle. That may include me and I am not part of the MTV generation. "},{"Title":"ridicule plan","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In a movie about a robbery, I think the first thing is that the plan is smart and credible. In this movie the plan is just ridiculous in many points. Walter Harper is one of the dumbest band leader I've ever seen. Elizabeth Lipp as femme fatale is very far from being credible. It's because of Peter Ustinov, Robert Morley, and the locations that the vote is not less then 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"a look only for Ustinov or Joe Dassin fan","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Only if you want to see Peter Ustinov in 1964 or Joseph (Joe) Dassin (pop singer in France).The movie is too slowwwww ... tooooo long .... 2h ....and the robbery plan is ridiculous in many points.  Mercouri as femme fatale is very far from being credible. "}]