[{"Title":"Yet another underrated Hitchcock","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"119 out of 164 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The rumors surrounding Marnie - the last in an amazing run of truly great Hitchcock movies that lasted from 1950-1964 - are plentiful. All of them consist of director Alfred Hitchcock's growing obsession for Tippi Hedrin (who starred in The Birds one year earlier). By the end of the movie, Hitchcock would not talk to Hedrin or even refer to her by name (this following a supposed failed pass at Hedrin), and his friends say Marnie was the last movie Hitchcock truly cared about.Regardless of the rumors, Marnie was a box-office failure and went unnoticed until recently when DVD brought back Hitchcock's unremarkable films, along with his classics. And behold, from the ashes ariseth... Marnie.Starring Hedrin as Marnie and Sean Connery as the man who falls in love with her, this movie tells of a compulsive thief and pathalogical liar who is caught by Connery and blackmailed into marrying him. Connery finds that Hedrin has incredible fears of red and thunderstorms, refuses to let men touch her and has disturbing dreams brought on by knocks at her door. Connery must play the dual role of keeping Marnie away from the police while trying to find out why she does what she does.This is indeed an excellent Hitchcock film. He reminds the audience that he did start out directing silent movies, and uses this silence very well in the robbery/cleaning lady scene. The moments leading up to Marnie's revealing flashback are incredible, and the movie reeks of typical Hitchcock slow, methodic pacing to a brilliant and stunning climax.Marnie is not a patented Hitchcock classic The fades-to-red have not aged well (if they ever did look good), the horse-riding scenes just don't work, and the backgrounds are obviously fake (although it has been speculated that Hitchcock did this on purpose -- whatever the case he later regretted it). But the basic premise, the acting, the directing are all top notch and have turned Marnie into another of the Underrated Hitchcocks.8/10 "},{"Title":"Freud, Hitchcock, Sex and Suspense","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"90 out of 125 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hitchcock's Marnie was a critical and financial failure when released in 1964. Some decades afterwards, the film was 'rediscovered' by film theorists fascinated by its engagement with issues such as Freudian psychoanalysis, sexual abuse, gender roles, trauma, sexual deviance. The central plot revolves around Marnie, a habitual thief who goes to work for large corporations, steals from her (always male) boss, then flees - dying her hair, changing her name and then starting over again.One employer, Mark Rutland, recognises her from one of her previous companies. When she robs him, he pursues and marries her. Playing Freud to her Jane, he alternates between trying to get her into bed and determining the link between her thefts and her fear of sex, thunder storms, the colour red and men.Tippi Hedren is ideally suited for the role of Marnie; her trembling-but-firm voice and impassive, doll-like face give her the look and feel of a tough-yet-vulnerable child-woman, lost in a nightmare world. Sean Connery is terrific asRutland, and the interaction between his character and Marnie suggests (at times) a slight subversion of gender roles. She may be troubled, but she won't easily fall under his net (he likens her to a wild animal) - and will tell him!Throughout the film, there is a brilliant use of colour, and some memorably dreamlike shots the opening of Marnie (her face unseen) with black hair, walking as if in a daze along a railway platform and through a hotel; the hand banging against a window, alarming the sleeping Marnie; the flashback to the woman's troubled past.Unfortunately - and other reviewers on IMDb have argued this - the film's editing is often lazy. Some scenes go on for far too long, and are way too chatty. More show and less tell, I say! There are those fake backdrops. They can be seen to suggest Marnie's detachment from the world (as Hitch once argued), but why couldn't he include them with every shot of her? Laziness, again?Then there's Lil, the sister of Mark's dead wife. Diane Baker gives a terrific performance, and there is the suggestion that Lil's attraction to her former brother-in-law might be deceptive... it could be Marnie she's after. Just check out the look she gives Marnie when they first meet and her remark ('Who's that Dish'?) But the lesbian subtext is never explored. Lil's character is never developed beyond a woman who alternates between smiling and scowling at Marnie, and then disappearing before the dramatic 'final confession'.Otherwise, a brave film, elegant to look at, and rich with issues for the film theorist AND the 'casual' viewer to explore.  "},{"Title":"An underrated masterpiece!","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"91 out of 137 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When Marnie was first released it was (quite unfairly)  dismissed by critics.  It has since been come to be known as one of Hitchcock's great films though.  Tippi Hedren stars as Marnie.  She is a liar and a thief. She has stolen large amounts of money from her employers on various occasions.  Things start to change as she begins to work for the dashing Mark Rutland though.  He becomes romantically interested in her but not wanting to get close to anybody she decides to steal the money and escape as quickly as she can.  However, Mark catches her red handed and he gives her the choice of marrying him or being held accountable for her crimes.  She chooses to marry him but he comes to find out that she can't stand to be touched by any man.  He realizes that she has a deep seated problem from her past and that he must now help her to confront this.  Marnie is a wonderful film and it is very underrated.  A lot of people have watched it and it has gone over their heads therefore leading to the underrated status.  It is much the same with Tippi Hedren's performance.  Even though it is brilliant alot of people cannot see how wonderful it really is.  Sean Connery is also very good.It is really too bad that some people can't see Marnie for the masterpiece that it is.  It's really quite pointless to call Marnie a flawed film as well.  If Marnie is truly watched intelligently you will see that this is not the case. Marnie deserves far more credit than it gets.  If you watch it I hope that you enjoy it as much as I have.5 stars / 5 stars "},{"Title":"Great, Genius","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"66 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Marnie is a misunderstood masterpiece from the Hitchcock. Often cited as an example of a messy, flawed genius - it can be off putting to some since its quite talky.  However stick with it and you will be intrigued and itching to discover all about Marnie (contrary to what most say, played with understated brilliance from Tippi Hedren).  The direction and cinematography is exceptional with Hitchcock and his usual crew i.e. Rob Burks etc on form.  The atmosphere generated (apart from being 'Hitchcocky') is unique, dark, gloomy and at times akin to a horror film, yet it is utterly appealing and compelling.  Theres an almost creepy, artificial humanless feel to proceedings as a result of the direction and how the actors have been directed to act as is briefly highlighted by a Hitchcock scholar in the documentary on the disk. Hitchcock knows the art of cinema, no flashy fast cuts or fast moving camera's as we see nowadays, but measured, inspired direction laced with flourishes of creative genius (thats Hithcock for you).  Atmosphere, emotion is built up like poetry. Witness for example some moments of genius such as the final revelation, in what is one of Hitchcocks most underrated, powerful and shocking pieces of direction; the riding sequence which culminates in Marnies fantastic yet disturbing line of dialogue,  there there...., and also sinister momnets such as when Marnies mother wakes here from her nightmare- her voice disturbingly artificial in its lack of emotion and empathy for a clearly distraught Marnie.  Speaking of the mother, Louise Latham -the actress behind the role effortlessly steals the show from an already superb Hedren and Connery.  Latham eleicits an absolutely breathtaking performance.  Her character is frighteningly creepy, tragic, powerful and marvellously played to keep up the suspense and intrigue.  You don't know what to make of the character except of the fact she knows or has played a part in Marnies psychological condition.  In fact I would go as far as to say it is one of the greatest performances in a Hitchcock picture - an example of genius casting.  Similarly her character is arguably the greatest 'mother' character in any Hitchcock film beating Pyscho and Notorious' madame Sebastion.Marnie is a truly great picture and definetly Hitchcocks last great although Frenzy is a nice enough distraction.  Not as good as Vertigo or Rear Window but certainly up there in the higher echelons of Hitchcocks work.9/10 "},{"Title":"MARNIE is the most freudian of Hitchcock's thrillers,","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"63 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Much more so than VERTIGO, which,even though it deals with one man's neurosis, is a classic whodunit.  Jimmy Stewart's coming to grips with his fear of heights at the end of VERTIGO is merely an icing of suspense on an otherwise well baked murder mystery.  In MARNIE, on the other hand, Hitchcock deals with the deeper, darker side of Marnie's psycho-sexual illness.  Mark Rutland's (Sean Connery)constant probing into Marnie's (Tippi Hedren) persona takes on the role of psychotherapy complete with word association games and sound cues that shake Marnie's subconscious.  In one scene Rutland is even seen reading Psycho-sexual Behavior in the Criminal Mind.  Strange night-time reading material for a handsome, newly married businessman of a certain wealth.  In the end, there is a complete pyscho-catharsis as Marnie remembers the traumatic night when as a child she killed the sailor (Bruce Dern), thus unleashing a lifetime of criminal psychosis.Hitchcock's direction is masterful in its depth of portrayal of Freud's Interpretation of Dreams.  The scene in which Marnie experiences a nightmare at the Rutland manse is a perfect example.  As the dream begins, the set is that of her mother's house during a stormy night when her mother's clients came rapping on the door. Marnie awakens, however, in the plush bedroom of the Rutland residence.  Hitchcock's camera takes us into the criminal unconscious and then exits into an opulent, satin covered reality gone psychotic.  This insight helps us to see the troubled Marnie in a sympathetic light.  Hedren's awesome acting talent underscores this as at times she emotes a little lost child persona.  This is very true to character since emotionally, Marnie's development stopped that night when as a child attempted to save her mother.From the beginning of the film, Hedren's portrayal of Marnie is pregnant with a little girl's search for maternal love and approval.  At the end of the film, Rutland's explanation of Marnie's life of theft as the compensatory behavior of an unloved child is simplistic and amateurish from a psychiatric viewpoint.  However, it works for the audience Hitchcock is trying to touch, and it is reminiscent of the doctor's pedantic and sophomoric review of Norman's psychosis in PSYCHO, a horror film rife with simplistic freudian interpretation. On a deeper level, Hitchcock takes us on a journey through one woman's Electra Complex as Marnie's euthanasia of a horse with a broken leg symbolically foreshadows the final scene in which Marnie's new-found memory of the horrible night serves to kill her psychotic ties to her mother's past.  Now in the paternal yet comforting arms of her husband, Mark, Marnie's life as a grown woman is sure to take a turn for the better.  Her fears of going to prison are the only vestige to a child's traumatic past. "},{"Title":"What can I say? You shall watch this!","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"61 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think this just about proves that Sean Connery is an excellent actor outside Bond. At the time when Marnie was released, it recieved bad reviews. Why is a mystery to me. This film has everything you want in a film, and it also possesses that remarkable interest and captivating nature that you associate with a Hitchcock film. Again, the performance of Tippi Hedren was excellent, despite her ongoing row with Mr Hitchcock. The story is both believable and suspending. Alfred Hitchcock is The Master of Suspense.If you are a Hitchcock fan or not, you must watch this. This proves to be one of the best of the Hitchcock Collection.I award this film 10/10. I love it and so will you. "},{"Title":"Great psychological drama","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"55 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  From Alfred Hitchcock, comes a gripping romantic thriller about a female thief/liar(Tippi Hedren) and the wealthy man who loves her (Sean Connery). The duo have great chemistry in their scenes together.  As Marnie, Hedren acts convincingly with her complex character.  Hitchcock's use of color to symbolize terror are spellbinding!  Highly recommend for any Hitchcockian fans! "},{"Title":"You're aching my leg, Marnie","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"35 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Add me to the group of viewers who like this film. Yes, it is long and heavy on dialog, but visually stunning, and Bernard Herrmann's music is rich and vibrant. The best score he has ever composed. For me, I have favorite scenes in the movie, for example the opening shot of a woman carrying a yellow purse. From there we go to her hotel room and watch as she transforms herself into another person. Old clothes get discarded in a train locker and the key gently kicked down a grate. All of this is done with no words, but wonderful camera angles, and accompanied by a great musical score.The office scene where Marnie waits in the women's room before robbing the safe. You only hear the voices of her co-workers saying good night for the weekend. Again, this entire scene is done visually, only this time with a split screen showing Marnie and the cleaning lady simultaneously, as if we are watching a play. Only when the shoe falls from her coat pocket do we know that the cleaning woman is hard of hearing and the scene is now concluded. There are several vignettes such as these that make the movie interesting. Yes, the riding scenes are fake looking, and I think it was just a case where Alfred just didn't quite keep up with technology. But when you think of Marnie, this is the last, true Alfred Hitchcock movie we will ever see. From then on, we never again see a grand production with high production values as we have here.Yes it has flaws, and the acting may not be up to par at times, but there are worthwhile aspects that make this movie a classic in the Hitchcock canon. "},{"Title":"A memorable mystery drama for the way in which Hitchcock squeezed and twisted suspense out of the simplest materials&#133;","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The childhood roots of Marnie's problem were certainly the fulcrum of the plot; but they were also a vital strand in her character, the main force of her motivation&#133;Marnie Edgar (Tippi Hedren) is a psychologically scarred gray-suited serial thief who would take a job in an office, win liking and trust by her good looks, manners and work; then steal the safe and move to another part of the country, changing her look, her name, and her identity&#133;This what she does when she went to work for Mark Rutland (Sean Connery), a wealthy sadist businessman; but he replaced the stolen money, tracked her down, and blackmailed her with two alternatives to go to jail or to marry him&#133;Only, besides Marnie's traumas and aftermaths, she was cool, desperately detached, and couldn't find in herself any affection for any living thing except fondness for horses&#133; Sexually, she was extremely cold, and her marriage was not consummated... And she was continually afraid of thunderstorms and couldn't handle the red color&#133;I don't want to spoil some of other brilliant little touches, but Marnie had always said she was an orphan, and Mark tracked down her icy mother (Louise Latham), and brought the two face to face&#133; There was a beautifully acted scene here when the two met up again and Bernice who even now could show no more affection to her daughter than Marnie could to her husband&#133; "},{"Title":"Unusual Hitchcock&#151;where marriage is preferred over jail by a strong-willed woman","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is not the stuff that director Hitchcock is usually attracted to. Hitchcock was scared of jails. In this film, the lead female character prefers to be bridled by marriage rather than jail. It is an intriguing choice for a character who had earlier stated to her husband You don't love me. I am something you have caught. Some kind of wild animal you have trapped. Aware of this, the young lady who has so far fooled a lot of rich men and escaped the law, prefers marriage to jail. She is smart, a woman who embezzles her employers to buy rich gifts for her mother, aware of modesty in dress (keeps pulling her skirt over her knees) and a convincing liar. Like Notorious, the marriage is one of convenience, or so it appears&#151;the end of the film is open-ended.For those who are not aware of it, Hitchcock fired the initial scriptwriter (a male), who honestly felt the rape of the wife by the husband was out character with male lead played by Sean Connery. The replaced scriptwriter (a lady) wrote the sequence which was used, in a suggestive way rather than a graphic way. Hitchcock loved to slip in sex even if it was out of character. Lesbianism is suggested by the husband's sister-in-law's remark What a dish! a remark one would associate from the opposite sex. (Hitchcock similarly played with homosexuality in Rope). A critical scene that could be mistaken for child molestation was probably an innocent gesture mistaken by the mother.Hitchcock usually was attentive to visuals and sound. This is an unusual film where the director swings from one extreme of high sophistication to absolute stupidity. The opening shots of the woman walking away with the yellow handbag are stunning. The silent cleaning of the office safe, while a deaf woman cleans the office is simply outstanding. Yet the crass painting of a dock near Marnie's mother's house would make a school kid laugh out loud. Why would a woman who is scared of red wear red lipstick or not react when her husband's sister-in-law wears red at a party? Similarly, the shot of Marnie's hand not being able to pick up the money in the safe is an unconvincing shot, if ever there was one.The film can be appreciated and be equally dismissed. The acting by all the main characters was good but Louise Latham performance (and make up!) needs to be singled out for praise. Kubrick seems to have copied Hitchcock's Marie's voice differentiation in the young child's voice in The Shining. I am not surprised if people swing from liking the film to dismissing it and back again. It has great elements and bad elements as well&#151;yet the bottom line is, it entertains! "}{"Title":"Mother, mother, I am ill....","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Far and away my favourite Hitch and in my top five movies of all time (yes, I'm very biased but there you go), Marnie stands out as one of the most deliciously bitter, malevolent and sardonic romance stories ever made, and it doesn't surprise me in the least that it is either sworn by or passionately hated by general public. It is, however, no less influential than any of the acclaimed and widely loved films that Hitch made previously. Even the staunchest of Hitchcock's fans seem to be bitterly divided over this one though, some among them simply not being able to forgive him for being so direct and blatant in choice and treatment of his subject matter (let alone technical inadequacies) - and for delivering a slow, sombre, pain ridden and malignant psychosexual drama, whereas others, myself included, revel in those very aspects of the film. Hedren and Connery's singular coupling on screen and their performances have also been subject to much heated debate - in my opinion they're both excellent, in that they very successfully portray genuinely unlovable characters and play off one another almost instinctively and to great effect, helped by a phenomenally sarcastic dialogue and more than memorable quips (The idea was to kill myself, not to feed the damned fish, as well as the entire You Freud, me Jane sequence). Delightful.Hedren is adequately surly, bitter, spiteful, troubled and fragile all at the same time, her average acting talents and icy beauty working for the film rather than against it, whereas Connery is nothing short of a perverse yet suave male filthy pig dying to get in between her treasured legs and take legal possession for precisely those reasons. Unsurprisingly, the chapter in acclaimed Truffaut's book of interviews with Hitch that belongs to Marnie is subtitled Un Amour Fetishiste - read it. It's interesting that Hitchcock had troubles with his leading ladies in some of his best films - his disdain of Kim Novak and endless arguments he had with her on set are all well documented, in addition to his falling out with Hedren halfway through Marnie. Both films are laced with moments of electrifying energy maybe just for that reason, and both women look spectacular on screen. In any case, it's perfect casting for both leads in this one, in addition to a brilliant support led by Latham and Baker, not to mention Herrmann's emotional score, which so assuredly bounces between hysterical, pleading, lustful, torturous, and tragic - and back again.Aside from directorial touches of genius (who doesn't get goosebumps when Marnie first reveals her face after washing out the hair dye) - there are undoubtedly many, many flaws and technically weak places in the film - the zooming in and out on the money in the Rutland safe is a particular standout in that respect, totally over the top and downright silly. Obviously painted backdrops and horseriding sequences have all been slagged off to death as well (altough surprisingly these don't seem to bother people that much when systematically applied in The Birds), but they are more than compensated for by the greyish, autumnal and trance-like feel of the film, and are very likely deliberately calculated in to greatly enhance the overall atmosphere. Hitch doesn't even try to win the viewer's affection by injecting a bit of his trademark humour in this doleful story and rightly so - it would have suffered immeasurably and would have been totally out of place. For this is a serious film about both female and male emotional and sexual hang ups (Hedren I'm sick?? Well take a look at yourself, old dear!!...you've got a pathological fix on a woman who's not only an admitted criminal but who screams if you come near her!! - Connery Well I never said I was perfect) - un grand film malade, as Truffaut affectionately put it - therefore no humour, apart from the bitterest variety, no happy ending, no sympathetic characters we can identify with, nothing. But the manner in which the film ends - the car departing, exiting from screen where previously we saw no street, road or way out - gives a flicker of hope that Marnie will eventually, with or without Mark, be able to find her peace. You can either love or despise the symbolism - it's entirely left to you. "},{"Title":"'Marnie' might be called a sex mystery, if one used such terms. (Hitchcock)","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"31 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is part of the Hitchcock series released by Universal on DVD. While the picture and sound are fine, they are by no means reference quality for re-release of 1960s vintage color movies. The picture has quite a bit of grain, and at times doesn't appear very sharp, as if made via a second or third generation copy of the original film. Still, a very nice Hitchcock sex mystery (by his own description in the trailer.) In fact, the almost 5 minute trailer included in the DVD extras is very interesting, for those who may not be old enough to have witnessed Hitchcock's humor.The movie opens with a lady walking away from the camera, clutching a yellow purse, and heading for the train platform. At the same time, her employer Mr. Strutt was lamenting the missing money (almost $10,000) from the company safe. Tippi Hedren stars as Marnie Edgar/Margaret Edgar/Peggy Nicholson/Mary Taylor, a 30-something single lady who seems to have made a career of ripping off her employer then disappearing under a new name and, in most cases, a new look. Quite accidentally, she next applies for a job with the Rutland company in Philadelphia. Sean Connery is the boss, Mark Rutland, and thinks he recognizes her from his visits with his client, Mr. Strutt. Educated as a Zoologist before he took over the family business, his area of interest was 'animal behavior', which included the human animal, and took an interest in this lady mainly out of curiosity. Diane Baker is Mark's sister Lil, who is suspicious of Marnie from the beginning, and does a bit of sleuthing on her own. It is clear that Marnie has some big issues from childhood. She tells everyone that she has no family, but sends money back to her mother in Baltimore. When she visits mom will not show any affection, Marnie doesn't understand. Nor does she understand why she is afraid of storms, and especially the color red. Mark falls in love with her very quickly, intent on protecting her and helping her.MAJOR SPOILERS. As soon as Marnie gets her first opportunity, she steals the code for the Rutland safe, and steals the money. Mark was already suspicious, finds and confronts her, but offers to make restitution himself. When he finds out about the Strutt theft, he covers that one also. He offers to either marry Marnie, or turn her into the police, because he can't just turn a criminal out on the street. With unimaginable patience, he sticks with Marnie, has an investigator look up the mother and her story. Turns out mom was a hooker, catering to sailors on leave in Virginia, one of them (a young Bruce Dern) begins to molest young Marnie by kissing her neck, mom gets angry, the sailor falls on her, little Marnie beats and kills him with a fireplace poker. The red blood scarred her for life, now that she knew her back story, she and Mark have a chance to live happily ever after. "},{"Title":"Stunning  and pleasing picture  in the best Hitch tradition   about an ordinary thief woman  and the  wealthy man determined to get under surface","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Compelling and charming Hitchcock film in which there is intrigue , luxurious scenarios , suspense , twists and turns . Marnie (Tippie Hedren) is a lovely blonde with a mysterious past ; she is a habitual thief and has serious psychological problems . Marnie isn't at all what she appears , has amnesia and having panic to red color ; then her employer falls in love for her and determined to understand her illness he uncovers his previous life . Later on , Mark (Sean Connery) marries Marnie and attempts to find out what makes her tick . As Mark tries to help her to confront and resolve troubles .This unsung and really criticized movie at the time of its release contains thrills , tension , suspense , psychoanalysis , romance, unlimited excitement and plenty of plot twists , as usual in Hitchock films . An exceptional Hitchcock film dealing with an exciting intrigue blended with sexual and Freudian theories . Besides , it has a literately witty dialog with distinctive Hitch's touches and writing credits by Jay Presson Allen . Nice acting by the great Sean Connery as current boss who catches Marnie in the theft act and forces her to marry him , though he soon learns the puzzling aspects of Marnie's background . Alfred Hitchcock and screenwriter Jay Presson Allen were allowed to see scenes from Agent 007 and doctor No (1962) when considering Sean Connery for the role of Mark . They liked his charismatic performance so much that they decided to offer him the role even though the obviously Scottish actor did not really fit with their conception of Mark as an American aristocrat. Tippi Hedren is pretty well as confuse amnesic thief who robs her employers and then changes her identity . Alfred Hitchcock and Tippi Hedren had a major falling-out during the filming and there was a rumor that by the end he directed her through intermediaries . Although Hedren admits the she and Hitchcock's friendship ended during shooting, she denies the rumor that he didn't finish directing the film . Despite the troubles which reportedly took place on set , Tippi Hedren has stated that this is her favorite movie which she has appeared in . Alfred Hitchcock wanted Grace Kelly to make her screen comeback in the title role, but the people of Monaco were not happy with the idea of their princess playing a compulsive thief . Good secondary cast such as Diane Baker as his scheming sister-in-law , Martin Gabel , the tall Alan Napier and Louise Latham, who played Tippi Hedren's mother is in reality only 8 years older. Look for in small characters , almost cameos , to Bruce Dern , Kimberly Beck , Meredith Scott Thomas , Linden Chiles and Mariette Hartley . And , of course , Alfred Hitchcock cameo  Five minutes into the film, in the hotel corridor as Marnie walks by . Colorful as well as glamorous cinematography by Robert Burks , Hitch's habitual . Rousing and intriguing original music by the great Bernard Herrmann , though it was Bernard Herrmann's last score for a Hitchcock film . Rating  Better than average . Panned at the time of its release and was deemed a misfire ; despite the poor reviews, Marnie turned out to be a moderate box office success for Universal , it grossed $7 million in theatres on a budget of $3 million . The film has since been accepted as an Alfred Hitchcock classic , though resulting to be overlong and confusing as well . Essential and indispensable seeing for Hitch buffs . "},{"Title":"Intriguing Hitchcock psychological thriller.","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Tippi Hedren stars as Marnie, the title character in this film. Marnie is a compulsive thief, liar, and drifter. She goes from town to town, each time creating a different identity. Marnie is able to insinuate herself into various jobs, then she robs her employers and skips town. Sean Connery plays Alan, who figures out that Marnie had robbed his company, among others. So he tracks her down. Falling in love with Marnie after he catches her, Alan wants to persuade Marnie to marry him. Marnie just wants Alan to let her go. But Alan wants to protect Marnie, so he offers Marnie a quickie marriage, or the alternative of being turned over to the law. Tippi Hedrin is wonderful in her role as the neurotic, larcenous Marnie. Sean Connery is impeccably suave and smoothly handsome, as Alan. Both have an antagonistic on-screen chemistry between them, that keeps the viewer intrigued. Marnie is one of Hitcock's better psychological thrillers, from the 60s. It's well worth your time, and it's now available on DVD. "},{"Title":"You Freud!   Me Jane!","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Preposterous, overlong, sporadically entertaining, and turgid melodrama, that never goes completely camp but not for lack of trying. Some of the dialog and situations are inane with a wooden Sean Connery cast as Mark, a wealthy widower who lives with his father and his dead wife's sister, Lil(Diane Baker). Mark falls for Marnie, a frigid, compulsive thief and liar, who has a thing for horses, is terrified of thunder and lightning, and freaks out over the color red, not just the sight of it, but the word itself. Mark who reads up on the sexual appetites of the female criminal, marries Marnie in hopes of curing her, and treats her like a case study, specimen,and/or patient (though he's not a doctor). He also spends a lot of money paying off the men Marnie stole from in the past. At this point you may wonder what motivates Connery's character? He's remarkably patient, apparently likes a challenge and enjoys unraveling an enigma. Another mystery the film never explains is Lil. Why she lives with Mark and his new bride Marnie, what she does for a living, and what her intentions toward Mark and Marnie are? Lil is an obtrusive plot device, and the character becomes annoying. Hitchcock provides a couple of effective scenes, but overall seems to have lost his touch. The process effects are cheesy, the music over-orchestrated, and the film at 2hrs and 10 minutes seems to take forever to get to the final revelation which is complete with thunder and lightning, and over-the-top performing by Tippi Hedrin and Louise Latham, who plays her mother. The rest of the cast makes little or no impression, and even less sense of their characters. Following North by Northwest (59), Psycho (60), and The Birds (63), Marnie is watchable, if disappointing. 1964 produced 2 daring and interesting films dealing with abnormal female psychology, Sam Fuller's The Naked Kiss and Robert Rossen's Lilith. "},{"Title":"A memorable Hitchcock movie","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie (1964) is considered by many to be Alfred Hitchcock's last great movie. This movie is certainly different from most of Hitchcock's movies. Most of Hitchcock's movies have a certain signature Hitchcock feel to them, much like John Carpenter, Stephen Spielberg, and George Lucas movies have a certain signature feel to them that are vintage Carpenter, Spielberg, and Lucas. Marnie retains a lot of the Hitchcock feel, but this movie is a slight departure from his previous work. This movie really can't be classified into one category, such as a straight psychological thriller, a suspense thriller, a detective story, a mystery, a romance, etc. Whereas most Hitchcock movies put less focus on the characters and more focus on the suspense, Marnie puts most of the focus on one character and less focus on the suspense. This movie is highly personal and psychological. This movie stars 'Tippi' Hedren, Sean Connery, Diane Baker, Louise Latham, Mariette Hartley, Martin Gabel, and Alan Napier. Hedren plays the role of Marnie Edgar, a strange woman with psychological problems who is a professional thief and has an intense fear of men, thunderstorms, and even the color red. To sum up the plot in a nutshell, she empties her employer's safe and escapes. Sean Connery plays the role of Mark Rutland, owner of a publishing company that Marnie applies for a new job at. Marnie robs him as well. However, Rutland is infatuated with her. He tracks her down, but rather than turning her in to the authorities, he convinces her to marry him. While on their honeymoon, he realizes that she actually has a fear of men and fears intimacy. He gets more aggressive with her, resulting in her attempting suicide. Her intense fear of men is rooted in a traumatic childhood experience she had. Watch to find out how everything unfolds. The musical score by Bernard Herrmann is memorable and is one of the strong points of the movie. The score is one of the best of all the Hitchcock movies, in my opinion (my other candidates are Vertigo and Psycho). There are some suspenseful moments. The special effects and some of the sets are pretty simple and low tech, but this doesn't detract from the film at all, in my opinion. The acting is excellent. Sean Connery was excellent. It was great to see Alan Napier in the movie. I thought 'Tippi' Hedren's performance was outstanding. Her acting in The Birds (1963) was great, but she takes things to another level in Marnie. Originally, Hitchcock wanted to cast Grace Kelly in the role of Marnie, but she had to turn it down. I think 'Tippi' Hedren was the perfect actress for the part, and she delivered. I also like Diane Baker in this movie. I have a weakness for movies with good looking women in them. This movie did poorly at the box office when it was released, probably because audiences were used to getting movies that were less personal, less psychological, and more suspenseful from Hitchcock each time, and Marnie was a departure from that. However, this movie's stature has grown immensely since 1964. As for myself, this is one of those rare movies that drew me in right from the start and kept my attention, but multiple viewings might be required in order for one to fully understand and appreciate it for what it is. The DVD's extras include a documentary called The Trouble With Marnie, which basically is about the making of the movie and the movie's historical status, a picture gallery called The Marnie Archives, and the theatrical trailer. Overall, this is a good Hitchcock flick if you're into this type of movie, whatever it's classified as (Hitchcock called it a sex mystery). "},{"Title":"Me Freud, you Jane","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie opens powerfully at a train station, director Alfred Hitchcock focusing on an immaculately suited woman and the yellow purse clutched tightly, possessively, under her arm. She's Marnie Edgar (Tippi Hedren), a part-time thief who specialises in infiltrating companies and robbing them of their savings. When corporate head Mark Rutland (Sean Connery) is fleeced by Marnie, he becomes infatuated with the woman. He follows her, pursues her, and finally uses Marnie's criminality to blackmail her into marriage. After much domestic turmoil, Connery (cast because of his real life misogyny? The misogyny of his James Bond character?) then learns that Marnie is both sexually frigid and has a deep, traumatic aversion to men. Why? After being abandoned by her husband, Marnie's mother was forced into prostitution to make ends meet. It is then implied that Marnie was abused by and murdered one of her mother's clients.Upon release, Marnie was criticised for being melodramatic, unrealistic and fake looking. Expressionism was on the way out and audiences were beginning to gravitate toward the literalism of new Hollywood, which was cash rich and busy absorbing European neorealist movements. With the toppling of various codes and strictures, Western films also began to develop a certain explicitness; everything could be shown, and so should be. The hidden was out, the mystery was gone. In came an obsession with the verbatim and the prosaic, everything rendered directly and vulgarly with the explicitness of cash. What you see is what you get. But Marnie was rooted firmly in turn-of-the-century German Expressionism. The film was proudly retro, its plot consisting of a series of dreams within dreams (characters are constantly waking up), all told with big, lurid images and Bernard Herrmann's pounding score. And as with the best of Hitchcock, Marnie had a voluptuous quality, Hitchcock's colours luminous, his matte paintings proudly artificial, every shot injected with a certain grandeur. Audiences hated it. Hitchcock was having a blast. The film's packed to the brim with phallic trains, symbolic orgasms, roiling waves, vaginal handbags, looming men, huge painted boats (symbollically dwarfing the childhood home in which sailors abused Marnie's mom) and virile horses. Sex is everywhere.Whilst typically thought of as another one of Hitchcock's mommy pictures, Marnie is as much about fathers and sons as it is about mothers and daughters. Mark's family is structured around the ghostly memory/reverence of a lost son/brother, and whilst Marnie is fatherless and sibling-less, Mark adores daddy and has his own complementary and oppositional deficiencies; he's neurotic, she psychotic, she runs, he interferes, she denies, he controls. Much of the film then watches as Mark turns into a quasi psychologist, determined to pick apart Marnie's fragile psyche in an effort to determine why she's unstable, frigid and kleptomaniacal.But is Mark a good guy or is he, to be blunt, a rapist? Mark originally wanted to be a zoologist, and displays no emotion other than intellectual curiosity. He sees Marnie as but a specimen to be examined. An insect to be kept. Elsewhere his home library is filled with old-fashioned and misogynistic titles (Sexual Aberrations of the Female Criminal etc). Detached and almost apathetic, Mark seems to desire only to keep Marnie close, to possess her, his tight control over Marnie's life and psyche bordering on the abusive. Couple this with the fact that Mark refuses to talk about his ex-wife (what happened to her?) and has effectively seduced his sister in law (reducing her to a sex-starved teenager and loyal lapdog) and you have a very strange character. Though at times compassionate, Mark's mostly a paternalistic overlord who uses literal rape, and psychoanalysis as a kind of invasive meta-rape, on Marnie. Even when he helps her, Mark implicates Marnie and places the blame firmly on women. This of course echoes Hitchcock's reported treatment of Tippi Hedren (He was a misogynist; not doubt about it she says in interviews), his attempts to control her, possess her and destroy her career.Late in the film Marnie and Mark have a confrontation on an ocean liner, the gigantic vessel reminding Marnie of her mother's clients (sailors) and the ships parked, like monsters, outside her home. Marnie wants to be left alone, but the couple have sex instead and Hitchcock stages the event as a rape. The audience is initially with Mark and positioned to believe that a little manhandling, a little sexual healing, is all Marnie needed (Mark even uses condescendingly sexist phrases like boning up on etc). The idea that frigid women simply need a little rough sex is of course resolutely sexist (the old, sexist notion that if she refuses to have sex then something is clinically wrong with her). But we don't realise this until poor Marnie attempts to commit suicide immediately afterwards. Even then Mark sees nothing wrong with his actions.What's problematic is this whilst admitting that this is an act of rape, Hitchcock goes on to rationalise the act from Mark's perspective. Then, in his final sequence, shot with a strange lens so as to distort Marnie's childhood bedroom, thereby capturing her disjointed, fragmented psyche, Marnie becomes normal and cured, and by extension now available to Mark. Hitchcock's films frequently collide male sexual desire with the denial of female agency and identity (Vertigo, Man Who Knew Too Much, Notorious etc), but here Mark is seemingly absolved, shifts the blame for Marnie's frigidity onto her mother and positions himself as a white knight. The film's faith in its lead couple then goes uncontested. Or does it? Hitchcock closing moments hint that Marnie's newfound relationship will be like jail, and a symbolic shot of a basketball recalls a tale by Marnie mother, in which she explains that women give their bodies only in an attempt to get things from men. In Marnie's case, she's stuck with Mark because the alternative is prison, their relationship still founded on blackmail and an abuse of power.8.5/10 &#x96; Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Bond on Blonde","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The charge of misogyny is too often thrown in Hitchcock's direction - it's a lazy tag that refuses to engage with his admittedly complex and occasionally troubling perspective on and relationship with women. The irony is that he was probably responsible for the creation of more memorable, dynamic female characters in classic Hollywood (particularly the fifties) than almost any of his contemporaries (bar Billy Wilder, whose attitude towards women strikes me as equally problematic). However, with 'Marnie', the charges begin to stick. The power imbalance of the central relationship, the pathologising of the female, the sexual violence against women - it reads like a feminist film-theory tick-list.It isn't as simple as that, of course, but there's a tendency for critics to be a little mealy-mouthed about what is going on in this film. Rape is made justifiable (although it isn't quite justified). The women are all damaged or perverse; Hitchcock claimed Connery's character is just as sick, but the film avoids pathologising him in the same way. There's a thread of something genuinely unpleasant in this film, and in fairness it wouldn't work if there wasn't. The rape scene is the most discomforting scene in all of Hitchcock's work, and my knee-jerk reaction is to wish it wasn't there. However, the way it conveys the horror of the violation without graphically depicting it (and thus turning it into a voyeuristic spectacle) may be the most impressive aspect of the film. This is the only 'classic' Hollywood film I can think of that treats rape seriously, as opposed to as a plot detail. The pity is that the film ultimately neglects the consequences beyond Marnie's immediate reaction. The film certainly provokes wildly divergent responses, and some pretty complex readings. This isn't just a matter of viewer response - the film encourages it. The bad taste it leaves in many people's mouths (my own included) seems deliberate, and it is for that reason that I give it the benefit of the doubt.The performances are more easily defensible. Despite a lot of criticism, Tippi Hedren gives a really potent performance as Marnie. At times she wavers, bordering on the hysterical or the arch, but then this a more challenging role than her debut in 'The Birds'. She nails the role in ninety percent of the scenes. Connery seems deliberately miscast, but he's rarely been this interesting since. Again, there are wobbles - he does better by Mark's dark sexuality than by his easy charm (which comes off as patronising) - but it remains a career high point. The scene stealer, though, is Diane Baker as Lil. I've never seen the actress this well cast before - she seems to have been underused all the way through her career. She has the unusual benefit of an actual character arc, rare among Hitchcock's minor characters, although it is rather muffled by her absence at the climax. In her final scenes, we can see her coming to comprehend the depths of Marnie's trauma, and anticipate a more supportive relationship between the two in future. Hitchcock, alas, has no interest in that. I'm always left wanting more of this elfin, mischievous character - and the actress who plays her.There are some striking sequences in the film - particularly the opening shot - but the fake looking backdrops are a mistake. I've never heard a really good justification for them (you can evoke unreality or superficiality without making your film look so darned tacky). The montage of the horse crashing over the wall may be the single most risible moment in Hitchcock's prolific career.Marnie is unquestionably successful in one respect - it gets under the viewer's skin like no other film of its period. I can't think of another film that provokes such queasy - yet rapt - attention. My own feelings about it are deeply ambivalent. I don't love it - or like it, really - and yet I can't dismiss it. My opinions about it shift with every viewing - and I keep going back to it. "},{"Title":"A glorious romantic melodrama","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"31 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This romantic melodrama is one of Hitchcock's most sheerly enjoyable films. There are all sorts of ways in which it doesn't work, but it doesn't matter. It is one of my key guilty pleasures. So as soon as that wonderful Herrmann theme begins, one should lay aside one's critical faculties, sit back and enjoy.   "},{"Title":"Totally Underrated","Date":"6 August 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'Marnie' is widely dismissed by critics, but is gradually being accepted now. Tippi Hedren makes her final Hitchcock film appearance in this tale of theft, love and mysterious secrets. Marnie is a compulsive thief and liar who travels from job to job and robbing her employers in order to send money to her mother, Bernice (Louise Latham) in Baltimore. When she is employed by Mark Rutland (Sean Connery, fresh from 'Dr. No', his first Bond film), she soon robs him and tries to flee but is caught by Mark who blackmails her into marriage. Eventually Mark begins to uncover the truth about his new wife and what is wrong with her. This movie is truly gripping as you watch Hedren appear as a heartless thief who disregards other people, but only is doing so for her mother who is a cripple from an old accident. Marnie is only a fragile and troubled woman who really longs for affection (which Mark tries to give her) and acceptance from her mother. Connery is an impressive actor who takes on a role that is so different from the charming, suave man that most audiences know, but here he is charming, sly and deceptive towards finding out Marnie's secrets. It's a fabulous combination and makes for a thrilling ride. "}{"Title":"A dark and off-centre Hitchcock movie","Date":"9 October 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie could be considered the film Alfred Hitchcock directed after the end of his golden period where he released a series of films that were either commercially or critically acclaimed &#x96; usually both. But Marnie neither did well at the box office nor attracted much praise. In fact, it signalled the beginning of a series of Hitchcock films that were received poorly throughout the remainder of the 60's. Over the years though the reputation of Marnie definitely seems to have improved and this seems pretty fair; it is a far more interesting film than the routine spy thrillers Torn Curtain (1966) and Topaz (1969) and really has quite a few good things about it.It was based on the novel by Winston Graham of the same name. It follows the book reasonably closely with the notable exception of the ending. It focuses on a young woman called Marnie who is a compulsive thief who also has revulsion of sex. Her new boss, Mark, catches her stealing money from his business and blackmails her into marriage. The story then follows both these characters in their troubled relationship. It's quite clear it's not just Marnie who has inner demons but Mark's actions, too, mark him out as a man with some issues. At one point he forces himself on his wife in a way that is tantamount to rape. The way the film deals with this could be seen as a little troubling as Mark is generally painted quite sympathetically but when you consider this scene, he becomes a little difficult to get on board with. I'm guessing that the dark, complex psychology that permeates the film was most probably one of the reasons it didn't resonate as strongly at the box office as anticipated.Tippi Hedren returns to the ice blonde leading lady role again after her debut in Hitchcock's previous hit The Birds. Her role here is a much more complex one though but she puts in a pretty good account of herself. She is accompanied by Sean Connery at the peak of his powers off the back of the early James Bond films and he does provide welcome star power, even if his accent is hard to explain here! While the extremely alluring Diane Baker also makes an indelible mark as Mark's smart sister-in-law. An aspect that seems to have been understandably seen as an issue is the use of back projections and artificial painted backdrops. The former had been systematically used by Hitchcock in other films, presumably to allow for perfect control of lighting, although I do agree that it often looks somewhat unnecessarily distracting. On the other hand, the painted backdrop used for the waterfront scene at Marnie's mother's house may well have looked very fake but I felt it gave off a strange dreamlike ambiance which gave her family home an off-kilter feel which suited it. And given the events detailed in the flash-back ending, the unsettling oddness seems quite apt. If I had to really find criticism of Marnie it would probably be to suggest that it does have pacing problems in the middle and could perhaps have benefited from being a little shorter. A tighter run-time would have served it much better in my view. But all-in-all, it has enough edginess and style to ensure that it's another fine Hitchcock for me. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's Most Psychological Thriller","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Margaret Marnie Edgar is an attractive young woman who makes a living by stealing from her employers. She applies for a job under a false name, waits for an opportunity to embezzle money and then disappears before changing her identity and obtaining a job in another city. (One of the false names she uses is Marion- possibly a reference Hitchcock's Psycho, which also deals with a young female embezzler of that name). Her behaviour, however, is presented as the result less of dishonesty than of a psychological compulsion to steal. Kleptomania is not her only psychological problem; she also suffers from phobias about thunderstorms, the colour red and physical contact or intimacy with men.Marnie's obtains a job with a large publishing company and attracts the attention of Mark Rutland, the head of the firm. Mark falls in love with his beautiful employee, and when he catches her stealing from the company blackmails her into marrying him instead of reporting her to the police. Unsurprisingly, the marriage proves a disaster, and Marnie attempts suicide on their honeymoon. Mark realises that the only way to save his marriage, and possibly Marnie's life, is to unlock the dark secret buried in her past which is the cause of her psychological problems.When the film was released in 1964 it was not a success at the box-office. Perhaps audiences of the day were put off by its frequently dark and challenging subject-matter, touching on such matters as frigidity, child molestation and marital rape. (The rape scene is omitted in some versions of the film). Some have seen a possible lesbian sub-text in the uneasy relationship between Marnie and Mark's sister-in-law Lil, although my interpretation would be that Lil is in love with Mark herself and that her feelings towards Marnie are ones of sexual jealousy rather than sexual desire.Audiences might also have felt that Marnie is not what they had come to expect from Alfred Hitchcock. Certainly, he had a deep interest in psychology and psychiatry, evident in films such as Spellbound and Psycho (and also, to some extent, Notorious, Strangers on a Train and others). Marnie, however, is his most purely psychological thriller. The other films I mention are also physical thrillers with classic Hitchcock thriller plots, either man-wrongly-accused in Spellbound and Strangers on a Train or woman-in-peril in Psycho and Notorious. Marnie, on the other hand, is more heavily weighted in favour of psychological analysis, with little by way of physical suspense; there is, for example, no equivalent of the shower scene in Psycho. (The closest is possibly the scene where Marnie, carrying out a robbery, is threatened with discovery by the cleaner).What the film lacks in physical excitement, however, it makes up for in psychological depth. Tippi Hedren was perhaps an unlikely film star. She rose to fame as a fashion model in the 1950s, but had no acting experience apart from an uncredited, non-speaking role in one film, when, in her thirties, she was discovered by Hitchcock and offered a part in The Birds, largely on the strength of her physical resemblance to some of his other muses such as Grace Kelly and Eva Marie Saint. (Kelly wanted to use Marnie as the vehicle for her return to the big screen following her marriage, until she discovered that her husband's subjects did not wish to see their Princess impersonating a mentally disturbed kleptomaniac).This was the second of the two films Hedren made with Hitchcock, and she is excellent, better than in The Birds. To portray a beautiful, elegant, smartly-dressed woman, which is how Marnie appears in the early scenes, would not have been too difficult for a professional model, but the ability to portray the deeply disturbed girl of the later ones clearly called for acting skills of a higher order. Hedren's performance here should be avidly studied by all those modern supermodels (far too many to single out by name) who assume that acting and the ability to sashay down a catwalk are one and the same thing. Sean Connery sounds too Scottish to be entirely convincing as the American Mark, but there is another first-class contribution from Louise Latham as Marnie's mother Bernice. (Domineering or over-protective mothers often appear in Hitchcock's psychological thrillers).Another point of interest is Hitchcock's use of colour. He anticipates Nicolas Roeg's Don't Look Now in giving symbolic importance to the colour red, but whereas Roeg's film featured a bright red object in virtually every scene Hitchcock uses the colour very sparingly. Instead, most scenes are dominated by the complementary colour, green. There is some attractive photography of the verdant Maryland countryside- Winston Graham's novel was set in England, but Hitchcock relocates the action to the area around Baltimore- and most scenes include a prominent green object. When something red appears, it does so at crucial points in the plot connected with Marnie's phobias. There is also an striking musical score from Bernard Herrmann, his last for a Hitchcock film. (He did compose one for Torn Curtain, but the director disliked it and it was never used).Marnie is not normally regarded as one of the great Hitchcock classics, and until recently I would have agreed that it is not one of his best works, perhaps on a par with something like Under Capricorn or Topaz. Having now seen it again, however, I am prepared to revise my opinion. Certainly, some of the criticisms made of it are justified; some of the scenes are too lengthy and dominated by endless conversations, and there is some very unconvincing use made of devices such as obvious matte paintings and back projection. (At one point when Mark and Marnie are travelling in a car, it appears to be summer on one side of the road and autumn on the other). It is, however, one of Hitchcock's profoundest analyses of human nature, exposing the dark depths which can lie beneath a calm, tranquil surface. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The building is grounded, Mrs. Taylor. You're quite safe here... from the lightning","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A woman disappears from her workplace, with thousands of dollars missing as well. These events are of course related, and Marnie is soon at it again at her next job. Here she is recognized by Mark, who finds himself fascinated with her. He marries her and vows to help her. Not only with her thievery, but also with her peculiar dread of thunderstorms and the color red. As with Spellbound and Psycho, this has Alfred(R.I.P.) explore psychology, as defined by Freud. The credibility and accuracy are impressive. A golden detail is the relationship between the analyst and the patient; the latter will be hostile, as the mind reacts violently to being probed, to having things brought forth that a lot of effort has been devoted to repressing and sublimating. I haven't read the novel, so I cannot judge this as an adaptation. This is a gripping story, particularly the climax. The suspense is marvelous. This has a grand score. The themes of jealousy(including within the family) and love are gone into here. All of the dialog is clever and well-delivered, and there is genuine humor to this, which comes off as natural and is funny. The cast is great. Both Connery and Hedren(who is immensely attractive) bring their A game(not to say that they are entirely equally talented), with charm, wit and chemistry. The cinematography and editing are skillful. Not too surprisingly, the FX don't hold up today. There is disturbing content and a little bloody violence and hinted sexuality in this. The DVD comes with an hour-long featurette(that I will review on its individual page here on the site), 9 minutes of production photos and a trailer(with Hitchcock deliciously introducing us to the film). I recommend this to any fan of the master. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Was not sure what to expect, but Hitchcock does not disappoint!","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I watched this fairly recently, as I have told to myself that I will watch all of Hitchcock's movies. So far I have watched Psycho (1960), The Birds (1963) and most recently Marnie (1964).As I have said in my summary, I was not that sure what to expect, considering all of the Hitchcock movies I had only previously see where more horror movies. However, like The Birds the main role was played very well by Tippi Hedren, of whom debuted her acting career in The Birds. In Marnie, she captures perfectly the persona, of whom is a fairly misunderstood, complex character of whom has a murky, blurred history of which is not discovered until the end of the film with help from Mark Rutland (Sean Connery).Like many other Hitcock movies, Marnie's genre in my eyes is not easy to identify. It is perhaps a mix of drama with a hint of black comedy to lighten the film, this was done to maybe make the movie easier to watch. While the movie is not the typical 'happy ending' it does offer the viewer an answer to the question that the plot is based around, why is Marnie afraid of storms, the colour red, and the nightmare of which we see her have during various parts of the film.Marnie is certainly worth watching, and you can sample some fine acting from Hedren and Connery. "},{"Title":"You're very sexy with your face cleaned.","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A man (Sean Connery) forces a compulsive liar and thief (Tippi Hedren) to marry him. Then he tries to fix all her psychological problems by making her face a childhood trauma. It's a good looking movie with nice cinematography and an enjoyable Bernard Herrmann score but there's something unmoving about it all. There's this psychological drama about this woman but there are all these bombastic moments designed to make us think there's something more exciting going on than there really is. Take the scene where Marnie freaks out because of lightning. Hitch sells it like this is some big moment but it didn't seem that big of a deal to me. The whole movie is filled with this sort of thing. Don't even get me started on the rape and Connery's character. Ultimately I think it's an okay Hitchcock film but not a great one. The psychological stuff was of little interest to me, even though I enjoyed Hitchcock's Spellbound. "},{"Title":"Fascinating and underrated","Date":"16 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie is not perfect, the horse riding scenes are artificially edited and some of the sets seemed somewhat plastic-theatre-backdrop standard. However, while Marnie is not one of Hitchcock's very finest films, it is one of his most underrated. And I don't think it is close to his worst, his weakest overall for me is Jamaica Inn and Topaz the worst of his late-period films. Hitchcock directs splendidly with a lot of memorable touches in the final thirty minutes that are his style all over, while the photography is suave, atmospheric and above all striking. Bernard Hermann's score, while not quite as good as his ones for Vertigo and Psycho, fits perfectly and has a very haunting edge. The dialogue has wit and intensity, which makes the many talky scenes in Marnie interesting. The story is slow in pace but didn't bore me, here there are themes that are not easy to talk about that are explored compellingly and tastefully. The final thirty minutes is edge-of-your-seat stuff, to me the best final act of any Hitchcock film pro-Psycho. The characters are not easy to engage with and very complex, especially Hedren's, but all the actors give their all to making them interesting to the viewer. Grace Kelly may be more people's idea of icy aloofness needed for the woman who steals to forget, but Tippi Hedren particularly in the final act does a very good job(though I preferred her in The Birds). Sean Connery has a very atypical role, his character is somewhat boorish and calculating but he brings those qualities across as well as his trademark suavity and charm. Diane Baker is terrific, and Louise Latham is genuinely frightening as the mother figure. Bruce Dern and Martin Gabel don't have as much to do, but they are good too. To conclude, a fascinating film. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"And I thought my love life was troubled","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Universal Studio's DVD release of 'Marnie' offers a documentary program called 'The Trouble with Marnie,' which has a two-pronged meaning. Besides the title character's neuroses, 'Marnie' hit large bumps in its conception. The film was slated for Grace Kelly, who planned a return to acting but withdrew after issues surfaced in Monaco. Alfred Hitchcock expected to shoot 'Marnie' immediately after 'Psycho,' instead canning the project and filming 'The Birds.' During this first production with Tippi Hedren, Hitchcock changed his mind and offered Hedren the Marnie role.'Marnie,' adapted from a novel by Winston Graham, focuses on character motivation and shies away from Hitchcock's use of externals to build drama. Hedren portrays Marnie Edgar, a Baltimore native who has worked, attracted men, and stolen under numerous aliases. Her cover is finally blown when she takes money from the office vault at Rutland & Company, a Philadelphia publishing house led by young and handsome widower Mark Rutland (Sean Connery).Mark, who studied zoology before taking over the publishing business from his father, develops a strange interest in Marnie. He uses threats of jail to blackmail her into marriage and works to uncover her inner demons. Marnie is very much a Freudian nightmare she is paranoid towards men, terrified of the color red, and hears bumping sounds in the night. Complicating matters is Lil Mainwaring (Diane Baker), a sister-in-law who was practically raised by Mark, his late wife, and father. Lil provides Mark with erotic distraction and becomes the rival of Marnie through a bond that is almost incestuous in feel. Marnie is also at risk of meeting past victims, including Sidney Strutt (Martin Gabel), who provides services to Rutland and employed Marnie under the alias of 'Marion Holland.'While a finely-crafted addition to Hitchcock's rsum, 'Marnie' seems to rank on the lower echelons of his career. The main problem is writing that stretches logic to the breaking point. In a script by Jay Presson Allen ('Funny Lady') after write-ups by two others, Mark Rutland is educated as a zoologist but seems oddly well-informed, almost erudite, in human psychoanalysis. The original script by Joseph Stefano (as in the novel) has Marnie visiting a psychiatrist who is separate from Mark. Allen's final script uses the Rutland character for these episodes, which is asking us to suspend much disbelief. Mark also has a male business rival in the novel that was converted into Lil Mainwaring.Another blemish is Hitchcock's continued use of unrealistic settings. 'Marnie' uses studio lots, painted backgrounds, and matte work that may have succeeded in black and white, but do not fare well in color. Even into the 1960s, Hitchcock was against filming on location, preferring 'mock' outdoors. There are locales such as a dockyard in Baltimore and the outside of Rutland & Company that are obviously fake. 'The Birds,' filmed one year earlier, has similarly awkward moments.Bernard Herrmann's soundtrack - the last he completed for Hitchcock before their dispute over 'Torn Curtain' - is in his recognizable style a lush, highly romantic design with turbulence akin to 'Vertigo.' While exceptionally written, the music often sounds inappropriate for this bizarre 'love' affair. Herrmann was pressured by studio heads into writing a 'commercial' soundtrack, which was not the composer's fort. The music, at times, captures Hitchcock's suspense perfectly, but at other moments seems heavy-handed, almost mocking the given scenes unintentionally.Nothing, however, can be taken away from the performances by Hitchcock's cast. Hitchcock was still getting maximum efforts from his actors and all of their scenes carry impact. Hedren is impressive in her moods of coquettishness, neuroticism, terror, and deceit. Connery's role is perhaps too broad on paper, but his intensity, charm, and strong presence work wonders. Diane Baker, Martin Gabel, and Louise Latham (as Marnie's mother Bernice) are excellent in supporting roles. Mariette Hartley and Bruce Dern also make limited appearances.Though destined to remain in the world canon, 'Marnie' is a strange piece of film, even by Hitchcock's standards. It has the aura of a typical Hollywood romance that's been injected with Fritz Lang to make your skin crawl. It's also a mixture of uneven writing, obsolete set design, solid direction, and excellent performances that will leave you wobbly. 'Marnie' is not the best Hitchcock, but not the worst by a far cry - simply an entertaining, if often unpleasant, thriller from one of cinema's great geniuses.Universal's DVD release of 'Marnie' is somewhat disappointing, even with its fine supplements. As part of the Alfred Hitchcock Collection, 'Marnie' is presented in anamorphic widescreen (1.851) with Dolby 2.0 enhancement of the original mono track. French dubbing is offered with captions in English only. Extras include 'The Trouble with Marnie,' a one-hour documentary on the film's drawn-out production; a gallery of photographs and advertising materials; cast and crew information; and Hitchcock's off-beat theatrical trailer. The DVD package also contains a four-page booklet with notes by Hitchcock's daughter, Pat O'Connell.For whatever reason, Universal has not gone the distance in restoring 'Marnie.' While the overall visual quality is good and colors are strong, grain and speckling are frequent. Audio is well-done, balancing dialogue, sound effects, and Herrmann's music. The overall presentation is watchable, but not what you'd expect for such a widely known and studied (perhaps 'classic') film.Universal's new program, directed by Laurent Bouzereau, follows 'Marnie' through its script genesis, filming, and critical reaction. Unfortunately, Sean Connery was not available for his remarks, but Hedren, Diane Baker, and Louise Latham recall their parts in striking detail. Joseph Stefano, Evan Hunter (screenwriter of 'The Birds' who was fired from 'Marnie' by Hitchcock), and Jay Presson Allen offer valuable background. Hopefully, 'Marnie' will show up on disc with a better appearance, but its current release is no less important.*** out of 4 "},{"Title":"Daring and interesting Hitchcock exercise into the human psyche","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" MARNIE (1964) is just one of those Hitchcock films that, over the years, I had very little interest in seeing. First, it was hard for me to picture Sean Connery (who plays the male lead Mark Rutland) as anything other than James Bond this early in his career. He had just come off of doing the first 2 Bond films (Dr No in '62 and From Russia With Love in '63) and this came out the same year as Goldfinger (arguably the best Bond film ever!) and so he still had that James Bond look and it must have been hard for filmgoers to shake this. Also, I didn't expect Tippi Hedren (who plays the star and title character Marnie) to be as good as she actually is in this film, and she's very good! Marnie is surprisingly probably the most psychological and character-driven film that Hitchcock may have ever done! Now, I'm not necessarily saying this is his best film. It definitely is not IMHO, but best is subjective when it comes to film anyway, and I actually understand both sides of the coin when it comes to this film. While it's naysayers are right that has it's frustrating moments and flaws, it's most ardent defenders have an argument that it is a very intriguing, provocative piece of filmmaking, and probably marks the end of Hitchcock's genius period from the early 50s to the mid-60s. I'm really somewhere in the middle. While I actually like this film more so than I expected, there are still frustrating things about it.Hedren is very impressive in an extremely challenging role. She convincingly portrays a frigid woman who is totally content without male companionship (even more impressive because a year prior, she played a character much more expressive, forthcoming, and unapologetic about her sexual appetites and desires in The Birds). Hedren's attractiveness doesn't detract from her character's frigidity. In fact, it probably makes it all the more ironic because an attractive woman like her could get many men, if she wanted! Connery is also very good in another challenging role. Mark is a very complex and ambiguous character throughout the film, actually more complex than Marnie. Even after watching the film a few times, I think it's still debatable why Mark is doing all of this! He seems to have a rather unnatural obsession with Marnie, indicating that he may be even more screwed up than she is! Yet we still don't really KNOW why he is doing any of this at the end of it all.The standout of the supporting cast is Louise Latham (who plays Marnie's mother Mrs. Edgar). Latham only has two scenes that pretty much bookend the film and manages to steal the movie from the 2 stars! Convincingly sporting a Southern accent and aged with makeup to look older, Latham makes the most out of a key role. One of the more memorable minor characters in Hitchcock's films! I think the strongest parts of Marnie are the beginning and ending. The first 30 minutes of Marnie really draws the viewer in as the film starts off with a great opening scene of the aftermath of one of Marnie's crimes and then a sly introduction of her character and the early scene with her mother. Then the frustrating part kicks in as the film slows down to a snail's pace around the 30-minute mark as Mark and Marnie engage in a battle of wits and pyschobabble on and off for about an hour, which starts to get redundant. While the plot itself is interesting, it's the execution that is flawed as we never really know why Mark is blackmailing Marnie or why Marnie is allowing it to go as far as she does.Yet there's something so engaging and watchable about this flick that I think it demands further viewing. For one, however ambiguous and confusing the relationship, the twisted chemistry between Hedren and Connery really works. And it is rare to see such a deviant relationship like this one in a film made so long ago. Viewers must not have known what to make of it at the time! I think a film like this would work much better if it came out now with all the weird, deviant stuff that's out there! Even with a flawed film like this one, Hitchcock still managed to be ahead of his time! "},{"Title":"From Mother to child","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was one of those movies in my house that my mom and I shared as a family activity (you know the ones you want to do vs. the ones no-one wants to do.)  I have never forgotten this great movie with The Birds lady and James Bond.It was a good film-like the Sixth Sense it kept you on the edge of your mental seat wanting to know what you didn't.  I felt like the Connery character-in fact I could nearly see marrying her simply to find out what was going on in her head. Unlike others here, I never disliked Connery's character, although I thought both of these people were made for each other. "},{"Title":"Definitely flawed - nonetheless, compelling","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Had I been asked, I would have said that I had watched Marnie before today - but having just caught it on TV, I think at most I have only seen parts of the movie before.This is a flawed film, with many inconsistencies and unanswered questions. Tippi Hedren, perfect as the incredibly vulnerable and damaged Marnie, hardly puts a foot wrong. Sean Connery as her husband of inconvenience gravitates between compassion and downright thuggery on occasions....I suppose one cannot blame Mr Connery for this, he was struggling in a role that would have confused any other actor in the part. If anyone in the movie is unbelievable, it is Connery - his Scotish accent was totally out of place, as was that of his father (strictly British)in a film set in the US...Diane Baker was the only one who sounded as if she belonged there. Some of the dialogue is so stilted and ridiculous that I found myself smiling in embarrassment - some of the editing is verging on the amateurish.And yet...and yet....it is compelling viewing in spite of the psychological gobbeldegook, in spite of the fact that it was obvious (to this viewer at least)what had happened in Marnie's childhood, in spite of the fact that the Connery character became less likable as the movie progressed and in spite of the dreadful backdrops and corny dialogue. There still was something of the old Hitchcock magic - he manages to make us care about what happens to these wacky people. That Marnie probably ended up in the nuthouse and Mark more than likely found someone else to manipulate is inconsequential. I am glad that I finally sat and watched Marnie - it was made to entertain - and despite all of the above faults - it achieved its purpose. "}{"Title":"a terrible movie","Date":"5 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If it did not have the imprimatur of Alfred Hitchcock, no one would give this movie a second thought. It would go the way of a thousand forgettable westerns or bad romantic comedies.There are just too many things wrong with it.For a start, the acting is awful. Everything depends on our believing that Sean Connery has fallen in love with Tippi Hedren, that he is so smitten he is willing to risk his business, his family, everything for her sake. But Connery's portrayal is so cool and distant that we don't believe for an instant that he is in love with her. He looks at her with a certain interest, perhaps assessing her &#x97; no, to be honest he just looks at her &#x97; but he never shows real emotion, the passion, the tenderness, and especially the loss of self that are the real marks of love. And, of course, it follows, fatally for the film, that there is no chemistry between the two main characters. His love for her is, after all, the entire subject of the film.Transitions are terrible. Just to take one example, Connery mentions rather casually that he plans to marry Hedren, with all the excitement of someone announcing a day of shopping. He is, by the way, doing it completely against her will, essentially blackmailing her into it. He springs the idea on her as a surprise, catching the audience off- guard, too. Then suddenly the marriage is over, and we see the two exiting a house as a married couple. No talk with the family, no preparations, no wedding, nothing. A number of incidents are portrayed like that, with a very disrupting suddenness.But oh, the worst is the hokey psychological nonsense that's served up to explain everything. It's completely shallow, simple-minded, and cliched, on the same level as cocktail party chit-chat. Hitchcock may have been a good director, but he was not much of a thinker. I just watched Psycho a few days ago, and at the end when a psychologist gives a ridiculously long speech explaining Norman, supposedly justifying to the audience all the events we'd seen, it is embarrassingly awful &#x97; pop psychology of the trashiest kind.Hitchcock made some good movies. Praise him for that. He was a great mechanic of suspense. But don't worship him, don't assume that a movie as silly and badly made as Marnie must somehow be praiseworthy, too, simply because it is part of his oeuvre. It's not. It's a terrible piece of work. I would never have stuck it out to the end if I didn't feel an obligation because it was from Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"Nicely Written & Directed. But Still A Bit Dragged.","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Throughout his decades-spanning career, Alfred Hitchcock has given us some of the finest thrillers in cinema that have wildly entertained critics & viewers alike, but Marnie is unfortunately not one of them. It's a tad overlong with a bit messy plot for a psychological thriller & although it has its little moments, it ultimately remains a disappointing experience for the most part.Marnie tells the story of the troubled titular character who is a habitual thief & liar and has some serious psychological problems. After she is caught by her boss while trying to steal from her latest place of employment, he forces her to marry him despite her uneasy behaviour and, after finding out about her traumatic past, helps her to confront & resolve these problems.Hitchcock's direction features his typical habit of twisting the story by concealing key elements until the very end to confuse & surprise the viewers but this movie really drags towards its final act & fails to keep the attention or entertainment going throughout its runtime. There were many moments which could've been paced better or trimmed away which would've helped its story.Tippi Hedren plays the role of Marnie & I really liked her portrayal of a psychologically disturbed woman while Sean Connery's does a fine job too in his given role. On an overall scale, Marnie may not be as bright as Hitchcock's famous works but it ain't too dim either. It's a nicely crafted character study whose main disappointment comes from the fact that its pay-off isn't as satisfying as one comes to expect from Alfred Hitchcock. Worth a try, anyway. "},{"Title":"I got you for Billy's basketball sweater . . . ","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" . . . is one of the most poignant lines from any Hitchcock film. Despite being burdened by crude 1960s era process shots (note especially the fall of Marnie's beloved horse) and the same sort of 1960s era psychobabble that ironically messed up the final ten minutes of Hitchcock's masterwork, PSYCHO, as well as being weighed down by being one of several one-trick pony Hitchcock films with all the ancient fiddling with red camera filters (even less sophisticated than the famous VERTIGO camera effect), MARNIE still can have you feeling sorry for a female thief with low self-esteem, only in this case, instead of having a single name such as Marion Crane, the doomed embezzler from PSYCHO, you can take your pick with MARNIE Marion Holland, Martha Heilbron, Mary Taylor, and, of course, Margaret Edgar, to name just a few of this serial embezzler's monikers. Where Marion's back story is as thin as silk scarf, Hitchcock lays it on as thick as he can with Marnie's hooker-mom Bernice. With moms like hers, who needs enemies? "},{"Title":"Psychological suspense","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is filled with almost exclusively psychological suspense, as opposed to Alfred Hitchcock's more normal physical suspense. I believe it was criticized at the time for this, as audiences felt like they did not receive what they had expected when they bought a ticket for a Hitchcock film. I liked Tippi Hedren in this, as she showed a lot of range. This was a rather old-fashioned film, even for 1964, with the matte backgrounds and unconvincing green-screen effects. It is said that Hitchcock hated location shooting. I know that these scenes I am about to mention were shot for effect and mood, rather than literalist realism, but in both the opening scene in a train station, and Mark's (Sean Connery) search for Marnie (Hedren) on the cruise ship, they encountered nary a soul. When, in such places could one be completely alone, at least in daylight hours? Well, just a minor quibble. This is a good movie. "},{"Title":"Death &#x85; Me &#x85; Needles &#x85; Pins &#x85; Black &#x85; White &#x85; Red !","Date":"12 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie Edgar is a thief who takes temp jobs to rob office safes. When she is employed by Mark Rutland's company, he rumbles her game and gradually becomes obsessed with understanding her nature. As he researches Marnie's past however, painful experiences begin to surface ...In some respects Marnie is the last of Hitchcock's great Hollywood pictures, made just as the traditional big studio system was starting to fall apart. It was his last film with three key collaborators - cameraman Robert Burks and editor George Tomasini, both of whom died not long afterwards, and composer Bernard Herrmann, with whom he had a big falling out. It's also his last movie to feature a femme fatale and a tale of psychological catharsis. Whilst it's perhaps a little talky, and features two complicated and difficult protagonists, it's a highly original and frequently arresting picture. I really like Marnie; there's a vitriolic little speech she spits at Mark, Oh, men ! You say no thanks to one of them and bingo, you're a candidate for the funny farm ! It would be hilarious if it weren't pathetic ! - which is intensely shocking and thought-provoking at the same time. What other woman says something like this in a mainstream movie ? Frigidity is rare subject matter, especially for Hollywood, and the way Hitchcock develops Marnie and Mark's awkward relationship is fascinating. Does he really love her, or is she just some caged animal to satisfy his scientific curiosity ? Can she ever really trust anyone, or overcome her instinctual misanthropy ? The movie goes for big tragic scenes (the suicide attempt on the cruise ship, the death of the horse, the final revelations) and these do pack a wallop, but there is a lot of filler in between. There's a great silent movie long shot scene in the Rutland office when Marnie is stealing the money and unknown to her a cleaning-lady (played by Evanson, the maid in Rope) is doing her rounds just a few feet away, but this is one of the few truly Hitchcockian moments in the film. Marnie's kleptomania and Pavlovian reactions to thunderstorms and the colour red are dealt with stylishly but come across a little heavy-handed, and none of the supporting characters are that interesting. All in all, not Hitchcock's best, but an ambitious, well made and original drama with two intriguing performances from its handsome young stars. A great first movie script by Jay Presson Allen (The Prime Of Miss Jean Brodie, Cabaret, many other eclectic films), one of the most talented female screenwriters ever, based on a novel by Winston Graham. Look fast near the end for a young Dern as the ill-fated cause of all the sorrow. "},{"Title":"Underrated Hitchcock Picture","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I had been a huge fan of Hitchcock for a very long time. My mom got me started getting into Hitchcock films. I had seen all of his best remembered or classic films, when for Christmas, she got me The Alfred Hitchcock Masterpiece Collection. It had 14 of his best films. Marnie was one of them. I was skeptical of Marnie because it was a box-office failure and it ended the relationship between Hitchcock and Tippi Hedren, (who had been in his previous film The Birds (1963). Originally I found out Grace Kelly was going to play Marnie, but ended up backing out. So, Hedren got the part. I really only watched this film the first time because I wanted to see all of Hitchcock's films, and I thought it was just going to be a boring 2 hour nightmare. This Film was, AMAZING! I was completely blown away by this film and Hedren's and Sean Connery's performances. I regret not seeing this film sooner. This was definitely Hitchcock's last great film until Frenzy (1972). This was an excellent film, and even though this isn't my favorite Hitchcock film, I give it the rating it deserves. I absolutely highly recommend seeing this film if you are a fan of Hitchcock and had doubts of this film, or if you love classic movies. This film is a must. "},{"Title":"Not Hitch as his best!","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Is the newly restored 130 minutes director's original version of Marnie worth the effort of watching it? Frankly, no! I really enjoyed the 110 minutes version I watched in 1964, but this ploddingly paced original cut is far too slow. Alas, Miss Hedron is also revealed as an inadequate actress whose coaching by the director is now plain to see and hear right up there on the screen. And, alas, the same goes for Sean Connery, a talented actor on his own account who obviously decided (or was forced) to let Hitchcock do all the work. In much smaller roles, Diane Baker and Martin Gabel now give the movie's most striking performances. Louise Latham is also effective as the mother, but Bruce Dern is miscast as the sailor and he also shifts audience sympathy away from the child Marnie. Incidentally, the child (Melody Thomas Scott) is not credited. Neither is the child who plays Jessie (Kimberly Beck). Occasionally, we see some evidence of the Hitchcock touch, but just as often his timing is sadly askew and his technique rather primitive, such as the red flashes to indicate Marnie's psychosis. He also exaggerates effects (the tree crashing through the window) or is content to do nothing at all to liven the pace. In fact, most of the editing is just plain dull. Hitch uses far too many close-ups, and just cuts from one talking head to another, as if he were making a TV show. The far-too-obvious process screen effects also undermine what little shards of suspense the now far-too-talky script generates. Available on a Universal DVD. "},{"Title":"A dull moment for the Master of Suspense","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie (1964) is a polarizing film people either dislike it or acclaim it as an underrated masterpiece. I am in the former category. This is an overlong, clumsy entry in Hitchcock's oeuvre, taking ideas and themes from Spellbound (1945) and Vertigo (1958) but never reaching the brilliance of either.The story concerns a rich man (Sean Connery) who obsesses over a beautiful and sexually frigid kleptomaniac (Tippi Hedren), and desires to find what the origin of her mental issues are. This could have made for decent ninety or hundred minute picture. The problem is this movie is over two hours long.Like humor, boredom is subjective, but MY GOD, Marnie is sleep-inducing. It's two hours and ten minutes of psychoanalysis and melodrama that leads to an unsatisfying payoff. Tippi Hedren, while good in The Birds (1963), is nigh unbearable here. Her acting style is somehow wooden and over the top all at once. Sean Connery's performance emerges as the most memorable, but he has no chemistry with Hedren, making their odd relationship unbelievable. Diane Baker is sexy and subtle as Connery's sister-in-law, upstaging Heddren with ease during her few scenes.Hitchcock fans will want to see all of his work, Marnie included. As much as I've trashed this film, it's not awful. The direction is competent and there are flashes of the master's genius in there (the red fade outs, the use of silence during the robbery). Overall though, it's deadly dull and one gets the feeling that Hitchcock's total interest was not there. "},{"Title":"Great Closing Scene, But Otherwise Overlong, Slow-Moving & Histrionic -- Hitchcock Losing His Grip","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is no masterpiece. Both the direction and screenplay are too cumbersome and awkward, patently flawed; something for which Hitchcock must bear direct responsibility. You see the actors overreacting in this movie most of the time.To Hitchcock's defence, it is sometimes stated that in his youth, he used to work in silent movies; that he liked employing some of the stylistic devices from that era even in his (much) later movies. Well, I don't think that excuse can be applied to the patently fake (meaning, exaggerated) way in which actors behave throughout _Marnie_. Characters in this movie keep overdoing their gestures, (re)actions, facial expressions and mimicry. For a good illustration, see the scene with Sean Connery on the phone in his mansion, talking to a private detective. Do people talk on the phone like that? No, they don't... it's just an actor, playing someone supposedly talking on the phone. If this was a silent movie, you could probably read what was said in that phone call, just by looking at Sean Connery's exaggerated facial mimicry. Throughout _Marnie_, you get uncomfortably reminded that you're watching a movie, an artificial product -- that this is not real life. Mark's sister-in-law is supposed to be coy; but she's not just coy in _Marnie_ -- she's *in-your-face coy*, with a vengeance. Everyone behaves in an obvious, in-your-face obvious, all too obvious way, just like you would expect this or that type of character to behave. Such emphasis on the typology of characters quickly gets tiresome to watch. Is that great movie-making? Hardly. Especially when the movie is so terribly long and slow-moving as _Marnie_ is. There is little trace left of the wit or lightness of touch so typical of Hitchcock in his finest classics. Even the great Bernhard Herrmann's music seems out-of-place for once -- too melodramatic.Not everything is bad about _Marnie_, but overall it just fails to rise above the mediocre. The only outstanding part really is the ending; you get to admire three great actors -- Tippi Hedren, Sean Connery and Louise Latham -- pulling it off a wildly improbable tale, a very far-fetched resolution of the movie's psychological mystery plot; and for a change, the final scenes are masterfully shot by Hitchcock. It's a very late and brief redemption after spending almost 2 hours watching mostly turgid stuff -- but at least it's there. Also, despite the weakness of material at hand, and unsatisfactory direction, both Tippi Hedren and Sean Connery showcase their acting skills throughout, so even if the movie as such is a bore, you at least get the technical pleasure of watching this highly accomplished pair of actors trying to make something out of it. "},{"Title":"The idea was to kill myself, not feed the damn fish.","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" First of all, the title of the movie Marnie represents the name of the female lead (Tippi Hedren), who happens to have serious psychological problems, which cause her to steal and lie...plenty. After having finished another robbing job, she becomes an employer for a big enterprise, whose boss (Sean Connery) happens to already have seen her before (with another look and another name, of course). Thus, he suspects she wants to pull the same stunt on his business, but since he does not know for sure, he lets her work there. Against his own will, he falls in love with her, but she wants to escape him, for she is not used to being handled, especially by men. However, he forces her to marry him, with the intention of helping her go through her issues. However, things get complicated, and...you'll see.In my view, Marnie is terribly underrated. I honestly think it is one of the best movies by Hitchcock, and it certainly is my third favorite (the first two being Rebecca- the most underrated of them all, and Vertigo).While some movies, despite having everything they need in order to be really good, somehow just fail to actually be really good, Marnie not only had all the ingredients, but they were successfully used to their best advantage. Thus, I just love how Hitchcock exploits the effect of the visual upon the human mind (e.g. the cinematography was great, all the sequences which emphasized Marnie's fear of the color red really impressed me- effect which can be also found in Vertigo). With Hitchcock, it goes beyond the characters, the storyline and all that, because it is just pure artistry at its best. And maybe this is why many people do not get his movies, because maybe they expect something relaxing or soft-core, but it's not like that. His movies require concentration and deep immersing. I just love that.And although the characters may not be the most important aspect,in Marnie(being a psychological thriller), the acting was superb. Tippi Hedren was out of this world, really, she was perfect for the part, I don't know how people can say that another actress should have been cast instead & stuff. However, the outstanding thing for me was that both leading actors were equally brilliant. I have noticed that this does not happen so often, for usually one of the two steals the shows, but, here, Sean Connery was just as fantastic as Tippi Hedren. Their chemistry was great, but at the same time, their characters were individually very well shaped. I could not have asked for anything more.I most enjoyed the moments full of suspense (Hitch's the master of suspense after all). The robbing of the money was great, and the part from his office when the two of them are alone in a thunderstorm was just fabulous. That includes the kissing scene- Gosh, one of the best kissing scenes I've ever seen. The music was not bad at all either. It was splendid actually (if I'm not mistaken, it was Bernard Herrmann after all). The ending was a good one as well (altough the best Hitchcock movie ending for me was that of Vertigo).You should really see this one. It is more than worth at least one viewing. "}{"Title":"This is the film which inspired an Iranian film May be some other time (1988) Directed by Bahram Beyzai","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The best way to define Marnie would be to state that for general public it is a highly intelligent film.It is a film that constantly seeks viewers' participation on numerous occasions.The reason why a film of Marnie stature is hailed as a classic is simple.This is a film which has baffled public of all ages,tastes and nationalities. Marnie is also one of those films made by Alfred Hitchcock which has been understood differently by film critics and cinema experts in countries where cinema is perceived more as an art than a product meant to entertain masses.This is the reason why Marnie is always being dissected for unraveling layers of hidden meanings,motives and themes.There are certain actors who have the ability to startle with the intensity of their eclectic performances.Tippi Hedren is one of such actors.In this film it is sad that she appears more like a maimed lamb.Sean Connery has done proper justice to his non James Bond type role.Don't get confused if somebody were to describe this film as a film about a kleptomaniac.This is not true.It is more a film about relationships which make our world a better place to live. "},{"Title":"a touch of Psycho, a touch of Vertigo, but it's still a film brimming with original Hitchcock touches","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" To say that Marnie is derivative of other Alfred Hitchcock films may be a little too simple a view to take. There's probably a bit to read into it that goes along with comparisons to Psycho (Marine and her 'mother' issue, plus a line of dialog from Mark's sister when she says A girl's best friend is her mother), or to Vertigo, or even to Spellbound to a degree. But Marnie works so well because Hitchcock gets it to stand on its own feet as a drama of full-blown psychological tension. At first it seems like it could be too obvious, or just oh, it's a girl with mother issues, waa, didn't love her enough so she goes out and lies and steals compulsively. But there's more that Hitchcock digs, if merely in subtle gestures, to suggest what Marnie is really about, which is how to perceive someone locked off from the rest of the world. What's The Matter With Marnie could have been the full title of the picture.She (Tippi Hedren, probably at her best) is frigid around her sort of blackmailer of a husband (Connery), who makes her marry him or else turn her over to the police after catching her heisting the safe at Rutland's. But why is she so to the point of mania, or even (when forced contact finally occurs) attempted suicide? And what about those colors of red and the thunderstorms, and her cries for 'Mommy' in her sleep? Hitchcock casts her leads well, which makes their scenes of push-and-pull theatrics seem plausible. And what's also cool is to see Hitchcock break down the barriers of vulnerability with him and his star (whom, as trivia says, was partly true in real life as Hitch tried to pursue Hedren romantically but was turned down cold).In truth, we as the audience aren't nearly as interested in the likely financial blunder Rutland has gotten himself into in clinging on to this woman who drives him mad with her mystery, or if certain other figures like Strutt may catch on to the fact that Marnie has several aliases and played him like a fiddle. These are only (good) ploys in the plot, not the best that the Master's had in his films but fair enough to move the story along. What *does* strike the interest, the intrigue and 'what-the-hell-was-that' quality of a terrific Hitchcock picture lies in this character's double-mind set (hence the comparisons to Psycho and Vertigo). She's calculating, cold and not responsive to any man's touch- and if not Sean Connery then whom you might ask- and in the final minutes of Marnie we see her stripped down, emotionally and mentally speaking, in front of her mother, and all the cards are laid out on the other side of her personality, the one that was damaged and never returned.This should be something that doesn't work, this revelation at the end. But in truth this is one of the more powerful set-pieces ('set-pieces' as far as real theater and real cinema goes) I've seen in late Hitchcock. Marnie describes the event, and Hitch shows it (featuring an uncredited Bruce Dern) in a muted color, where it's not black and white but not fully fleshed out. Then the scenes grows more and more intense, and finally a splash of the color of blood rings up. Now, suddenly, the motif of the red tint used throughout the picture doesn't seem that random or pretentious anymore. What Marnie represents in the Hitchcock cannon is akin to him taking apart a corny romance novel and seeing what makes the material tick. Behind the equestrian tendencies of Marnie, beneath the sheen and veneer of the cinematography and production design and costumes, and of course Connery, lies a torn soul, something that represents a warped view of humanity that is more than likely usually the truth. Done by anyone else Marnie would be conventional, even tedious. By Hitchcock, it's a near masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Is this a late 'psychological' masterpiece?","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When Marnie first appeared it was seen as something of a disappointment, (but then so was Vertigo). A few critics did warm to its psychological intracices but, by and large, it was seen as Hitchcock treading water, under par. Of course, as with a number of other films, usually by famours directors, its reputation has grown with time. Its absence of 'thrills', (it's certainly no North ny Northwest), has been excused by concentrating on its emphasis on character. It doesn't matter that the two central characters are not particularly well played in the traditional sense. Certainly, in Marnie's case what matters is what she represents. She is, to quote Sondheim 'a blank page or canvas' unto which Hitchcock projects his ideas.Marnie is a thief , but not a thief who steals for gain. She is, rather, a kleptomaniac; she is ill, (and her whole demeanour assures us that it is an illness of the mind). Combined with her kleptomania she is also frigid, (in other words, she is an analyst's wet-dream). Marnie steals from her employers before changing her identity and moving on. There is excitement in following her exploits; we wonder if she will be caught and if so, how and what that will mean to her life, (and, of course, to the picture), but it is not the conventional excitement of the thriller or even of the Hitchcock thriller. It is not the excitement of a To Catch a Thief, (though there is one brilliantly Hitchcockian scene involving a safe and a cleaning lady). Rather the excitement is cerebral. We want to know what drives Marnie; what is behind her kleptomania and her frigidity.So does the man she marries. Mark is her current employer; you could say he marries her out of desire and out of revenge, (he caught her stealing from him), but he also wants to solve the puzzle. This is what he finally does when he drags her home to mama in a scene of hysterical artificiality. To find out what is behind her kleptomania and her frigidity he must first get behind her fear of the colour red, (and you don't have to be Dr. Freud to figure that one out). Hitchcock films the climax in what are obviously studio sets but he uses these sets to get inside Marnie's psyche. Marnie has been cut off from reality by her past so Hithcock cuts us of from reality in recreating her past.It's not a deep film, (certainly not as deep as Hitchcock would have us believe), but it's a richly rewarding and clever one. If Sean Connery's performance as Mark seems at best disinterested and at worst wooden, at least it focuses our attention on Marnie. Tippi Hedren was never much of an actress, (after Marnie she basically gave up movies), but her blankness is used beautifully to convey Marnie's total lack of emotion. She isn't just frigid, she's an ice-queen and she seems impervious to melting. (She's also very good at getting the little girl inside the woman when finally she does melt). You could say she was the perfect Hitchcock heroine.I wouldn't say that the film is the masterpiece that some critics have since hailed it to be, (it's become fashionable to prefer Hitchcock's psychological movies as opposed to his 'action' films), but it's certainly far from negligible and it repays several viewings. It is always a pleasure to spend time in the company of Mr Hitchcock who was certainly on par with this one. "},{"Title":"The story line","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The story line, in terms of believability and execution, is reminiscent of movies made during the 30's and 40's. One gets the feeling that Hitchcock never really got a handle on this particular project - never was quite able to bring it all into line. However, 'Marnie' still has his tightly scrutinized feel - which is always vastly enjoyable to watch - as well as his tendency to de-emphasize the characters to bring out the story.Though Connery is a bit of a fish out of water here, his presence lends credibility, energy and substance without stealing the show. By the way, it takes a tall man (Alan Napier) to make Sean Connery look short.This is a movie that despite some flaws intrigues you. And in that sense it's a success.  "},{"Title":"dashing and tragic costars","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sean Connery is dashing and handsome and Tippi Hedren is tragic and sad.The supense is great and the love story is appealing. I enjoyed this movie. It is one of my favorite Hitchcock movies.The scene where she steals the money is very suspenseful the way Hitchcock cuts back and forth from shoe to Marnie and the cleaning lady. The ending is very satisfying and the theme of predator and prey is very clever. "},{"Title":"Don't overlook this late Hitchcock psychodrama","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This late Hitchcock psychodrama about a beautiful kleptomaniac (Tippi Hedrin) and the wealthy man who is obsessed with her (Sean Connery) is a bit thin dramatically, and slower paced than his best movies. In fact it is closer to a psychiatric case study than a thriller.  But Hitchcock more than makes up for that with his masterful direction.  What is most striking about it is his dramatic use of extreme closeups, deft camera movements, effective blackouts between scenes, and deliberately artificial backdrops and rear screen projections that have an expressionistic effect.  Amateur psychologists will have a field day with the symbolism (how about that vault!) and with the causes for Marnie's various neuroses and psychoses (such as frigidity and kleptomania). Also interesting is Connery's bizarre fetish for the klepto Hedrin that is reminiscent of Jimmy Stewart's fetish for the dead Kim Novak in Vertigo.   In short, this movie has dramatic flaws, but it is thematically intriguing and cinematically dazzling. (A bonus is the excellent, atmospheric score by Bernhard Herrmann.)   "},{"Title":"Lesser Hitchcock But Still a Good Film","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie (Tippi Hedren) is a young woman with numerous false identities who robs her employers once she has established a position of trust, and then disappears. Following her latest windfall she returns home to her mother with whom her relationship is strained, before starting the cycle again. This time though there may be a problem as her employer Mark Rutland (Sean Connery) has met her before, whether he recognizes or not he is obviously intrigued by her and curious about some psychoses Marnie exhibits that may be connected to a traumatic experience from her childhood.While this may not be one of Hitchcock's best films but this is still a good movie and very nearly a great movie. The film is wonderfully composed and shot, and still looks impressive today despite some not to impressive visual effects. Additionally we have strong performances from both Tippi Hedren and Sean Connery in a somewhat atypical role. The film also features another wonderful score Bernard Herrmann in what would sadly be his last collaboration with Hitchcock.The psychological component of the plot has been criticized perhaps rightly but it is still largely effective in the context of the story. On the other hand the caper component of the film while only a minor plot in the film is very well plotted and effectively presented. The love story is unusual and there is one incident that will justifiably upset some viewers.It's interesting that despite good performances from Hedren in both Marnie and The Birds for Hitchcock, she would not match this success again in her career. This is perhaps due to a spat with Hitchcock that kept her from working awhile as she had signed an exclusive contract with him.It's interesting to see in the bonus materials on the DVD (which are above average) how the film was promoted upon its release as a 'sex mystery' or some other line using sex this surely reflects the era in which it was made as the film is quite tame by today's standards "},{"Title":"A polarizing experience.","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a strange film, and I mean that in the most respectable way possible. Directed by one of the greatest of all directors, Alfred Hitchcock, and starring two very able actors in Tippi Hedren and Sean Connery, yet has a bizarre feel to it that polarized me and essentially turned me off from caring about any of these people. I was surprised at how cold and distant it felt; even more so than that just from the tone of the story. As the story goes, a very complex and troubled woman named Marnie (Hedren) gets involved with her boss Mark Rutland (Connery) after he discovers her trying to steal from him. He is fascinated by what causes her to do such things and marries her in an attempt to find out the answer.Unfortunately for us, the answer is not as clear as it should be. Scene after scene depicts these two being cruel to each other, Marnie because she hates men and Mark because he wants her but she won't let him. To me, the movie runs for far too long and it gets quite out of hand right at the end when we see Marnie and her mother (Louise Latham) recalling a horrific memory. It comes off as simply forgettable; not even close the sheer perfection Hitchcock found in Vertigo, Psycho or Strangers on a Train. I have no problem with the psychological aspects of the characters, but they were not handled well and only caused further chaos to an already chaotic plot. If you are a Hitchcock fan, this isn't so terrible that you should skip it, but I found to be rather forgettable and not one to remember the Master of Suspense for. "},{"Title":"Psycho Babble","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This lackluster film has the unlikely plot of a rich, handsome businessman becoming obsessed with a cold woman, who is a thief and a liar. Hedren is the definitive icy blonde, but there is nothing interesting about her mean-spirited character. The film revisits the obsession theme of Vertigo, but falls far short of that Hitchcock masterpiece. The plot element concerning Hedren's fear of the red color is so inconsistent, it is laughable. The psycho analysis is too contrived. Baker is alluring and Connery is fine as usual. Herrmann provides a good score, although not as memorable as earlier Hitchcock films. "},{"Title":"Too deterministic to be true","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is extremely powerful because it centers on a woman who obviously has a problem, not an accident but a problem. We know very fast she is having many identities and that her main objective in the jobs she gets with her charm more than her references is to steal the cash from the firm's safe and leave. We understand she is taking care of a mother of hers with that money more than of herself. One man, one of his employers, officially the fifth one, will though go through the surface and discover who she really is, but he falls in love with her and, being a sort of anthropologist (zoologist is the word he uses, isn't it?) and psychologist, he is fascinated by her criminal personality and her fears and he decides to get her out of both. He has to bring her back to the trauma she lived when a small child and confront her with her own mother and the truth. And she is finally liberated from the fear caused by the absence of conscious memory of her crime at the time. I won't say more on the details. I am interested in the way Hitchcock builds his own case little by little and brings us to the point when the trauma can be relived and revealed. Yet I find his social psychology a little bit simple altogether. He only centers on the negative elements. He should have shown how ambiguous the girl must have been at the time with the two adults she was confronted to and with herself and her own act that made her accept her mother telling a lie to save her, because a child who has committed a crime understands very well when the adult covers his or her mistake and then the feelings are always ambiguous and it is that ambiguity that makes the child forget about the incident that becomes a trauma. The liberation is also absolutely too mechanical to be real. Yes there often is an illumination that is sudden but then the transformation of the traumatized individual is long because the trauma left a lot of traces, blocking elements or just gremlins in the head of the traumatized one. But Hitchcock does it very well. In 1964 he could only be inspired by Freud of whom he proposes a simplified reading, but today he would appear as a disciple of Ron L. Hubbard because dianetics is just what this film is, a mechanical and simplified version of psychoanalysis. That's another Hitchcock film from the 60s that has suffered some with the passing of time.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "}{"Title":"Women Deceitful, prowling creatures not to be trusted...","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ... According to Hitch anyway, it seems! This is a more pulpy and less psychologically complex character study than something like Vertigo for instance, but to me it offers its own pleasures precisely because it's much simpler.I wasn't interested in the mechanics of her robberies nor her apprehension, but what kept me interested is that I knew there would be some attempt at a rational summation for the causes by the end of it all. This being Hitch, it was unsurprising that in diagnosis, the subconscious reason for events was more than a little sexist. If one is capable of analysing things in context, however, it's a convention of styles like noir to offer us up a femme fatale with thin motives beyond the fact of her gender. Why are they often uptight or enigmatic, for example? It's highly likely that's it's meant as a warning to the opposite sex about the potential dangers of entrapment. Often even if it's implausible though, people still enjoy the slow unravelling of mystery, and such an entertainment is entirely possible here.Adding to the general fun for those who wish to look at it from a humorously sardonic angle, there is the wry casting of the male lead. Look!, the paranoid men scream ... She MUST be frigid, she doesn't even fancy Sean Connery! Looking at his successive career choices in years following, they can almost be read as a parody of his own hype. "},{"Title":"Spoiler alert!  Marnie is a complex, intriguing psychological thriller","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" SPOILER ALERT! So many of the reviews here have given me a lot of insight into a movie that I already liked a lot...I had never considered that there might be a lesbian motivation underlying the Diane Baker character...I am glad that others love the scene at the beginning where Marnie carries a yellow purse and walks down the train platform in what does indeed seem to be a trance (which I had not thought of before). First of all, the purse is totally awesome, as is Marnie's salt and pepper suit and carefully styled, prim yet sexy hairdo (this was the kind of hairdo that required a woman to sleep with giant hair curlers on their heads to maintain). Secondly, the whole series of events following this scene where she purchases an entire new wardrobe to match her change in hair color, then discards the current one at a bus station locker and discreetly drops the key down the drain is ritualistic, bizarre and sad this is what Marnie does for fun instead of having any interactions with people. The connection between the broken leg of the horse / and Marnie's mother's injured leg had never occurred to me before. Also, Mark Rutland's father is so preoccupied with horses that he seems to prefer them over people and has never been known to once put in an appearance at the family business, which was about to 'go down for the count' until Mark stepped in to save the day. Similarly, Marnie's mother draws her income from her daughter (and before Marnie started her life of crime, Mom had her own dishonest way of making a living). Is there a connection between the disastrous honeymoon on a boat, the rape that occurs along with Marnie's suicide attempt by drowning and the fact that it is a sailor character who plays a key role at the end of the film? Many reviewers are annoyed by the obvious phoniness of many of the backdrops, stunt horseback riding, etc. To me it fits perfectly with the whole idea of Marnie living her life in a trance - she is like someone going through post-traumatic stress syndrome, or having some kind of dissociative disorder or fugue state. I don't know if those conditions are real or I'm using the right terminology but the point is that Marnie is living a lie, she doesn't know who she is, she's a sociopath who just tries to copy normal behavior long enough to take the money and run - to the next heist. She's just a mess. And so is Mark Rutland's character. It's just fascinating and the actors all do an amazing job. Sean Connery is incredibly handsome and it couldn't have been easy trying to imbue some likability into a character who does some unsavory things; in fact, he is a sympathetic character in many ways. The same goes for Diane Baker and Louise Latham's characters. If their character were less flawed, it would have been a less interesting movie, we would not be forced to ask ourselves who is normal and who isn't? And realize that there are really no normal characters except maybe the one played by Marriett Hartley, the sunny, trustworthy and trusting co-worker of Marnie -and that may just be because we don't know her well enough! I am puzzled by the number of people who mention the supposed bad blood between Hitchcock and Hedren - what does this have to do with whether it was a good movie or not? To me, a psychological thriller is always better than just a blood and gore thriller. "},{"Title":"Not a timeless masterpiece - but a great movie","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie is certainly not one of Hitchcock's greatest films - especially if you watch Marnie with today's eyes the limited technical capabilities are sometimes distracting, the use of the color red as Marnie's trigger to panic (subconscouisly reminding her of her childhood trauma) looks somehow like a clich as todays audiences are more familiar with subtle signs.Nonetheless, the story is great, the ominous threat that something terrible must have happened to Marnie, keeps you to the movie until the resolution and the very end. The actors, Sean Connery and Tippi Hedren in the front row, are marvelous and a joy to watch. "},{"Title":"Obviously, Sean Connery wanted to show that he could do more than bed a bunch of hot babes.","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Hot off The Birds, Alfred Hitchcock cast the ever-dazzling Tippi Hedren as Marnie Edgar, a kleptomaniac loner with an aversion to red. Mark Rutland (Sean Connery) marries Marnie, hoping to find out what's the deal with her. I actually found the ending a little anticlimactic.Marnie was sort of the end of an era for Hitch. It was the last time that he worked with Bernard Herrmann (famous for the Psycho score) and George Tomasini (who I think was killed in a fire). A lot of people thought that some of the scenes looked deliberately fake - I could easily tell that the scenery behind the building where Marnie's mother lived was fake. But overall, it is a pretty interesting movie. Tippi Hedren is approximately as hot as she was in The Birds, and it's a little strange seeing Alan Napier (better known as Alfred the butler on the 1960s TV series Batman) as Sean Connery's (read James Bond's) father. Bruce Dern also has a small appearance. "},{"Title":"Not Hitchcock's brightest hour, yet a masterpiece.","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie's a great example of Alfred Hitchcock's genius it fails to live up to the standards set by Vertigo, Rear Window, Notorious and so on, yet it's by a mile better than most of the movies in almost any other director's catalog.The story of a troubled woman searching for balance by stealing is dynamic and thrilling, and at times Hitchcock manages to handle the subject matter with his golden touch of captivating mystery. That said, there are moments of frustration that fail to impress take the red-colored flashbacks of blood the main character experiences, for example. They merely seem manufactured in Psycho, for instance, the same kind of staging was the point of the film and seemed campy and fun instead of pretentious.Despite its weak points, Marnie is a formidable journey into the mind of a twisted human being. Tippi Hedren builds a character with deeper dimensions than the surface of the legendary ice-cool Hitchcock blonde, and Sean Connery skillfully combines gentleman's manners with pervert lust.Strongly recommended for anyone into audience-friendly thrillers, but don't expect for another Vertigo. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's last great film, a fascinating, intense psychological thriller","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Marnie has probably divided people more than any other Hitchcock film. It's an extremely stylized and intense experience in which the director's apparent obsession with his leading lady shows in every scene. It's certainly not a near perfect film like Rear Window, North By Northwest or Vertigo, those three films show sheer brilliance in every aspect and could never be improved on. Marnie is, by comparison very flawed, but because of this it is just as fascinating. Reminiscent of Spellbound in it's plot, Marnie is slow paced and perhaps overly talky ,but perversely is also thrilling to watch. There are no big setpieces, except a horse chase, but the film is packed with smaller sequences which are brilliant in their construction and their staging. Examples include a robbery sequence which is almost completely silent, Marnie's visit to her mother which although consisting mainly of dialogue is filled with tension and repressed pain, the whole opening sequence of Marnie going about her business, Marnie's nightmare....the list goes on, making a mockery of claims that Hitchcock lost interest in the picture. Some other scenes are astonishingly fetishist ,such as the first kiss, in which the camera gets so close to the lips it feels almost pornographic.Despite the over the top nature of some aspects of the film, such as the flashes of red to show Marnie's fear of that colour, or Bernard Herrmann's gloriously melodramatic score, which endlessly repeats it's emotive main theme, there is still room for subtlety. Take for instance the scene when Marnie is raped by her husband, Hitchcock manages to make this scene truly hurtful despite showing hardly anything compare this to the more explicit but cruder rape in Frenzy. Another good example is the film's very last scene. It's almost just a monologue by Marnie's mother, but there is an immense sense of release, and a more dramatic scene would have been less satisfying. Although the movie is filled with pain, the sense of healing and love by the end is wonderful.Tippi Hedren's performance is so controlled yet so moving, it's absurd how it was once so criticised. Sean Connery gives one of his best performances in which he almost seems to be bringing some of the darker elements of his Bond persona to the fore. Of course one cannot discuss this film and not mention the oft-criticised back projection, but this almost seems churlish. Back projection was something the great director NEVER really licked in his films, and it seems far more appropriate to Marnie than in many of his other films.Marnie is a remarkable film. No, it's not Vertigo or Rear Window, but it's still a masterpiece. It's emotionally rich and endlessly fascinating. Maybe the tension that was present during the film's making actually benefited the film, and even if Hitchcock WAS more focused on the film's star than the film, well, who says that great art has to be created intentionally?  "},{"Title":"What a great kiss","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sean Connery and Tippi Hedren share one of the greatest kiss scenes in movie history. Its strong and powerful that you don't know how both characters feel about one another.A hard movie to follow, it deals a lot with sex and power. Still, if you like films about sex and power, you can't go wrong. "},{"Title":"Underrated Hitchcock","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Marnie(1964) since its not so successful initial release in 1964 has slowly but surely become a cult classic.  In fact its one of the best films from the late period of Alfred Hitchcock.  Its reuses themes popular in Blackmail(1929), Spellbound(1945), Notorious(1946), Vertigo(1958), and The Paradine Case(1948).  Marnie in a way is a remake of Vertigo.  What prevents the film from achiving the greatness of Vertigo(1958) is that there isn't the same kind of obsession and emotion in Marnie that made Vertigo a powerful movie.  Its also similar to Spellbound(1945) in that its also about a person who tries to figure out how the horrors of the past are connected to the events of the future.  Bernard Hermann does a good job in composing the film score for Marnie.This would be the final collaboration between Alfred Hitchcock and Bernard Hermann as they would have a falling out.  The role of Marnie was originally envisioned for the beautiful princess and former actress Grace Kelly.  This did not happened because there were many people who did not like the idea of her playing a dishonest thief.  Tippi Hedren does a good job in the role of the title character.  Hitchcock in this  stage of his film life showed that he was still a great director.  The flashback sequence near the end of Marnie is pure brilliance.  Marnie(1964) is a Hitchcock film that is one of his best twenty films of his career.    "},{"Title":"Thoroughly Bizarre","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw Marnie in a theater as part of a retrospective of Hitchcock films, and I can say without hesitation that of the ten movies I saw, Marnie was definitely the worst.  The plot was everywhere, and never really decided on what it was doing until the final scene.  After watching the beginning few scenes, I thought I was watching a suspense-comedy with lots of laughs and white knuckle tension.  Suddenly it shifted gears and I was watching a hokey sex-melodrama that was trying to take itself very seriously.  The audience I watched it with had lost of laughs for scenes that I don't think were intended to be funny, such as Sean Connery's suave seductions on the honeymoon boat, or the part when he peruses a book entitled (I kid you not) Sexual Aberrations of the Criminal Female.  The flashes of red color did nothing for me, nor did the explanation at the end leave me with a fully satisfied explanation for why exactly Marnie had so cooly stolen so much money.  There are surprisingly few scenes that are directed with much technical invention; the one memorable scene is the double shot of the robbery and the cleaning woman.  On the other hand, the relentless zoom-in zoom-out of the stacks of money during the second robbery attempt left me queasy and rolling my eyes in exasperation.   I think Sean Connery was miscast as the leading male.  He tries hard to be Cary Grant, but can't quite pull it off.  Tippi Hedren gives it her all, and fares decently considering that she had to direct herself for most of the movie (apparently she and Hitchcock were not on speaking terms at the time), although she was better in The Birds.  Bernard Herrman's score is lush and beautiful, but the script is just downright crummy, in both plot and dialogue.    If you want to see a really good Hitchcock movie, there are tons of masterpieces to choose from, but Marnie is definitely not one of them.  The most avid Hitchcock fan might find it of interest, but for the regular moviegoer it's not worth your time. "},{"Title":"Marnie is underrated Hitchcock brilliance.","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock's Marnie is the director's hidden masterpiece, a film that is forgotten among mainstream audiences and probably remain in the shadow of Hitch's other masterpieces Psycho, Vertigo and Rear window (to name only a few). And what a pity! Unsuccessful both commercially and was greeted with reviews that made the picture out be a failure, Marnie has come to be seen by critics as the masterful film it really is. Tippi Hedren made her debut with The Birds the year before and was cast as the lead in Marnie because Grace Kelly dropped out (this was mean't to be Princess Grace's return to the screen but sadly she never did return). And what a performance! Tippi is phenomenal as Marnie and provides the film with one of the greatest performances to grace an Hitchcock film. She is at once sensitive, icy, cold and then broken to pieces emotionally in the next scene. She steals the show here even though she is starring next to Sean Connery. Now that's an accomplishment. Tippi is simply flawless is her difficult role as Marnie, a woman who steals but as a result of deeper emotional problems. Mark (Sean Connery) is entranced by his new employee Marnie and soon he blackmails her into marriage, realizing that he try and help Marnie to be rid of her frigidity and criminal ways. Sean Connery is usual superb self Charismatic, sexy and animal like. His character is strikingly different to the emotionally disturbed Marnie who seems to be, as she says in the film, like something Mark has caught. They both are fantastic in the leads but are aided by great performances by the supporting players. Again, as in all his films, Hitchcock's creativity is apparent. The use of back projection and fake looking thunderstorms was intentional and use of very apparent Matte painting was meant to represent Marnie's dream world if you will. In Marnie, he was homaging the great European masters and especially the Expressionist ones. The critics criticized these aspects of the film, not realizing that they were not accidental. And Hitchcock also pays homage to another of his classics, Notorious, by recreating the famous crane shot in the film. Marnie is a very creative film, perhaps one of Hitchcock's most creative ones. It has been unfairly dismissed as one of Hitchcock's lesser films but I think it is one of his best. Dig deeper and you'll see the the themes Hitchcock loved most to explore designate throughout. There is a suspenseful scene that is one of Hitchcock's best where Marnie is robbing her employer's safe. Then suddenly (Marnie doesn't notice), the cleaning lady enters but does not notice Marnie. Can Marnie escape with the money without the cleaning lady noticing? Find out when you view Hitchcock's last masterwork. "}{"Title":"Disturbing Hitchcock film with Sean Connery and Tippi Hedren","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie is one of Hitchcock's most serious films. It is the third of four films in which he explores the duality of personality. The other films with this theme are Psycho, Strangers on a Train, and Frenzy. Marnie begins and ends with the word robbed which expresses the central theme of the movie as Hedren has been robbed of her childhood by circumstances revealed in the film.Tippi Hedren, who was criticized at the time as a lightweight actress, does an excellent job in a very demanding role.Sean Connery is also good although nowadays it is weird to see him in this film because he looks exactly like he does as James Bond, even dressing alike in some scenes. Hitchcock uses Freudian sexual symbolism in this film and it is everywhere the yellow purse Hedren carries, her horse, the honeymoon scene on the cruise ship with mountainous waves and the gaping porthole. If you look at it from this point of view it's a fascinating film.I didn't find Marnie fun to watch as I usually do with other Hitchcock films. It's just too serious, almost like a textbook study of abnormal psychology. But Marnie is well worth seeing if you are a fan of Hitchcock films and if you give it a chance you'll find it very rewarding. "},{"Title":"A modern Taming of the Shrew.","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I find this movie tricky to rate, as it is, obviously, not a bad movie. On the contrary, it has a well-paced plot, good performances and fine visuals, even if it's not among Hitchcock's best. The problem with Marnie, in my opinion, is not that it's a bad movie, but that it's an evil one. It is a modern version of Shakespeare's Taming of the Shrew, and as that play is a black sheep in Shakespeare's otherwise glorious oeuvre, I think this movie holds the same place in Hitchcock's. The reason it is, as the Taming of the Shrew, plainly misogynic and anti-feminist. In one scene Marnie comments about men You say no thanks to one of them and you're a candidate for the funny farm. In that particular scene, the comment is surely meant to be read ironically. However, sadly, when all is said and done, I feel that Marnie could be right about that after all.You may notice that the notion of frigidity in women is not often heard of these days. The reason is that the idea to a large extent belongs to a different era one where young women were expected to subject themselves sexually, without questions, to much older men (who were often their husbands). If a woman resisted this, she could easily be dubbed frigid. The same label could quickly be given to any woman who wanted a life of her own, without the need of a protecting husband to support her. Developments in psychology made it possible for men to use a medical jargon and imagery to regain control of these women - in effect, to turn a woman's attempt to have control over her own life and her own sexuality as a form of disease. This is cruelly understandable in a way - in a patriarchal society where men rules women, any form of deviant female sexuality, that does not include a dominant male subjecting the female, is a great threat - such a woman, after all, does not seem to need men, and she may emancipate herself from them.In this light, the character of Marnie can be understood - or at least the way that character is created by men, including all characters as well as the implied author of the movie. She has no need for men to provide for her, and so she must be cured by this dangerous delusion by the ultra-masculine Sean Connery. The ending of the final scene really hammers the point home - Marnie chooses to stay in her marriage over jail. Only in this way is she finally cured, reformed, and allowed to return to society - by subjecting herself to a husband, and realizing that she must serve, love, and obey, as Katherine does in the Taming of the Shrew. Of course, she is a thief and a murderer, because the only reason a women may choose liberty is that she has a dark secret or mental problems.In a way, this version is even more evil towards woman than Shakespeare's. At least Shakespeare is honest - the shrew Katherine is strong-willed, she is her own person, and she wants her freedom. In Marnie, with the use of Freudianesque psycho-babble, such traits are actually deemed as insanity, and the cure is to allow yourself to be dominated by men. For that reason, as much as I love Hitchcock's other movies, I just can't bring myself to like this one. "},{"Title":"a young Sean Connery","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is right in the midst of his early, and best, Bond films, and I was impressed how well Connery did here.  When you consider the quality of Leading men (and women) that Hitchcock often has, it is interesting that he picked a young action film star for this thriller.  But it immediately obvious why--his character is strong, forceful, chauvanist and self-confident, all things that Sean Connery can play very well.  But the details of the performance--his facial expressions (under those huge eyebrows), for example--are what impressed me.  The movie itself is an interesting, if unconventional, thriller, and while not one of Hitch's best it is certainly still very good.  Tippi Hedren plays frigid very well and the only let down for me was the rather dated psychological diagnosis by amatuer shrink Sean... "},{"Title":"Interesting plot","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I love this show and the way they keep the plot simple but absolutely mysterious. There was a scene which really made my heart go all the way out to Tippi Hedren, and that's in the ship's cabin where Sean Connery took advantage of her, and in a state of shock, her body and expression went completely dead and motionless, F-A-N-T-A-S-T-I-C! "},{"Title":"Miserable Maladjusted Marnie *1/2","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What a miserable 1964 Hitchcock film this was.It starts off well with Marnie absconding with a lot of money from the firm she worked for. Instead of continuing with this story, the film begins to relate why Marnie is so maladjusted. In fact, they should have named this mess Maladjusted Marnie.Sean Connery is the guy that she meets when she goes to work for his firm with the idea of stealing from his business as well. Turns out that Connery loves her and will do anything for her. Since he knows her life story, he forces her to marry him while he wants to investigate why she is so off the wall.Turns out that her mother was some tramp and Marnie did what Lana Turner's daughter did to some mobster some years ago.Sean Connery, at the beginning, acts like his 007. In reality, he was in 000. "},{"Title":"Unusual Hitchcock suspenser--intriguing but overlong and miscast","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Critically-drubbed suspense-melodrama from Alfred Hitchcock has eternally-lackluster Tippi Hedren playing the mysterious, troubled Marnie, a frigid kleptomaniac (!) whose modus operandi is to disguise herself, change her name and rip off a series of trusting employers; her latest boss, a peculiarly cast Sean Connery, takes a liking to her and hopes to cure Marnie of her ills. Lack of chemistry between the intentionally-icy Hedren and too-patient Connery just about kills the romance angle (is he turned on by her fear of sex? and, if so, what's in his background to make an obviously virile man want to play doctor to this skittish kitten?). The movie's production is smothered with sterile gloss, and every new set-up is plastic and unconvincing. Still, the supporting cast is quite good (particularly Diane Baker) and the resolution is there, for those who manage to stick with it. ** from **** "},{"Title":"The Ice Queen Cometh","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie was an interesting choice to follow up Psycho and The Birds. It's as if Hitchcock felt that he had gone as far as he could with the horror and science-fiction of his previous two movies, and decided to opt instead for psychological realism/suspenseWhat struck me watching the film again after so many years is how good Tippi Hedren's performance is. It is sensational, and I'd say that it's among the finest performances by a leading actress ever. Thus, the 5-star rating.Marnie could not have been an easy character to play, but Tippi Hedren makes you believe in her. You *believe* that this is a woman who is psychologically incapable of having a mature sexual relationship with a man (or woman, for that matter). There is nothing 'cute' or cloying about Hedren's performance, no sly 'winking' at the audience.Marnie really *is* an ice cold ice queen. The role could have gone wrong in so many ways. Because of this movie, Tippi Hedren is one of the great actresses of all timeHaving said all that, I am not sure that the movie can be considered a complete success. Marnie was made at time when Freudianism, the 'unconscious', dream-analysis, and the like, were all somewhat new to popular culture. As a result, the climactic scenes of Marnie 'recalling' her suppressed memories of murdering the drunken sailor who was abusing her mother must have seemed cutting-edge at the time, but I don't think they have dated very well. The ending still feels like a big letdown to me. Still, this is a movie worth watching, and more than once. It is Tippi Hedren's movie. It seems to me that this movie goddess deserves nothing less than eternal worship in return for her performance. "},{"Title":"A few good ideas as well as a lot of psychological hooey and plot holes through which you could drive a bus!","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a good looking film and it is technically well made. However, once you peel away the excellent direction and well-coiffed hairdos, you are left with a very silly film indeed.As an ex-therapist and psychology teacher, SOME psychological aspects of the film were very, very interesting while other parts were so flawed and silly I found myself laughing during the second half of the film. Marnie has an Antisocial Personality Disorder. She hates men and takes great pleasure in stealing--and has no pangs of conscience whatsoever. In addition, she has a classic case of Post-traumatic Stress Disorder because throughout the film she had flashbacks from an early childhood trauma. Lots of little things, such as thunder and the color red trigger these memories.Now so far, none of the qualities I listed above would make it seem like she's a good candidate for marriage--especially since the touch of a man fills her with disgust. So naturally, when Sean Connery discovers that she is a career criminal, he falls for her and marries her!!! Can anyone really be that stupid? Perhaps,...but it gets worse. He discovers on their honeymoon (after he blackmailed her into marrying him) that she is 100% frigid--and boy, do I mean FRIGID!!! She even tries to kill herself after he forces himself on her (or tries to force himself--the film is unclear here). Now what would any sane man do now--she's a crook, she's cold and indifferent towards him and is nauseated by sex--yep, he'll stay married to her and try to work it all out without outside professional help!! After all, his college training as a botanist certainly would qualify Connery to treat her!! At this point in the film, I felt really irritated. Most of it was because it was such a silly premise. But, when together they face up to her childhood trauma it all comes flooding back and she's magically cured, it was just too much! Maybe Connery missed his calling--after all, no therapist is THAT good and he could have made far more money doing that instead of acting!!! All in all, some very interesting and brave topics but handled in a ham-fisted and silly manner--as if Hitchcock and the writers read an intro psychology text and then decided to make a film!!! Pure hooey despite some interesting performances. "},{"Title":"Second-tier Hitchcock.","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wealthy businessman Mark Rutland (Sean Connery) falls for beautiful, frigid compulsive liar and habitual thief Marnie (Tippi Hedren), and convinces her that marrying him is a better option than going to jail. After a few days of not being able to get into her pants, Mark practically forces himself upon the woman, which drives her to attempt suicide. Not one to give up, he endeavours to get to the bottom of the childhood trauma that has made his new wife such a screw-up.Even the greatest of directors can have the occasional mis-step; Marnie is one of Alfred Hitchcock's 'stumbles', the director putting his foot wrong on more than one occasion during the telling of this rather unremarkable psychological mystery.Technically, the film is undeniably sub-standard in places, with some awful rear-projection and painted backdrops that serve to pull the viewer out of the story. Performance wise, Tippi Hedren isn't quite up to the task, her role as the disturbed titular character requiring more subtlety than the actress can muster. In terms of basic storytelling, Hitchcock's film is both painfully slow and extremely talkative, and when all is said and done (with more being said than done), the pay-off simply isn't worth all of the tedious Freudian psycho-babble and overwrought drama.The only scene that even comes close to prime Hitchcock is when Marnie breaks into Rutland's safe as she tiptoes barefoot out of the building, past the cleaner and guard, the shoes in her pockets gradually begin to fall out, providing some nail-biting tension. It's a shame there wasn't a lot more like this to liven up proceedings throughout. "},{"Title":"Well done film reflecting one mans true love regardless of the circumstances","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sean Connery who plays Mark Rutland is a successful businessman whose bloodstock is from a very wealthy family and whose father lives on a vast estate with a stable of exquisite riding horses becomes smitten with an attractive woman named Marnie Edgar played by actress Tippi Hendren. Marnie has numerous aliases and a knack for stealing from her (new) employers then quickly changes aliases and hair colors and moves on to the next city to commence her next plot to steal from her new employer.Sir Thomas Sean Connery was 34 years old when he starred in Marnie so he definitely was in the prime of his virile actors life having just completed the first two of a long line of the legendary James Bond films that would greatly add to his stardom but not solely define him as a lead actor. Sean Connery is an amazing actor who stands tall right up there with the likes of great overseas actors such as Sir Anthony Hopkins and Sir Michael Caine. A lesser actor such as Adam West who is known mainly for his role as televisions campy but loving Batman role, or Lorne Greene for his lengthy TV role in Bonanza as Pa Cartwright became typecast and subsequently found it difficult to acquire lead roles in other film genres than the single role that they played for years for a grateful audience.I make this comparison of prolific film/TV characters because there are few roles that when you state a film characters stage name such as James Bond the first name that comes to peoples tongues invariably is Sean Connery. Being the versatile and larger than life actor that he is Sean Connery crossed most film genres and assisted his film producers in always seemingly grossing higher than expected box office gates due to his starring in their films. Marnie is no exception. If not for Sean Connery's strong portrayal of a very handsome, wealthy and successful businessman he somehow falls in love with a very troubled Marnie whose past is a big question mark, and her inability to show any affection to the virile Mark Rutland must have had every female in the audience saying what the heck is wrong with Marnie? Throughout the film the battle between Marnie the thief and psychologically troubled woman, and Jack who still agrees to hire her knowing that she is a thief, challenges each other to resolve their issues. Jack because he most likely loves this troubled woman but also because he wants to understand why she is a thief and a liar, and Marnie who continually resists Jack's offer of assistance and sexual advances. Hitchcock must have pushed both actors hard to get out of them their superb performances that we the audience benefit from. I was most impressed with the films ending where many of the unknown issues that have affected Marnie throughout her young life are drawn to the surface and although Marnie most likely has some challenges ahead of her she has gratefully now accepted Jack's assistance and we can see there is light that this relationship between the strong and aggressive Jack and the troubled Marnie with mother issues will grow fruitfully. It is too bad that Hitchcock did not follow up with a sequel to Marnie to see how Marnie and Jack's relationship evolved over the subsequent years, but great actors such as Sean Connery already had one film role, namely James Bond, that continued over decades so maybe he chose not to renew his role as Mark Rutland.Hitchcok's (1964) Marnie is a classic film that may be be considered just a bit too deep a plot and too slow moving for the CGI starved action oriented James Bond audience of today, but I for one love these classic Hitchcock films that will certainly endure for many, many years to come. I give the film an 8 out of 10 rating and it is well worth an evenings entertainment so sit back and enjoy Marnie. "}{"Title":"An unusual psychosexual drama that has mixed results","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is the point at which I feel Hitchcock begins to lose his touch a bit, at least for the films I seen so far. MARNIE is somewhat of a departure in the type of film he had made his name doing, but even so, it contains themes that resonated through his body of work. The story is about Marnie (Tippi Hedren), a compulsive thief and liar who ends up marrying a man she robs. This was an intriguing premise, to say the least, and provided the opportunity for Tippi Hedren to play a more complex character than she had in THE BIRDS, but I don't think she was quite up to the task. Sean Connery was appropriately dashing in his role as Mark, the man she ends up falling for, but he didn't really have that much chemistry with Hedren, in my opinion. For me, there were individual moments or flashes of brilliance that worked rather than the film as a whole. In particular, the opening sequence where we are introduced to Marnie was well-done, and the scene where she robs Mark's company was the closest the film ever came to capturing the suspense for which Hitchcock is so well-known. The rest of it was a mixed bag. Some of the psychological elements were interesting by themselves, and in a few scenes, were well-utilized. However, the sledgehammer approach to Freudian themes and associations removed a lot of the mystique. It also didn't help that the explanation for Marnie's particular idiosyncrasies at the end was rather unsatisfying. Still, there were a number of things I did like. Tippi Hedren played cold and calculating rather well. Bernard Herrmann's score and main theme was very romantic and fit the character of Marnie. The film was also handsomely photographed, had great sets and costumes, and made good use of color. Overall, though, I feel like MARNIE has some poor pacing, is a little too long, and has as much trouble identifying what it wants to be as Marnie herself. Before I watched this, I took a look at the theatrical trailer, and even Hitchcock had difficulty (it seems) really pinning down what the film was (settling on 'sex mystery'). Certainly one of Hitchcock's lesser efforts, it still has some interesting parts despite the unevenness of it all. "},{"Title":"A perverse drama told with remarkable skill","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie, Hitchcock's story of a compulsive thief who cannot stand to have a man touch her, is a movie for movie lovers. It has been criticized over the years for it's overuse of process shots, painted backdrops and old fashioned studio style filmmaking. Some defenders say all that was intended by Hitchcock, that the artificial quality adds an otherworldly sense to the story that reflects the psychological unreality of Marnie herself. I frankly don't think that's the case, but it doesn't really much matter, because Hitchcock has structured so compelling story with such a bizarre set of characters, I'm just overwhelmed, artificiality or not. People who love what movies can do that no other art form can do will probably appreciate Marnie more than others. Sure, the process shots, particularly during the hunt sequence which obviously had background plates matted in behind actors riding a fake horse on set draw attention to themselves. However, all these techniques are so much in service of the plot and characters that every time I see the film I'm just captivated by the totality of it all as a marvelous piece of filmmaking. It's a story well told, and a very bizarre one at that. Another great thing about Marnie is Bernard Herrmann's powerfully romantic score, one of his finest. I believe it was also labeled by critics of the time as old fashioned. That may be the case, but if you watch the hunting scene with the sound off, and then go back and watch it again with sound, you'll see how much Herrmann's music molds the emotion of the sequence like a piece of clay. I can't imagine Marnie without Herrmann's music. After Psycho and The Birds, American audiences were not expecting a jump back to the kind of romantic sweep of Hitchcock's earlier films like Notorious, Vertigo or To Catch a Thief. On the surface Marnie does have the romantic sweep of those earlier works, but it's really a much different animal, far more perverse. Grace Kelly in To Catch a Thief seems to be thrilled by Cary Grant because he may be the infamous jewel thief, but Sean Connery as Mark in Marnie is attracted to Marnie not only because she's a thief, but more so because she is psychologically disturbed. In some ways he's just as disturbed as Marnie. Mark points out that to him Marnie is like a trapped animal, and he's caught something really wild. Yes, he's got a tiger by the tail and it thrills him because he's calling all the shots. He even forces himself on Marnie at one point, damaging her so much that she attempts suicide. No one other than Sean Connery could have recovered the audience's sympathy after something like that.It's come to be known that Hitchcock tried to use his contract with actress Tippi Hedren to call all the shots in her life as well. Apparently, she was as much a caged animal to Hitchock as Marnie was to Mark. Hitchcock even thought his contract with her allow him the right to her body, which put Hedren off so strongly that she called him fatso on the set, something that infuriated him. From then on, they communicated through a third party. As despicable as this is, it seems to have influenced the film in a good way. What Marnie was living through in the story Hedren was living through in real life, and this clearly added an edge to her performance. Although Hedren is ridiculed by some, I think she gives one of the finest performances by an actress in all of Hitchcock. She is often unfavorably compared to Kim Novak and Grace Kelly, other Hitchcock blondes, but neither of them gave what you'd call great performances for Hitchcock. What they gave was their cinematic aura, that thing only motion pictures can capture. Hitchcock knew how to photograph them. Essentially they were his puppets, to be placed as he liked. I don't think this is the case with Tippi Hedren. Yes, she is stunning on film like Novak and Kelly, but she gives a remarkable performance as Marnie as well, one that moves me to tears every time I see it. The only other actress in a Hitchcock film that exhibits as much range as Hedren is Doris Day in The Man Who Knew Too Much. Day's response to hearing her son has been kidnapped rips your heart out. Hedren's performance, however, is even more powerful. Her character was juggling many more demons. Hedren wasn't just a beautiful clothes horse, she really had to dig deep into her psyche and get in touch with some very dark and ugly realities. There are those who will give up on Hitchock's Marnie after the first few minutes. It may not be everyone's idea of a great film, but I think it is story telling working at an extremely high level. If you can just allow yourself to be swept away by a deceptively subversive romance, you might find yourself returning to it again and again, as I have. "},{"Title":"Flawed Beauty","Date":"8 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Of all the films Alfred Hitchcock made, none divide film lovers as much as Marnie. Is it really the most daring film by filmdom's greatest director? Or is it a convoluted, disengaging mess?Actually, it's both, but what's bad outweighs what's good.A shape-shifting beauty named Marnie (Tippi Hedren) makes a peripatetic life for herself changing jobs and social security numbers to gain access to company safes and steal cash. Hers is not an easy life; her mother, the only person she cares about, withholds her love; but Marnie makes enough to support her two great passions horse-riding and keeping men at bay. Her luck runs out when her next job lands her with employer Mark Rutland (Sean Connery), who not only recognizes Marnie from one of her past crimes but is intrigued by her.To start with what's good, Marnie looks wonderful, with cinematographer Robert Burks framing every shot with meticulous care and taste and taking maximum advantage of the two attractive stars. Connery's usual suavity finds a fascinating vehicle in Rutland, a smooth operator who describes himself as an interested spectator in the passing parade but is really more of a predator who sees in Marnie both a challenge and a conquest. Diane Baker as Mark's sly sister-in-law Lil makes for a pleasantly distracting rival to Marnie.You can see in Marnie a lot of the sexual politics of the past 50 years playing out before you. Rutland wants Marnie in the form of a possession (I thought it might be interesting to keep you around). Marnie sees men as the enemy (Oh men! You say no thanks to one of them and bingo, you're a candidate for the funny farm.) The more control Rutland exerts over his doe-eyed employee, the more I was reminded of our current box-office hit Fifty Shades Of Grey starring Hedren's real-life granddaughter. I guess the framework remains relevant.Yet Marnie for all its tightly-wound sexual energy is as inert and unengaging as a dead jellyfish. Billed as a suspenseful sex mystery, Marnie actually presents a tired series of Freudian clichs wrapped around the story of a curiously cold and unlikable person who freaks out whenever she sees lightning or the color red. Hedren and Connery together bustle up all the carnal chemistry of a dental cleaning. Hedren gives a particularly listless performance, looking ridiculous when called upon to blurt out inanities like The colors! Stop the colors!And the film's pace is as glacial as Hedren. Lots of talk-scenes between the leads eat up valuable oxygen, until Hitchcock throws something at you from out of left field. Sometimes, like when it's a guy from Marnie's past Marnie and Mark meet at a racetrack, it works. Other times, like what happens on a honeymoon cruise, it veers from the egregious to the ridiculous.Arguments in favor of Marnie often boil down to it being a personal film Hitchcock made to challenge himself and his audience. Certainly it pushes boundaries, even more so than Psycho or Vertigo did. But unlike those and most other Hitchcock films, Marnie lacks a riveting story. It's one Hitchcock film without a murder. Instead, you have a damaged woman who does illegal and dangerous things being led around by a man with enough money and patience to make her problems go away. The only suspense is whether Marnie will allow herself to be cured.Late in the film, there's some talk about whether Mark is nuttier than Marnie, which would make things interesting, but it is never developed. Instead, the film gets most of its suspense and mystery probing Marnie's psyche, which makes an already difficult film more so. While fascinating to watch in small increments, and a fun film to argue about given the myriad interpretations it allows, Marnie on its own full power leaves one rather flat. "},{"Title":"Psychoanalytical Voyeurs","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" MARNIE, among the most powerful and appealing movies by the Master of Suspense, emerges as a rather 'skipped' production rarely enumerated as the director's definite work. However, its purely psychological, more to say, psychoanalytical appeal, truly makes us, viewers, voyeurs into the mind of the protagonist. That 'psychoanalytical' element made the movie not so much popular at the time of its release but makes it far more convincing nowadays. Fernando F Croce memorably points out that Viewed from the safe distance of four decades after its release, MARNIE, perhaps even more than THE BIRDS, emerges as the director's definitive late-period masterpiece. In that manner, we discover most remarkably the prolific and prophetic Hitchcock. Where is it best manifested? Viewing this film still brings its viewers into an unbelievable experience thanks to its protagonist, Marnie, played by Tippi Hedren, the star in THE BIRDS but a shabby substitute for Grace Kelly (Fernando F Croce). If the princess of Monaco could have played the role or not is not of such significance nowadays. What remains crucial is how Ms Hedren portrays her unbelievably complex, sophisticated character, how she handles the considerably psychedelic states of mind and helps viewers not only watch her on the screen but get into her world. Croce moves further in that respect observing that everything under the camera's scrutiny becomes a potential element of the heroine's subjective unreality. Nevertheless, we could argue to what extent the camera aids the great manifestation of a character, a tormented character that did not have a double before. Ms Hedren does a splendid job in keeping us alert, making us attempt to figure out the complications of her mind as well as the haunting past. In that respect, she greatly aids Mr Hitchcock while highlighting the powerful association of criminality with violence and sex (with reference to Charles Ramirez Berg's article on Alfred Hitchcock. There also lies fear which Emily Cleaver in THE GUARDIAN finely addresses saying that the fear here, does not lie in BIRDS but the fear and anxiety are in Marnie's past, invisible even to her. Sean Connery as Mark, her doctor and her husband is a wonderful leading man from a purely psychological standpoint. Not at all any romantic leading man! He is unlike any other leading man in both the contemporary understanding and other Hitchcock's movies. Perhaps, here there was also the reason why the film was not that popular initially. There is no love story as we get, for instance, in SUSPICION or NOTORIOUS. Here, we get a much more thought provoking situation where the past really haunts and where the complications of human mind can be cured by true discovery, understanding and patience in a relationship. It is interesting to note that the 'rape scene' was substituted by a scene of certain submission and reflection, where, partly deliberately and partly coincidentally, sex and desire gave way to reason. In years, it also works better.The character who appears here as a 'rival' so to say or, perhaps, a dominant female presence is Lil, Mark's sister (palyed with skillfully sensual undertones by Diane Baker). Her duality and coldness are perfectly delivered by Ms Baker who plays her role with ease and desirable distance combined with suspicion.The beautifully memorable sequences in the film as well as many details to which Hitchcock paid particular attention constitute another great merit of MARNIE. The scenes with the safe, the great hunting sequence, the use of red that plays a significant role in the storyline and Marnie's mind, the famous camera movement at the public event that bears resemblance to NOTORIOUS, the image of her mother's flat at Baltimore are just a few examples derived fro Hitchcock's early experience with German Expressionism. Yes, MARNIE, though made almost half a century later than the German Expressionism actually saw its heyday, is an expressionist movie.Some people call MARNIE Hitchcock's last great film. No matter how much this opinion may occur objective, one thing is certain. It is something far beyond your expectations, even the high expectations that you probably have from a Hitchcock's film. it is, as Emily Cleaver points out instant psychiatry. "},{"Title":"Tippi gives the best performance among all Hitchcock's blondes in MARNIE","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It was supposedly a comeback vehicle for Grace Kelly, instead it became Tippi Hedren's follow-up after her star-turning debut in THE BIRDS (1963), MARNIE is unwieldily posited as a less influential psychiatric drama amidst Hitchcock's copious oeuvre. Marnie (Hedren). an incorrigible thief and a gorgeous blonde, she applies for the secretary in a firm, then patiently awaits an opportunity to acquire the key to the room where safe is situated and the combination of safe codes, steals the cash and absconds. Thus as a thief, Marnie is a lone she-wolf, self-reliant, cannot tolerate to be handled by man, but as we can easily forecast, it is not a very promising vocation for her since her larcenous skill is rather rudimentary and unsustainable in a long run. Moreover, she is entrenched in her own past trauma, descends into a damsel-in-distress, waiting to be rescued by an omnipotent man, a young and wealthy entrepreneur-cum-widower Mark Rutland (Connery), whose company she is currently working in, after being meshed into a hasty marriage, Marnie's frigidity takes its toll and prompts Mark to scrutinise into Marnie's troubled memory of her childhood and the eccentric relation between Marnie and her mother Bernice (Latham).Almost Inclusively tracking the story from a female's perspective, more than ever, the film's whiff of male chauvinism is too intimidating to identify with, the original source of Marnie's downfall derives from a wicked man's inappropriate behaviour, yet the ultimate messiah is also a man, an impeccable lover who is all respectful to her unreasonable tantrum and never has one single moment of giving her up. The writers are maximally fantasising a world is all too perfect from a pure macho view. Technically, MARNIE continues to showcase Hitchcock's potency in cinematic composure, the most indelible case is the masterful diptych shot divided by a wall when Marnie is studiously in the heat of her bold thievery, simultaneously at the other side of the wall, a cleaner lady is mopping the floor towards the foreground, this scene gives spectators the immediacy of the danger while our heroine is deceptively unknown of, what a master of suspense! From the tentative indications of gladiolus and red ink to the dramatic implementation of the splashes of crimson, viewers are involuntarily diverted into Marnie's unsaid past, only the revelation arrives belatedly after a two-hour tepid melodrama, the satisfaction becomes underwhelming. Nevertheless, Tippi Hedren is astonishingly compelling as Marnie, perhaps the most compound heroine among Hitchcock's cluster of blondes, although she never break free of the victim typecast, Hedren is fearless, inputs her integrity all through the wayward contexts of Marnie's plight. The square-jawed Connery, against his Scottish origin, plays an American scion with not-unpleasant hubris, swanks with his sex appeal and larger-than-life kindheartedness, It's horrible I know, but I do love you, sounds surreal as well as irresistible. Diane Baker, sports a young Audrey Hepburn flair, is fiercely prominent as Mark's sister-in-law, but Hitchcock chooses not to intensify her duty with more venom to secrete. Unyieldingly heightened by Bernard Herrmann's overpowering score, MARNIE is an accomplished drama with an enticing twist, but certainly fades into the background along with Hitchcock's more esteemed paragons, having said that, it contains probably the most intrepid female performance ever among his cannon, which is also quite something to boost about not just judging on its own merits. "},{"Title":"Give it another chance.  It's worth it.","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I grew up in an era when movies were shown on television with a commercial every 15 minutes. When a movie has a slow pace to begin with, this can be lethal. And Marnie isn't a movie for kids. There is a lot of subtle sexual behavior that is way beyond what a kid can comprehend. It was shown on Turner Classic Movies the other day and I thought I would give it a chance again though my memories of it were not good, so I expected to be bored. What I found is that this is now one of my favorite Hitchcock movies. It is a psychological drama not a suspense film. The Hitchcock movie that I would find it is most similar to is Spellbound (which I hate). Who knows if Hedren was a good actress. But she is really intriguing here. If that is only because of Hitchcock's direction, so what, Hedren took direction well. Connery was at his most gorgeous and shows such love and compassion for Marnie. Diane Baker is very cool as Connery's love struck sister-in-law who just can't take no for an answer. The movie looks stunning. The fake backdrops in the Baltimore scenes are hypnotizing. And the way Hitchcock so often places the camera high above the action, makes us feel as though we are observing a psychological experiment. Forget what you are used to expecting from a Hitchcock suspense movie and you might find that this is a brilliant movie. Not just underrated but never understood. "},{"Title":"Tippi Hedren vs Grace Kelly","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie is one of the most emotional films I have ever seen in my life. The reason I say this is because quite many women had difficult childhoods. Women might put themselves into Marnie's shoes. The film tends to attract female spectators for this reason. I wonder how the film would have turned out if Grace Kelly had stared Marnie instead of Tippi Hedren? I find the use of the colour red is the typical way Hitchcock presents his films since he enjoyed seeing blood on blond actresses. The fact that Sean Connery stared the upper-class guy was a great challenge for him since he has a working-class background. I strongly recommend women see this wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Perfect in its imperfection.","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Despite its flaws, 'Marnie still ranks among Hitchcock's greatest films. Maybe it's because of the flaws that Marnie is so interesting to watch, again and again. The fake sets, the rear projection, the disjointed continuity, all conspire to keep the audience on its toes, paying attention to every detail. Tippi Hedren shows formidable presence thanks to Hitchcock's careful styling and direction, both here and in The Birds. The safe robbing scene alone is a master class in pure cinema as Hitchcock called it, a wordless sequence told strictly through pictures, that rivals the classic crop dusting sequence in North by Northwest. I'm enthralled by the scene prior to that, where Marnie hides out in the Ladies Room waiting for everyone to leave, a prime example of how Hitchcock makes his viewers complicit in her crime. The suspense falls apart in places, especially toward the end, and Hitchcock occasionally resorts to previously successful techniques he used in other films (camera panning guests arriving at a party eventually zooming in on a closeup detail is from Notorious, the horse stable as a precursor to a climactic scene is from Vertigo). Marnie is a great looking film and it maintains a polished look throughout. Other assets include Sean Connery's strong performance, Bernard Herrmann's reliably compelling soundtrack, exquisite matte paintings (the ship at the end of the street, the exterior of Rutland's office building) and some wry humor thrown in every now and then. You have to give Hitchcock credit for coming up with something as unique as Marnie after a long string of masterpieces. The pressure on him must have been enormous. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's Most Audacious, Symbolic, and Divisive","Date":"29 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Undoubtedly Alfred Hitchcock's Most Divisive Film. It's a Love it or Hate it Affair. It is Hitch's Most Audacious, Symbolic, Sexual Film and is Completely Outrageous. Hollywood's and the Director's Pre-Occupation with Freudian Psychology May have been Dated in 1964 and Out of Vogue Compared to the Previous Two Decades, but it didn't Stop Hitchcock from Penetrating Deeply into the Subject.The Very First Frame is an Ultra-Closeup of the Edge of a Handbag. It is an In Your Face Female Sexual Symbol. It Cannot be Seen as Anything Else. It is Blatant and Bold, and Hitch is Off to the Races. This is an Unbridled, Uncompromising Diagnosis of The Sexual Aberrations of the Criminal Female. Take it or Leave it, and it Made Audiences and Critics Squirm and Most Decided to Leave it. The Movie has a Dreamlike or Subconscious Feel to it, that Can Certainly be Seen in the Fake Looking Back Drops and Matte Shots that Appear Throughout. This was Intentional. Hitchcock is Known for this Type of cheating (He hated to go on location). But at this Stage of His Career in 1964, these were Obviously Inserted by the Director Precisely for the Fake Look. It Makes the Movie More Surreal and Ethereal. This is After All a Movie About what Resides in the Mind, of Impressions and Repressions of the Libido. These Do Not Originate in the Material World. They Come From Memories and Experiences.This is an Offbeat Story Even for Hitchcock and is Told in Such an Odd Way it can't Help but have an Abnormal Attraction Brought On by the Look and Feel of the Film. Overall, it is One of those that will Say a lot About the Viewer and His or Her's Ability to be Turned-On or Turned-Off by this Peculiar Picture. "},{"Title":"Armchair PSYCHOanalysis","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Having recently returned to Tippi Hedren's debut film, the tautlyedited The Birds, I found Marnie to be comparatively bloated andpretentious.Squired by a devastatingly handsome Sean Connery in the role of rich businessman Mark Rutland, Hedren's Marnie is gorgeous but tediously, stubbornly neurotic. (How many of these red and lightning scenes must the audience sit through? We get it!)Watching Mark risk his career and fortune to heal his frigid wife seriously strains credulity, and serves, generally, to date this film badly. Today a gal might avoid men altogether, or get herself to a psychologist fast...Obviously, Hitchcock was interested in psychology but where were the advisers who challenged him to edit this story into shape?Despite its flaws, this film is, predictably, very well-cast. Lois Latham as Marnie's cold and self-involved mother is withering.Think of the mothers in Psycho, The Birds, and, now, Marnie. Now,what's going on with that, Hitch?? "}{"Title":"Good- maybe not great or genius","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The main page review lists this film as great and genius and several other superlatives. I believe this to be maybe a little generous because of Hitchcock's reputation. No doubt Hitchcock was very clever in his films...but this one...maybe not so much. So why'd I give it an 8? you ask. Here's why! The subject matter of the film is quite different for the time and very serious. We didn't talk much about it back then or even years afterward. Very brave of Hitchcock to tackle it, and make a full story about it. The film does reveal itself in slick sections. Some of the scenes are masterful for their emotional intensity.So...why do I have a problem with it? you ask. Criticizing Hitchcock is indeed a daunting task. I'll do my best! A few very cheesy scenes. There's one scene of the safe where he uses a fast zoom in and out. Seems like an afterthought or some assistant may have filmed the scene, not a master filmmaker. Some scenes were cut so broadly it was nearly jarring. A good director, especially of Hitchcock's fame, should be able to ensure the film is mostly smooth on post-production.I'm a big Sean Connery fan...he's not just Bond. Also Tippi has been in my top 10 classic actress fantasy league. But, the actual acting was also often jarring, and hard to bond to. I mean that's what we all want to do right? Good guy bad guy extra character....we want to FEEL the character. These characters were hard to feel. Hard to bond to. The escape on horse scene seemed almost preposterous, even when you KNOW so many films used the backdrop technique.I also did just watch Dick Cavatts interview with Hitchcock...so I totally understand his style, his unconventional presentation and cleverness. He seems to WANT to make you uncomfortable. I get it, and he usually gets it right on. I think he just...BARELY! missed his mark here.This is still a good film. The subject is extremely difficult. For that alone it deserves a lot of credit. And of course our life isn't quite as smooth and slick as most movies make them out to be. Hitchcock unfolds the story quite well, and you do get the satisfying feeling of closure. However, in my opinion it's just not totally genius and brilliant. If this is that, it totally stonewalls and caps so many better films.Worth the watch....Hitchcock, Connery and Tippi....yea! "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's Mini Mess-terpiece Misfires","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie is (without question) one of director Alfred Hitchcock's most overlooked (watch it to see why) and, perhaps, cheesiest films of his career.Released just one year after The Birds, Marnie, a psychologically crass and somewhat messy Thriller, would mark the last time that a blond would have a central role in a Hitchcock film. Marnie was to be Grace Kelly's comeback film, but ice-goddess 'Tippi' Hedren took over the role when Grace, being Princess Grace of Monaco at the time, so graciously bowed out.Marnie's seemingly complex (but really very shallow) story contains such characteristically obsessive themes as unnatural fears (this time of thunderstorms and the color red). As well, sexual frigidity, repressed memories, a gross mistrust of all men, and kleptomania, are thrown into the mix for good measure.Title character Marnie Edgar (young, pretty, sophisticated) gets her big kicks shoplifting to her heart's content in pricey boutiques. It's all a part of her daily routine.Marnie, who's also a pathological liar to the extreme, uses her many womanly charms (figuratively speaking, of course) to land choice jobs without references, only to steal from the company safe and then disappear without a trace.(So, how do you like Marnie so far as a movie heroine? Is her crime-riddled life-style at all believable?) The reason behind Marnie's totally fukked-up behavior is soon revealed right after she meets, and then marries (on yet another senseless whim) Mark Rutland (who literally has to rape her on their wedding night just to get some nookie) played by a very youthful and virile-looking Sean Connery.Anyways...In conclusion - Is Marnie's story flawed? - Yes, non-stop, right from start to finish.And - Is Marnie one of Hitchcock's masterpieces? No, not on your life, it isn't! And, with that said, let's face it - In the years that subsequently followed the release of Marnie, Hitchcock's films would begin to noticeably deteriorate in quality and style as The Master of Suspense gradually lost his firm grip on a craft that once so rightfully awarded him as one of movie-history's greatest Directors of all-time. "},{"Title":"Tippi.","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock directed this drama that stars Tippi Hedren as Marnie Edgar, a beautiful but troubled woman who is also a habitual liar and thief, robbing her first employer of several thousand dollars before moving on to her current one, the Rutland Firm, run by Mark Rutland(played by Sean Connery). He catches her in the act of stealing, but instead of having her arrested, instead decides to force her to marry him! She agrees to avoid prison, but won't let him touch her on their honeymoon, so hires a private detective to investigate her past, uncovering a dark secret involving her mother(played by Louise Latham) and a sailor(played by Bruce Dern). Unusual film is good-looking(if a bit far-fetched) though the appealing cast makes it watchable at least, and deserves credit for it's intelligence and ambition. "},{"Title":"slow without the menace","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie Edgar (Tippi Hedren) is a thief who uses aliases to get office jobs, and then runs off with the money in the safes. She is a troubled soul with a mysterious past. She has a difficult relationship with her mother whom she sends money to support. Her next target is Rutland Co, only the owner Mark Rutland (Sean Connery) catches her in the crime. Instead of sending her to prison, he blackmails her to marry him, and it becomes another form of prison.The pace is slow, and the menace just isn't there. It's hard to say if there is any rooting interest here. One is a distant closed off thief. The other is a demented blackmailer. Neither are compelling figures. If Sean Connery could create are more menacing character, we could root for Marnie much more.But that's not what Alfred Hitchcock is going for. For Hitchcock, Mark is doing this for love of Marnie. Yet in one scene, he strips her and rapes her. It's a confused character. It doesn't make for compelling viewing. "},{"Title":"Not quintessential, yet very worthwhile.","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I would first like to say that I'm a sucker for any Hitchcock film and haven't seen one that I don't halfway enjoy. Marnie is no different. I think I'm one of the very few people who, when one thinks of Sean Connery, associates him first with his role in this film and not with his Bond appearances. Hedren's performance? Good, but nothing extremely outstanding. The film on a whole tends to be picked apart by quite a few, but I personally find it quite entertaining. Hitchcock's method of telling a story visually is showcased very well throughout the film; especially within the scene with cleaning woman in the empty office building...the suspense definitely comes from the master himself; no dialog needed. And, like many of Hitch's films, the psychological aspect is probably one of the best parts; the color motif is haunting. No, this is not my favorite of Hitchcock's films. Yes, I thought it was rather good. All in all, I recommend to anyone who enjoys a good and proper psychological thriller. "},{"Title":"A decent if not essential Hitchcock picture, Marnie looks into its troubled title character reasonably well","Date":"5 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of the best aspects about Alfred Hitchcock's pictures is his interest in the characters that are involved in the stories he tells. Because the characters in his films are so fascinating, we share his fascination with these people as well. While his 1964 mystery Marnie may not bare comparison to his very finest films, you can at least be sure that the story being told and the characters on screen are probably going to be interesting enough to make the experience worthwhile. Tippi Hedren plays the title character Marnie, a mentally unstable young woman who has an intense fear as well as hatred for men, thunderstorms, and the color red. She's also a thief who steals money from the companies she works at and changes her identity every time she does. She successfully gets new jobs at other companies with her fake identities and resumes. One day, she gets a job at a company run by someone (Sean Connery) who knows a bit about her activities and she gets caught by him when she tries to pull off another theft. But he admits to falling in love with her to the point where he won't turn her to the police under the condition that she marries him. Although she reluctantly agrees, he begins to suspect something may not be mentally right with her after all and that he needs to know why she is acting the way she is. Marnie has an impressive premise and for about its first half to two thirds, it delivered on the promises it made and the plot twist at the end was well built up. I thought Hedren and Connery were solid in their roles since they incorporated enough intrigue into the people they played. There were also some well directed scenes including one where Hedren's character was trying to rob the vault inside Connery's character's office that is solely done through visuals and no sound. That scene had a great build-up and was well timed in its execution. The direction in the film's last third to half did lose its momentum a bit and some unnecessary plot complications ensued. One of which was Diane Baker's character who is supposed to be the former sister-in-law of Connery's character, but I don't know what her purpose in the plot was. She's kind of made out to be some sort of antagonist, but she isn't well developed enough to be called that for certain. For that matter, she served no purpose to the plot since she didn't really do anything therefore making her pointless.I'd be lying if I said the narrative was completely clear since it started getting too complicated when the two main characters get married. The story became more heavily layered to the point where it becomes more difficult to follow the story. Furthermore, I didn't think there was any real reason why the plot needed to become more layered in the first place since a handful of scenes don't even have a purpose to them. There's a scene where Marnie puts an animal in danger that wasted valuable time. The film's special effects are very unconvincing. There are some shots in which Hedren is riding on a horse or Hedren and Connery were riding in a car that were obviously fake. I could tell because the green screen effects were completely dated. Whatever props they were using to film those certain scenes felt really fake for me. Marnie isn't one of Alfred Hitchcock's best films because of those certain pet peeves with the plot and the special effects. But for Hitchcock fans, there are a handful of things to like about Marnie such as the creative premise and some well directed scenes that should keep us fans satisfied enough. "},{"Title":"And I've caught something really wild this time, haven't I?","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" For any sense of appreciation for this movie, I think you first have to get past the absurdity of the basic plot. You figure that Mark Rutland became president of his family's business because he had a fair amount of business acumen and a semblance of common sense. Once he realizes that Mary Taylor has robbed his safe and has a history of aliases in other cities doing the same, how is it he keeps the romance going? Especially when Marnie makes every effort to dissuade him at every turn. They say love is blind and marriage is an eye opener, but it seems to me that Rutland had his eyes sewn shut.With that off my chest, director Hitchcock does a decent enough job of maintaining intrigue and suspense in the story; the aforementioned safe robbery scene with the cleaning lady was particularly noteworthy. Yet at the same time, I have to wonder why Hitch resorted to such almost comical techniques as used in the riding sequence of the fox hunt scene and the rapid zoom in and out of the money in the safe. The latter reminded me of some of those 1940's Warner Brothers cartoons that employ a similar device. It had the feel of a fledgling director who might still be searching for his own vision in making a picture instead of someone with a whole pile of them under his belt already. I have to tell you though, the scene that made me wince was Marnie's horse taking that fall over the jump.You know what the biggest surprise for me was? Finding out that actress Louise Latham played the parts of both the elder Mrs. Edgar and the young mother of Marnie in the scene with the sailor. The makeup job was so good for both characterizations that it even fooled Hitchcock's assistant director on the set, who asked who the actress was to show up for the flash back filming.Coming off of Hitchcock's suspense thriller The Birds, I thought Tippi Hedren did more than a competent job as the conflicted title character, bringing a range of emotion to a role that could have wound up a caricature if not done as well. Opposite Sean Connery, Hedren wondered how she could pull it off. Credit director Hitchcock with a firm but insightful bit of advice - It's called acting. "},{"Title":"Attention critics...","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ...you were right the first time!The title character (Tippi Hedren), a mysterious but frigid woman, makes a living my applying for secretary jobs at various companies, then robbing her employers blind and skipping town. When her current boss catches her in the act he blackmails her into marrying him, where he finds himself intrigued by her dark and bewildering past. Though Hitchcock's direction is as polished and imaginative as ever, the technique frills fail to hide the horrendous script and eye-rolling plot holes.Critically panned at the time of it's release, it has since gone on to be praised as a classic. Again, the critics were right the first time. "},{"Title":"The mean and manipulative","Date":"14 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The film was poorly received by both critics and public upon its release and time has not invalidated this original consensus. Marnie has a thoroughly unpleasant storyline and cast of characters. While grim plots and characters don't exempt movies from obtaining masterpiece status&#x97;here Hitchcock has fallen flat on his face. Tippi Hedren is Marnie, a woman emotionally tormented by childhood trauma, who has evolved into a manipulative, aberrant adult living a life of lies, financed by a career of chronic embezzlement. Her abusive childhood made her that way, however, not once does her tragedy manage to elicit one ounce of sympathy. She is beautiful, mean and cold and we don't really care what happens to her. Even a troubled villain should convey some poignant vulnerability but under Hitchcock's direction, Hedren's performance, (not aided by her shrill, wining voice) doesn't deliver. Sean Connery as her insistent husband, the wealthy Mark Rutland, doesn't register much better on the empathy scale. A man who has a self proclaimed interest in zoology, his relationship with Marie is more one of obsessive scientific curiosity than romantic fire. She presents a mystery that presents him with an intellectual challenge, which he is determined to master. He's no nice guy himself, and you never get the feeling that he really wants to help her for her own benefit. At the movie's climatic end sequence, when the mystery of Marnie's troubled past is revealed to all, we are left with an explanation, but no emotional resolution. Marnie and Mark walk off in the sunset together, a matched pair, just as implacable and mean as ever. "},{"Title":"Sean Connery is boning up on Marnie's life.","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I like most Alfred Hitchcock's movie, but this movie was pretty hard to sit through. I didn't really dislike the film, but it's wasn't his best. Still, this is a good psychological drama. Love the famous vagina-like purse. Hitchcock was a keen Freudian and he definitely meant the handbag to represent the womb. Watch it give birth to all that money that Marnie need! Margaret Marnie Edgar (Tippi Hedren) is troubled young woman whom steals from companies. The oppressive silence robbery scene is one of the best, most tense scenes in movie history, the quietness is what makes it so realistic. I've always thought that thievery is a very interesting theme in film. The film lose it's edge, by Mark Rutland (Sean Connery), a large publishing company owner catch her in the act of stealing. Rather than turning her in, he pretty much black mails her to become his wife. Mark acts like a sexual predator whom catch his greatest pray, a woman who has an unnatural fear and mistrust of men, thunderstorms, and the color red. The woman is sexually traumatized. I feel very sorry for her. She steals money because of an emotional void in her life. She is afraid of sex. That means that she has never been in love or shared real romantic intimacy or achieved earth shattering orgasm. She was never blissfully happy by feeling complete with a boyfriend or husband. She does not want to marry or have children, but Mark force her to love him which force her to go through hell. He takes advantage of her catatonic 'submissive' state and get what he wants to the point of rape. Yes, it was 'rape'. It's rape because she's frigid and unwilling. Why do you think she tried to kill herself? I don't think in his mind he thought he was committing rape, he was just getting his 'conjugal rights', she signed on the dotted line to granting him 'conjugal rights' when she married him or else in law, the marriage is null and void. This movie felt like a woman's personally life being exposed, rape, and her faults being put on the table. This movie is unpleasant and Hitchcock tries to hide it through any means. Hitchcock insisted that Mark should be played by the sexy, dashing Connery--then at the height of his Bond years--that audiences would accept this unquestioningly. Plus this was 1963-4, remember, an era when sex was accepted as a husband's right, regardless of the circumstances. Sean Connery is still brutal and suave in this film. James Bond will return in Dr. No Means No. Hitchcock battled with screenwriter Evan Hunter over its inclusion - eventually getting Jay Presson Allen to write it. Hunter believed it implausible for a character like Mark to commit these acts. The movie has the 'rape' has romanticized as well. I find Connery zoologist character playing dime store psychologist, mining a sense of how deeply disturbed Marnie was and then taking the liberty of exposing her is downright wrong. It didn't help to know that Hitchcok himself sexually assaulted Hedren halfway through production as well, to get her into the role. He was taking the role, too serious for art's sakes. Hitchcock was so awful with harassing poor Tippi Hedren, must have been terrible working with him and she never work with him again. Another fault of the film is the over used of cheesy effects, such as over use of lighting, the fake backdrops and the way he use the color red. I can honestly understand the color of red being tapped into the film, but it was badly introduction in a Ed Wood type matter. The movie has some good things about it. Yes, it had the Hitchcock cameos, which are his signature and a superior Herrmann score and not just the titles, but through the entire film. The symbolism between the horse and the mother's leg is interesting. If you knew anything about Hitchcock, you'd know that his movies most often featured disturbing content; it is what his career thrived on. He loved making the audience squirm, and he took on this project because he knew a movie like this was taboo. He has always used sex and violence as arousal. Watch Psycho again for the similar affect in the bath tub. His point is that, you can show the hell out of violence but never sex, so you have to combine the two so the audience member becomes aroused via imagination. It's not explicit, but it's very disturbing. Hitchcock's preoccupation with pathology, psychology & mother-issues helped encourage psychotherapy in America. Most people in the 60's didn't want to think about what they were doing to their own children by exposing them to violence, sex and traumas. Hitchcock made people look at their own actions & fear the consequences. He knew his own fears & made them ours. "}{"Title":"It it misogynistic?","Date":"18 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of the things I see people talking about when they talk about Marnie is its misogyny. Did Hitchcock hate women? The argument seems valid- in this movie, Marnie is a kleptomaniac and a compulsive liar. But then when she's blackmailed into marriage with Mark (played by a young Sean Connery) and apparently raped (I don't know if this would meet the definition of rape for 1964), she decides that she's going to make the marriage work? Husband knows best? It's questionable, but then again, it can be argued that Mark is as sick as Marnie- in fact, when Mark is psychoanalyzing Marnie, Marnie explicitly does ask Mark to look in the mirror. Ultimately the best view may be that this movie does hate women- but it hates men, too. This is reflected by one scene where Marnie describes all women as stupid and feeble and all men as filthy pigs.As a mystery and a drama, Marnie is competently made. Still, the movie isn't much of a standout; the stakes don't feel as high as in Hitchcock's previous works like Vertigo (1958) or Rebecca (1940). The characters just aren't brilliant, and I say that as someone who usually likes flawed characters. The horse's accident looks terribly fake, but I imagine Hitchcock did what he could. Overall, Marnie is good viewing, but not a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Take the Money and Run","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Light-fingered Tippi Hedren (as Marnie Edgar) changes her hair color and gets secretarial jobs in order to steal from her employers. Dashing publisher Sean Connery (as Mark Rutland) is set to be Ms. Hedren's latest victim; instead, he catches her red-handed. In order to stay out of the pokey, Mr. Connery insists Hedren be his wife. Then, he attempts to unravel the mystery of her frigidity, fear of thunder, repulsion over the color red, and strange relationship with her mother (memorably played by Louise Latham).Alfred Hitchcock's Marnie is not a bad movie; it's just disappointing, after the director's string of classic predecessors. Many Hitchcock touches are evident; and these, alone, make it an entertaining feature. Ms. Latham and the supporting players perform well, also. However, the leading co-stars never really make it very interesting; and, the psychological combining of kleptomania and frigidity is a cold, loose fit. ****** Marnie (7/22/64) Alfred Hitchcock ~ Tippi Hedren, Sean Connery, Louise Latham, Diane Baker "},{"Title":"Scenes from a marriage","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Speaking of amorality, how is this one for utterly shameless male predator behaviour? Sean Connery (great body, nasty face and American-leavened Scottish accent) blackmailing a mentally ill criminal Tippi Hedren into marrying him, heaven only knows what for. A great advert for heterosexual marriage (not!) as from the outside all looks hunky-dory. Ingmar Bergman's Scenes from a Marriage had nothing on Hitchcock! I can remember watching this film when I was very young - maybe 12 or so - and could only remember the sailor's tight whites he struggled out of to avail himself of the services Marnie's mother offered, and his black-haired arms. Amazing the things that impress you at a young age! Favourite bit of dialogueMARNIE You Freud, me JaneTotty award Bruce Dern as the sailor, of course. "},{"Title":"Good premise, but films drags on and on","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Maybe it's just that the action in today's films & TV programs move faster, but I found this movie just DRUG ON too long, especially when Hitch has Sean Connery getting to the bottom of things. Still, it's an interesting story, and if you step out for a coffee or a smoke and leave the DVD or tape running, you won't miss much. The premise is a little silly, in that a single woman (Tippi Hedren) becomes a mastermind at rapidly changing jobs and her appearance while embezzling money from brutish, wealthy businessmen in the New England- to-Chesapeake Bay area, all the time getting off scot-free until she actually marries an intended victim, who turns out to be a really nice wealthy businessman (Connery), who spends a good deal of the movie being a valiant knight-errant on a not-so-very-swift charger, plodding to milady's rescue. It's not Connery whose performance-skills drag the action out too long, but Hitchcock's. Sir Alfred must have been snoozing a little in the Director's chair or the editing room when he made this film, and it frequently puts watchers to sleep. As the action proceeds, we come to find out, Marnie (Hedren) was a victim of sex-abuse as a child, she's now naturally seductive BUT remarkably frigid, her mother was once something of a whore and now blames her adult daughter for cutting short the gravy-train-of-horny-sailors who used to put regular money in the old gal's pocket, and Marnie embezzles money from (mostly) disagreeable males in order to get back at the opposite sex in general. Bruce Dern does a great job (as usual) in a very short scene, playing a young-buck, randy, creepy sailor on shore leave, hoping to get a little action. We find out, in veiled 1960's language, that Bruce has probably molested Marnie, who kills him while she's still a child. This may be the secret dream of every little girl who's been molested, and it's quite satisfying to see the dude die at the hands of the avenging child. Still, we the audience, largely suspect that such an event during childhood is probably the basis for Marnie's adult life of crime, so the exposition of it near the end of the movie isn't all that shocking. "},{"Title":"No sex please, she's American","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Of all of Hitchcock's films, Marnie is the one I go back to time and time again. Not because it's my favourite picture of his, but because I need to see it over and over to try and figure out if I like it or not.This is Hitch's first step into new territory after 20 odd years of classic movie-making and I guess, at the time, the reception to Marnie wasn't all that hot.It is a difficult film. Unlike anything Hitch had ever made before -there's no murders, blackmail, secret agents or foreign correspondents. This is more psycho-analytical than Spellbound.Sean Connery seems an odd choice to play Mark Rutland - a beefy Scots in the middle of America calling everyone old bean and I cannot decide for the life of me if Tippie Hedren is a stuffy, wooden woman who can't act or a great actress playing a stuffy, wooden woman.Like I say, Marnie intrigues me and I want to know why Hitch made it, what he was trying to say, what's it all about....? 10 out of 10 for bravery for attempting something so wildly different but I am still not entirely convinced he manages to pull it off.  "},{"Title":"6 out of 10","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A very interesting, but flawed Hitchcock psychological drama with beautiful Tippi Hedren as a notorious thief and Sean Connery trying to solve her problems. The two leads are excellent as well as the striking visuals with some of Hitchcock's shock moments, but the story doesn't really come to life. It can't hold up to other Hitchcock masterpieces. Still, worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Good Psychological film.","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really like this Hitchcock film. I am a fan of the actress Tippi Hedren, I wish she had done more films though.  She is very good in this film, also the film score is brilliant and memorable. "},{"Title":"Connery? Not a predator! Excellent movie.","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Having viewed Marnie last night, I really must disagree with those who have pegged Sean Connery's character as predatory and sexually blackmailing. Sure, he made a joking comment to that effect... but he also made it clear that she could have been caught by a *really* bad person, who wouldn't take no for an answer. And what kind of predatory sexual blackmailer would put up with separate bedrooms (especially when married to someone who looks like Tippi Hedren -)?Diane Baker is excellent as the scheming sister-in-law, out to displace any and all rivals (i.e., Marnie)... the color symbolism of their respective hair colors is obvious but relatively inoffensive.A lesser director than Hitchcock would have allowed the audience to see flashback after flashback, and allowed the other end of phone calls to be heard, thereby beating a dead horse (pun not intended) with the Psychological Significance. Instead, the color red, and the effect of certain sounds on Marnie's dreams, are the only clues the audience gets (along with the observers in the movie itself) right up until the very end, when the audience learns of the cause of Marnie's many and varied problems.There is some really excellent camera work in this movie, especially the opening scene in which she is shown walking toward the center of perspective formed by the intersection of very sharply angular bits of scenery - perhaps one could draw a parallel between this and another of Hitchcock's films featuring a blonde beauty, Vertigo (the opening of Vertigo has a spiral, representing the dizziness, and the perspective shot in Marnie could be thought of as an unfinished spider's web - Sean Connery, of course, being fascinated by predators). "},{"Title":"Fascinating character complexity and dynamic performances barely redeem a flagging narrative - an intriguing but contradictory Hitchcock experiment","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As the name Alfred Hitchcock has come to be more or less synonymous with cinematic quality, while it would be unreasonable to expect universal perfection from any artist, it is somewhat unsettling to notice a film from such a capable filmmaker largely 'miss the mark', begging the question as to whether such flaws denote unsound film-making or mysterious unresolved artistic choices. Either way, few of Hitchcock's films invite such active debate as Marnie, as, whether the debate stems from the quality of the film or the difficult and ambiguous subject matter presented, the film remains a fascinating and memorable cinematic experiment if nothing else.Fittingly for a film exploring the notion of excess (whether in emotion, material, etc.) it is the polarizing standards of quality within the film which make it so difficult to assess. It is indisputable that thematically Marnie is one of Hitchcock's most nuanced and challenging pictures, exploring the foundations of gender roles and the ensuing power struggles between them, psychological trauma and its ripple effect on destroying the lives of others, as well as crucially providing a rare female lead, and an impressively complex one to boot. Equally, it is consistently mesmerising to see Hitchcock, a director customarily associated with striking black and white cinematography, utilize colour to such a prominent degree. This usage is not restricted to the vibrant red triggering Marnie's episodes (and rarely has a director conditioned an audience to fear a colour in such an effective, Pavlovian fashion) but also his conscious treatment of Marnie's continually changing hairstyles (before finally and poignantly settling on the familiar icy blonde) and outfits, continually making her the most colourful character in the film, particularly when juxtaposed with Rutland's earthy tones. In a suitably cinematic fashion, the complexity of the characters and narrative is mirrored aesthetically, making for an impressively rich thematic package. As an effective addition, the film's clever script deftly balances traumatic torment with wit and sophistication, making many of the exchanges between characters (particularly Marnie and Mark) magnetically enjoyable.Nonetheless, as fascinating and commendable as the aforementioned aspects of the film are, there exist an equal counterweight of detrimental aspects making the overall product frustratingly inconstant. Marnie is substantially overlong and with a narrative which not only painfully lags but weaves chaotically all over the place, often feeling to be overlapping itself, commencing a plot thread, then abruptly abandoning it, then rekindling it later on as if it had never been formerly introduced (all without the purposeful, clearly streamlined spiral structure of several of Hitchcock's past works such as Vertigo). To see such an aimlessly meandering treatment of narrative coupled with such compelling thematic complexity is a particularly confusing circumstance, almost as if Hitchcock had worked in tandem with another, less capable filmmaker to assemble the film.Similarly, even the commendable character complexity runs the risk of derailing the film when Hitchcock's treatment of it becomes too brutish. At best, it can be extremely difficult to warm to a narrative largely centred around two characters concerned with sadistic or masochistic acts of mutual torture, psychological mind games or power struggles, as Hitchcock offers no morally sound protagonist (as flawed and objectionable as Marnie is, Mark is even worse, and siding with either character, particularly the latter, feels problematic or downright morally objectionable) to anchor the film off of. But while such daringly ambiguous characterisation could normally be a unique plaudit for a film of such intensity, Htichcock's treatment of both characters individually and the tension between them feels downright excessive, drilling their faults into the audience repeatedly and painfully all the while without offering any solution or purpose to their combustive interactions. While it feels unlikely that Hitchcock would take on such a challenging and problematic film without any driving agenda, undergoing such a discordant experience without any discernible purpose (and even to suggest that Hitchcock relishes the pointlessness of the mutual torment taken on by Mark and Marnie is interesting but fails to satisfy) hardly leads to an enjoyable, fulfilling or even intellectually troubling viewer reaction. The film is more draining than anything else, and hardly in a positive sense.Nonetheless, continuing the film's continuing self-contradiction of quality, the performances from the two leads are as resonant, memorable and powerful as any of Hitchcock's most celebrated past work. Tippi Hedren is superb as Marnie, juggling an unreasonably convoluted character (a self-destructive, pathological thief fuelled by past psychological trauma) with credibility and ease, demonstrating superbly captivating dramatic skills and enough tension between steely determination and raw, child-like desperation to make any viewer's heart break. Ably counterbalancing her, Sean Connery impressively fumes with suave calm yet barely contained aggression as her predatory, controlling husband Mark Rutland. None but the eternally charismatic Connery could find redeeming qualities in such a bizarre and objectionable choice of protagonist, yet somehow he strikes a sympathetic human chord in the midst of the patriarchal arrogance of Rutland, making his interactions with Marnie all the more strange and morally fluctuating. Compared to the fiery performances of the leads, Diane Baker feels out of place as Rutland's protective sister, particularly as her character slides from cloying, pseudo-comic relief to sympathetic support figure. However, Louise Latham makes up for it, alternatively perplexing, infuriating and achingly sympathetic as Marnie's distant mother, a rough culmination of Hitchcock's infamous maternal baggage.While the maudlin melodrama and meandering narrative may prove taxing, the fearless complexity of the protagonists and dynamic fervour of the lead two actors make Marnie an imbalanced but perpetually intriguing watch. While hardly up to Hitchcock's usual standards of quality, even the creative misfires at work prove fascinating windows into the mind of a largely unparallelled cinematic genius, and it is telling of the supreme capabilities of the filmmaker that even such a comparative misfire offers such food for thought, albeit largely at the cost of conventional entertainment.-6.5/10 "},{"Title":"How easily it comes apart","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie is an example of how the Hitchcock formula fails. To be fair it doesn't help that this self-monikered 'sexual thriller' was made in the still-censorious early 60s. Consequently the contemporaneous cinematic vernacular can pass a modern audience by. I learnt that there had been a 'rape scene' in the film by watching the documentary appended to the DVD after having seen the feature.The acting's OK... however, the strong, natural charisma of Connery (on the precipice of superstardom) and the post-Birds self-assurance of Tippi Hedren struggle wretchedly against Hitchcock's meticulous commitment to the prepared gameplan. Minor parts, with more leeway, are more successful (Bruce Dern's tiny cameo is as good as anything in the film).I enjoyed the robbery sequence and Hitchcock's commitment to a difficult subject. But there is too much by way of hit-n-miss, loose ends and laboured set pieces. The matte drawings are often too exposed. The psychodrama is rammed down our throats, particularly jarring when the protagonists specifically treat psychoanalysis with disdain.In the current remake epidemic sweeping the industry, here is a film that would really benefit from one. 4/10 "}{"Title":"Hitch's Best Mom Ever","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Bernice Edgar beats all the Hitchcock moms and Louise Latham shines as the mother with the well-kept secret in this piece of sweet nothing that displayed Tippi Hedrens limits as an actress and Hitchcocks over-the-top fondness for psychology. Sean Connery is brilliant as the suave gentleman, but the film belongs to Louise Latham. Why on earth the Oscar did not come her way, I don't get. "},{"Title":"Should have been one of Hitchcock's best, but...","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Marnie was made after a string of knock-out masterpieces by possibly the greatest director ever made. At the time of its release, it was considered a huge failure by critics and audiences. To be truthful, it is a failure. But it is an extremely interesting failure.The relationship that Sean Connery developes with Tippi Hedron is very complex and fascinating. Connery, a rich man who becomes sexually attracted to a woman who is a pathological thief and a hater of men, forces her to marry him with jail time as her only other option. This is quite cruel, and it makes for some very interesting narrative. Although Marnie is the title character, I think we learn more about Connery than her. His acting is nearly immaculate here, certainly the best he's ever done. Hedron is a bit disappointing. Her character has many complexities, and often Hedron is good enough to express them, but when the tension starts to get a bit much and Marnie starts to break down, Hedron is unable to make her insanity believable. Instead, it looks quite silly.A few other grave missteps wreck the film further. The flashes of red and Marnie's following spasms are not handled well at all. This is partly due to a poorly written score by Bernard Herrmann, easily the worst one he ever did for Hitchcock (and, to my knowledge, the worst he ever did, period). This score, reminiscent of Vertigo (as well as the story itself), forces itself into the picture at awkward times, making several scenes seem utterly ridiculous. When Marnie sees red, or hears thunder or tapping, Herrmann's score soars to unnecessary heights. His scores for such films as Vertigo and Psycho are much more subtle.Even with these smaller pieces not working, Marnie still would have finished a near-masterpiece, if not for the terrible finale. The entire resolution is entirely unsatisfying for many reasons. First off, it's too convenient that everything works out as it does. Like Scotty in Vertigo, Rutland (Connery) tries to force a truth out of his woman. But Vertigo had suspense in this final scene, where Marnie has none. This is because there is absolutely no danger in this final confrontation. Second, the mother is a very poor actor. She is entirely unconvincing. Third, the flashback feels very awkward. Just a few years before, they would have not been able to show or even imply what happened in this scene in a film, but in 1963, it still wasn't entirely acceptable. I would guess that this really alienated audiences at the time. It alienates viewers now because of the odd staging of the whole situation. It all plays out in an unconvincing way. It's difficult to explain, but I think it will be self-explanatory when you see it.I actually think that Marnie could be remade into a great film. Only a few of Hitchcock's films have been remade, and all the remakes have been heavily derided. But this film, obviously flawed in many ways, could easily be improved. Just weaken the score a bit, don't use the gimicky fade to reds, and tighten up the finale. It could be great. As it stands, it's still quite good. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Hard to say what's wrong, but something is","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You don't need to know this, but there's an odd parallel between the film and the filming of it.  What Mark's relationship with Marnie mirrors Hitchcock's relationship with Tippi Hedren ... okay, it's not THAT much of a coincidence you should read up on the production history of `The Red Shoes' if you want to hear something really uncanny.This makes it all the stranger that the film lacks urgency.  Hitchcock stages many scenes superbly (well, one or two the robbery and the RED! scene stand out), and the two central performances are both great.  Hitchcock didn't like Connery's performance, but, as usual, his after-the-fact judgement was simply wrong.  Connery is a charismatic wolf and that's what the role required the more refined, gentlemanly Mark that Hitchcock said he wanted would only have seemed like more of a creep.  And although this is a minor point, Hitchcock's use of colour is better than usual.  (I'm not talking about his flashing the colour red at us all the time.  Michael Powell did that kind of thing better in `Peeping Tom' anyway.  It's the brownish look of everything else that's so good to look at.)To see that this is a sex-reversed version of `Spellbound' is to get an inkling of the problem.  The story just isn't as good.  And that psychological mumbo-jumbo!  In `Spellbound' it was acceptable fantasy, although Ben Hecht sailed rather close to the wind; and in `Psycho', let's be honest, the Freudian gibberish at the end was something we swallowed for the sake of what had gone before; but here, so much hangs on discovering what's behind Marnie's strange symptoms, and the explanation is just so lame and ludicrous (as we knew it would be) when it comes, that it's hard not to feel cheated.  Hitchcock thought the problem was that the audience was never sure whether it should want Marnie to escape the law, or to be cured.  THIS after-the-fact judgement was probably correct.  But it can't be the full story, for the same `problem' actually enhanced `Spellbound' ... ah, who knows; it could simply be that `Marnie' alternates between its two stories without properly combining them.  Worth seeing as a curiosity all the same. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's career begins to downturn; one of his weakest films.","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of the most interesting ideas in a Hitchcock movie is unfortunately given short shrift in Marnie, the film that signalled the beginning of Hitchcock's downturn towards mediocre film-making during his latter years. Marnie's most visible flaw is that it doesn't seem to know what kind of movie it wants to be at first it seems like a tale of petty crime, with Tippi Hedren's lead role committing the sort of minor embezzlements that also introduced Psycho a few years previously. Throughout its runtime, it then alternates between a story of lost mother-son connection - Hitchcock's obsession with mothers taken to the extreme, a romance, and an obsessive examination of a pretty blonde... another signature of the director. In short, it's a mess. As a character, Marnie has nightmares, sees red a lot, and goes catatonic when men try to touch her, but Hitch is woefully unable to tie all this together and make it work. What kind of film, for example, takes over an hour to provide the audience with any inkling of tension, any reason for Marnie's deep-seated psychological fears to alert to us that the plot was, you know, going somewhere? The first half of the picture, all dreary set-up in which bland details are thrown around - Marnie likes horses, her mother is odd, she dislikes thunderstorms, blah, blah - is incredibly slow-starting and boring; Hitch doesn't quite seem to know how to handle an actor of Sean Connery's calibre, and so keeps him on the backburner until well over the halfway mark. Once Connery secures an actual role in the picture's plot, as Marnie's makeshift husband, he works his best charm, and certainly manages to lift the latter end of the film's overlong two hours up from pathetic to passable, but he's given such a nothing character that he fights an uphill battle. He is even dubiously made to commit a horrific sex act in the film, alluded to in typically sly Hitchockian fashion, with the intention that his ultimately good intentions - him being Sean Connery, of course - will allow us to forgive him. As for Hedren as Marnie, she certainly shows a greater acting range than she did in The Birds, but is still mostly hit-or-miss, occasionally intoning her lines wrong, putting emphasis in the wrong place, or just appearing generally apathetic when her challenging role calls for something more compelling - to be fair, this may also be because of the poor manner in which the script is handled. There is little chemistry between Hedren and Connery, although they do work up a single excellent scene, one worthy of Hitchock's oeuvre, in which the two have a fast-talking battle of wits, trying to probe each other's weaknesses. The interesting thing is that Marnie almost rewards the viewer's patience at the end, with a twist ending that finally explains Marnie's behaviour. In this section of the film, the pace suddenly jerks forward into life, moving too fast in the last fifteen minutes as Hedren and Connery confront Marnie's definitely not-quite-right mother. The climax is well-filmed, however, making effective use of flashback, and the movie could have cut any number of meaningless scenes and focused more on this plot thread to make Marnie the intriguing psychological drama it was supposed to be. As it is, Hitchcock seems out of his depth, or at least unable to get a grasp on his source material and actors in this, one of his worst films. Bogged down with lumpy exposition, patchiness, and in need of editing, most of all Marnie needed some enthusiasm. "},{"Title":"One of Hitchcock's darkest and most misunderstood films; a fascinating psychological thriller","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In the film's typically playful trailer, Hitchcock himself refers to Marnie (1964) as a sex mystery. After seeing the film, one can only assume that he was speaking purely in the Freudian, analytical, psycho-sexual sense of the term. Unsurprisingly, Marnie is a much darker film than Hitchcock's typically hyperbolic boilerplate might suggest; recalling elements of the emotional torture and sense of personal catharsis central to his grand masterpiece Vertigo (1958) and positively filled to the brim with cold characters, theft, psychological despair, childhood trauma, attempted suicide, murder and implicit rape. It's all dressed up in the glossy, impeccably directed and completely artificial world that only Hitchcock could really create, and is further embellished with the director's usual arcane sense of humour and grand-standing moments of audience manipulation.However, even with these incredibly fascinating themes and Hitchcock's bold, directorial touches, Marnie remains something of a love it or hate it film for many fans of the director, with some criticising the dated employment of studio production techniques in the context of the more exciting, free-spirited films coming out of Europe and Japan during the early to mid 1960's, and the similar thematic elements recycled from his earlier works; chiefly To Catch a Thief (1955) and of course, the aforementioned Vertigo. So, the general consensus from dissenting Hitchcock devotees is that Marnie finds Hitchcock attempting to recapture his 50's peak, but inadvertently producing an inferior knock-off, right down to the casting of lead actors Tippy Hedren and Sean Connery, who here - it could be argued - seem like two-dimensional stand-ins for the (then) more iconic Grace Kelly and Carry Grant. However, for me, Marnie works in spite of such limitations; with the elements that many consider to be flaws actually pushing the narrative into darker, more interesting areas pertaining to the carefully constructed world that these two troubled and enigmatic characters have seemingly manufactured.Like Vertigo, you could argue there's a definite element of dream-logic being subtly woven into the story here, with the deliberately abstracted and artificial world created by Hitchcock lending an air of almost expressionist mystery; as dark secrets, urges and impulses spiral out of control amidst the more frothy moments of Hitchcock wit, melodrama and suspense. Also like Vertigo, there is a sense of danger and claustrophobia here, recalling elements of Psycho (1960) and the later film Frenzy (1971) in the way in which the film seems to revolve entirely around the central characters; with all notions of the outside world being pushed further and further into the background. Sure, it's probably not as enjoyable or invigorating as many of his more purely entertainment based films, such as Strangers on a Train (1951), Rear Window (1954) or The Birds (1963), but it works for me and has a number of scenes that still stand out in my mind as some of the most interesting and compelling sequences that Hitchcock ever directed.The plot for one thing is fascinating and deals with many of Hitchcock's favourite themes of mystery and intrigue, with fraud, deception, a crisis of identity, lies and childhood disturbance all being spun amidst some of Hitchcock's boldest and most interesting examples of cinematic experimentation. Some have a natural knee-jerk reaction against the artificial world that Hitchcock creates on the studio back-lot, but to me, this is pure film-making; just look at films like The Cabinet of Doctor Caligari (1920) or Kwaidan (1964) and you'll see a similar idea at work, with the whole look and feel of the film designed to completely convey a certain abstract and distant quality indicative of the central character and her worsening psychological state. In fact, the final reveal of the root of Marnie's emotional problems is film-making at its absolute best, as Hitchcock makes his expressionist influences clear with a subtly distorted set that makes full use of a forced perspective and a dizzying contra-zoom used to pull the audience literally into the scene (and underpinning the character's resistance to revisit it) as well as capturing the natural sense of cold disorientation, as emotions and secrets spill out uncontrollable.For me, the entire final twenty-minutes of this film were incredibly powerful; not only in the way that Hitchcock directed the sequences or how they accumulate to create a tight and cohesive whole, but in the searing combination of character and performance and the overwhelming sense of sadness and empathetic understanding that they are able to convey. Although some elements of Hedren's performance are lacking in Marnie, she redeems herself by that final scene, which works so well off the interplay between her character and Connery's, and because of the shattering performance of Louise Latham as Marnie's mother. There's also fine support from the adorable Diane Baker and an effective cameo from Bruce Dern, who would later appear in Hitchcock's Family Plot (1976); whilst the subtle and psychological relationship between Marnie and the character played by Connery is one of the most interesting of any Hitchcock film and one that definitely requires some careful consideration. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's sex mystery--one of his best last works","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie (Tippi Hedren) is a compulsive thief. She gets jobs, finds out where the money is, robs them blind and skips town and assumes another identity to start all over. She also has a fear of the color red and thunderstorms. One day she meets Mark Rutland (Sean Connery) who discovers her trying to steal from him. He (understandably) falls in love with her. They get married and he tries to cure her.This was a bomb back in 1964. It was dismissed as trash and pretty silly. I saw it on TV back in the 1970s and couldn't make heads or tails of it (I later found out it was cut by about 40 minutes to fit into a 2 hour time slot!). It was rediscovered when it was released on video and DVD and is now regarded as one of Hitchcock's classics. I agree.The psychology is (inevitably) dated, some people find the plots turns ludicrous and there is a rape scene (but tastefully handled). The film also runs over two hours. Still I was never less than fascinated. Hitchcock is in full control here and there are some truly astonishing shots and moments. Also pay CLOSE attention to the backgrounds (you'll understand why at the end). Bernard Herrmann gives this film a great score too (right up there with Psycho), and look for Mariette Hartley and Bruce Dern in early roles.The only real debit here is Hedren--she's not that good. She doesn't destroy the picture but she lessens the impact. In her defense this WAS a difficult role. Connery has little to work with but pulls off his role effortlessly.A forgotten Hitchcock film that is finally getting its recognition. Worth seeing. Make sure you see the complete print and in wide screen. "},{"Title":"Hedren out of her element","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Tippi Hedren is out of her depth here, particularly in the emotional scenes, employing a junior high school acting style. It's easy to see why the actress's film offers petered out after the 2 Hitchcock films (also The Birds). The film is mesmerizingly directed, though, and sustains interest, despite Hedren's lackluster skills and an oversimplified ending. The other actors are superb, particularly Diane Baker, who is brittle and fetching as the jealous sister-in-law. Connery is great, as usual, but special mention must be made about Louise Latham, superbly playing Marnie's mother. And the musical score is fine.  "},{"Title":"Sorry, not great. Waaaayyyy overrated by Hitch fans.","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I can appreciate movies that focus more on character development and dialog than action, however even that appreciation is not enough to save this film from mediocrity.It's important for a movie to capture the viewer within the film. This movie really doesn't engage the viewer, for a few reasons discussed below.The characters are just not likable. None of them elicit much sympathy. Marnie is a nut, her mother is creepy, Lil is even creepier, and Rutland is just not believable. We are well invested into the movie before we come to the conclusion that we just don't care about these people.There are too many plot points that don't make much sense, and that knocks the viewer out of the film. For example, can we really believe that Rutland has fallen in love with this woman who is a disturbed and cold liar and thief? The first time he kissed her, he would have known her mouth was rigid and never moved; there was no passion. How do you fall in love with that? He might as well have fallen in love with an inflatable doll. Following this, he knows she is a liar and thief, and in fact entraps her and catches her in the act. He then pays tens of thousands of dollars (equivalent of hundreds of thousands today) to cover her tracks, and forces her to marry him so he can fix her mental problems, even though she absolutely can't stand him or his touch. I mean... really? This is believable? He even puts a 6.5 karat perfect diamond on her finger. Sure, rich guys seek out eccentric, frigid, and insane women all the time as their soul mates.As another example of non-credible storytelling, they spend their honeymoon on a cruise ship bound for Fiji. Now, here we have this guy who can spend about a half million in today's dollars on a wedding ring for a woman who can't stand him, but they end up on a cruise ship with nothing but a porthole? If not the premium stateroom, at least such a person would have a prime veranda room with balcony. But here's where it really gets strange. After several days of being locked up together in their stateroom, Marnie runs off to kill herself. Rutland is then seen running all over the ship from deck to deck trying to find her. But you know what? There is not another living soul on that ship! The deck lounges are all covered, nobody is walking around, nothing. Even if Rutland was rich enough to rent the entire ship, there still should be a couple hundred crew and staff members. Then, Marnie ends up face-down in a pool filled with what looks like algae water - disgusting. Is this really a credible story? I also found the story line extremely predictable (unlike the vastly superior Psycho, for example). The first time we saw Marnie's fear of the color red, it was immediately obvious that this related to blood. When she had the odd visit with her mother, it was clear that there was something nasty in their past. Did her father molest her? That would explain her disgust of men. But her mother drew back and would not touch her - so the implication was that Marnie killed some man in the past. Later, we see the hand knocking at the window in Marnie's dream, and references not to a man, but to MEN, and at that point I realized that the mother had been a prostitute and through some dramatic situation Marnie had killed one of the men, perhaps for abusing her mother, or perhaps for herself being abused. I even knew that the crisis had happened during a thunderstorm. I think the movie was not much more than half over before I figured out the entire plot line, and if that doesn't kick you out of a movie, nothing will.The ending was particularly weak, and I would probably think so even if I hadn't already figured it out well in advance - the loose ends wrapped up too quickly and neatly. The mother suddenly abandoned her lifelong weirdness and became warm and loving, while Marnie was cured thanks to this brief catharsis, and all this thanks to Rutland having browsed a few books on psychological quirks. Is that the way it works in the real world? I think both of these messed up chicks would require years of therapy from actual professionals.And what is the deal with Lil? I kept waiting for her weirdness to have some point, some explanation, or at least bear some fruit. Instead, she just stares people down and then disappears from the film. Others have mentioned the cheesy backdrops, but that didn't bother me. What did bother me, though, were the completely unbelievable horseback scenes filmed in front of a reel. Not good. But if that was the only problem, I could forgive it. I could even, almost, forgive this wealthy American household led by a man with a British accent and his son with a Scottish accent. And a Scotsman who, by the way, is also an expert at understanding regional American dialects, allowing him to ensnare Marnie on the basis of her pronunciation of one word.I will say there were some excellent Hitchcock touches, particularly the theft scenes beginning in the bathroom, moving to the quasi-split screen of the maid and the theft, then her near escape from the maid after dropping her shoe, and finishing with Marnie sneaking down the stairs. That entire sequence was very well done, and there were some others here and there.But even with those good points, I feel I'm being kind in awarding 4 points out of ten. I suspect those who rate this film higher do so mainly out of love and respect for Hitchcock than any objective viewing. "},{"Title":"Disappointing thriller from the master of suspense","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When viewing an Alfred Hitchcock film, you're usually guaranteed a great thrill ride. His contingent of classics speaks for itself, but even his lesser known thrillers tend to be far ahead of the pack. Marnie, however, is no classic and not even one of Hitchcock's lesser-known gems. The film features an almost complete lack of suspense and tension, which isn't good for a Hitchcock film anyway, and not only that but Hitchcock doesn't generate enough intrigue to carry the story along either, plus it's slowly paced; thus rendering the film dull and more than a little tedious. The story itself follows a female thief known as Marnie. Marnie infiltrates organisations by way of her great looks and proceeds to rob them blind before disappearing and taking on a new identity. However, it's all set to come undone when she meets Sean Connery's bank clerk who may just be on to her...The plot isn't as assured as we've come to expect from Alfred Hitchcock, and long periods are spent on aspects that don't matter all that much, while the main point of the story is told quickly in the last ten minutes. This is very irritating as you get the impression with a lot of the film that it could easily have been cut without losing what it is that Hitchcock wanted to portray. The character of Marnie herself isn't the labyrinth you would expect to find for a title character either, and this makes it rather difficult to care about what it is that makes her like she is, thus making this an even less than satisfying film than it already was. The acting isn't all that great, with Louise Latham in the role of Marnie's mother sticking out like a sore thumb for being astutely terrible. There is room for Sean Connery in the movie, which is always nice and Tippi Hendren takes the lead role, but doesn't do as good a job as she did in The Birds a year earlier, which is a shame as there's more for her to carry here. The film on the whole certainly isn't all bad, but it's not what you'd expect from Alfred Hitchcock and therefore I have to label it a disappointment. "},{"Title":"A Mix of Vertigo and Spellbound","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Although Tippi Hedren as the title character in Marnie is a compulsive thief and sexually frigid, you have to ask yourself what's wrong with Sean Connery taking up with this dame. Especially since he has an attractive widowed sister-in-law in Diane Baker so obviously interested in him.Like Spellbound and Vertigo, Marnie deals with psychological problems of the main character. Could Sean Connery have seen Spellbound and decided to become an amateur psychiatrist having been impressed with the way Ingrid Bergman cured and fell for Gregory Peck. Or like in Vertigo did he become obsessed with another Alfred Hitchcock blond as James Stewart did with Kim Novak.Bits of both those vastly superior Hitchcock films are found in Marnie. Though both Connery and Hedren try their best this unbelievable plot just defeats them. There are also some bad production values, so atypical for a director like Hitchcock. "}{"Title":"Top-notch Hitchcock thriller with great Herrmann score...","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Tippi Hedren and Sean Connery both have a chance to play enormously complicated characters in 'Marnie'. Connery, in particular, outside of his James Bond roles, has never been seen to more advantage. His Mark Rutland character is one of the most rewarding of all his roles and he was at his physical prime here. His shrewd dialog exchanges with Hedren are the film's chief delight. The story is an interesting one, involving a compulsive liar and thief (Tippi Hedren) who also, as he discovers, is sexually frigid due to an incident in her past. How he penetrates the mask Marnie wears, probing at the root cause of her illness, forms the bulk of the story. Particularly enjoyable are the opening scenes with Tippi employed by Martin Gabel, all the while planning to be an embezzler and watching for her chance while co-worker Mariette Hartley innocently reveals bits of information. Later in the story Gabel reappears, only to recognize her at a party. But rather than give the plot away, be assured that this is one of Hitch's best works--a complex mystery with strong psychological overtones and blessed with one of Bernard Herrmann's most brilliant scores. In my opinion, Tippi Hedren is a rather uneven actress as Marnie, but overall her performance is an impressive one in an extremely difficult role.  "},{"Title":"I agree with original evaluation","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Marnie was considered a flop when released in 1964, though apparently its regard has increased greatly over the years. I have now seen it for the first time.Perhaps my own evaluation will change over the years as well, but for now I'm back in 1964. The story is dull as dust, Hitchcock's fake backdrops and screens, usually beautiful and surrealistic as in Vertigo, Rear Window, etc, look phony and laughable. And Tippi Hedren--- while she may have been born to play the campy Melanie Daniels in The Birds, is just plain awful here. The sentimentality is very uncharacteristic of Hitchcock and not at all appealing, the character of the Mother is really dreadful. The impression overall is of a Vertigo wannabe - even the magnificent Bernard Hermann score sounds completely derivative from that Movie.  "},{"Title":"Shockingly stupid movie","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Some of the minor roles in this movie were good. Diane Baker was convincing, and Louise Latham did a great creepy mother. But Tippi Hedren could have been replaced by a mannequin. Sean Connery is a fine actor, but he had to say a lot of absurd things on the way to making some decisions that made no sense at all. I don't know about the novel this movie came from, but the screenplay was a mess. Hedren is supposed to be simultaneously a master criminal and a near-psychotic wreck. (I'm not spoiling anything; we see this much at the beginning of the movie.) Connery is supposed to be attracted to her. None of this is remotely believable.I don't know enough about movies to know good directing from bad, but in this movie even I could see that the directing, or at least editing, was amateurish. To establish that a character sees something happening we are shown the something, then a cut to the character looking, then back to the something, then back to the character, etc. You could go out and buy popcorn while all this is going on. Not what you associate with Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"Great, Genius","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Marnie is a misunderstood masterpiece from the Hitchcock. Often cited as an example of a messy, flawed genius - it can be off putting to some since its quite talky.  However stick with it and you will be intrigued and itching to discover all about Marnie (contrary to what most say, played with understated brilliance from Tippi Hedren).  The direction and cinematography is exceptional with Hitchcock and his usual crew i.e. Rob Burks etc on form.  The atmosphere generated (apart from being 'Hitchcocky') is unique, dark, gloomy and at times akin to a horror film, yet it is utterly appealing and compelling.  Theres an almost creepy, artificial humanless feel to proceedings as a result of the direction and how the actors have been directed to act as is briefly highlighted by a Hitchcock scholar in the documentary on the disk. Hitchcock knows the art of cinema, no flashy fast cuts or fast moving camera's as we see nowadays, but measured, inspired direction laced with flourishes of creative genius (thats Hithcock for you).  Atmosphere, emotion is built up like poetry. Witness for example some moments of genius such as the final revelation, in what is one of Hitchcocks most underrated, powerful and shocking pieces of direction; the riding sequence which culminates in Marnies fantastic yet disturbing line of dialogue,  there there...., and also sinister momnets such as when Marnies mother wakes here from her nightmare- her voice disturbingly artificial in its lack of emotion and empathy for a clearly distraught Marnie.  Speaking of the mother, Louise Latham -the actress behind the role effortlessly steals the show from an already superb Hedren and Connery.  Latham eleicits an absolutely breathtaking performance.  Her character is frighteningly creepy, tragic, powerful and marvellously played to keep up the suspense and intrigue.  You don't know what to make of the character except of the fact she knows or has played a part in Marnies psychological condition.  In fact I would go as far as to say it is one of the greatest performances in a Hitchcock picture - an example of genius casting.  Similarly her character is arguably the greatest 'mother' character in any Hitchcock film beating Pyscho and Notorious' madame Sebastion.Marnie is a truly great picture and definetly Hitchcocks last great although Frenzy is a nice enough distraction.  Not as good as Vertigo or Rear Window but certainly up there in the higher echelons of Hitchcocks work.9/10 "},{"Title":"Sexology 101","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Is the refusal of male touch a crime? a disease? If so, who says so? Who has the right to say so? A sexologist? A psychologist? Both of these experts are obsessed with female frigidity. They see the frigid woman as a challenge on the one hand and an interesting specimen on the other. Why? Because they are frightened by the mere thought of independent women.In Hitchcock's Marnie, it is a successful businessman, who employs the power and authority of the twin practices. He performs the science of the former, and religiously reads the texts of the latter. In other words, he is a gentleman who, as is his custom--with a little boost from sex expert, will have his way with women. What he believes he needs, is what he demands. The more resistant and repulsed the prey, the more thrilling and imperial the predator.In such a scenario, social reality must be brushed aside so that psychology can prevail. Marnie is not viewed as a victim of sex abuse and rape but rather as suffering from the traumatic memory of a bloody defense of her mother. In fact, all the material conditions of Marnie's upbringing (poverty, neglect) are shunted aside--except as a point of her further vulnerability. That her mother just happens, mind you, to be prostituted, and battered on behalf of and defense of her daughter is thus of no interest to sexology, psychology, Hitchcock, or Mark Rutland, nor is his her iron-willed male resistance or her general state of violation.The frigid blond daughter is the prize, the star, the sexologist's dream girl. She is the one worth saving--for men, for science She has a destiny as a wife, as an object, as a trophy. Her therapy, which includes a honeymoon rape, is crucial to her subordination, and to her reprogramming. Her inhibitions must be repressed if she is to learn Correct Sexual Behavior.What say is Marnie's in all this? None, she is silenced. She is free to be forced. She's no more than Mark's foreplay, an end for his relentless pursuit. It's prison or marriage/sex so she can only surrender to his life. Yet this is a woman who has the guts to pick up a gun and shoot her own injured, very dear horse. She's a woman who has existed for years on her own, living off her own wits and talents. Her language, her mother's language, sometimes reach a fully libratory key, a passionate rage which few viewers can deny, dismiss, or scorn.But Hitchcock's offers his full weight to Mark Rutland. In mock tribute, he give her the movie's title. For to both men, independent women are an anathema. (Mark is magnified in the final shot, Marnie shrunken) "},{"Title":"Just an Edge","Date":"21 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a less regarded film by Hitchcock. I think it fails in a point to which Hitchcock was certainly aiming at, but gets it right in other level. Anyway, i think what mattered the most to Hithcock at this point was what i think fails.People who've read other remarks i made on Hitch's films will know that i think he worked in clear phases, motivated by issues he was interested in mastering. So, i think he had a spatial exploration 'Rope phase', another one based on mood/style, (culminated in North by Northwest) and a third phase where i place this film.This phase has to do with the master trying to find visual/storytelling solutions to try and enter the abyss of human soul. I imagine that, being already a master in superficial visual manipulation/storytelling, and having created such essays on how the eye works (Rear Window, Rope, Dial M...) he was interested to know what he might do trying to put the guts of a character in the eyes of an audience. Rough expression, i know, but that's what i feel. The curious thing here is that he made it in his first try, with Vertigo, one of the best films ever. What he did after it was never as sharp and interesting to me. Not Psycho, Birds or this Marnie.The success of Vertigo is that Novak's character fools us as she fools Stewart's and so we wander through the same narrow labyrinthic streets of ignorance as Stewart. That's the device he use, and Hitch's superior ability to make things unfold visually completes the thing.So the point where this film fails is where it was more ambitious in trying to make us work like Marnie, and see the world with her eyes. There is no storytelling device that allows Hitch to use his wonderful visual narration gifts to make the thing work. That's why he has to use the red screen whenever he wants to underline Marnie's state of mind. Except for those moments which are not enough to make to transport us, at least not today's audiences, as spectators we are mere observers to the facts of a woman we sense is disturbed, but we don't really feel in what measure.Also, and this may be Hedren/Censorship fault, we cannot (at least i couldn't) link to the distorted and repressed sexuality underneath Marnie's frigidity. Maybe on those matters, the film that this theme deserved couldn't be done in 1964. The horse as a escapist element to her mother's sexual repression, the behaviour of repulse as the core of her capacity to attract, or the rape scene (both by Sean's character and the hinted rape when she was a child). Pity, but i don't know whether Hedren would be able to pull this off even without censorship constraints. She just doesn't seem that woman (maybe Novak or Kelly could have done it).What works is what Hitchcock never failed in delivering his visual economy, and how he grabs you in the eye and takes you wherever he wants. There are scenes which are absolutely remarkable on their own. So check the initial scene, how he establishes what Marnie does, her method, her disguise, and the introduction of Sean Connery's character and what he knows. Check the scene of the robbery in Rutland's office, how the perfect framing (in terms of deciding exactly what we see) makes a tense scene and purely visual. And check the relatively celebrated crane shot in the party, it really is masterfully economical and meaningful. The film is a relative failure for what i said, but these scenes make it worthy.My opinion 3/5http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Solid","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" After his back to back commercial and critical triumphs of Psycho and The Birds, Alfred Hitchcock decided to go 'interior.' By that, I mean he decided to get unfortunately Freudian in his approach to crime, as he had throughout his career. Unfortunately, all but a few of his films suffer from their reliance on the outmoded and simplistic approaches to psychology that he employed. One of them was Marnie, his 1964 color follow up to the two terrific films mentioned at the start, starring his The Birds female lead, Tippi Hedren.While the film flopped at the box office, latter day critics have tried to overcompensate for this fact by declaring the film a masterpiece. It's not, but it is a good, solid film that is better than originally thought. Its first hour is a nearly flawless study of a female thief, Marnie Edgar (Hedren)- aka Margaret Edgar, Peggy Nicholson, and Mary Taylor, who is sort of what the Janet Leigh character in Psycho may have become had she not been killed so early in that film. Her development is evenly paced and believable, never forced nor rushed. Then, when Marnie is caught by her boss, a widower named Mark Rutland (Sean Connery), and blackmailed into marriage, the film goes downhill, as Marnie's freakouts over the color red, highlighted by Hitchcock's over the top usage of red fade-ins and interludes (compare them with Ingmar Bergman's similar later technique in Cries And Whispers), lead to even greater and sillier melodrama&#133;. All in all, Marnie is a flawed, but worthwhile, entry in the Hitchcock canon, and better than some more highly regarded earlier films. That said, it's a transition film which led the way to Hitchcock's final film of merit, 1972's Frenzy, and embodies all the best of Hitchcock, as well as his worst. In that sense, one could argue it is the Master Of Suspense's most Hitchcockian film, even if it is not too heavy on the suspense. In a more real world sense, it is a film that could have been great, yet also shows why Hitchcock was a flawed artist; thus a film that should be studied by students of the craft; a not too bad way to fail, after all. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock explores the depths of the human psyche","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock has been known to explore mental illness and produced some notable successes, such as Strangers on a Train, Spellbound, and Psycho. In this movie, he ventures into the territory of sexual repression with mixed results. Nevertheless, it does have a number of Hitchcock's vintage touches in some of the camera-work, strong supporting acting, and a great love story in which Sean Connery shines.The character of Mark Rutland (played by Sean Connery), scion of a wealthy family, goes a long way toward salvaging this movie. Mark talks Marnie (Tipi Hedron)into marrying him, despite her strong reluctance and her dislike of any acts of intimacy. After they marry, Mark goes along with a platonic relationship for a while in the hope that Marnie will change but eventually he realizes that there is a need to confront the demons in Marnie's past. This past has shaped the unhappy, disturbed woman Mark is now married to. There is some solid support acting, from Mark's interfering and jealous sister-in-law Lil, played by Diane Baker, and a businessman from Marnie's past who wants her brought to justice (Martin Gabel). Look for Mariette Hartley in an early role, as Marnie's co-worker. Louise Latham is outstanding as Marnie's mother.The movie has the lengthy takes that Hitchcock is known for. For example, at one point the camera shows Mark at the bottom of a staircase as he walks in and out of the range of the camera. The camera remains in that position until he walks upstairs passing by the lens of the camera on the way. The viewer has a sense of being a fly on the wall in this scene. The muted sound, for which Hitchcock is well known, plays well in the thieving scene at the office, which is Hitchcock's most memorable scene in this movie.The backgrounds used in the fox hunt and also in the visit to Marnie's mother in Baltimore are clearly fake and could have easily been improved. The repulsion for the color red seems unnecessary and only adds a garish element that the film could well do without. Tippi Hedren is not the best choice for the role of Marnie. One can only imagine the stature the movie would gain with Kim Novak or Eva Marie Saint in the role. Despite its flaws, the movie still has enough of the master's touch to be a worthy addition to Hitchcock's body of work. "},{"Title":"Interesting Movie","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I had never really seen Marne all the way through. What few times I saw parts of it I thought that Connery looked like he stepped out of the studio from Goldfinger and went directly to the sound stage for Marnie, that Connery was type-cast as Bond during that era. However, upon seeing the movie nothing could be further form the truth; I thought it a very interesting movie. I think the Bond type cast actually helped Sean's role here as the movie was showing that even James Bond can't suddenly cure a woman as mentally ill as the character Tippi Hedron played with just pure good looks and male charisma. I takes intelligence, depth of character and perseverance.Also in the movie were small roles by Meg Wylie (AKA The Keeper from the 1964/6 Star Trek episode The Cage/The Menagerie), Alan Napier (Alfred the Butler from the 1966 Batman TV Series) and a cameo by a very young Bruce Dern.The music by Hermann sounded familiar, as if he had done the score for other movies I have seen; it reminded me of Portrait Of Jenny. I wonder if he did the musical score for that too? "},{"Title":"The depths of compassion","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There are a few things I would like to signalize(1)Marnie has a delighting score by Herrmann,his usual musical richness that fits so well Hitchcock's aesthetics;I have estimated Marnie by rubrics,if I may put it that wayHerrmann,Connery,Dern,Mrs. 'Tippi' Hedren,as well as the show's texturethe alienation,the sinister,Hitchcock's compassion.It is known,I guess,that Marnie is the last Hitchcock movie with a Herrmann score.After that,Truffaut tried to take over,and indeed had Herrmann for a couple of shows.Herrmann is one of the most endearing personalities in the cinema's history.His music is so rich,compelling,fluid.With Herrmann,Hitchcock secured the best music for his films.(2)Marnie has a certain stylistic resemblance with Vertigo, the aesthetic contents of the two movies are kindred.It also has some thematic similitude with Family ...,but the resemblance ends here (the latter being made in a comic register).Hitchcock's movies offer so many themes to be reflected upon,deepened.(3)As in the coming Topaz (1969) ,in Marnie (1964) the woman's glamor is a peak themein a bedroom scene,when Connery,exceeded,suddenly undresses Mrs. Tippi Hedren,there is a richness of fascination that could not be matched by any nudity.In Hitchcock's movies,the women's charm is not a (merely) filmed one,but a lived,a felt one,a very lively perceived one,not a convention,but a deeply concrete experience.(4)Hitchcock's compassionate depiction of Marnie's life is striking,and very sincere and intense. This is not a satire about a criminal person,but a perspicacious analysis of alienation,solitude,fear.(5)The photography is excellent and tasty,as always in Hitchcock's movies.The incision in the concreteness of life is deepclinical and poetic.Marnie abounds in inspiration,in precision,in aplomb.(6)Who was Sean Connery in '64?A very chic and successful leading actor.(In '62 he made Dr. No ,and in '63,From Russia with Love.)It is said that the character of James Bond was loosely modeled on Grant,and,more important,that Sean Connery was selected for the first James Bond movie because of his likeness to Grant;this could somehow explain Connery's place in a Hitchcock movie. Anyway,here Connery is more kindred to Brando than to Grant.He does an exactly gentlemanly role.(7)Speaking of Hitchcock's movies is always an opportunity of speaking about beauty.Hitchcock's use of the sets,so obvious in Marnie,where so many sets look built in the studio,add to the movie's beauty.I would like the reader to consider this comment as a homage to Hitchcock,to Herrmann,to Connery,to Dern.Marnie (1964) is the first of the two Hitchcock movies that Bruce Dern is in (the other being,12 years later,Family Plot (1976) ,where he has a leading role ).(It is disappointing that his IMDb mini-biography mentions none of these two movies,though at least in the second one Dern has an important and fine role.But the choices of these biographers are almost always odd.)Dern was 28 in the first of the two Hitchcock movies,and 40 in the second.It should be noted that Marnie is a movie without villains,without rogues.Some of its notes resemble Vertigo;others,pertaining to the subject, announce Family Plot (but I think it can be suggested that Hitchcock's TV work already did that).Anyway,the theme of the criminal person gets here a very different treatment than in Family Plot,and it is an entirely different aesthetics.Marnie's aesthetics is that of Vertigo,as the former is a movie about ailment, maidenhood, alienation.Marnie is very heart-breaking,very intense,heart-rending and cruel,did you ever thought how would it be if we would know about a person we met the things we find out about Marnie?How admirable an artist was Hitchcock!There are two scenes in Marnie that must be discussed(1)the first is Marnie's visit at her mother's house,the girls she finds there,etc.;the facts are so true,so tearing and so sinister;(2)towards the end of the movie,when Marnie,in front of the safe's,fights,alone,her compulsion,and does not give up.So bitter,so graphic,so intense is her loneliness.Alfred Hitchcock tried to convince himself,and everybody else,that his discovery,Mrs. Tippi Hedren,was (or,at least,could be,or should be) a new,THE new Grace Kelly,Kim Novak,Janet Leigh,Vera Miles;but the thing was not possible,as she was not,not in the least,the difference of level is so obvious.Alfred Hitchcock had,as we all know,a prodigious flair for choosing actors,and for the exact cadre of an actor's aptitudes and specific (and also would often blame the actors for the failures of his movies;for Alfred Hitchcock ,when a failure occurred,it was always the actors' fault).His remarks about one actor or another show usually the profundity of his understanding.Alfred Hitchcock's actors-is there a more exciting theme?His actresses,his leading men....Hitchcock at his most intense and powerful. One of Alfred Hitchcock's masterpieces. "}{"Title":"An incredible and depressing drama","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am incredibly impressed with Marnie, I wasn't expecting that much from it, but who am I kidding? It's Alfred Hitchcock! I'll just get right to the movie. Tippi Hedren plays Marnie, a girl who is a thief and a liar who takes money from every job she has to help her and her mom live. Obviously, she must keep changing her identity to get another job. She has another problem, whenever she see's red or hears loud taps, she freaks out. When she is hired by Mark Rutland played by Sean Connery, she is finally caught. But Mark gives her an ultimatum, either marry him or go to the police. After several plea's not to marry him, she does anyways.Marnie also has a problem with men, she can't stand to be touched by them. As the story goes deeper and deeper, Mark finds out Marnie's dark and terrifying past. I enjoyed this dark drama very much and was just excited to see the next scene after the next. The only problem I had was Mark, despite it seeming that he was supposed to be a hero, it seemed like he was a very selfish character in not only blackmailing Marnie, but trying to make her into his ideal wife. But I would still highly recommend Marnie for a great viewing. Like I said, it's Alfred Hitchcock, right? 9/10 "},{"Title":"Marnie","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a pretty weird thriller or mystery like film, especially directed by Sir Alfred Hitchcock, but it is very good for the main actor. During the days of his James Bond fame (the same year as Goldfinger), Hitchcock cast Sir Sean Connery as Mark Rutland. Basically the main girl, Marnie Edgar (The Birds' Tippi Hedren, and she originally refused to work with Hitchcock again) is a con woman who has robbed many companies that she worked at under different names. Mark knows about her, has done research and likes him enough to marry her. She has some trouble with why he likes her, and he has trouble with her worrying. It is a pretty weird relationship, but it is mainly caused by Marnie and her relationship with her mother. Hitchcock's cameo is the man coming out of a door in the hotel corridor as Hedren passes. Sir Alfred Hitchcock was number 75 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, Sir Sean Connery was number 8 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 3 on The 50 Greatest British Actors. Very good! "},{"Title":"An excellent film!","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What is there to say?  This movie was awesome!  One thing fascinated me Was Diane Baker the villain?  And if not, was there a villain?  Anyway, Diane Baker is an excellent actress. Not to mention Tippi Hedren!  She had perfect transitions from thief to victimized girl. This movie is very atmospheric, and in places it seems to be a very gloomy movie, which adds to its impact.  If you have not seen it, watch it now! It is superb! "},{"Title":"Stop the colours!","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The decline of Alfred Hitchcock in the 1960s after his late-50s peak has been well-documented, and while it has its champions many agree that Marnie was the first of the worst &#x96; the point at which the rot set in, and this is at least supported by the increasingly disappointing box office figures his pictures suffered from here on. So what was going wrong? From the opening scenes of Marnie, it is apparent that The Master of Suspense&#x99; himself was probably not to blame, at least not in his capacity as director. The eye-catching opening scenes recall the beginning of a much earlier British-made Hitchcock thriller Young and Innocent (1937), as we cut to a sudden close-up of a man talking in heated tones, immediately engaging us with the subject matter. The first shots of Tippi Hedren &#x96; her hair dyed black &#x96; give us only glimpses of hands, feet or the back of her head. We then see her washing the dye out over a basin, after which she straightens up, bursting into the frame as a striking blonde. It's a very mechanical way of doing things but Hitch gets away with it because it's so perfect in its cinematic rhythm, as usual his visual style fitting hand-in-glove with Bernard Hermann's musical score. The only bit of technique that is obtrusively bad in Marnie comes towards the end, where the camera zooms in and out on a pile of cash like one of those Yoof TV shows from the early 90s, but then Hitch was always doing these things occasionally, and it was always annoying. In other words, it's not a sign he was losing his touch.But despite Hitchcock's generally fine direction Marnie is not a very good picture. The problem must lie elsewhere. The storyline delves a little further into the psychoanalytical angle touched upon in Psycho, although this time round it is more along the lines of psychobabble. Let alone the ridiculous implication that psychoanalysis is as simple and effective as having your appendix out, there are just too many clichs and leaps of the imagination here to really convince or even interest the average viewer. And aside from all the Freudian overtones there is very little else of merit to the screenplay &#x96; the characters are hardly likable and there is rarely a sense of danger, danger of course being one of the main things that typically makes a Hitchcock picture work. Despite this being one of the most extreme examples, in any movie, of the camera identifying with the protagonist through numerous point-of-view shots, it's not easy to sympathise with the frosty title character.Probably the most significant change to Hitchcock pictures around this time is the kind of actors he had available to him. People like Cary Grant and Jimmy Stewart just weren't playing heroic romantic leads anymore, and throughout the 60s you can see Hitch fumbling for suitable replacements. Sean Connery's acting career has always baffled me &#x96; he has played an Englishman in the Bond series, an Irishman in The Untouchables, a Spaniard in Highlander, and here an American, all with this thick Scottish accent, and not even his beguiling eyes and impressive chest rug can stop that being a distraction. He's also disappointingly wooden in his role here. Tippi Hedren on the other hand is a little better than she was in The Birds, and makes a good effort with a demanding role, but on the whole she doesn't quite convince. But like Connery, she looks the part, being an expert at appearing cold and vacant. She'd have made a great zombie.Marnie is not the first bad Hitchcock picture (or the last great one, as some say), it's simply a bad Hitchcock picture, something that there are quite a lot of incidentally, throughout his oeuvre. There is this tendency in film literature, especially with a character like Hitch, to view each picture as part of a career trajectory, as belonging somewhere within a rise or fall or distinctive period, but the truth is Marnie's flaws are its own, not exclusively Hitchcock's. "},{"Title":"Not my cup of tea.","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The idea was to kill myself, not feed the damn fish.I wanted to like Marnie. No one can claim that I didn't try. But every time the movie started to become interesting for me, it would take a wrong turn and I'd be back where I started unhappy that I had finally found a Hitchcock movie that I didn't have at least somewhat of a favorable opinion of.Marnie has a story that is much more complicated than it initially appears to be. On the surface, it's about a thieving young woman and the wealthy man who catches her in the act, but the movie explores psychological issues that go far beyond the simple plot setup. We discover that Marnie is quite the complex, damaged character, and then the movie becomes about finding out why she is the way she is.This is a dark movie, no doubt. There's little humor or lightheartedness to be found, and the dour atmosphere only increases as it goes on. I'm usually a fan of that, but not here.I was surprised to be slightly disappointed in Tippi Hedren's performance. I loved her in The Birds, but in this movie she's so outshone by Diane Baker (in a much smaller role), that I can't help but be convinced that a different actress should have been found for the part. As for Connery, well...he was Connery. I had to constantly remind myself that this wasn't some odd, forgotten entry into the Bond franchise. Neither of the leads were suited for their roles, in my opinion.Marnie just wasn't for me. I can appreciate it for its ambition and I hope to watch it again one day to a different result, but this was the least entertaining Hitchcock movie that I've seen. Beyond a few scenes (the part with Marnie and the cleaning lady and the scenes following the fox chase, for example), I failed to see his talented fingerprints on this film. "},{"Title":"Revisiting MARNIE","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" MARNIE may very well to prove to be one of the strangest films in the entire oeuvre of Alfred Hitchcock; it certainly has divided film goers and film critics more than most of the films the Master has made. As opposed to the well-established romantic thrillers like VERTIGO or REAR WINDOW, the psychological horror of PSYCHO, or the nature-gone-berserk material of THE BIRDS, MARNIE is more of a psychological case study than anything else, and this can leave a bland taste in a viewer's mouth.And yet, there is something strangely compelling in this story about an insurance investigator (Sean Connery, by that time an international star after three turns as Agent 007) who goes after the kleptomaniac title character (Tippi Hedren), but subsequently tries to understand her psychological background to get at the root of her kleptomania. The reason, as it turns out, is a psychological trauma from her early years; and much like PSYCHO, it involves an unstable mother (Louise Latham, in this case).Scripted by Jay Presson Allen from the novel of the same name by Winston Graham, MARNIE is, admittedly, not one of the Master's top-drawer efforts. For one thing, the background projection shots, particularly when Hedren is out on horseback, were becoming obvious even to 1964 audiences. And at a length of close to 130 minutes, it is not always easy to sit through. That said, despite certain flaws, Hitchcock still manages to get the most out of the actors, particularly Connery and Hedren, with Bruce Dern in a sinister cameo as the sailor at the root of Hedren's childhood trauma. Bernard Herrmann provides Hitchcock with another big-time score; it's unfortunate that a falling out between these two headstrong giants of their own individual talents should have occurred on Hitchcock's next film TORN CURTAIN. Such a collaborative effort between director and composer has only really been matched twice since, between Sergio Leone and Ennio Morricone, and between Steven Spielberg (himself a follower of Hitchcock) and John Williams.But perhaps the most interesting aspect about MARNIE, though it's one that doesn't seem to have been discussed much (if at all), is when one compares the plot of this film to that of director Brian DePalma's 1976 horror classic CARRIE. Some of the same things seen in MARNIE show up in the latter film a deeply troubled title character; a religiously fanatical mother; and a suitor trying to get the title character to open her real self up. If for no other reason, MARNIE should be re-examined at least for that particular aspect, given how often critics liked to needle DePalma for what they saw as his shameless ripoffs of Hitchcock's films. Even if it is not one of the Master's best, MARNIE still proves that Hitchcock, even in cruise control, is far superior than most of today's hot-shot directors at full, noisy throttle. "},{"Title":"Before Carrie, Before the Shining, was Marnie--a forgotten, flawed, significant thriller","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie (1965)This is not the most convincing or original (or scary) of Alfred Hitchcock's later films, but it is filled with his classic touches and has moments of real drama. Not to mention a romance that is both puzzling and oddly satisfying by the end, at least for me. Sean Connery seems an odd choice for Hitchcock, but if you can get James Bond out of your head (this is the same period), Connery works out well. Better than Tippi Hedron, who for me has always been a kind of archly false actress, perfect maybe for the plastic looks that Hitchcock milks, and bleeds, so well so often.Because, most of all, you have to see this movie to see Hitchcock at work. When the screen goes red as in a wash of fresh blood, when Bernard Hermann's score gushes with heavy orchestral doom, when the title character rides a horse top speed through the woods, and when this same character wakes from a nightmare with dread and fear in her face, you know you are in Hitchcock territory. There is almost no real blood, most of the movie is filled with petty crime and small talk, not murder, and the tension is often romantic, if anything. Such is Hitchcock, not a horror film director, but a suspense director, fluid, twisting, and patient.I say all this because if you don't know the director's films and are not used to the artifice he flaunts (the lack of total verisimilitude, suck-you-in realism, is decisive and deliberate), you might not get far with this. But once you accept it as theater, as a light hearted (though of course seriously made) entertainment, and one that is masterful at controlling its artifice, you'll be surprised for the better. It's a forgotten and really excellent movie, in some ways better than The Birds, which does have some more astonishing moments, but which stutters, too, just as this one does.In Marnie, there are echoes, maybe too many echoes, of other Hitchcock films--not just Tippi Hedron reappearing (Birds), but some effects with color and glaring back projection (Vertigo, for starters), and a secretary stealing money from her employer (Psycho). Here Hitchcock, typically, explores a psychological affliction, with an interesting positive thread through it all--the Sean Connery character, a very rich Mr. Rutland, is out to cure Marnie through it all.In interviews, Hitchcock is openly disdainful of psychology's ability to cure by mere analysis--he describes what happens in Marnie as a psychiatric purging, and says, Of course, I don't believe this to be true at all. Or something to that effect. And maybe this explains the puzzling lack of conviction that dogs the movie at times. You might also wonder what Rutland sees in this selfish, thieving, cranky woman, because he stays with her tenaciously, patiently, lovingly. Until the dramatic end, which is the true climax, including not only flashbacks in a great montage, but also a tracking zoom shot that distorts the room in a brilliant and often-copied way. Thank legendary cinematographer Robert Burks for giving even a lesser Hitchcock film every reason to watch it carefully all the way through. "},{"Title":"Marnie is Marvellous","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" OK this is not one of Hitch's greatest films but it is certainly not one of the worst and far better than some of the psychological tripe that is being offered now. May have taken exception with some of the special effects. It did not bother me as they may total about 60 seconds of screen time.The story itself is quite interesting with Tippi playing the frigid woman with her mother's twisted thoughts ingrained in her since childhood. Of course this is just the McGuffin anyway. The interesting part of the movie, for me, was the foreplay between Connery and Tippi. The film may have gone a little too long but it was very watchable and contained a number of very interesting sequences. The scene where Tippi robs the safe is a case in point. It was such a small scene that I found very suspenseful. It is unfortunate that films today do not allow director's to take such license. The MTV generation is not capable of sitting still for three minutes to watch such a sequence. The editing and sound, the lack thereof, are brilliant.One negative thing that I did find was Bernard Herrmann's Music. I am one of his biggest fans but I found the music a little over the time at certain times - particularly during the opening title sequence. However the colour of the print I saw was exceptional.I would definitely put this film in Hitch's Top 10-15. And that says a lot. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie-better than Vertigo, but...","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have always liked Marnie and consider it one of my favorite Hitchcock films, but I have also always had certain reservations about it as well. It is especially interesting to compare it to Vertigo. I personally like Marnie much better. Unlike Vertigo, the Marnie plot is pretty much straight-forward without the non-credibility factors that undermine Vertigo. Particularly satisfying is that fact that Mark Rutland's obsession is for a normal sexual life, unlike Scotty Ferguson who's obsession is asexual, fantasy driven, and possibly insane! (Make that definitely insane!).But...as in Vertigo, Hitchcock's artistic excesses barely allow the film to rise above the level of an art film. The obvious studio sets and somewhat mechanical narrative style detract from some of the power of the story, and it's really too bad. It had all the makings of a real classic, but once again, Hitchcock let it slip through his grasp. Hitchcock alternates between realistic and phony stage prop backgrounds, which distract you from the story. The ship dock scene, the beginning of the nightmare scene, and the flashback at the end seem very crude and disjointed. It works better after repeated viewings, but the first time you see them-Crudity Inc.! (Very similar to the crude style in the dream sequence of Vertigo=throw some things into a kaleidescope and start turning! Communication...not!!) The subtle but satisfactory ending is much better than a lot of his films (especially Vertigo), and at least allows the viewer to feel good about Marnie's fate. If nothing else, Hitchcock's artistic excesses in this film confirm the fact that all of the artistic excesses in Vertigo were deliberate, not accidental, confirming the fact that my review at that site may have some real validity. Overall I give it an 8.5. The swan song for his technicians Robert Burk, Bernard Herrmann & Robert Tomasini who are obviously trying very hard, but losing their sharpness, and their powers of persuasion. RIP guys... "},{"Title":"Underrated... Hitchcock, Connery and Hedren class act...","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a hidden treasure, deep in the ocean. 'Tippi' Hedren is a special act as the kleptomaniac, compulsive liar suffering from a form of eurythrophobia (fear of the colour red), as well as having horrible nightmares she cannot relate to. Connery, still in his Bond early days, has a less-than-adequate charm and plays Mark Rutland as a sort of angry, selfish fool, that wants one of the worst girls he could get. Diane Baker as Lil was just entertaining, especially her snide tactics against Marnie. Great appearances by Alan Napier and Bruce Dern. Love how Marnie is so cold to Jessie... And just wait until you get to the ending, which I have no wish to spoil here...Alfred Hitchcock saw a classic in this movie, I saw a classic in this movie... why haven't some of you? Maybe you should look at it beyond the lines and more visually. Hitchcock uses a brilliant play on sounds and shapes, not to mention colours. It's a masterpiece in a hidden form. "}{"Title":"Alfred Hitchcock Masterpiece","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Marnie is probably the best Alfred Hitchcock film as far as romance. I think that it is a different kind of Alfred Hitchcock film. I enjoyed seeing Marnie's progression throughout the film and how Mark's behavior towards her also was throughout the film. Overall, although the suspense was not at  its highest, the acting was very good and the actors were also very excellent ones. Overall, I think that Alfred Hitchcock did an excellent job, despite that he was growing older and that he started to lose his touch in this film. I would give it 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"What's the problem with Marnie?","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Some people have a problem with Marnie. I don't. I LOVE it. I really do. So much so that I bought it on DVD.Having scrolled through a number of reviews I am made aware of how subjective reviews really are. See, I love this film for many of the reasons other people criticize it!First and foremost, I think 'Tippi' Hedren's 'understated' performance is simply brilliant. I personally consider it criminal that outside of her two notable outings with Hitchcock she never appeared in another quality film. Shame on Hollywood! Sean Connery, excels in the difficult role of 'Mark'. And Diane Baker, as 'Lil', is superb.The film score is one of my all time favourites. It serves to both compliment and comment on the action in a truly intelligent way. To my mind, the dialogue is surprisingly clever and well written. It's not 'naturalistic' but then neither is the film as a whole - with it's painted backdrops and theatrical storms. If the viewer can simply accept  these as cinematic conventions/stylistic devices it's not a problem. Watching any film requires a certain suspension of disbelief, doesn't it? It's an art form - not real life. Other reviewers have complained that the storyline is unbelievable. Really? And 'Vertigo' IS believable???? While other's complain that 'Marnie' is dull. Next to 'Rear Window' it looks like a riot of action to me! Yet both these films are regularly cited as classic Hitchcock whilst 'Marnie' gets relegated to the also-rans.Well, let the purists keep their classics. 'Marnie' and 'The Birds' are the only Hitchcock films I have in my collection. They are the only ones I care to watch again and again. And if that isn't a recommendation then I don't know what is!!  "},{"Title":"A Good Movie","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Here is the master of suspense at it again. I only saw Marnie recently and I wasn't disappointed.I was surprised to see Sean Connery here, but from his first shot in the opening scene, you just know that he was an excellent choice. Tippi Hedren plays a lying thief that goes from job to job stealing from her employers and while she is quite beautiful, her character is quite unlikeable and doesn't really change from the beginning of the movie to the end.Some people say that this movie is a lot like Vertigo. I would agree with this statement, except Vertigo is a much better movie and less predictable than Marnie.This is not one of Hitchcock's best movies, but it isn't a bad one either.I rate this movie 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but not without the Hitchcock touch","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Marnie has many things against it.  First of all, Hitchcock's efforts and getting to the sexual heat and/or vulnerability beneath Tippi Hedren's cold facade aren't nearly as successful as his similar project with Grace Kelly.  There are brief flashes of something, particularly in the scenes with Louise Latham where as others have noted the sense of a lost child yearning for a mother's love is well-portrayed by Hedren, but on the whole she is unappealing throughout, as she was in The Birds (Though she is a bit more expressive as an actor here than in the earlier Hithcock movie).  On the strength of her performance alone, it's pretty diffcult to care about what makes Marnie tick.  Sean Connery is merely adequate as the man obsessed with finding out what the trouble with this sexually and emotionally frigid obsessive-compulsive liar, assumer of false identities, and kleptomaniac (Yeah, I think I got all her hangups...) is, and the supporting cast, apart from Ms. Latham, is bland. Although the script tries to tie up everything neatly at the end, you still get the uneasy feeling something isn't being said and there are still unanswered questions. But in spite of this, Marnie still manages to be a highly entertaining suspense thriller, if not the psycho-sexual one Hitch wanted it to be. Apparently he had a pretty obsessive fascination with Miss Hedren off-camera and it definitly shows up in the film.  Because *he* cares so much about figuring out what makes her tick, we begin to us well, even though she doesn't exactly make us want to.  But more than that, Hitch's trademark style still hasn't lost its touch, and he can definitly still make your hair stand on the back of your neck with suspense, especially in the scene where Marnie tries to steal money from the publishing company's safe when no one is around... or so she thinks.  His direction and Bernard Herrmann's as usual highly effective score ae about the only things Marnie has going for it, but they're enough. "},{"Title":"One of the Master's most underrated films.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This complex character study of a frigid lady thief(Tippi Hedren) and the mysterious man(Sean Connery) who tries to cure both her hang-ups is one of Alfred Hitchcock's most stunning films, thanks in great part to Hedren's magnificent performance in the title role. Hedren, who became a star a year earlier in Hitch's THE BIRDS, delivers her most accomplished performance to date. Playing both a thief and compulsive liar, it is by no means a typical role, and certainly not a sympathetic one. But Hedren works hard at this part and when it's all over with, you can't help but feel something for this troubled dame. She is particularly good in her final scene. I'm not sure any other actress could bring as much to the role as Hedren did. This is truly an actress' triumph. Louise Latham is also good as her cold mother. "},{"Title":"A tremendously gripping masterpiece","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A tremendously gripping masterpiece which takes a psychosexual turmoil and expresses it through swift, pointed, shockingly elegant yet somehow brutally straightforward images. From the very first shot focusing on the bag carried by Hedren, to her initial frame-shaking revelation as a blonde, and on from there, the sequences are utterly lucid and painfully expressive. Connery gives a superb performance - suave and smooth-talking with a clear edge of sadistic cruelty; a ruthless scientist, yet never simple in his motivations - less well told, the movie would be the old chestnut about the troubled girl who just needs a good screwing. The movie may be a little too long and flabby at places, but never loses its compact evocative power. When her blonde hair is shaken loose for the first time toward the end, it's as though her trauma has opened her to sexual availability (contrast with how buttoned up she is on her wedding night) in one of the film's many studies in codes of representation of womanhood - she shifts identity, evading the famous controlling glance of the male and yet utterly dependent on it (and on the flashback apparatus of cinema) for a frail return to real rather than imagined independence. That sounds academic, until you see the film - it's a fascinating text. "},{"Title":"A Hitchcock gem of the 60s.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sometimes cited as the last decent Hitchcock film, Marnie actually should be regarded as one of the maestro's best films full stop! A swirling mysterious tale of repressed sexuality and traumatic falsehoods, Marnie to me is one of Hitch's more accomplished works.Tippi Hedren is Marnie, a woman who is both a kleptomaniac and a pathological liar, but her problems are more deep rooted than the surface ones we see. Sean Connery is Mark Rutland, he catches Marnie out for robbing the safe at his company and we then follow the two on a journey to get to the bottom of the demons that are gnawing away at Marnie; to the point that flashes of red and the touch of Mark send her into terrified panic.With bleak back drops and fluctuating climate conditions, Hitchcock pulls the audience into Marnie's troubled psyche, and with Hedren's perfectly tense and wrought performance fittingly snug, the film delivers the goods for a fine night's viewing. As usual some scenes are priceless Hitch, a nightmare sequence with a tapping hand at the window hits the mark, while a scene involving a horse thumps the emotive heart and steers the film towards it's special finale. Top stuff all round from a master director. 9/10 "},{"Title":"I'm Trying To Commit Suicide Not Feed The Fish","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" We can only wonder now what Grace Kelly would have brought to this role. Tippi Hedren's performance is outstanding and I am sure it was a relief for her to stop being attacked by birds in this film. Instead she is by attacked mentally by fears from her own childhood. This is a very fine dramatic performance by her. Louise Latham is outstanding in support as her mom.Sean Connery does his only turn here with Hitchcock. This film was made shortly after DR. No which is the film that Hitchcock saw and brought Sean to his attention to be cast in this role. At first glance, you would think Connery's performance here is a little restrained. When you look at the film as a whole, you understand more that his performance is great, it is just that with so much talent in the cast the first impression is different than the whole product.Connery is the man who is trying to thaw a frigid & troubled woman by trying to uncover her true identity & her past. It takes time for him to do this and expense. This varies from the original story it was based upon in that the story had 2 men fighting for Marnie's attention. In this, one man becomes Susan (Mariette Hartley) a woman who is after Rutland's (Seans) attention. Susan tries to work her way through Marnie's problems to try & snatch her man. She doesn't quite realize that Marnie is his woman rather than the other way around so her efforts fail. This is one of Mariette's strongest film performances.Alan Napier is Rutlands dad in this. He gets little attention because of the strong performances of the actors I have mentioned but television folks will recognize him as Alfred the Butler on the 1960's Batman series. He does OK with a very small part here.Hitchcock does grandly with this film. It has a slower pace than some of his films though his films are often leisurely paced because his story telling covers a lot of details. This film is loaded with details of his storytelling. In a way, if Grace Kelly were in it as originally intended, her pairing with Sean Connery might have produced more interest in the film. This film is better than most films and well worth spending your time on. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock and a troubled woman","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Tippi Hedren plays Marnie Edgar, a cold habitual thief and a pathological liar.She's able to love only her horse and her mother, Bernice (Louise Latham), although she thinks her mother doesn't response to that love.Mark Rutland, played by Sean Connery, knows Marnie is a criminal but still falls for her.She forces her to marry him and also tries to help her solve her problems.And to make her fall for him.Alfred Hitchcock's Marnie (1964) is the most Freudian movie the master ever made.It shows some psychological twists, problems that take back to the childhood.As we all know, Sigmund Freud has proved what we experience in our childhood can be the cause of our problems today.The movie is very fascinating, like with the main character's fear of the color red.Quite often that color appears on the screen.Tippi Hedren gives a great performance in the lead.Sean Connery, who had made a name as James Bond, is perfect in the movie.Louise Latham is marvelous.Diane Baker, who had made a great debut in The Diary of Anne Frank playing Margot, does a great job in Marnie.I hoped to see more of this beautiful and talented actress in the movie.Bruce Dern makes a brief appearance as Sailor in the flashback sequence.The whole cast does a terrific job.Marnie is a classic by Hitch, maybe not the biggest, since he has so many of them in his C.V, but pretty big anyway.You should see it, if you haven't yet. "},{"Title":"Not exactly a Hitchcock classic...","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An interesting film though hardly what I expected from Hitchcock. The story A kleptomaniac woman Marnie, (Tippi Hedren), is haunted by her past. A man whom she steals from, (Sean Connery), tries to help her.The story itself is quite simple; it is the characters that are complex. Hitchcock does succeed in portraying these complex characters, yet during the film I felt more like an observer of these two human minds rather than an involved viewer of the story. Some comments on this film mention Brechtian influences; I would hardly say that this is the case though it did feel like there was a line between me and the film. This is a shame because the acting is rather good and the story is told with elegance. I would be lying to myself if I were to suggest that his use of the colour red as symbolism still has the ability to attract the same amount of enthusiastic 'thrill' which may have been present when it was first released.To be honest, if you are a fan of Hitchcock and love films like North by Northwest and To Catch a Thief, this film may disappoint. By all means watch this film, but don't expect to be thrilled by a twist at the end; it's just a story told by a great filmmaker. At times it does seem a little bit dated, and at some stages a little too dragged out.On the whole, this is not a bad film, just not quite a Hitchcock classic; hence my rating 5/10. "}{"Title":"Another masterpiece from the master","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Maybe not as chilling as Psycho, or not as perfect as Vertigo, but anyway this is Hitchcock at his very best. Among the great, classic scenes are the opening shot at the train station, Hedren stealing (classic suspense - even if you see the film for the tenth time and KNOW what's gonna happen, you still wonder if she will get caught or not), the scene with the thunder and lightning in Connery's office and the ending (classic horror, with Bruce Dern in a small but excellent part) The acting is excellent, by the main characters (Hedren and Connery) as well as by all others actors (the beautiful Diane Baker is perfect as Lil, Connery's sister in law), and Bernard Herrmanns music is good as ever. Great costumes by Edith Head, great, witty Jay Presson Allen-dialogues ('You Freud, me Jane'), great editing, great camera-work by Robert Burks&#133; No doubt it's another masterpiece from the master. "},{"Title":"A farewell to greatness?","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In my humble opinion,Marnie remains Hitchcock's last major worksubsequent movies will be entertaining at best (torn curtain,family plot),overblown (Frenzy)when it's not downright disastrous (Topaz). And however,Marnie  has not got a good reputation.Franois Truffaut used to call it un grand film malade (=a great sick movie),but he used to addmasterpieces are  not always vibrant;great sick movies always are.It's the last movie in which the mother plays a prominent part.All Marnie's problems deal with childhood.How many Hitchcock's heroes are like her?A whole lotRod Taylor in the birds,Perkins in Psycho ,Walker in stranger on a train and even ,in a minor mode Cary Grant in north by norwest.However ,Marnie is not on a par with the former moviesSean Connery ,whose talent nobody can deny, seems ill-at-ease in this universe;Grace Kelly was to play the lead,but because of problems between Monaco and the gnral de Gaulle,she was not allowed to do so;so she was replaced by Tippi Hedren ,an ok but limited actress. Marnie's character is much more complex than Melanie from the birdsand Hedren is not completely convincing.Supporting actors include a fine Diane Baker and in a cameo (a sailor),Bruce Dern who will star in Hitch's final movie family plot.  "},{"Title":"Underrated, unique","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hitchcock's Marnie has in recent years gained some of the praise it deserves, after having been regarded for a couple of decades a mere sidestep in Hitchcock's brilliant career. Back in the 1960's the film was considered old-fashioned in its simple treatment of Marnie's neurosis, as well as being technically inept with its obvious painted scenery and rear projections.Marnie was for Hitchcock a very personal project; Hitchcock had become obsessed in his star, Tippi Hedren, and when she rejected his advances, the two of them never spoke to each other again. As a result, some say, Hitchcock lost his interest in the film, thus causing the fake scenery so obvious in the film. However, Hitchcock was in the habit of planning his films carefully before even a frame is shot and the break up occurred some 3/4 into the shooting, one may consider that the fakeness was designed beforehand; set designs have to be drawn before shooting.Anyway, the obvious paintings, rear projections and flashes of colour that form an important part of the picture also help to create an unique experience of seeing the world differently. Marnie is filled with such wild colour symbolism and stylish changes of the viewer's perspective that is unequalled in any Hollywood mainstream film. Hedren gives a strong performance in a role that is difficult, and Connery is surprisingly good as well, being still near the start of his career. Bernard Herrmann's music is lush, romantic and at the same time neurotic, making this film almost as great a classic as Vertigo.Sadly, Marnie was also the last truly great Hitchcock film. "},{"Title":"Excellent use of rising talent","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hitch's use of Connery - then after just two Bond films - as the rising talent he was, in this film complements Hendren brilliantly.Hendren over-acts throughout - deliberately obviously, as this all comes out in the wash in what is a tale of one woman's horror life. "},{"Title":"A slightly disfigured beauty","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" MarnieMarnie is a film that is loved by many in spite of its weaknesses, like one loves a child which is slightly disfigured but otherwise would be a great beauty. I am one of those admirers. Since there are already so many great comments on this film I will concentrate on other things than plot analysis. The critics jumped on Hitchcock from the moment he presented Tippy Hedren in 'The Birds'. That film wasn't perfect either, but could not be blamed on the technical side. Ms. Hedren wasn't great but she was promising enough. The critics had accepted much worse actresses than her. They probably felt insulted to be confronted with a leading lady who never worked as an actress before. After this disappointment he tried to get Grace Kelly out of retirement to star in Marnie. When she declined he returned to Hedren. Not that he was completely wrong. Tippy Hedren could have been the star he wanted her to be. Only he pushed too much and she was not the kind of woman to swallow everything. And when, like in Pygmalion the creator fell in love with his creation, the end of his dream was bitter. Since this happened during the shooting of Marnie we know why the film is such a strange mixture of brilliance and carelessness. Nowhere is this more apparent than in the notorious fox hunt. The whole sequence is a combination of studio and outdoor shots. While the shots with Ms. Hedren are painful to watch because of the bad back projection, the outdoor shots from the helicopter with the stunts look good. The jump over the wall is a good example of how to create something from nothing. Only the editing of this scene creates the accident. The weaker visual things can be easily traced to the final stage of the production, where the matte paintings come in. Albert J. Whitlock has done some great work in many films, why do his paintings show so much in this one? Probably because Hitchcock did not care for a better color and light blending which has to be done with effects like that. The same can be said about the back projection. Someone already pointed out that the unstable quality of the film, although not intentional, reflects the instability of the main character. Looking at the house Marnies mother lives in with the huge (painted) ship behind, one has to admit the scene has a dreamlike quality quite suitable for the memories connected with the place. Hitchcock himself lifted some of his inventions from earlier films to create good effects in this one. One is the revolving background scenery from Vertigo in Marnie's nightmare scene. Or the long shot from a total to end in a close-up of Martin Gabel when he enters the party, which comes all the way from 'Notorious'. And there are completely new things in it too. Never before or again has there been a kiss more involving the audience then the one between Tippy Hedren and Sean Connery in Marnie. Many people rightly call it almost pornographic. Here one can see how important this film has been to Hitchcock in the beginning. We can only be glad for his meticulously planning each scene, otherwise the final product would certainly look much the worse. Or the rape scene done in a way that makes you feel with its victim without showing much violence. Louise Latham leads the list of excellent supporting players. Both Connery and Hedren are great throughout the film, despite or the difficulties there have been. It's a film I never get tired watching! "},{"Title":"AWESOME MOVIE!","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hitchcock is at his best.  The scenery and camera techniques are beautiful, impressionistic, and the suspense keeps you on the edge of your seat. Hitch made his most mature works.  Marnie is considered a sex mystery. Tippi Hedren plays the gorgeous, troubled, Marnie Edgar.  She is a compulsive thief.  She is a con with 3 identities.  She starts out as Marion Holland, then turns to Mary Taylor, then turns to Marnie Edgar. While employed by Mark Rutland (Sean Connery) she grows close to him. When she tries to steal from him...he forces her to marry him or he will turn her into the police.  She reluctantly agrees. Marnie has a sexual fragility...we find that out on the third night of the honeymoon where Connery rapes her (which doesn't help her at all). Her fear of colors and storms baffles him...but also her sexual fragility leaves him baffled as well. Mark must find out what's wrong with Marnie before she tortures herself even more.  The climax and conclusion are excellent.  The music by Bernard Herrmann is beautiful and the most colorful score I have ever heard and Alfred Hitchcock's camera movies are excellent. Marnie is a grade A movie.  Rent it...buy it...i don't care...just see the movie. Hedren is Oscar worthy and talented in this mature film. This movie was said to be Hitch's failure at the time...today it is one of the best psychological thrillers of the century.  It flopped at the box office because of it being a sex mystery.  At that time no one would want to see a movie like that.  Today it is known as one of Hitch's best. If you like Hitchcock you will also like his movies Shadow Of A Doubt Torn Curtain Rebecca Trouble With Harry The Birds Paradine Case Spellbound Notorious Lifeboat Family Plot Frenzy The Lodger "},{"Title":"Are you Freud enough?","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie's initial flop in the theaters and critical dismissal back in 1964 has seemed to have signaled a revisionist approach to understanding the film today. While it's apparent that many of the great Hitchcockian elements of suspense and visual storytelling are out in force in Marnie, I believe it is not sufficient grounds for elevating this film to the level of Hitchcock classic. Marnie's floundering story, overacting and, at times, surprisingly weak production left me bewildered and wondering why it has apparently been redeemed here on IMDb.To clear things up a bit, I admit that I have not seen every Hitchcock film and nor do I plan to see them all. I am a fan of his work but certainly not a fanatic. This being said, a bad film is a bad film and whether Alfred Hitchcock or M. Night Shyamalan, they deserve to be exposed to the light of unbiased critiquing and not smuggled into greatness under a dark cloud of Hitchcock-adoring revisionism.The first thing I would like to confront with Marnie is the same thing that made it such a critical failure in the first place. While the common cry that Marnie is a misogynistic film can be straining to the ear in the present time of feminist backlash, I believe does have merit. The male lead blackmails the female lead into marrying him for her own good and then later forces sex on her while away on Honeymoon. These alone should make anyone question the intentions of the filmmakers. While Mark (the male lead) apparently does later slay Marnie's psychological demons, is that sufficient to redeem him in the eyes of the audience? If that is so was Mark's rape of Marnie simply a moment of weakness for an otherwise well-meaning man? Or perhaps even more subversive, is the audience to question the idea of rape in this situation, and not view Mark's rape of Marnie as a rape due to her psychological illness and instead simply a metaphor of Mark's invasiveness into Marnie's life of crime? This leads directly into the second part of my critique; the pseudo-psychological underpinning that holds the strands of Marnie's plot together. For an audience member to believe in the characters and their actions, there has to be a devout adherence to Freudian views. Marnie's fear of the color red, nightmares brought on by knocking, and her hatred of men replaced by a love of horses is all Freud 101. Hitchcock even seems to poke fun at these Freudian devices where, after a bout of psychological bantering from Mark, Marnie interjects with a barb apparently directed towards Mark, but probably just as equally towards the audience, You Freud, me Jane! I think it is quite clear, even to Hitchcock, that with a few tweaks this film could easily be a spoof on Freudian psychology. Remove this blinders of complete adherence to Freud and the film falls apart. In the very best, I'd say this film is a piece of propaganda. "},{"Title":"A mean-spirited, degrading film...typical Hitchcock stuff","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" For some bizarre reason, MARNIE is considered by some as being a masterpiece or an underrated gem. It's not. It's the beginning of the end of Hitchcock and it's not a pretty sight. I've seen MARNIE a million times because every time it's on TV I just have to watch it, like a car wreck. The whole thing is very fascinating, but not in a positive way, but in a what the f*** was wrong with Hitchcock? I've seen all of Hitchcock's movies and I consider some of them to be great but as I've grown older I've started to see the truly ugly side of his films. This change happened when I saw FRENZY with an open and objective mind and noticed the really ugly and mean-spiritedness of that film. I can't watch that film anymore because Hitch simply had contempt for his characters, acting like some sort of god having fun with the misery of his creation. With the bad after-taste left by FRENZY, I re-watched every Hitch film again and quickly realized that degradation is a regular theme in his film (in NOTORIOUS, Bergman has to marry a man against her will, etc). And MARNIE is probably Hitchcock's crowning achievement of mean-spiritedness and degradation. But unlike his earlier films, like NOTORIOUS or even REBECCA, the gleam of old Hollywood glamor was a thing of the past when MARNIE was made and released, and what degrading things the director got away with during the golden age of Hollywood, by blinding the audience of the seedy aspects of his stories with big stars and big budgets and big studios, he simply couldn't get away with that anymore with a minor actress like Tippi Hedren and up and coming star Sean Connery playing the male romantic lead. Hedren and Connery are poor substitutes for Bergman and Grant. And because the ugliness of the story couldn't be hidden by layers of glamor and glitz, MARNIE's true colors were obvious to everyone. MARNIE also showed that Hitchcock was losing touch with the times. The film has an odd quaint feel to it even though its subject is anything but quaint. Even if he created two modern masterpieces of horror just before this film, with PSYCHO and THE BIRDS, Hitchcock's style and themes didn't transition well with the changes of the 1960s and MARNIE was the first of a series of misfires Hitch made in that era. Released in 1964, MARNIE feels like it was made in the mid-1950s.Every time I watch MARNIE, I always try to figure out how the audience reacted to this bizarre rape fantasy flick. I say bizarre because the whole film has several incongruous elements that clash constantly and yet it's shown almost as being normal case in point, the music score. It's swirling with romanticism even though what we see on screen is unpleasant, to say the least. Hitchcock came up with the term McGuffin to explain something unimportant in the story that's merely a plot device for suspense or motivation for characters. In MARNIE, the title character herself, Marnie, is the McGuffin, and she's the target of every little sexual fantasy Hitchcock had vis a vis women in general. Marnie, the character, is merely a cypher. And what she's made to go through is really troubling. Not troubling as a film (technically, the film is simply too whack bad acting, bad sets, bad stilted dialogue...) but troubling as a showcase of all the stuff Hitch kept inside of him and decided to foist upon its unsuspecting audience with this film. I can only imagine the reaction of the people who first watched this back then. I'm sure there was a lot of head scratching going on.The story is simple enough a beautiful female thief is caught red-handed by a handsome man who, instead of telling the police about her crimes, basically blackmails her into staying with him. If she strays, he'll spill the beans to the authorities and she'll end-up in prison. So, Marnie decides to stay with Mark and she becomes a toy for him to play with. Aside from the obvious misogynistic aspects, the story itself is filled with potential but unfortunately Hitchcock plays coy with it and gives it a romantic treatment, even though everything that occurs on screen is anything but romantic. I could go on and on about the intricate details Hitchcock peppered this story with an amazing variety of exploitive elements, all in the name of targeting Marnie with as many unpleasant acts or actions as possible (rape, blackmail, kidnapping, caught in the act, etc) but no, I won't. The story speaks for itself. Mark doesn't want to help Marnie. He gets his kicks by putting her through unpleasant situations most people wouldn't accept under any circumstances. Having the option, why would anyone stay with Mark, who's made to be shown as someone who's unfunny, mean and basically a bully? Marnie should have just gone to the police and confess her crimes. But no. In this wonky Hitchcock tale, Marnie remains with Mark, and thanks to his help, she ends up looking like some sort of piata, with the final revelation being the candy and prize popping out of her.What's troubling about MARNIE is the director's lack of honesty. He should have went all the way, with Marnie accidentally cured of her problems while Mark *really* uses her for his pleasure. Now that would have been fascinating. But as I said before, Hitchcock was losing touch with how to represent a story with modern themes and as it is now, with MARNIE looking like some sort of glamorous romantic flick (imagine PILLOW TALK but with a sordid twist), well it just doesn't work at all; it doesn't work as a romantic movie, or sexual suspense or as a psychological thriller. It's a degrading exploitation film dressed up (badly) like a Harlequin novel. "},{"Title":"Not Among Hitchcock's Best.","Date":"8 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If Hitchcock had never existed -- if he'd never made the masterpieces he did -- and if this had been directed by a newcomer, it would seem far better than it does.As it is, it isn't terrible. Tippi Hedren is Marnie, a compulsive thief who insinuates herself into secretarial jobs at industrial firms then manages to steal enough money to support herself (in pretty fine style, judging from her wardrobe and accouterments) and her mother in Baltimore.There's a good sense of place -- not outstanding but good. The settings include Baltimore and Philadelphia and we get Hitchcock's usual tourist-eye view of the neighborhoods, the stables, the fox hunts, the horses, the mansions. And we get the contrast between these upscale locations and the rather shabby brick apartment house on the Baltimore waterfront that Marnie's mother lives in.It's very nicely photographed too, by Robert Burkes, who shot some of Hitchcock's best films of the 1950s. All the material goods, the iconography, even the contents of Hedren's purse, seem brand new and unused and smelling of the scent of their own manufacture.The plot? Marnie is a neurological shambles. She not only steals, but she's terrified of the color red. The terribly rich, terribly charming, and terribly handsome Sean Connery, scion of a Maryland family, discovers who she is and blackmails her into marrying him. He's a zoologist manque, see, and he collects things out of curiosity, especially animal predators. He respects her distaste for men and keeps his hands off her as long as he can but, well, human nature and testosterone being what they are, he winds up molesting her one night which, in Tippi Hedren's case, is like copulating with an ice sculpture. Still, by means of some clumsy pop psychology he uncovers the source of her problem. I won't describe it, but you probably know Hitchcock's usual attitude towards mothers.Tippi Hedren is attractive in an indistinct way and has a nice figure. Sean Connery is better. He's so handsome his features are a caricature of themselves. But -- his curiosity about his latest catch aside -- it's a rather colorless role.But then the entire movie seems to drag. The special effects are transparent and help to slow things down. Marnie steals nine thousand dollars from a safe. So what? In Psycho Marian Crane stole FORTY thousand dollars from her boss and the theft was more effectively portrayed and integral to the plot. The drama -- her despair, her phobias, her jealousy -- ring false and formulaic. The climactic explanation is oversimplified to the point of incredulity. The movie lacks Hitchcock's usual wit. Even his cameo appearance is maladroit. (He steps out into a hallway, glances directly into the camera, and closes the door behind him.) Part of the problem lies with Hitchcock's advancing age, flagging inspiration, and pounding of booze. He was drinking heavily by this time. He'd always had a distant yearning for the beautiful women in his movies but now, with Tippi Hedren, he acted on those yearnings. Rebuffed, he seemed to lose interest in the film and got it over with as quickly as possible. The carelessness shows. "},{"Title":"Don't cry! Please don't cry Momma!","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** We get to see Marnie Edger's, Tippi Hedren, problems within the first few minutes of the movie. She just can't keep from stealing from her employer Mr. Sidney Strutt, Martin Gable, by taking off with almost $10,000.00 of his firms money and checking out of town to her Momma's Mrs. Bernice Edger,Louise Lathman, place in Baltimore MD.Marnie has a habit of doing these things with her having embezzled five of her employers, including Mr. Strutt, over the last five years. Supporting her Momma with her ill gotten gains, which Momma doesn't know about, is not enough to win her love in her treating Marnie like a stranger at best or a piece of dirt at worse! What happened in the dark past to Marnie and Momma that caused this friction between them? And why is Marine such a troubled young woman in her, besides being a kleptomaniac and pathological liar, being totally unable to have any kind of relationship with the opposite sex?As things tun out Marnie gets herself a new job as a secretary for widower Mark Rutland, Sean Connery, who runs a publishing house in Philadelphia Pa. Unknow to the icy blond Marnie Mark got her number in seeing her, under an assumed named with her hair dyed black, at work at the Strutt law firm whom he's its biggest client. Knowing the problems that she's suffering from, as well as embezzling his business, and at the same time being an armature shrink, psychologist, Mark goes to work on Marnie in curing her with his own special brand of shock treatment. This is in Martk blackmailing Marnie to marry him where he can keep an eye on her not just on the job, where he's her boss, but at home as well!***SPOILER*** Working above and beyond the call of Duty, as a good Samaritan and husband, Mark slowly uncovers, with the help of a private investigator, the root cause of Marnie's mental illness. It had to do with Momma who had covered up an incident back in Marnie's past when she was a little girl. An incident that Marnie had long seemed to have forgotten but was embedded deep in her subconscious mind. An the thing that sets it off is any relationship, big or small, she has with a man. Something which Mark, being the hunk of a man that he is, had completely overlooked in his psychological examination of her!A lot like Alfred Hitchcock's 1945 psychological thriller Spellbound the movie Marnie digs deep inside the mind of a very disturbed young woman and brings to the surface the deep dark secrets that she's been hiding there since childhood. Like a brain surgeon with a scalpel Mark probes Marnie's subconscious and cut out the malignant tumor that has been destroying her life and those she comes in contact with all these years. Something that even the most skillful and experienced brain surgeons and psychiatrists would have found difficult if not impossible to do!P.S Check out a young 27 year old Bruce Darn playing the drunken sailor on shore leave who's alcohol induced and outrageous actions lead to both Marnie and her Momma having their lives turned upside down and into living hells. "}{"Title":"Mesmerizing and unforeseeable movie","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Another masterpiece from the greatest director of movies.I wonder why this work of Sir Hitchcock is not very well-received by movie lovers.Whilst,it is wisely appreciated by critics.Sean Connery and Tippi Herden starred in this charming movie.The movie revolves around Marnie,a young beautiful girl who seeks her mother love and an incident which has happened in her childhood makes her nervous and annoyed.She starts stealing,she goes to different companies and introduce herself as a novice and after a while she abscond(steals and runaway),till the time that Mark(Sean Connery)catches her,he falls in love with her and she resist marrying him,there the story goes ....As far back as I know,most of critics called this movie one of the best movie of the year(1964).The great Alfred Hitchcock masterly manifests the impression and importance of childhood in our future life,that how a terrible incident in our childhood might mislead us from the right path.In my opinion,this movie could be among the best movies of Sir Hitchcock like Vertigo,North by northwest,and so on.Despite this,this movie is unforeseeable.Therefore giving it a try won't go a miss.This one reached down and touched me so,I say 2 thumbs up for this movie. "},{"Title":"Not  Bad  at  All","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie is not considered as one of Alfred Hitchock's best works and perhaps that is true. But the point is you always expected more from the talented director that gave us many classic thrillers such as Psycho, North by Northwest, Rear Window, Dial M for Murder, Shadow of a Doubt or the unusual The Birds. I'm sure that if this film didn't have Hitchcock's signature it would have been better considered by critics and audiences.Nevertheless, Marnie is a very decent and entertaining psychological thriller that keeps your attention all along up to an interesting finale that explains the whole thing. The cast is correct with pretty Tippi Hedren and Sean Connery (in his 007 days) as the main couple.As for me and though it doesn't stand as one of Hitchcok's greats Marnie is a good film in the genre and I really liked it. "},{"Title":"Challenging Project","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Opinions vary widely on this Hitchcock psychological mystery.  Marnie has gained appreciators over the years since it was first released, and many viewers have revisited this drama, with enhanced understanding.At the center of the procedings is 'Tippi' Hedren, in a most difficult role, which she tries her best to handle.  Part of her success and failing may be attributed to an extremely challenging, somewhat uneven script. The role stretches Hedren's talent to the limit, and she manages to rise to the occasion for the climactic scene.  Her alleged strained relationship with Hitchcock on this production may have actually enhanced her characterization work here (though it may have curtailed her subsequent film work). Her costar, Sean Connery, didn't let her down, nor did composer Bernard Herrmann (influenced by his Vertigo themes). 'Tippi' today seems quite happy promoting animal rights with her Shambala preserve and Roar Foundation and, even though she may still be smarting from her Marnie experience.  Marnie may always have a smaller audience than some of Hitchcock's more active, less talky films, but for those who appreciate good psychological mystery, they can return to this from time to time with continued intrigue.    "},{"Title":"Connery is excellent as always","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know what it is about Sean Connery, it really doesn't matter what film he is in, or what role he plays, but he is always fantastic.  Even if the movie isn't.  In this case though, the movie is fantastic.  Alfred Hitchcock is a master of the medium as always.  Tight directorial style, intriguing storyline, some great acting, and beautiful women as always.  The only area where this film seems to be lacking, is the title actress herself.  Her performance leaves a little something to be desired, and it is obvious that Hitchcock didn't hire her for acting abilities.  Like every other Hithchcock girl, she was hired for her looks.  The only other thing that really bothered me was the PAINTED BACKGROUND outside where Marnie's mother lived.  I mean come on, there has to be some place that fits the description.  Other than that, a really good film from a master.  8/10 "},{"Title":"A slick, romantic thriller made by Hitch","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Alfred Hitchcock's little known thriller Marnie may have notbe placed with the same league with his other greatest movies(including Vertigo, The Birds, and of course, Psycho), butit's still got class and sass. Sean Connery stars as MarkRutland, a manipulative businessman who has a crush on a certainneurotic cuckoo named Marnie (Tippi Heddren), who has a severecase of kleptomania and the fear of the color red and  thunderstorms. To get to the roots of her fears, Mark blackmailsMarnie into marriage, with nasty results.Hitch's clever camera angles, including the one harrowing lovescene between Mark and Marnie on the cruise ship, is brilliant.The way the camera focuses on the players' faces is nicely cued,exposing the emotional gleams of their eyes. The acting too, isalso neat, except Hedren's constant whining about her paranoiawas annoying to me. Connery makes a nice turn as the suave Mark.He took a slight break in between his James Bond films to make afilm with the great Hitch himself was a good career movie, if Id "},{"Title":"I could take it or leave it","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is perhaps the only Hitchcock that I've seen and have no interest in seeing again.  I didn't miss anything or want to repeat any exchange or scene, so there's no point. There is a great kiss between the leads; almost as good as one in Lifeboat between Tallulah Bankhead & John Hodiak, but not as good as the one in Rear Window with Jimmy Stewart and Grace Kelly. I cannot recommend this movie and Tippi is not up to her Birds performance.  Plus I could see it all coming a mile away, which is unheard of in a film by the Master of Suspense.  "},{"Title":"The last of the great Hitchcock films","Date":"15 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie is directed by Alfred Hitchcock, is based on the novel by Poldark creator Winston Graham, the film stars Tippi Hedren, Sean Connery, Louise Latham, Bruce Dern and Diane Baker.Marnie Edgar(Tippi Hedren)is a young compulsive thief who dyes her hair and changes her name frequently to take jobs and robs her employers.Due to an horrific childhood trauma she can't bear men to touch her,becomes hysterical whenever she sees the colour red and can't stand thunderstorms.After robbing an accountancy firm she changes her identity again and takes a job at Rutlands where she catches the attention of boss Mark Rutland(Sean Connery)who has seen her where she worked previously.Mark eventually marries Marnie and attempts to get the bottom of her fears.One reason why the film is so disturbing is the character of Mark.His relationship with Marnie resembles that of a hunter and his prey as Marnie says herself I'm just something you've caught.In a way he's almost predatory and seems to be studying her more than anything else.The big scene which really turned audiences off the character of Mark was the wedding night scene on the cruise ship where he in effect rapes her to cure her of her phobia of men.This caused so much disagreement between Hitchcock and his screenwriter Evan Hunter that Hunter was replaced, ironically by a woman Jay Presson Allen who had no problem with writing the scene.Yet for all his brutishness Mark does indeed love Marnie and it's through his actions that she at last can move towards finding emotional peace.Louise Latham is memorable as Marnie's mother Bernice who holds the key to her daughters fears and Diane Baker provides comedy moments as the love struck sister in law of Mark Lil Mainwaring. There is still plenty of suspense in this especially the moment where Marnie robs a safe and takes off her shoes to keep out of the way of a cleaning lady.After this Hitchcock's films would never be as good as they had once been, this is the last of his really great films with the exception of Frenzy. "},{"Title":"Why do critics take issue with this one?....","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" After seeing this film for the umpteenth time, it has many elements to it, yet Many Hitchcock die hard fans take issue with this one.Granted the Sean Connery character as Rutland is a bit stiff and unreal. But he is, after all, obsessed with a female criminal and sociopath, so perhaps that was the intent. Hitchcock rarely projected anything on screen that wasn't calculated to fit his theme, in his own sort of perfection.Tippi Hedren is excellent as Marnie. Louise Latham as her mother, they grew up poor in Baltimore, and share a murderous secret. The soundtrack by Bernard Hermann is memorable and haunting. The hunting scenes are also relevant and psychologically suspenseful. Only Hitchcock could create such suspense, and this film is highly recommended as a must see. 9/10. "},{"Title":"MARNIE is Hitchcock's greatest psychological thriller...","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Much more so than VERTIGO, which,even though it deals with one man's neurosis, is a classic whodunit. Jimmy Stewart's coming to grips with his fear of heights at the end of VERTIGO is merely an icing of suspense on an otherwise well baked murder mystery. In MARNIE, on the other hand, Hitchcock deals with the deeper, darker side of Marnie's psycho-sexual illness. Mark Rutland's (Sean Connery)constant probing into Marnie's (Tippi Hedren) persona takes on the role of psychotherapy complete with word association games and sound cues that shake Marnie's subconscious. In one scene Rutland is even seen reading Psycho-sexual Behavior in the Criminal Mind. Strange night-time reading material for a handsome, newly married businessman of a certain wealth. In the end, there is a complete psycho-catharsis as Marnie remembers the traumatic night when as a child she killed the sailor (Bruce Dern), thus unleashing a lifetime of criminal psychosis.Hitchcock's direction is masterful in its depth of portrayal of Freud's Interpretation of Dreams. The scene in which Marnie experiences a nightmare at the Rutland manse is a perfect example. As the dream begins, the set is that of her mother's house during a stormy night when her mother's clients came rapping on the door. Marnie awakens, however, in the plush bedroom of the Rutland residence. Hitchcock's camera takes us into the criminal unconscious and then exits into an opulent, satin covered reality gone psychotic. This insight helps us to see the troubled Marnie in a sympathetic light. Hedren's awesome acting talent underscores this as at times she emotes a little lost child persona. This is very true to character since emotionally, Marnie's development stopped that night when, as a child, she attempted to save her mother.From the beginning of the film, Hedren's portrayal of Marnie is pregnant with a little girl's search for maternal love and approval. At the end of the film, Rutland's explanation of Marnie's life of theft as the compensatory behavior of an unloved child is simplistic and amateurish from a psychiatric viewpoint. However, it works for the audience Hitchcock is trying to touch, and it is reminiscent of the doctor's pedantic and sophomoric review of Norman's psychosis in PSYCHO, a horror film rife with simplistic Freudian interpretation. On a deeper level, Hitchcock takes us on a journey through one woman's Electra Complex as Marnie's euthanasia of a horse with a broken leg symbolically foreshadows the final scene in which Marnie's new-found memory of the horrible night serves to kill her psychotic ties to her mother's past. Now in the paternal yet comforting arms of her husband, Mark, Marnie's life as a grown woman is sure to take a turn for the better. Her fears of going to prison are the only vestige to a child's traumatic past. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Last night I finished watching Marnie for the first time and it took me all of my will-power to not re-view the film immediately after it ended. Marnie is by far the best psycho-sexual thriller I have seen in ages. Admittedly it lacks the classic Hitchcock edge-of-seat stuff (bar the sequence with the cleaning lady) but this is Hitchcock at his grimmest - and his finest in terms of creating 'pure cinema' regardless of the fact that a Philadelphia character has a Scottish accent! The slow camera pans, infinitesimal movements of the head, seamless blend of dream images and reality, use of silhouettes, tight shots and tighter editing (the hunt, the murder scene, the free association scene which is screen-writing at its best) - cinema could never be purer (or more artificial!). In a strange twist of cinematic logic, the apparent 'saviour' of Marnie (Sean Connery) comes across as quite a dark personality, hell-bent on breaking Marnie like he broke the South American wild cat. Coming right on the back of the suave Bond, Sean's Mark Rutland is a tour de force in understated, and often baffled, ferocity. I have heard a lot about how Grace Kelly was supposed to play Marnie. In an alternate universe that film has probably been made but my vote goes to Tippi Hedren. The climax, where she starts squeaking in a scared five-year-old's voice is chilling. The only grouse is too pat an ending, which somehow jars with the overall complex tone of the film. But that is a minor failing in Hitch's masterpiece. "}{"Title":"Superb","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a really good movie. I don't care if the backdrops look fake or if Tippi's voice is annoying at times. The story is fantastic. I recommend this to everyone. Sean Connery is quite the character. You really have to at least see this once. "},{"Title":"Confusing, yet entertating masterpiece!","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  MARNIE returns back to the theme of Hitch's earlier SPELLBOUND. This film is rather confusing, due to its strange, haunting plot centered around Marnie (Tippi Hedren) who is a compulsive thief. The first time I viewed the film, I asked myself, What is the point?! Never the less, you MUST watch this movie more than once to appreciate its excellent camera work and directing by the master himself. Give this one a chance! "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's Last Great Film, and it was great!","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  CAUTION SPOILER!!! READ ON AT YOUR OWN RISK!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!This 1964 Hitchcock film has to be his last great film out of his ten greatest films (Shadow of a Doubt, The 39 Steps, Rear Window, Vertigo, Psycho, The Birds, Marnie, Notorious, Rope, North By Northwest.) It has everything!!! It has bright colors, great acting, wonderful art direction, and most important a clever plot and witty dialog. The film begins with Bernard Herrmann's best Hitchcock score besides only Vertigo and North By Northwest, it then follows with Sidney Strutt (MARTIN GABEL) explaining how and who robbed nearly $10,000 from him. He then describes the girl to Mark Rutland (SEAN CONNERY,) a client of his from Philadelphia. The camera cuts to a hotel while jet-black haired Marion Holland (TIPPI HEDREN) and a hotel porter carries her bags out, during this is Hitchcock's cameo (he's coming out of his hotel room, looking guilty.) Next, Marion dyes her hair blonde and visits her horse, Forio at some stables. She then reveals that her true name is Marnie Edgar. She has several identities, actually, including Marion Holland, Marnie Edgar, Mary Taylor, and one more that escapes me for the moment. She then goes to visit her mother (LOUISE LATHAM,) who lives in Baltimore.She then goes to Philadelphia, where she uses her Mary Taylor alias and gets a job at Rutland & Co., for Mark Rutland. Mark becomes attracted to Mary (or should I say Marnie) until she steals from him as well. He goes and gets her and she reveals his true identity to him. He then marries her, takes her on a South Pacific honeymoon cruise, fights with her, then rapes her. He brings her back, where his sister-in-law Lil Mannering (DIANE BAKER) who also loves mark opts to make trouble for Marnie. In the end, Lil tells Strutt where Marnie is. Strutt comes out to Philadelphia and Mark stops him from pressing charges. In the end, Marnie tries to steal from Mark again after having to shoot Forio because Lil is chasing her on her horse. Mark takes Marnie to Baltimore to Marnie's mother's house to find out what's wrong with Marnie. He finds out. They then exit the house and Bernard Herrmann's score comes back with the end credits.Although this is a very brief synopsis, it can help you get a feel for the movie. If you like movies you can think about, this Hitchcock masterwork is a definite must-see.  "},{"Title":"Solid.","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sort of a cross between Snake Pit and a romantic thriller. The first third is stretched out and not always interesting but the second half makes up for it. As with (nearly) all of Hitchcock's movies it has far-fetched things about it, but it has far less illogic than his other films. I consider it unrealistic that a disturbed, almost split-personality Hedren can be some kind of a master-mind con-artist thief. In fact, the movie is redeemed somewhat by the fact that even Connery at one point says pretty much the same thing (to her). However, the dialog between Connery and Hedren regarding her mental state is good, and the movie is interesting at a consistent level from half-way to the end. The character that Baker plays is somewhat dubious; it's a character that I feel was clumsily thrown in, in order to help with some plot-devices which would have been impossible or difficult without her. The dialog between Connery and Hedren that Baker overhears is written in a silly way, just so the viewer can observe how Baker gets a grip on almost the whole situation between the two love birds. Plus, Baker living there with Connery, and her relationship with him - those things aren't quite realistic or worked out well enough. The main tune I feel comes off as overly dramatic in the early portions of the movie - when there isn't so much drama - and is repeated too often in the course of the film. I still consider this film to be better than most of Hitchcock's more recognized endeavors - certainly infinitely better than that other one with Hedren; the one for the birds. "},{"Title":"2 stars","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Very average Hithcock film focuses on troubled woman addicted to thievary who is taken in by a man she has stolen from.  Connery and Hedren are wonderful to look at, but film lags more than it excites, and ending seems predictable and overly foreshadowed throughout.  Some interesting stylistic elements make up for lackluster plot.  "},{"Title":"Suspense, sex and mystery add up to a Hitchcock thriller.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a thought provoking Hitchcock offering. The master blends this haphazardly told story with enough confusion to keep your interest. A well-to-do Mark Rutland, played by Sean Connery, falls in love with a woman, Marnie, that  has stolen from him and several other men of wealth. She is a liar and a thief with deep rooted psychological trauma. Rutland marries Marnie in hopes of helping her find the cure for her social maladies and the cause of her sexual frigidness and fear of men.Connery plays his part with the cleverness of a man with a secret agenda. Marnie is played by the beautiful Tippi Hedren, who shows the character's anguish and fears; but seems to be laking in overall acting ability. Diane Baker plays the role of Rutland's cunning sister-in-law, who happens to be secretly in love with him. Baker stands out in her role. The star that shines with acting prowess is Louise Latham, who portrays Marnie's mother. A stoic performance is turned in by Martin Gabel and there is a small part for Bruce Dern.If you like a movie that makes you think; this is one of them. What you think is going to be a sleeper turns out pretty darn interesting.  "},{"Title":"Clever photography, outstanding performance by Tippi Hedren.","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Much has been said about the unbelievable (not my opinion) backgrounds used throughout Marnie, from praise to brutal criticism.  Personally, I thought the abstract look of the backgrounds enhanced the disjointed view the heroine, Marnie (Tippi Hedren), had of her world, all angles and harsh colors.Tippi Hedren is absolutely amazing in the title role.  While she is a thief and a liar, she is also immediately sympathetic, even before an explanation of her neurosis is given.  Hedren quite easiy drifts through Marnie's extremes cool and calculating thief, to frigid and frightened victim.The film offers an interesting departure from a theme that others (although not I) have observed throughout Alfred Hitchcock's films.  Marnie, a woman, is not seen as the villian of the piece, or somewone who is to receive punishment for an immoral act (as some have suggested Marion Crane was in Psycho (1960),) but as the victim of man's cruelty to woman.  Sean Connery's character, while seemilgly trying to help Marnie come to terms with her trauma, is also quite clearly depicted as a preditary sexual blackmailer (he even refers to himself as such.)The film's disregard for convention, both within its genre and the movie world as a whole, make this a worthwhile and thoroughly compelling view. "},{"Title":"This should be seen as one of Hitchcock's best films.....","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This has become one of my favourite Hitchcock films. Tippi Hedren gives an excellent performance in the complex title role, and Sean Connery matches her every bit of the way. Marnie is probably the apex of the Hitchcock blonde, and probably, out of any Hitchcock film, the woman who needs our sympathy most. But she is a complex character. Marnie is all at once calculating, child-like, a thief, a liar, beautiful, cold, desperate, aloof and without true identity. After she is caught robbing her employer Mark Rutland (Connery), he seeks to find her and realises something is seriously wrong with her. Deciding he hast to help her, Mark marries her, and slowly unravels the horrible event in Marnie's past that has stopped her from forming a functional relationship with both her mother, and any man.There is a lot more under the surface of this film than a mere sex drama as Hitchcock himself (rather cheaply) sold it as on first release. Instead, its a fascinating character study and insight into troubled relationships. Bernard Hermann provides a score that is hypnotic, and Hitchcock proved he still had his great directorial touch in a number of great scenes, notably the silent robbery of the Rutland safe. Best scene in the film? Connery trying to psychoanalyse a troubled Hedren. You Freud, me Jane? "},{"Title":"Jaded and false - but not without some memorable Hitchcock touches.","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A dashing British businessman has the hots for a icy blonde and doesn't seem to mind her dishonesty or frigidity - quite the reverse!Hitchcock always liked to play games with an audience and try something new 3D, long takes, anti-hero, TV crews, etc., but when you wander too far from convention you have occasionally put your foot in quicksand.Some movies gain good reviews not for their content, but the fact that they have an interesting subject matter that the reviewer can use to get across their own agenda or opinions. Give some people enough art-house gloom (not a reference to this film by-the-way) and they swear they can see the very meaning of life!I have nothing against unconventional leads or people driven by passions that would normally repel, but this doesn't work. This is a subject matter that European art house could (note could - not would) do well - Hitchcock tries to make it Hollywood style and the style doesn't fit the subject. Brave try, but a failure all the same.The worst bit is that this movie wants to wrap itself up with a shocking revelation finale that is supposed to tie the whole thing up with a pink ribbon. It doesn't suggest that Hitch thinks a great deal of the audiences' intelligence. Connery in his James Bond wig and prime could have any woman he wanted and plenty he wouldn't Why would he chase a woman that was rejecting him? To solve a puzzle? If he wanted to solve a puzzle he would buy a newspaper and do the crossword!This movie wants to be brave, but can't bring itself to be. Films like Belle de Jour and Repulsion show that tough and puzzling sexual subjects can be fantastic (even in tough censorship days). Sadly this is an area where The Master was clearly anything but. "},{"Title":"Fascinating","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't think Marnie is one of Hitchcock's best achievements, but it's certainly one of his most fascinating ones. The astonishing camera work and the excellently dramatic score create strong emotional atmosphere for the film. Tippi Hedren and Sean Connery do their complex roles admirably well, and they have a great chemistry. Marnie is worth the watch, especially for Hitchcock fans. "}{"Title":"Bond + Blonde = Bland","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" For me this was the best of three late Hichcock films packaged in one DVD box that I borrowed from my local library - the other two, both strong contenders for 'Best Of Breed' at Cruft's, were Torn Curtain and Frenzy. The essential problem with Marnie is Why Should We Care. We are introduced to a woman who is clearly troubled yet sufficiently composed to steal large sums of money from two employers that we actually see or know about plus others before we came on the scene and I repeat had the writing, acting and directing been a little better we MIGHT have been at least curious at best intrigued, but as it is we merely wonder how many more reels before we get some kind of explanation. As always those susceptible to hype will happily sit still as the Truffauts of this world talk masterpiece. Yer pays yer money ... "},{"Title":"Misogynistic and classist--Hitchcock's most offensive","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Since I consider myself a feminist, it's always surprised me that I enjoy Alfred Hitchcock's movies, which have often been labeled misogynistic. Intellectually, I understand this accusation and the arguments behind it, but never once while watching a Hitchcock film have I felt actively repulsed or offended by its misogyny. Until I saw Marnie, that is.The main argument about Hitchcock's misogyny goes something like this his sees his heroines as guilty of sin, and makes them suffer before they can be redeemed, or punishes them without a chance of redemption. For examples, see Notorious or Vertigo (two movies I adore). But in these movies, at least, the misogyny is somewhat mitigated by a sense that the leading man is just as damaged and guilty as the woman. They are dark romances between two complex people. In Marnie, there's none of that. Instead, it's about a man trying to break a woman like a horse. Marnie (Tippi Hedren) is a compulsive thief and liar who's afraid of the color red, thunderstorms, and sexual contact. When she robs Mark's (Sean Connery) office, he catches her before the police do, blackmails her into marrying him, and sets about trying to cure her psychological problems. This includes a rape scene, presented in the movie as something Marnie needs, even if she herself doesn't know it. Mark is not censured for what he does; in fact, the movie makes Marnie seem like every man's fantasy. She's a sexy woman who also happens to be a virginal and scared little girl inside, in need of a man to protect and tame her.The opening shots of the movie&#151;Marnie changing her hair, wardrobe, and name after she commits a robbery&#151;make it seem like it'll be a lighthearted piece about a clever female thief. But we eventually learn that Marnie's thievery is a compulsion, not a free choice, which is offensive in multiple ways. If Marnie is not responsible for her crimes, why does Hitchcock so cruelly punish her for them? Also, the movie implies that Marnie's fate as a frigid kleptomaniac is inevitable, stemming from a childhood trauma.The movie also is very insulting in its treatment of class. Marnie comes from poverty (represented, in a Hollywood clich, by her mother's thick Southern accent), while Mark is from upper-class, country-club Philadelphia. Thus, a link is drawn between poverty, crime, and psychological problems.I find the themes of Marnie so offensive that it's difficult for me to evaluate it from a purely cinematic perspective. But even this is a very mixed bag. The movie has some of Hitchcock's most interesting camera angles and some of his most laughable rear-projection scenes. Marnie's fear of the color red is conveyed heavy-handedly, and the production/ costume design has an inexplicable obsession with the color yellow. Connery does well in his role, his cruel James Bond smile used to great advantage. But Hedren isn't able to give Marnie a life beyond her neuroses, and is particularly ill-served by the final scene, where she has to talk in a little-girl voice. "},{"Title":"Unintentionally Funny","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film was relentlessly pretentious. Connery and Hedren's characters were more stilted than a house in a flood zone. In one scene,Connery informs Hedren that he knows she is from the South by the way she pronounces insurance.This from a character who's supposed to be an American and who speaks like he's wearing a kilt. Connery is at his unbelievably boorish best - making the self-absorbed and ultra sophisticated James Bond character seem like Woody Allen by comparison. His character, Mark Rutland, speaks to everyone in an obnoxious, condescending manner....to Marnie, his father, his sister; probably even to his own mother while he was still nursing. And the musical score...an outburst of a full symphony orchestra to accentuate every mood - or a cello to herald the raising of an eyebrow. The ten notes of the Love Theme from Marnie was played repeatedly throughout, until you wake up to it for the next three days. Slow-paced, phony, and unintentionally hilarious. "},{"Title":"A rare misfire from the Master","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie is truly the rarest of Hitchcock thrillers... a complete and total misfire. Released in 1964, Marnie marks the Master's unfortunate cooling after an incredible hot streak in the late 50s and early 60s, which saw Hitch at the top of his game for classics like Vertigo, Rear Window, and Psycho. That's not to say that Marnie is not an ambitious film for 1964. Few filmmakers from that period would dare tell stories of child abuse or sexual obsession, and at times, Hitchcock is remarkably frank. Yet some of the same things that must have made Marnie seem risky for its time period make it seem incredibly dated today. The film makes some rather bold and ham-handed assumptions regarding criminal behavior and psychology. Even mainstream audiences today know enough about popular psychology to see that the enormous stretches in the logic of the story. For example, the entire film rests on the contrivance that a single childhood trauma has trapped an otherwise innocent, good-hearted young woman into a state of compulsive kleptomania. Sean Connery plays the man who loves her, and he suspects that if he can simply identify the trauma she is suppressing, she will be freed from her trance-like state of criminal behavior. The film is smart enough to recognize the connections between traumas of childhood and their manifestations in adulthood, and yet it is somehow dumb enough to suggest that there are simple answers to deep-rooted psychological problems. It's interesting to note that, for all its aspiration, there is surprisingly little danger in Marnie. There is always the potential for suspense, especially in the earlier scenes of the film as Marnie seeks employment from somebody who has already identified her as a kleptomaniac. Yet this suspense never amounts to anything more than the vague threat that Marnie might be in a little trouble with the police ,if they were to somehow learn of her past crimes- and these past crimes never fully come back to haunt her. In some ways, the film works as a less-interesting companion piece to Vertigo. Both films deal with a man obsessing over a distant, haunted woman, while simultaneously trying to cure her of her ills and control her romantically. Yet somehow Vertigo works on every level, emerging as Hitchcock's true masterpiece, whereas time has not been nearly as kind to Marnie. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock at his most misogynistic","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie is a habitual liar, thief, and cheat (in her own words). She goes from job to job, eventually robbing from each of them until she meets Mark Rutland, who instantly falls with her. However, as he discovers her habit, he is compelled to help her and save her both from the authorities, and from herself.Marnie says it's a trap, and it is, but what makes this film particularly disturbing is that apparently Sean Connery's Mark is a hero or something. Using only the worst in Freudian psychobabble and a large desire to get into Marnie's skirt, Mark leads her through traumatizing confrontation and traumatizing confrontation until she finally comes to terms with her own repressed memories... which is, apparently, enough to make her love him and go home to him like the happy little housewife she should be.Because see, apparently Marnie being a criminal is completely a result of her weakness and inability to cope with her mother's history, which is in turn necessary for a MAN to figure out. And even though she does not love this man (she never does, at any point in this movie, reveal such a love), his saving her is what is required to have her want to go back home with him. It's disturbing, but not in the good disturbing way like with movies like Requiem for a Dream that are supposed to disturb you away from certain choices, or disturbing like Apocalypse Now which is supposed to paint a gratuitous anti-war picture. It's disturbing because throughout the movie you keep asking yourself, Is Hitchcock really gonna do that? and yes, yes he does. Hitchcock has decided to fully reveal his misogynism.Even beyond that, this movie fails on several levels. Hitchcock uses two effects that are entirely contradictory her fear of red, which is represented in much the same way as the psychosis in Vertigo, and the heavy use of red on the set to represent masculinity like he does in many of his films. But, uh, Hitch if she's afraid of red so that she literally wigs out over a small amount of spilt red on her blouse, why is she not going into seizures surrounded by all the red in Mark's house? Oh, and, uh, why is she wearing red lipstick? Only one moment with the violent reaction to red actually works anyway, and that's the one where she spills the ink because it actually looks like blood, which makes sense. The rest of it is contrived and unbelievable.And speaking of unbelievable, the entire relationship seems completely impossible. How a meeting of two characters like the ones portrayed could ever result in an eventual mutuality is beyond me. It's not just bad chemistry of the actors, it's bad writing. The only character in this movie that seems remotely sympathetic is Lil, and even she is just a deranged Freudian antihero.No, this movie is just terrible. I've had issues with Hitchcock's works before, but usually I've been able to find them at least technically acute and entertaining. This movie is proof that the Master wasn't always on his top form.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Tippi Hedrin was Fantastic","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Have not seen this film in a long time and forgot the entire picture which is a film you can see over and over again. Tippi Hedren, (Marnie Edgar) plays the role of a very attractive young woman who has a very dark past and plenty of dark mental pasts which keep hounding her body and soul. Sean Connery, (Mark Rutland) is a very rich man and found out that Marnie had taken money from his partner's firm and decides to find out just what is wrong with her and it is at this point in the film when the story gets interesting. Marnie does not like sex and will not allow Mark to make love to her even when he buys her a horse and allows her to live with him in his home. If you have not seen this film you will find Tippi Hedren very beautiful as she starts out with a great acting career. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Glimpses of Hitchcockian Genius","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Marnie contains everything a great Hitchcock film should, but doesn't quite solidify. And the viewer is never quite sure why.From the beginning to the end, there is Hitchcock's genius pouring through. From the safe-cracking scene to the storm/kissing scene to Marnie's apparitions... Hitchcock masterfully creates suspense and mystery. And just plain sense of a good ol', Whaaaa? But I get the feeling that Hitchcock had in mind a much better film than what came out in the end. Maybe if it had been done 30 years later, the technology would have allowed it to be just that much better.There are several main problems. First off, the material is now dated and clich. For it's time, it was controversial I'm sure... But it rings shallow and empty... It feels like a terribly simplification of the material...Second off, it's just not that rewatchable... The first time you watch it, you're constantly thinking... What the hell?! But after you've figured it out by watching it once through, you no longer care. It has neither the sheer haunting beauty of Vertigo nor the sheer entertainment value, of say a North by Northwest, which keep you coming back again and again.Third, it is not impeccable. Psycho and Vertigo were two impeccable Hitchcock films... I don't care how you can defend the awkwardness (mistakes or not) of Marnie... (And I used to defend them)... It is not the same quality of work, period. (The horse scene is ridiculous!) Hitchcock's vision was not carried through in this case... I have a feeling Hitchcock didn't care quite as much about this film as some of his better, more personal titles.Especially disappointing in quality is the musical score... Bernard here, just plain overstates himself... Especially disturbing is the scene when the bowl of whatever-they-were's gets knocked over... And you get this HUGE dramatic statement... It's just too much... I think I understand why Hitch let him go for the Torn Curtain... We've all heard the story were Hitchcock walked out of the sound studio and fired Bernard when he heard his score for Torn Curtain after Hitch insisted it be lighter material and Bernard didn't oblige him... I understand now, that this is probably more of a result of Hitch's frustration with Bernard's contribution to Marnie than the issue surrounding Torn Curtain. Marnie's score is unoriginal (it sounds like a rip off of Vertigo's theme...) And it is WAY too overstated... I think Bernard was getting a big head...That having been said, when I first watched this movie, I put it right beneath my favourite Hitchcock, Vertigo. It is enjoyable, especially the first time around. And it does keep you thinking throughout the film (it's intelligent, not just visceral). Both Hedren and Connery are very interesting to watch. And the reality is, it's an exceptional film... But not because of the film it is, but the film it could have been.Any Hitchcock fan should watch this movie, and carefully. Some sequences explode with Hitchcockian genius (especially visually...). You should mark the attempts at his true vision... It's quite enjoyable, but not a great, quality, Hitchcock film.I regret that I have to give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Alfred Hitchcock and Sean Connery","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" i saw one week ago and i was impress... the plot was interesting, the subject was also strange, rare, original if you think thats years...it was supreme Alfred Hitchcock and Sean Connery combination...the top of class...I believed that Sean Connery intend to played with tepee Hepburn used as an experiment and at the final some of that its happenedreally a very good movie my attention keeps hire most of the time..i always seek movies from Sean Connery because it is a out series actori always seek movies from Alfred Hitchcock also thats all "},{"Title":"An Underappreciated Film","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ***POSSIBLE SPOILER*** When this film was first released in 1964, it was panned by the critics who said it was a failure.  Well 36 years later, the experts are singing a different tune about Marnie calling it one of Hitch's most underrated films.  Although not like a North by Northwest, Psycho, The Birds, Rear Window, etc. it was something that was completely different. The only Hitch movie that compares to it is Vertigo and that is sort of stretching it.  Tippi Hedren in her second straight Hitch film plays the title character Marnie Edgar who is a beautiful young woman who is a compulsive thief, liar, and frigid to men.  Sean Connery plays the suave Mark Rutland who catches her and sexually blackmails her, but he does love her and wants to find out why she does the things she does.  Diane Baker, Louise Latham, Martin Gabel, and Bruce Dern all give fine supporting performances, especially Baker and Latham.  It is well-known that Hitch and Hedren who Hitch discovered had a major falling out during the filming of this movie.  Some said that he made a pass at her and she called him fat! Others said that she grew tired of his obsessive control over her.  These people said that after their falling out, it seemed that Hitch just didn't have his heart into it.  I say hogwash!  Hedren's performance is brilliant, much better than her role in The Birds, and that is saying a lot considering that other than Kim Novak's character in Vertigo, the role of Marnie is the most difficult of all Hitch's characters.  It didn't seem to me that Hitch had given up on this film; I think the people back then weren't ready for some of the themes and content in this movie.  I thought Sean Connery was funny with the way he said things in the movie especially with Hedren; it reminded me of Cary Grant in North by Northwest.  Bernard Herrmann's score was IMHO better than Vertigo.  It is very emotional and lyrical sort of like Tchaikovsky.  It is sad that this would be the last time that Herrmann and Hitch would collaborate on a movie.  If you haven't seen this movie, do yourself a favor and watch it ASAP.  Not as good as Vertigo, North by Northwest, or Rear Window, but still a movie that is in my Hitch's top 10. After watching this movie, I challenge you to say that Hedren does not give a good performance like some of the critics did when it first came out. "},{"Title":"Haunting performance by Tippi Hedren","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The cheesy backdrops offend the contemporary eye. The score is obtrusive, even, at times, dictatorial. Miss Hedren on horseback for the most part isn't, both in the sense that the stunt person is clearly not her, and in the sense that sometimes we can't help but notice that she is in studio with the background moving behind her. And, as others have pointed out, the red of bloody remembrance that offends Marnie's eyes is a trite and obvious device, not worthy of Hitchcock at his best. Furthermore, some of the scenes are stagy almost to the point of naivete (but Hitchcock never worried about that as long as his effect was clear). The scene with the children outside the Baltimore apartment--done twice, actually to set up a third scene in which the children are quiet and stare--comes to mind, as does the scene in front of the Rutland residence as the newly weds are about to depart for their bizarre honeymoon. Perhaps artificial is a better word than stagy. The overall psychology is strictly Freudian for the Millions, but with a certain plausibility, while the story itself is far from convincing, regardless of whether you see it from Marnie's viewpoint or from that of Mark Rutland.Nonetheless this uneven psychodrama is an interesting and enjoyable movie, clearly within the hallowed Hitchcock canon, mainly due to a haunting performance by Tippi Hedren that will not soon leave my mind. It is clear that Hitchcock could not take his eyes off of her and neither could I. This is not to say Miss Hedren was brilliant. She was not. But in a sense, because her performance was striking and ordinary by turns, somehow it became--at least for me--indelibly real and entirely believable. It is to Hedren's credit that, in a movie in which the plot strains credibility at times, she is strikingly real. She plays the sociopathic office girl from the wrong side of the tracks with intelligence and vulnerability. Add her great beauty and one can almost believe that the rich, ultra-eligible Mark Rutland would actually to moved to marry her out of obsession and a desire to save her.Alfred Hitchcock's signature technique, in which the plot elements are made childishly clear to even the most inexperienced viewer through audio and visual repetition, camera focus, silence and/or a surging score, is perhaps a bit too much on display here. Yet, once in motion, the plot plays out very well and we are comfortably ensconced in the world of small business America at mid-century. Sean Connery, who plays Mark Rutland, gives a fairly convincing performance in an unlikely role. I was thinking how much more tension might have been created had Rutland been played by somebody less attractive and more menacing. But Hitchcock rightly insisted on glamour and box office appeal in his leading characters, and sought to win the feminine side of the audience at all costs (therefore only attractive leading men!). And he was right in following this formula. One can imagine a remake of Marnie with, say, Nicole Kidman and John Malkovich, both excellent actors; but what would be lost? And would the movie be as interesting? We would lose some glamour and charisma--mainstays of the Hitchcock oeuvre--and the result would probably not be as engaging. Incidentally, Nicole Kidman did play a sociopathic little sickie in To Die For (1995), an underrated film that I recommend. Comparing performances I have to say that while Nicole was good, Tippi was mesmerizing.The sharp and convincing response of Marnie to the forced marriage in which her frigidity is made manifest owes a lot to Hitchcock's passionate direction. I have to say though, that this is, in part, a little Hitchcockian joke on his audience. After all, how many poor little office girls would not delight in being forced to marry such a rich and handsome man whose wedding presents include a six and a half caret diamond ring? In other words, the staples of women's romance--the big house with servants, wealth, and a strong, handsome man who adores the central character and proves it--are very much in evidence amidst the psycho dynamics. All those who would imitate Hitchcock should keep this point in mind.The script (adapting the novel by Winston Graham) by Jay Presson Allen, who has The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie (1969) and Cabaret (1972) among his credits, contains some attractive dialogue, especially in some of the exchanges between the stars. An example is Sean Connery's reassuring line to Marnie, Dad goes by scent. If you smell anything like a horse, you're in.Initially, I didn't care for the character of Marnie's mother, played strangely by Louise Latham, but upon reflection she is off beat enough to be real. The scene (with a cameo of Bruce Dern as a sailor) revealing why Marnie became a pathological liar, a thief and frigid was plausible but not entirely convincing. The frigidity was understandable given her mother's hatred of men and what happened to her as a little girl, but why she became a sociopath fixated on trying to win her mother's love above all else seemed inconsistent. The ending is nicely ambiguous, allowing one to draw his or her own conclusion about the effect that such insights will have on Marnie's character.It was nice to see Diane Baker as the girl who doesn't get the guy, and Mariette Hartley as a gossipy secretary.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As already mentioned, this has been one of Hitchcock's most underrated films. Like Vertigo, this film can be viewed on many different levels, all of which make the film more engrossing upon each additional viewing. The use of painted backdrops lends an extra feel of dream quality to the film, and it benefits from that. The shot of the Rutland building (with thunder and lighting in the background) is particularly effective. Tippi Hedren gives a solid performance in this film, notably better then her role in The Birds. Connery is a good foil for her, and Diane Baker is stunning (both in acting and appearance) as Connery's sister-in-law. Also wonderful is Louise Latham as Marnie's mother. Herrmann's score is both riveting and romantic at the same time, and the color and set pieces are lush and visually impressive. An excellent film. "},{"Title":"HITCHCOCK IS AT HIS BEST IN THIS SUPSPENSEFUL SEX MYSTERY, WITH AN OUTSTANDING PERFORMANCE BY 'TIPPI' HEDREN!!","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  'Tippi' Hedren is absolutely flawless in Hitchcock's Marnie, playing the compulsive thief and liar.  Hedren's character is so complex and for an actress/model that had just played in Hitchcock's The Birds (which didn't have much character depth) she did it beautifully.  I think that it was probably the greatest portrayal by and actress in film history.  But the movie itself was excellent.The movie explored the character, Marnie and why she stole money and lied about herself.  About 20-30 into the movie Mark Rutland (Sean Connery) comes into the movie after having about 5 lines at the beginning of the film. Connery's character is known as a sexual blackmailer.  He catches Hedren trying to steal from him and he says she can marry him or he can turn her over to the police.  Without a choice she marries him, but on they're honeymoon night, Mark finds another thing wrong with Marnie...her sexual fragility.Along with being afraid of the color red and storms, she's afraid of men. So Mark rapes her and after Hedren trying to commit suicide he brings her home.  He buys her a horse that she is fond of.  Horse's are Marnie's escape from her horrible past and present life.  After she must kill her horse, Mark brings her to her mothers house to find out what made Marnie this troubled.  Her mother is played by Louise Latham (who along with Hedren...stole the movie).  They trace back Marnie's troubles to her childhood and the climax is brilliant.  The wardrobe and hair styles worn by 'Tippi' Hedren and Diane Baker are amazing.  Bernard Herrmann's score (known to be his best) is perfectly in sync with the movie.  And Hitchcock's directing...is amazing...Hitchcock doesn't have a flop with his camera shots, and wardrobe, and talent.Hedren is amazing as the title role and deserved an Oscar.  Sean Connery brings conflict to the screen a perfect way.  Diane Baker plays Connery's sister-in-law (his first wife died) and she brings such a conflicted presence to the screen.  Louise Latham is wonderful as Marnie's mother and Martin Gabel is wonderful as Connery's tax consultant who Marnie had stolen from in the past.It was a truly beautiful film and is a masterpiece since it remains fresh and new after 36 years.On DVD the movie is even better with special features and beautiful sound and picture.My score...*****/***** "},{"Title":"I gave it a '4'","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm a Hitichcock fan; he's my favorite director. I like his films, his middle ones, his mature masters and even some of the last ones. Speaking of the final ones following Marnie, I find things to like in Family Plot and Torn Curtain, and I think Frenzy is him at his near best. Marnie however has not one single scene in it that works for me, this despite the relatively good acting of the main participants. The camera shots hardly measure up to Alfred Hitchcock's standards, and some of them are actually embarrassing. There's no mood that evokes a great Hitchcock moment. Possibilities abound. This was one of the bigger disappointments because all the pieces were in place, including another Bernard Hermann soundtrack, but curiously even that fails to take me into its clutches, it hardly even reaches out.The ham-fisted psychobabble which inhabited the outer fringes of some of his earlier movies surfaces here as a great whale. There's nothing holding it back. The movie ends leaving me with the sensation that nothing really happened, at least to me on a personal level. I feel like I've wasted two hours.Torn Curtain at least had some precious moments where Hitchcock's power of observation draws us in. Frenzy is deeper still, with observation, humour, camera shots, etc. But this one is a failure for me, a nearly complete failure held together only by the vague similarity to earlier films, in the hopes that it would somehow live up to them. "},{"Title":"Weak","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Implausible, riddled with inconsistencies, this is not one of the master's good ones. There are problems with casting, dialogue and just plain common sense; this movie doesn't hang together very well. It may have been a good idea in 1964, but it looks silly now.  "},{"Title":"Slow, Slow, Slow!","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" After seeing six Hitchcock movies, I've only had a hit or a miss once (The trouble with Harry), that pulled me so far over the annoyed edge that I couldn't even finish watching it. Make that two movies. Marnie fails in everything Hitchcock was trying to get it to run in. It seemed as if his whole ploy for this movie was to run it in a dry comical thriller sense, and with Connery in the lead role, who'd have thunk it would move so slow? We get an agonizingly long scene with Hedren and her character's mother, and a sense that her past is supposed to be interesting, but it just doesn't fly. Hedren's acting is very sub par (which might have something to do with her anger towards Hitchcock, that's been previously documented), and Connery can't help this boring movie that tries to be over-playful. "},{"Title":"Aichen' My Leg","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Hitchcock invented the curious camera and produced two of the finest films in history. By this time, no one can deny that he was master of the craft, at least within his standard palette. But here he has some serious problems. I believe this picture to be a failure but fascinating in how it fails.Hitchcock's space is one which exploits the fact that we are voyeuristic. So he developed a cinematic vocabulary that moved the narrator out of the story and into that collaborative space between the screen and the eye. He knew this well enough (at least since 1950) that he carefully chose all his stories to suit.Every one of them involves investigation; every one employs the exploring eye within the real world and several imaginary worlds based on the real world. This is effectively the last of his films, the ones that employed his regular crew. And it is too adventuresome in the scope of what we see. The American public of '63 had an understanding of psychiatry about as unsophisticated and incorrect as their notions of nuclear energy. Nonetheless, Hitchcock tries to extend the notion of watching to the psyche using the idea that an analyst could see into the mind.Our designated watcher - whose space we share - is Connery who incidentally owns a publishing house (!) and is an amateur observer of animal behavior. To make this work, the script removes all other watchers a psychiatrist and a competing lover. The horse is even downplayed from something that understands her. Too bad too because the frictive sexual relationship between young women and their horses could have been used.The structural problem is that Hitchcock was confident he could extend his cinematic grammar to describe the inner world of the mind. All we get is a Dr Stranglelove hand (same year, but Hitch saw it early) and a flash of color.This was before Connery had his teeth fixed. Edith Head designed the costumes based on Jackie Kennedy's influence, and they had to use them even though Kennedy was killed a couple days before filming started.Even in its day, the fakey stuff (employed so they could shoot on a set) was distracting. The DVD has a radical critic who says that if you don't like this, you don't like Hitchcock and if you don't love this, you don't love cinema.Bah. If you love cinema enough; if you put as much energy into watching as went into making films, then you should be able to see this as a spectacular failure and know why.Diane Baker is stunning.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Robert Burks's Last Hitchcock Film","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Despite the fact that the script was lousy and Tippi Hedren was a somewhat unsympathetic character, this film was significant because, not only was it Herrmann's last score, it was Robert Burks's last Hitchcock film. The theme of 'the colour red' is beautifully told by Burks's cinematography and Herrmann's score. "},{"Title":"tippi hedron rules","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  At the time of its release, Marnie was considered a misfire for Hitchcock, but it actually has much to offer, especially for fans of Hitchcock. The main attraction for this film is without a doubt the performance of Tippi Hedron. Tippi lights up the screen, lets face it the camera loves this women and you will too. "},{"Title":"A not very interesting Hitchcock film","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If you enjoyed Psycho and Rear Window, this film will be a letdown. Especially missing from Marnie is much of the suspense that has defined Hitchcock's films. I have three major problems I have with the film The two lead actors come across as stiff. Tippi was great in The Birds but just didn't seemed comfortable in the role in Marnie. Also the film moves along way to slow. There are lots of scenes that didn't add to the plot and it felt more like a soap opera at times. And lastly, I couldn't understand Mark's motivation (other than looks) to want to marry Marnie. The film should have spent more time in that area.This film probably marked the beginning of Hitchcock's irrelevance into film-making. The production values seems to be dated even for its times - lots of scenes obviously shot in the studio. Articial lighting obvious and overused in many outdoor scenes. The big ship in the background of the Baltimore row-houses looked out of place. The color and picture fidelity were excellent though. "},{"Title":"Sean the big saver!","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film, Hitchcock or not, has one of the worst manuscripts I ever seen. The editing of the film is also amazingly amateurish. The only thing that makes this film not shelved with Plan nine from outer space is Sean Connery, both his charisma and his character in the film.The character which Sean acts which without any logical reason, her looks are not that dashing nor had she had any real intellectual conversations at the time, falls in love with a woman which he suspects not to be entirely honest. When his suspicions come true he sets out a mission, one that evolves to be entirely hopeless to any sane man's judgement, to safe her.The really interesting part, the one that kept me from turning off the Film and watch Looney tunes to level off, was whether Sean, that is Mr Rutland, is entirely honest in his mission! or whether there are some other motives lurking underneath. Well I won't spoil it and leave it to you to find out- "}{"Title":"The ONLY Hitchcock Film I Didn't Care For","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This move was....a disappointment. When I compare it to films like NORTH BY NORTHWEST, or FRENZY, it's like it was made by someone else.Slow. Boring. Marnie was the most unlikable female character I can remember. The move took forever to get anywhere, and when it finally did, it wasn't anywhere I wanted to go.I won't be watching this again.Who ever thought I'd give a bad review to a HITCHCOCK film? Kind of my point.Two stars. It would be one, but out of respect for Hitch, I'll give it two. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's worst.","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As much as I like Hitchcock movies I just can't stand this movie.I found this an awful movie and I really regret I ever saw it. The main problem is the story. It's just so long and so extremely boring. The movie is full with many way too long scene's were nothing really happens or add to the story. The movie drags on for way too long without giving any notion in which direction it's heading to. There are also several not understandable situations and sometimes it's just plain silly. For starters; the movie should have been at least 30 minutes shorter, this way it maybe still had been at least more watchable.An also awful thing is the love story. Is there even a love story? I really don't get it, there is no spark or what so ever between Marnie (Tippi Hedren) and Mark Rutland (Sean Connery). All that Ruthland seems to try to do throughout the movie is getting Marnie into his bed.I also don't understand some of the characters. For instance I found Lil Mainwaring (Diane Baker) not understandable and weird. I had no idea what she wanted or what her purpose was.But Marnie is far from one of the worst movies of all time. It still has the typical Hitchcock touch and feeling which makes it worth watching for it's fans. Also the musical score from Bernard Herrmann is quite possible the best he ever did. There are also some scene's that I really liked such as the hunt/horse scene, mainly because of the special and sometimes unusual but fantastic cinematography. Also Connery's acting make up a lot but still can't save the movie. I hardly have ever been so bored while watching a movie. I even found myself watching out of the window just because it was so boring, I just could not watch the movie and that's something that never had happened to me before. I think it says something about the movie.Only watchable for the real Hitchcock fans.3/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Save yourself the time...","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you're thinking of watching this movie, save yourself the effort and time.  This is a tedious movie with extremely bad acting by Tippi Hedren.  Sean Connery was fine but that's about all that was worthwhile in this movie.  While watching this movie, I kept glancing over to the clock hoping that it would soon be over.  I've seen and enjoyed most of Alfred Hitchcock's films but Marnie is truly a disappointment. I rate this movie a 2 out of 10.As a side-bar point of interest for any Carol Burnett fans, I'm sure Ms. Burnett based her Mama character from her television series on Louise Latham's character in Marnie.   "},{"Title":"Did Hitchcock Direct this crap","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I still can't believe it, the director if Rear Window, Vertigo, Psycho, The Lady Vanishes, SpellBound, Strangers on a Train directed a movie like Marnie. The movie is like a drivel. I just could not stand through this one. Even the movies Hitchcock made in the 1930's like the 39 steps, the man who knew too much are faster than this.Tippi Hedren is so irksome in this movie, I just could not bear her and that pale sodden acting of Sean Connery, oh my god. There is no trademark of Hitchcock in this movie.please avoid this if you are Hitchcock fan and avoid this all the more if you are beginning to see Hitchcock movies. "},{"Title":"Lackluster Hitchcock Thriller -- Not among his best work!","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is the 1964 Psychological Thriller that can't hold a candle to Psycho, and even pales when compared to the previous year's box-office-smash The Birds. Hitchcock gives his newly discovered Tippi Hedren another go as the sexually alluring lead with a deep secret (not quite as delicious as that harbored by Norman Bates).Incidentally Hedren walked out immediately after filming, never to work with the director again. The James Bond Sensation Sean Connery is effective as the love-interest to crack the case of the mysterious Marnie. A stunningly beautiful Suzanne Plechette is cast in a small role. She should have been the lead in a live action version of Snow White. As a huge fan of Hitchcock, I was somewhat disappointed by this lame premise with equally lackluster overall production values. No Oscars here, that's for sure. If this one completes a set of films you must watch for a class or some other desperate reason, then go for it. If it's a choice between this and an early night, I'd recommend the latter. Four out of ten is a generous rating for a barely so-so film. "},{"Title":"This hokey thriller may very well be Hitchcock's worst film.","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Some people consider Marnie to be Hitchcock's last great film, but I have to disagree not only is it far from a great movie, but Hitchcock's four following films (and I've seen them all at least twice) are also superior to this one on nearly all levels. Hitchcock works here with one of the poorest scripts of his career; his pacing is inevitably sluggish, making us wait far too long for some less-than-stunning revelations. But the most annoying aspect of Marnie is the hokey, amateurish psychology; by the ending you'll be wondering Is THAT all they could come up with?. The film is practically suspense-less, too, so anyone who wants to study the director's career should start by choosing another entry in his filmography. Even a Hitchcock near-fiasco, however, has its redeeming features one sequence involving a theft and a cleaning lady is ingenious (Hitchcock shows his mastery there) and Connery gives a suave, excellent performance, never seeming out-of-place, even though most of us have identified him (at least during his early period) with James Bond. But I still think Hitchcock missed the mark this time. "},{"Title":"And there I thought that Hitchcock movies are exciting...","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have to confess that though i am a big movie fan, movie history for me begins 1972 with The Godfather. I hardly know any movies before this date.Well, I always wanted to give Hitchcock a chance so here it was by pure coincidence when i zapped at Marnie... but I was very disappointed. The movie was dull and uninteresting, no thriller like I expected. The pseudo Freudian gibberish really left me cold, being a Psychologist this whole story was a little bit to stereotypical for me.Well, unless there was something terribly exciting happening during the 20 minutes I was asleep, I have to summarize that I thought the film was simply boring and the film editing was awful, especially in those scenes which were intended to be thrilling.Hope I'll soon be seeing a better example of Hitchcocks genius. "}]