[{"Title":"Elegant Comedy-Mystery","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This second to last film of Cary Grant was one he spoke  highly of in interviews.It was my decided pleasure to be in attendance at his A Conversation With Cary Grant at the Front Row Theater in Cleveland shortly before his death.   During this unforgettable evening, Grant fielded questions from an audience of over five hundred for nearly two hours.Grant seemed to possess a photographic memory, recalling incidents of his life and career down to the smallest detail.  Father Goose was revealed to be one of his favorite projects.Looking at the film today, one can see the senior star enjoying his character and well polished script.  He was nicely paired with Leslie Caron, and the two struck an engaging chemistry for these capers.Grant also had the good sense to say farewell to these leading man parts (being aware that he could never become a character actor) threw in the towel and moved on to better things, like Fabrege. We're left with another delightful Grant performance in an illustrious and remarkably diversified career.   "},{"Title":"Excellent light comedy for ALL ages","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I agree with almost all of the other reviews but add that Trevor Howard is wonderful.  He is completely natural and believable to the point that he almost steals the show from Cary Grant; not an easy task!  Cary and Leslie Caron make their unlikely match seem quite natural.  --  And the photography is just gorgeous.  This was especially so when I first viewed it on a big screen back when it was released. "},{"Title":"Gallons of fun...","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is lots of fun and goes down smooth. Grant is classic as the grizzled boozer who plays look-out for the Allies and a gaggle of young lassies. It is one of the more well-executed romantic comedies (that's how I would classify it, anyway) and the tension of the final scenes is excellent considering the difficulty of weaving in such weighty material to an otherwise farcical film. Nobody does those twisted-lip facial expressions of exasperation better than Grant.I will always remember a certain Sunday in lil ole Luverne, Alabama, having a great time with my family watching trusty TBS (the way it used to be). It's not the greatest movie ever, but it is a fine choice for a lazy afternoon or light evening fun. I give it a 7/10 and it might deserve higher marks. Break out the Orville Reddenbocker, and follow with an Operation Petticoat chaser.   "},{"Title":"After 30 years Grant is still the best.","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I find it quite surprising seeing that Cary Grant is one of my favourite actors, that after nearly forty reviews on this site not one of them has been a Cary Grant film. How odd.I now intend to remedy that fact by posting a few as I do believe he was one of the most versatile performers and gifted comedy actors ever to hit our screens.My favourite Cary Grant comedy is 1937's The Awful Truth and it is an amazing tribute to his talent that in Father Goose made 27 years later, he seems to have aged very little and has not lost one iota of the spark or zest that graced his performances throughout the decades.In his penultimate screen appearance, Grant for once plays a character far removed from his immaculately dressed man about town persona as he takes on the role of Walter Eckland a south sea drifter complete with dirty slacks, tennis shoes and beard. Life for Eckland is lived on his beloved boat, drinking scotch and sailing from island to island meeting and fraternising with as fewer people as possible.However Eckland's idealistic lifestyle (and the hull of his boat) are severely destroyed with the arrival of Captain Trevor Howard of the Royal Navy. Bullied, brow-beaten, bribed with Scotch Whiskey and with a large gaping hole in his boat, he is forced onto a deserted pacific island to act as coast watcher for the Allies, reporting Japanese ship and aeroplane activities with the R/T codename of Mother Goose.Eckland's immediate plans are to repair his boat and escape his captivity, and jumps at the chance to go and rescue a possible replacement from a nearby island. Using his boat's dinghy he braves rough seas and Japanese patrol vessels in order to obtain his freedom.However, when he arrives at the island he finds the replacement dead and a prim and proper governess, played by Leslie Caron, in his stead. It is only after he agrees to take her off the island to safety that life goes from bad to worse as it appears she is not travelling alone, but with seven schoolgirls.The interplay between Grant,Caron and the kids is hilarious, as the contrast of lifestyles between Walter and his reluctant family is immediately apparent and almost at once they become warring factions.She wastes no time in confiscating and hiding his liquor, evicting him from his house, and commandeering his clothes, his tools, his food and just about everything else she can get her hands on.Walter is more or less banished to his half submerged boat. A stranger in his own 'home'.None the less after near discovery by the Japanese, Eckland acts heroically endearing him at last to the female inhabitants, until eventually the 'rude, drunken, foul mouthed, filthy beast' and 'Miss Goodie-two-shoes' actually become rather 'pally'.The whole cast is excellent, most notably Trevor Howard, who really relishes this rare chance to take on a comedic role, but what makes this film sensational is the clever writing.For example when the Navy is given the task of evacuating the newcomers, the answer is a parachute drop- A parachute drop? I want them picked up Frank, not put down. Or when Grant is teaching Caron how to fish- Quiet, here she comes again..... How do you know it is a she? asks Caron..... Her mouth is open, now be quiet.Very witty examples and this film is chock-a-block full of them. Check out the snake-bite scene. It is quite amazing.I know this film has come under some heavy criticism over the years, but I fail to see why. It is Cary Grant in one of his finest and funniest films. I suppose the bad reviews this film received was one of the reasons he retired shortly afterwards. It was classic Grant and one of his personal favourite performances, but it failed to find a large or appreciative audience, and I suppose out of all his films the failure of this one saddened him the most. "},{"Title":"Vintage Cary Grant in a romantic WWII farce with Leslie Caron.","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is vintage Cary Grant, reminiscent of his earlier romantic comedies. He plays Walter Eckland, a rough, gruff, unkempt loaner coerced into being a spotter for the Royal Navy on a remote Pacific island. He is forced to take in a teacher and her seven charges, all female, ranging in age from 5 to 14. Leslie Caron is excellent and funny as the teacher. She sets out to change Walter for the sake of the girls by pouring out all his whiskey. One of the best scenes in the film comes when Leslie Caron is supposedly bitten by a snake (a stick) and Walter gets her drunk to ease the pain of her dying. This is great comedy. This film is a MUST SEE for Grant fans. Rating 9.0  "},{"Title":"FATHER GOOSE IS AN EXCELLENT MOVIE FOR FAMILY","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've recently learnt about Cary Grant and purchased a few of his movies. I like Father Goose the best. Cary Grant and Leslie Caron were very intelligent in this movie the way they brought out character they played - Mr. Eckland and Madame Freneau.I feel connected with the story. My daughter and I have watched this movie more than 100 times and we really enjoy it every time. In Father Goose, Cary Grant played a character, which was quite different from other of his movies such as Indiscreet, That Touch Of Mink, To Catch A Thief, etc.., He was unshaved, uncombed, filthy, untidy, insensitive, and care-free. But underneath of this messy image, a suave, full of fact-of-life Walter Eckland would not mind to suck out the venom in an attempt to save Ms. Freneau. I was really moved.  "},{"Title":"Nice Film","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you are looking for comparisons and don't mind a bit of a stretch, then you can consider Father Goose (1964) as another version of Bringing Up Baby. In both Cary Grant gets to play a character experiencing a host of aggravations. Leslie Caron's Catherine Frenau is not as zany as Hepburn's Susan, but still manages to irritate Grant for most of the film until he finally realizes that he is in love with her. And instead of a leopard and a dog running amuck in rural Connecticut, Father Goose features seven schoolgirls of various nationalities running amuck on a Pacific island during WWII. Everything works pretty well in this film although Grant is not quite up to an American accent so there are several awkward moments with the script. And the age difference makes the Grant-Caron romance unconvincing. Fortunately the producers skate over the romantic elements. In fact, the romance is treated so superficially that you wonder why they bothered to insert it into the story. A similar romance got much the same treatment that year in My Fair Lady.The film's real strength is the interaction between Grant and the seven schoolgirls as it manages a fair amount of believable characterization for each of them. The initially silent Jenny (Sharyl Locke), tomboy Harry (Jennifer Berrington), chronic complainer Anne (Pip Sparke), Elizabeth (Stephanie Berrington) and her imaginary friend Gretchen, coming of age Christine (Venina Greenlaw), and the French twins (Laurelle and Nichole Felsette). All have distinct personalities and it is obvious that Grant had a lot of fun working with each of them; so much so that he stayed in touch with them even after they grew up, married, and started their own families. Grant's Walter Eckland is an American drifter hoping the war will just pass him by; illustrated during the opening credits by Digby Wolfe singing Pass Me By as Eckland (with an unwanted hitchhiking Pelican) steers his boat into the harbor. The war catches up with him there when the Harbor Master (Trevor Howard) tricks him into taking a coast-watching job until a replacement can be found. His job is reporting by radio any movements by Japanese planes and ships near his island station. The reluctant recruit is rewarded with a bottle of whiskey (previously hidden somewhere on the island by the Royal Navy) each time one of his reports is confirmed.Walter seems to thrive on this assignment until he has to share his island with a French teacher Catherine Frenau (Leslie Caron) and seven young charges. Miss Frenau hides the remaining whiskey bottles and the females take over Walter's hut. Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Have seen this movie many times.. Cary Grant at his best! In real life, Cary is in his 60's and Caron is in her 30's. But the age difference doesn't even come into play here. They seem to fit perfectly.  See it, you won't be sorry! "},{"Title":"Pretty good, some good laughs","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wouldn't dare say this was an extremely great movie, but it was pretty good, I enjoyed it.  I think this is the first Cary Grant movie I've ever seen and I thought he did a fine job with his role.  Some of his reactions are just hilarious!There are quite a few times though where you really feel for Cary Grant's character, because he gets completely over-run by the women that he is forced to provide for.  In the end though, everyone seems to get along.All I can really say about the film is that it's a pretty interesting story with some interesting turn of events and some good comedy.  I wouldn't recommend the film to everyone, but if you're interested, go ahead and take a peak.  I hope you enjoy the film.-Chris "},{"Title":"Pleasant movie, superb dialogue","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Father Goose is not my pick for the best Cary Grant flick (I think that's Operation Petticoat, if you exclude his collaborations with Hitchcock), but it's a pleasant--if a little overlong--movie that works very well as light entertainment. The dialogue is superb, containing some really witty remarks and delightful exchanges. And it is fun to see Grant playing a sullen boozer--quite an exceptional role for him. "}{"Title":"Cary Grant as a South Sea Island Rat","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" It was not quite what Cary Grant wanted, but it was certainly different. In his whole career he wanted to play a negative role - a person who was not debonair or likable but a villain. At time he was defeated by his own agent and the production studio from being a wife killer (SUSPICION)or a labor agitator suspected of arson murder (THE TALK OF THE TOWN) or he played a Cockney gad-about who confronts a mobster (NONE BUT THE LONELY HEART) or he played a gambler thinking of swindling a war-time tragedy (MR. LUCKY), or a suspected jewel thief (TO CATCH A THIEF) or a successful university professor who was targeted by a jealous rival (PEOPLE WILL TALK). But while some of these parts approached the villain he wanted to play, none hit the actual target. In 1964 Grant finally got a chance to undercut his sophisticated, sharp dressing style. He got the chance to play South Sea island rat Walter Eckland, a grizzled loner who has little use for the modern world, and a large appetite for alcohol. The film was the film comedy FATHER GOOSE, co-starring Leslie Caron as Catherine Freneau (the daughter of a French colonial governor), and Trevor Howard as Commander Frank Houghton of the Royal Navy. Again, Grant was cheated out of the full chance of playing a disreputable type. Eckland is disreputable (he is first seen trying to steel gasoline supplies needed by the royal navy which is fleeing a threatened dockyard - for his own cabin cruiser). But by the time the film ends he is shown to be heroic.Fortunately it is a comedy, with it's three leads playing well off each other. Grant is dragooned by Howard into being an island watcher for the British navy against Japanese planes and ships. To keep Grant from splitting, Howard wrecks the cabin cruiser, and he hides Grant's supply of alcohol. It works, but a few months later Grant is informed he has to perform a rescue from another island across the sea. He only does it when Howard informs him where the rest of the alcohol is hidden. Then he goes, only to find it is Caron and six little school girls left in her care when evacuating a French island. Almost immediately there is friction between Grant and Caron as to proper behavior in front of the girls, and in serving the young ladies and Caron first. When they get back to Grant's island, Caron has the young girls hide his liquor all over again.It has been suggested that Grant and Caron were playing roles similar to Humphrey Bogart and Katherine Hepburn in THE African QUEEN. Certainly in the relationship of Charlie and Rosie in that film there is a definite resemblance to that of Walter and Catherine. But this kind of opposite attracts appears before THE African QUEEN did. In VESSEL OF WRATH (set in the South Seas in the 1930s) the hard-drinking Charles Laughton ran afoul of missionary Elsa Lanchester. As with the other two pairings they eventually fall in love.But the humor in FATHER GOOSE is Grant's attempts to maintain his control over the island, even while thrown out of his hut by Caron and her charges. Every time he tries to show who is boss, he's undercut by the ladies. Howard (although at a distance) is no real help - the war is of first importance to Allied planning, not rescuing angry drunken island rats. It is only when Grant shows that he can fish but Caron cannot that he starts reducing her ascendancy over him, and the cap-off is when he believes she is dying of snake poison, and she is made comfortable by large cups of Grant's booze in a coconut cup. With her hair down she suddenly is not so inhumane to Grant.FATHER GOOSE is Cary Grant's last lead role. He hoped he would soon pass into supporting parts, but although the film did well at the box office (I saw it when it came out - the audiences were packed), it confused many who did not care for Grant being scruffy. The result was that Grant made one more comic film (WALK DON'T RUN) wherein he played the Charles Coburn part in this remake of THE MORE THE MERRIER. After that, Grant retired from motion pictures until his death in 1986. He never did get the chance to play that movie heavy he always wanted to - but he did leave a first rate record of sophisticated leading men comedies. That's not the worst reputation to leave behind one as a performer. "},{"Title":"Apologies?","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" It appears that many reviewers on IMDb want to consider Father Goose as a minor feature, lacking the sophistication of better comedies. I think it is worthy of a listing toward the top flight of comedic endeavor. What makes a good comedy after all? Can you comment on a more important event than WW 2 and attitudes towards it? Can you have a more able actor and supporting cast? Was the initial attack on the South Seas and attempts to defend more important than later efforts? Is the true story of humanity with all weaknessness, better expressed in any other WW2 movie? I think Father Goose is a first class movie in Script and performance. Why say it is less because it doesn't appear to address PC issues? I love this movie. "},{"Title":"This is an actor!","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" No this is not one of the greatest comedies of all time, but it is one of Grant's best comedic performances. He is at the very top of his game. Every movement, every gesture is well nigh perfect. It looks effortless on his part but it is all well thought out. Grant doesn't so much steal his scenes as make all the other actors seem funnier. The usually pleasant Leslie Caron rises to nearly Audrey Hepburn status in his presence.Film historian David Thomson called Cary Grant the finest actor in Hollywood history and Time critic Richard Schickel once called him a technician of genius. Watch Grant closely in this film and see why. "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest Cary Grant Movies!","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm a great fan of Cary Grant. He's one of my favorite actors and I was fortunate to meet him in October 1986 in Dallas, Texas, at the Princess Grace Foundation Gala. He was as charming in person as he is on the silver screen.I love Cary Grant's movies and Father Goose is by far one of his funniest and most underrated.The first time I saw this movie was December 1965 at Radio City Music Hall in New York City, NY, with my parents, brother and sister.We waited 3 1/2 hours in line to get into the theater and my Dad kept running to get hot chocolate for all of us to help keep warm. But the wait was well worth it!We saw a beautiful rendition of the Nativity Show on the stage with real animals - sheep, camels, etc. Then the Rockettes came out and did their Wooden Soldiers routine and a group of singers sang the song More'. The stage show was awesome!Then Father Goose was shown and I remember everyone just laughing and laughing through the whole movie! Especially my Dad - he laughed the most! It is one of my fondest Christmas memories.I just watched this movie again last night and still laughed out loud! It's timeless - Cary Grant, Leslie Caron, the children and the whole cast are excellent!If you want to see a good, fun family film, this is the one to see! "},{"Title":"Great blood!","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Believe it or not, this is the first Cary Grant film I ever recall seeing. Therefore, unlike almost everyone else who first saw one of his films like Notorious or To Catch A Thief, I never had the smooth, debonair, image of Cary Grant to contrast his character in this film against. My first impression of Cary Grant was as Walter Christopher Eckland, his least typical role ever.That being said, boy, am I glad! I went in to this film at the age of maybe twelve with no preconceptions whatever, and I rolled on the floor all the way through. When he made a gesture, sir, or belches in the mike, or commands Commander Houghton to kiss my foot, Frank, I was helpless with laughter. Nowadays it is not so laugh-out-loud funny, but I still do smile and recall that first viewing, when it was new and fresh and I had no idea who Cary Grant was, only that he was the funniest actor I had ever seen. I had no conception of perfect timing, flawless delivery, or crackling wit, but, luckily, Grant could more than supply my deficiencies.Walter Eckland is, in fact, my patron saint, because he embodies the hope that when I am an old broken-down drunk with a hole in both my boat and my bottle, without a penny to my name (and in fact $200 in hock to Old van Der Hoven), I, too, can get a hot chick like Leslie Caron. Also, he personifies the hope that I can drink my way through a case of whiskey without ever showing a sign of drunkenness. "},{"Title":"Fairy tale within war movie","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" It could be retitled Miss Freneau and the Seven Students. We have a CHARMING Cary Grant gone scruffy. There are seven small people constantly going in single file procession (to appropriate music), one does not talk, one is constantly grumpy, etc. The Japanese military make an excellent substitute for a wicked Queen. And it ends in a marriage after the not quite death of the Snow White fill-in. The Fairy Tale substructure is carried on with the different radio names assigned to the different characters. Overall an excellent movie and one of Cary Grants best roles after Arsenic and Old Lace and Philadelphia Story, although most all of his films are eminently watchable. "},{"Title":"Endearing movie","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a simple film, not very deep, with just the right amount of silliness, and predictable heroism. Doesn't sound like a glowing review,but, I can't not watch this film every time I find it showing. Cary Grant is Cary Grant. And that's all most of us want him to be. This film is fun to watch and leaves you feeling good. "},{"Title":"I like this film better today than 40 years ago","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I first saw Father Goose in 1965 during its record breaking run at Radio City Music Hall in NYC. It has remained one of my favorites of all time. I enjoy the high entertainment value, but I've come to appreciate the realistic anti-war message that it presents, I've made peace with the world,...  (Walter). This message was delivered prior to the escalation in Vietnam and the realization of that sad mistake. It also comes prior to the anti-war films such as Full Metal Jacket which go a little bit over the top so one can really appreciate the genuine quality of the message. Furthermore, the message is compounded in its importance because an alternative positive life-style, that of two strangers taking responsibility for the care and up-bringing of seven girls, is presented as a substitute for the mindlessness of violence. "},{"Title":"Good 'Any time' Movie","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have lost count of how many times I have seen this movie. The first time I saw it was when I was an early teenager nearly thirty years ago with my Grandmother. (As a side note, I put a copy of this DVD in her casket when she passed away six years ago.) The movie has good clean humor, you never hear a swear word in the movie, even though you know that Walter Eckland swears like a drunk sailor, they use creative ways to get around it by innuendo as well as others.Grant's interaction with the children is great, especially with a young girl who refuses to talk, how he gets her to open up and speak is heart warming, and hilarious the way the child reacts to him.The movie is filled with humor from beginning to end, and regardless of your mood, you will always find yourself laughing at some point in the movie. "},{"Title":" Years ago I made peace with the world, now  the world should make peace  with itself,   ","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" During WWII many an island coast watcher were found not only useful, but often invaluable to the Allies in the Pacific. In this zany but delightful comedy, the film  Father Goose  takes Cary Grant and nearly replicates his actual persona. He plays Walter Eckland a crusty, middle age, south seas beachcomber with no intention of changing his lay-back lifestyle simply because there is a major war taking place. However, his lifetime friend Frank Houghton (Trevor Howard) once harbor master, now a Naval Commander for the British Navy and his aid Lieutenant Stebbings (Jack Good) convince him to join the coast watching service. Having little choice, Eckland reluctantly agrees. Things are tolerant enough for him as long as he's stuck alone on a deserted island keeping an eye on the Japanese navy when overnight, he's invaded by a bevy of preteen girls. They not only disturb Eckland's solitary existence, but completely disrupt his once peaceful solitude. The girls' prissy guardian/governess, Catherine Freneau (Leslie Caron) immediately sets out to make the best of a difficult situation and that includes altering the reclusive life of reluctant Father Goose. This movie was listed among Grant's favorites and watching it, easily becomes an audience Classic as well. **** "}{"Title":"Great light comedy.","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a great little comedy deserving of all the praise it has here from other posters.Cary Grant shakes off his usual polished self as the grizzled hard-drinking loner, Walter Ekland, staying out of the war and harms way. Enter Leslie Caron and her charges, and Ekland finds the war isn't so easy to stay out of if you have something to lose.The script is pleasant and well-observed and the humour is gentle. It's probably a little too long at almost two hours but the characters are so well-etched and performed that the humour is sustained to the end.Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is one of the best ever made. You don't see quality like this in films today.I was channel surfing when I ran across this movie tonight but couldn't change the channel any more.I had seen it before but not in the last few years. Its a very funny movie, I laughed almost from beginning to end. I highly recommend you check it out.I had to have 10 lines of text so thats why this looks goofy, there isn't much else to say other then this a great movie!!! "},{"Title":"One Great Film","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of my all time favorite films. The film has it all; romance, great comedy and action. Cary Grant is definitely at his best. It's a shame he practically retired after this movie. Leslie Caron and the girls are also just wonderful. It's a definite buy movie; one you'll watch over and over again. Great stuff!  "},{"Title":"One of Grant's Best","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The final motion picture of Cary Grant's career was also one of his best. Grant, who will always be known for his suave, sophisticated demeanor, was one of the most talented comedic actors of all time. His flair for comedy is certainly evident in Father Goose. Playing the crusty recluse Walter Eklund, Grant is going against his stereotypic debonair role, and it works perfectly. It's a treat to just sit back and watch the expressions on Grant's face as he is constantly set upon by circumstances beyond his control. Leslie Caron and Trevor Howard are also very good in supporting roles. A great family movie which, to my knowledge at least, has never received the recognition it deserves. I've watched this movie dozens of times and its humor and Grant's talent never diminish. "},{"Title":"A Delightful Light-Hearted Comedy","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cary Grant at his later-in-life best.  Kids about 9 years of age can easily follow the story with just a few words of explanation about the coast-watching program.  Leslie Caron is excellent as the prim and proper school teacher.  The kids are fabulous, especially the character of Jenny. Grant plays Walter Ecklund, an American caught in the midst of the Allied withdrawal from New Guinea during WWII.  Hijacked into 'volunteering' for the Australian Coast watching Service (where men are stationed on small uninhabited islands to observe and report on enemy ship and plane movements), he finds himself stuck with seven schoolgirls and their teacher when a plane sets them down during an emergency.  The story progresses along as the filthy beast and goody two-shoes learn to cohabitate and eventually find more in common than just their charges.  You won't regret seeing this one.  The only thing is, as in all movies of that time, that you have to listen and pay attention to the plot and dialogue -- something you need not do in today's totally visual movie world. "},{"Title":"Cary Grant gives an outstanding performance.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Father Goose is my favorite film of all time.  This romantic comedy shows that even though people come from all different backgrounds, love can cross all of them.  Cary Grant is as sexy as ever in this film.  The way he takes on the role of the pseudo-father is quite charming. This is a must see film for any Cary Grant fans. "},{"Title":"Short but sweet","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A delightful movie for all the family.  I have many favourite Cary Grant movies and this is one of them. "},{"Title":"Lady, you are making a powerful enemy.","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" There just isn't much that can be better on a dreary day than to sit down and enjoy Cary Grant. Add to that Leslie Caron, and you have a formula for a comedy that will entertain the most curmudgeonly person.This war comedy won one Oscar and was nominated for two more. It was, without a doubt, the best comedy of the year. Grant and Caron had a magic together that could have fueled many more movies. I am so glad that he hung around to do this, his penultimate film in a career that spanned 30 years.With a supporting cast of seven or eight female schoolgirls, the laughs were continual. A great film for the time, and one that is worth watching over and over. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Cary Grant Movie!","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This really is one of my favorite Cary Grant movies.  My family used to watch this movie every year over and over.  It has an interesting plot and good characters.What would you do if you were trapped on an island in the middle of a war with a bunch of girls that wanted to take over?  Cary Grant plays the perfect slob that has to cope with being around too much estrogen. "},{"Title":"Deal Me Out, Thank You Kindly, Pass Me By","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" All poor Cary Grant wanted to do was sit out World War II in peace, but the British Navy and the Japanese in the Pacific had some other ideas. Drafted by his friend, Royal Navy Commander Trevor Howard into being a coast watcher on some Pacific tropic isle, Grant's problems multiply exponentially when he finds himself on the same island as Leslie Caron and several school girls, playing Father Goose.Ms. Caron is a schoolteacher with several young ladies in her charge and they've been stranded. Hard enough being a solitary coast watcher in the South Pacific in 1942, now he has to take care of several females as well.It's good to remember that this is not the dapper Cary Grant we're all used to seeing. Grant reversed type and did it quite successfully playing a combination of Humphrey Bogart's Charlie Allnut from The African Queen and Charles Laughton's Ginger Ted from The Beachcomber. With a little bit of John Wayne's Rooster Cogburn thrown in.Actually I think Grant most reminds of Laughton as Ginger Ted. Charlie Allnut went into World War I far more willingly than Grant did, and Rooster Cogburn if nothing else was about doing his duty albeit in his own fashion. But Grant's Walter Eckland is definitely Ginger Ted if Laughton had gotten himself dragooned into being a coast-watcher. Father Goose is a nice change of pace for Cary Grant and there's a bit of Elsa Lanchester and Katharine Hepburn in Leslie Caron's portrayal as the spinster schoolteacher. Though Grant likes his liquor as much as Wayne, Bogart, and Laughton did, in this film we've got a reverse situation. He has to give Caron some medicinal alcohol when he thinks she's snake bitten. It's the best scene in the film.Father Goose is not in the first rank of Cary Grant films, but it's pleasant enough entertainment. It turned out to be his next to last film and he was lucky enough to go out as people remembered him. "}{"Title":"Skipper Cary","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Father Goose cobbles together elements of The African Queen, The Beachcomber, and the Monty Woolley WWII comedy, The Pied Piper.Cary Grant, as a South Seas wastrel, plays against type. He's a bit mussed up (he wears his shirt tail out) but never really conveys the gritty, grimy nature of the role. Even playing unattractive, Cary is attractive. And elegant. Not that he's miscast, it's more that he and the director don't take it far enough.The comedy is broad and not always hilarious.Leslie Caron is potentially quite funny but the film doesn't seem to give her enough opportunities.The schoolgirls in the film don't really act the way I think they would in the situation of the film. They're not very well defined characters, and it would be nice if they were people we could identify with at any point.Trevor Howard has a part as a British naval officer. "},{"Title":"A quirky jewel of a film, a rarity amid today's frenetic family productions.","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" No, it's not a high budget, CG intensive, action packed blockbuster. It's half a century old, contains no vulgarities or explicit scenes, no gore, very little gunfire, and only two decent explosions at the very end. (Sorry.) I do believe, however, that Father Goose is everything it was intended to be, and more. It's become a staple of regular viewing over the years in our household, to the point where bits of dialog are quoted frequently as perfect rejoinders. Even our kids say All of them, Frank when asked a question where a quantity or amount is the logical answer. (In more adult settings, my coconut is empty is more frequently employed.) For a film to work its way into the subconscious like this means the viewer has found something to cherish and commit to memory, and pull out with some glee whenever the situation warrants. Of course, this effort is wasted on those who haven't viewed the film. Fortunately, this is easily corrected.Cary Grant is the perfect reclusive curmudgeon who only wants to be left alone to pursue his dual pastimes of cruising the South Pacific and drinking. Leslie Caron is his ideal opposite, a school mistress stranded with her young charges on a remote island facing Japanese invasion. In spite of the mutual hostility, the story of them finding common ground to keep the girls safe is hilarious and heart warming, especially when framed by the harsh realities of World War II in the South Pacific.Produced at a time before filmmakers were constrained by political correctness in scripting and casting, Father Goose contains no overt or even subtle societal or political messages. In this regard, it's very refreshing to watch and enjoy. It contains enough suspense and clever dialog to keep adults engaged, and yet remains safe enough for family viewing. It's a romantic comedy that even guys and kids can enjoy, very well written and acted, and still holds up well even decades later. "},{"Title":"Try it, I haven't had my morning laugh yet","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Father Goose is directed by Ralph Nelson, has a screenplay by Peter Stone and Frank Tarloff and stars Cary Grant, Leslie Caron and Trevor Howard.Cary Grant plays a character here who is far removed from the suave and immaculate characters he played in the 30's and 40's, but is just as lovable.He and Leslie Caron have a wonderful chemistry and he gets to show his comic abilities, the film is an excellent blend of romance and comedy.Father Goose is set during the Second World War, Walter Eckland(Cary Grant)is happily living alone in the Pacific repairing his boat and boozing. His solitude is shattered when Commander Frank Houghton(Trevor Howard)asks him to stay on one of the islands and radio back any sightings of Japanese air activity.This he agrees to do until his solitude is shattered again by the arrival of young French schoolteacher Catherine Freneau(Leslie Caron)and a group of schoolgirls. They are stranded on the island and need to get back to the mainland.After a failed attempt to take them to the mainland they must stay with him which causes a lot of friction.As he gets to know her better though Eckland grows to like and even love the bubbly Catherine.He even becomes a surrogate father to the girls.Danger comes in the form of Japanese soldiers, bomb threats and poisonous snakes.Father Goose proves once again why Cary is one of the best and most likable actors ever to grace the screen.He himself said this was one of his favourite films and it's easy to see why.For once he's playing someone very unlike himself and it's such a shame that he didn't get a chance to do more roles like this in his long career. "},{"Title":"Goody Two Shoes and The Filthy Beast.....","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. I remember watching it as a child in the 1960's and it still delights me every time it happens to come on t.v. Cary Grant, who was known for playing suave, debonair characters in most of his movies, plays against type as a scruffy, hard drinker who was a professor before he decided to drop out of society and make a living as a boat captain. Leslie Caron is perfectly cast as the uptight Catherine, headmistress to several young ladies of different nationalities who are dropped on a deserted island during World War II as the Japanese prepare to invade. Hilarity ensues as Walter (Cary Grant's character) and the girls and headmistress all meet up and try to live together on the island until they are rescued. This movie has some very funny moments, and Grant was just great in his role. This is a very good family movie, no rough language, no nudity, just clean, old fashioned family fun. "},{"Title":"Grant's Skills on Full Display in Lighthearted WWII Romp With a Game Caron","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have a certain fondness for this 1964 movie because it is one of the earliest I remember seeing in the back of my parents' 1963 Rambler station wagon at the now-defunct Burlingame Drive-In near San Francisco. The film's catchy theme song, Pass Me By, was in my head for years. In the intervening years, I have come to recognize Cary Grant's immaculate precision as a comic actor, and even playing a grizzled, alcoholic beachcomber like Walter Eckland, he still exudes the sharp wit and crack timing that is his hallmark. In fact, Grant is at the top of his game here.Sharply written by Peter Stone and Frank Tarloff, the story revolves around Eckland's futile attempts to remain reclusive aboard his boat tooling around the South Pacific. Unfortunately, WWII is raging on, and the British Navy need to use him as a hidden spotter of Japanese fighter planes. He is tricked into the role and remains shipwrecked manning his post on an isolated island. Enter Catherine Freneau, a priggish French schoolteacher, who has been stranded on another island with seven schoolgirls. Eckland fetches them, and they all cohabitate with inevitable shenanigans occurring.Director Ralph Nelson, who generally made relatively lightweight fare, keeps the story fairly facile until they come under attack and a suspenseful element is carried through to the end. In what turned out to be his last leading role, romantic or otherwise, Grant was applauded at the time for dispensing with his suave manner to inhabit this character, but actually it's a throwback to the everyman characters he played in Only Angels Have Wings and Gunga Din. The difference is that at age sixty, he displays his talents as both romantic comedy lead and action hero with such seasoned adroitness.As Catherine, Leslie Caron demonstrates just how greatly underrated she is as a comedy actress. Even though her character threatens to be strenuously rigid, she conveys Catherine's vulnerability with subtle nuance and also has a very funny drunk scene where she gets to show off her ballet dancer gams. Grant and Caron have great chemistry. Trevor Howard dryly plays Eckland's friendly adversary, Commander Houghton, who transmits instructions by ham radio, and the girls are all gratefully portrayed with individual personalities. I have always been impressed how this film maintains its light heart and humor even though it's clear that the wartime setting is a critical element of the plot. It remains good, solid entertainment. "},{"Title":"Leslie Caron and Cary Grant, is there any other summary??","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cary Grant was 60 and Leslie Caron was 33 when this film came out in 1964. Grant was to make only one more film after this, even though he lived another 22 years. This movie gets its title from his code name, Mother Goose, and when he was forced to share his South Pacific island with a teacher (Caron) and her seven little girl students, he became more like a father goose.ssssome SPOILERS, READ FURTHER AT YOUR OWN RISK. Grant played a beach bum who had run away from his job as a professor when he realized that everyone was expected to dress and talk alike. He was working for the allies in WW II, on a small island with rations, whiskey,  and a radio, expected to report Japanese air traffic in that area. When a spotter on a neighboring island was shot and killed, he brought the teacher and her students back to his island.Since this is a Cary Grant film, we expect romance to blossom and it surely does here. But not until near the very end, when they actually get married by radio, with a chaplain on the other end. When they first met, Grant was a sour, stingy man who just wanted to drink his whiskey and have the intruders go away. Eventually the kids softened him up, and he softened up the school marm.This is just silly fluff of a movie, the only reason to watch it are Cary Grant and Leslie Caron. She was lovely in her early 30s, and in my opinion one of the most lovely actresses ever. She is still working, now in her 70s, and still lovely.  "},{"Title":"Terrific Cary Grant movie.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite Cary Grant movie.  I know some people aren't crazy about it, but I love Cary Grant's part.  His expressions are priceless, and while no one looks better in a Tux than Cary Grant, it is great to see him relaxed and kicked back.  This is a very under appreciated movie.  If you like comedies, you will like this one. "},{"Title":"One of his very best movies.","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Cary Grant and this is one of the best he made. It's humorous, romantic, and an all-around good family movie.  Cary just has a quality not often duplicated in actors.  If you haven't seen a Cary Grant movie before, this is a perfect place to start. "},{"Title":"Carron-Grant Works Well","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" In a way, Cary Grant is almost over the top in his portrayal for this film. It fits his typical role & Trevor Howard does very well in support. The chemistry between Grant & Leslie Carron makes this one worth watching.The plot & type of humor is aging & wink & hint kind of stuff but is brought off well enough that it is better than the average movie fair being produced in this era. If you want a pleasant diversion, this is a good place to start.The child actresses in this film are good but restrained in this film. You will find that they are well placed within the film but not real memorable. "},{"Title":"Touches all the right buttons.","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  They don't make stars like Cary Grant anymore, his combination of maturity, good looks, and comedic timing defines triple threat.And subtle, I attribute much of Grant's strength on the screen to his downplay of situation. With movies like Father Goose, they usually set up a comedic crisis, onto which more and more outlandish crises are stacked.Through it all, Mr. Grant keeps his powder dry.I personally prefer `Operation Petticoat' (directed by Blake Edwards) for &#145;boys will be boys' comedy. But the romanticism of Father Goose (Leslie Caron is great) makes this film play far better to couples.You cannot go wrong with either.   "}{"Title":"Cary Grant's effortless charisma in an offbeat casing choice that totally works!","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cary Grant's effortless screen charisma was the primary selling point of a 1964 comedy called Father Goose.Grant lights up the screen as Walter, a beachcomber who lives on an isolated south seas island who has been recruited by the military to spot enemy aircraft during World War II, where he is allowed to pretty much live like a hermit and drink to his heart's content who finds his quiet existence disrupted by the arrival of a teacher (Leslie Caron) and seven young girls who have become shipwrecked on the same island as Walter.Peter Stone's screenplay, which seems to have been tailored to Grant's comic sensibilities, actually won an Academy Award, but it's not just the screenplay that works here, but the offbeat choice of character for Grant as well. Grant was always known as being suave, urbane, and sophisticated on screen, but Grant took a calculated risk here playing a character the polar opposite of his traditional on screen image...Walter is unshaven, slovenly, crude, self-absorbed, and a bit of a sexist and having such a character interacting with a straight-laced teacher and a group of young girls turned produced comic gold.Grant offers one his best performances here and his chemistry with Caron is surprisingly solid, considering the vast difference in their ages. I guess it isn't an issue here because the relationship between the two characters is more combative than romantic and Caron somehow manages to hold her own against a cinematic legend who, even though he would make his final film appearance three years later, proved that he still had the chops to carry a movie by himself, but he gets help here from an offbeat character, an unusual story, and breezy direction from Ralph Nelson. "},{"Title":"Some Good Laughs","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" During World War II, a man (Cary Grant) persuaded to live on an isolated island and spot aircraft finds himself responsible for a teacher (Leslie Caron) and several students, all female.Some people complain that there is nothing likable about Catherine (Caron), and they make a fair argument. This man has a small shack and has important duties. Yet, they stomp all over him and get in the way of both his personal life and his work. The teacher acts like everyone else is more important, and she has no right to take his alcohol away.Grant, however, has a very likable character. He starts out gruff but reasonable and gets increasingly caring as the plot goes on. The war elements are sparse, but make him into a minor action star, as well. This would make an interesting double feature with Heaven Knows, Mr. Allison. "},{"Title":"Goody Two-Shoes and the Filthy Beast","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" On a South Seas island during WWII, beach bum Cary Grant is paid (in alcohol) by the Allies to watch for Japanese planes and ships. He finds himself reluctant protector to French teacher Leslie Caron and her students. A delightful and charming comedy. It's Cary Grant's penultimate film and this gruff role is a great change of pace for him. Trevor Howard is good as the Australian Navy commander who forces Grant into service. The child actors are all enjoyable. Leslie Caron is fun and has a lovely chemistry with Cary. Love the blood talk. Grant never felt comfortable being leading man to women young enough to be his daughter (kudos to him for that), and yet that was what he was being offered at the time. He would do one more movie before retiring. This was his last really good one, though. It's a little bit romantic comedy and a little bit family comedy but not enough of either to be hackneyed. Nice theme song Pass Me By. "},{"Title":"Cary Grant funny and charming","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" During the start of World War II, Walter Eckland (Cary Grant) buys a boat on cheap to sail around in the south Pacific. He doesn't care about the world and not even the war. Australian Naval commander Frank Houghton (Trevor Howard) forces him to observe for the incoming Japanese. Just to be sure, Frank punches a hole in Walter's boat. Walter is stranded on a deserted island. His code name is Mother Goose. Frank has hidden bottles of boozes and gives Walter each location when he gives a confirmed sighting. Frank tricks Walter to rescue a man in danger from the Japanese. When he gets there, the man is dead and he finds schoolteacher Catherine Frenau (Leslie Caron) and seven schoolgirls. He's a drunk and she's a Goody Two Shoes. They clash and eventually fall in love.Cary Grant is funny and charming as always. Leslie Caron is a bit young for Grant but they develop good chemistry. Verbal combat is always a good way to develop that chemistry. She's playing a bossy spinster. This is a fun little rom-com. "},{"Title":"Cary Grant's period version of the Dude from The Big Lebowski.","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Father Goose is a great film, with a great story, great characters, and great actors. Walter Eckland (Cary Grant) is a man who ran away from society on a boat. He is pretty much aimless and does almost nothing for anyone else's benefit. But during World War 2 Royal Australian Navy Commander Frank Houghton (Trevor Howard) pushes Walter to become a watchman on a desolate pacific island so he just searches for Japanese planes. One day he comes across Catherine Freneau (Leslie Caron) a snobby school teacher and all of her female pupils who inadvertently end up on Walter's island. The writing in this movie is great. All of the characters are fantastic, Walter, Catherine, Commander Houghton are all enjoyable. And all the acting is stellar from top to bottom. I can definitely recommend this movie. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Very good, but I think I enjoyed it better the first time I saw it.","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" When the film begins, the British commander (Trevor Howard) deliberately strands an 'American'(!), Walter (Cary Grant), on a small island so that he can be an observer for the navy. In order to get his cooperation, bottles of booze have been hidden about the island--and he's told where one is hidden each time he sends them a report on enemy aircraft that is later confirmed. Unfortunately for Walter, this routine is disrupted when he's asked to go on a rescue mission to a nearby island--but when he arrives, he only finds a school teacher and her seven young charges.Father Goose is an enjoyable family film. However, when I watched it tonight, I noticed that I didn't enjoy it as much as I did the other times I saw the picture. I think it's because this time I noticed things I didn't notice as much the previous times--such as how horribly Miss Freneau (Leslie Caron) and the kids treated Walter. Now, I thought that much of their behavior was rather boorish and mean all for the sake of comedy--such as the kid who kept biting Walter (I would have slapped that brat!) and the one who CONSTANTLY complained about wanting to be home. In hindsight, I wish they'd toned this down a bit--bit it STILL is an enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"More of a mystery than a comedy","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie comes dangerously close to being a stinker. The Cary Grant and Leslie Caron characters are both a bit exaggerated, Grant with his constantly sucking on a bottle but never appearing drunk, and Caron with her manipulative primness. We know Caron is going to do a Katherine Hepburn to Grant's Bogie in African Queen, and confiscate the liquor, and eventually get him to put on some clean clothes.And, of course, they're going to fall in love. But get married? There's not much of a transition here; at least Grant could have confessed how afraid he was she was going to die, or something. It's a real weak spot in the script, but then I guess this is sort of a children's movie, or at least one of those early Sixties family movies, a la Disney.I'm as shocked and mystified as anyone that this won an Oscar for best original screenplay. But then the good stuff, like Dr. Strangelove, Goldfinger, My Fair Lady and even Mary Poppins were based on books, and so didn't qualify. Speaking of My Fair Lady, can you believe Grant turned down Henry Higgins to be in this mediocrity? And he had hopes of Audrey Hepburn stooping to co-star, although I must admit, she would have been good in the role, as always. I wish Caron had played it more like Caron, with more class and finesse, and less anger.I saw this when I was a kid, and found it reasonably amusing. Viewing it from an older perspective, I can sympathize a lot more with Grant's character. The strongest section is the beginning, when he is being strong-armed into being an island watcher, the antithesis of South Pacific's Emile De Becque. The little girls certainly do a good job of being annoying, and providing a bachelor with good reason for retaining this status.Grant provides enough edginess to avoid turning this into a saccharine Disney number. He delivers a well-balanced comedic performance. But the roles are fairly generic, and other actors who could have played the lead, include Tony Curtis, Jack Lemmon or Walter Matthau.What makes Father Goose most interesting, from a cinematic perspective, is that it came only a year after director Ralph Nelson's masterpiece, Lilies of the Field. This was a heart-warming story not unlike Father Goose, of a reluctant hero dragged into doing his duty by a bunch of women. But it was a gentle, slow movie grounded in realism. I wonder if Father Goose could have been made with a similar approach? Instead, we have slightly unrealistic acting matched with a somewhat improbable story. It might have been better had it been more believable. It might have been more dramatic, but then it might not have been as funny.As to one comment about it being sexist, that's hilarious. What do you expect the little girls to do, grab a machine gun and mow down the Japanese sailors? Swim out and attach a mine to the Japanese patrol boat? Father Goose is very much a product of its time an early Sixties mainstream comedy. And that's the way it was.Oh, as to the mystery of the screenplay Oscar, perhaps it had something to do with writer Frank Tarloff having been blacklisted during the Fifties for being an unfriendly witness before the HUAC committee, and having moved to England. He wrote under assumed names, but what, I do not know. Perhaps the award was a surrogate for some of his work under a pseudonym.Father Goose is not a masterpiece, even of its genre, but it is reasonably entertaining, and holds up fairly well. It could have been better, from an adult perspective, but no one involved needs to apologize. Most of all, it is good, clean family fun, which might be why some reviewers are so ecstatic about it. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've loved this movie since it was on Saturday Night at the Movies on NBC in about 1967 - I was 12 years old and I suddenly wanted to be Cary Grant - not the debonair Cary Grant of To Catch a Thief who hooks up with Grace Kelly (that desire would come about a year later) but the beach-bum Cary Grant with the cool boat from Father Goose. I've re-watched the film a couple of times since then, including one viewing quite recently, and it strikes me as completely charming. Grant is outstanding (he felt this role was close to his real-life self). Caron is good. The kids are marvelous - very funny and alive. The boat is as cool as ever. Trevor Howard - that old grizzled Trevor Howard - is very fine. He doesn't have a whole lot to do - I get the feeling he shot his role in about a week in a Hollywood studio - but he makes the most of it. The script offers some interesting subtleties, such as the way Grant proves himself worthy of Caron's love - nothing REAL subtle, but kinda subtle. All in all, good family fare. And I still want to be a beach bum with a cool boat. "},{"Title":"Colorful but Slight Comedy","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" During WWII, an American is stationed on a South Seas island with the task of spotting Japanese planes, but ends up looking after a woman and seven schoolgirls. This is a colorful and entertaining comedy, but the material is stretched a bit thin at nearly two hours. Surprisingly, the screenplay won an Oscar. Grant seems to be having fun in his penultimate film, although he was perhaps too old to be getting romantic with Caron, nearly 30 years his junior. Even Grant knew he was too old, as this was the last time he played a romantic lead. Caron mostly just tries to be French, although the scene where she gets drunk is amusing. "},{"Title":"Cary and his sobering little helpers.","Date":"22 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Father Goose is Cary Grant's second to last film, with hindsight I personally would have liked this to have been his final film. Not that his last picture, Walk Don't Run, is a stinker, I just feel this particular film leaves a more fitting impression to the great man's comedic ability.Playing against his sophisticated image, Father Goose sees Grant playing a drunken beach bum who is stuck on a South Sea island with Leslie Caron and her seven young lady scholars. Bluffed into being there in the first place by crafty Trevor Howard Commodore Frank Houghton, Grant as Walter Eckland is more concerned with the fact that the Commodore has hidden all of his whiskey rather than focus on actual work! As the Japanese forces close in on the group, Eckland is forced to find his fatherly and straightened out inner self, thus providing comedy, drama, and of course a little romance into the bargain.I could have done with a far more stronger female lead than Caron, who does OK without really convincing as a viable comedy lead, whilst Trevor Howard merely looks to be reading from an autocue. But with an Oscar winning screenplay from Frank Tarloff and Peter Stone, and Cary delivering some cracking one line zingers, Father Goose gets in and does it's job with some delightfully cheery results. 7/10 "}{"Title":"FATHER GOOSE (Ralph Nelson, 1964) ***","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cary Grant's penultimate film was one I had missed out on countless times on Italian TV it is a curious blend of romantic comedy and war adventure (winning the Best Screenplay Oscar no less) that proves a surprisingly palatable, if overlong, confection. Grant is an alcoholic loner assigned through devious means (by Australian officer Trevor Howard) as a watcher for approaching enemy aircraft on a Pacific island; his codename is Mother Goose and they strike a bargain that, with every sighting Grant reports, Howard will divulge the location of one of the many whiskey bottles strategically hidden on the island! The lifestyle of the usually debonair star (here more self-centered than ever and looking deliberately shabby) is thrown further off-balance with the unexpected appearance of Leslie Caron, daughter of the French consul, and her seven girl charges of varying ages (all off-springs of international diplomats); needless to say, he also loses his autonomy of the shack/outpost and is forced to take refuge in the run-down boat that was purposely damaged by Howard to prevent Grant from giving him the slip! Gradually, though, the impressionable children are drawn to our cynical and reluctant hero the eldest even becomes infatuated with him, while the youngest &#150; who had not spoken a word since their arrival &#150; finally lets loose thanks to his 'support'; besides &#150; as was the norm with old-style Hollywood fare, irrespective of genre &#150; after the initial animosity, Grant and (the much-younger) Caron realize they are made for each other&#133;leading to a marriage ceremony via radio while the island is under aerial attack! As I said, FATHER GOOSE goes through several moods (a battle-of-the-sexes scenario, child interest, thrills, exotic locale) and does so relatively successfully on all fronts naturally, Grant is always worth watching and the film undeniably very funny in spots and good-looking to boot. "},{"Title":"Good Laughs","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie has is good because *It has a good plot *The humour is genuinely funny *and it makes senseThis plot is roughly as follows During World War 2, in the Pacific theatre a man called Walter Eckland, who is rude, selfish and greedy is approached by an Anzac Navy commander, who Walter's friend. He (the commander) forces Walter to go on a mission as a plane-spotter for the allies, so that they know Japanese aircraft positions, Walter only accepts, when there is alchol involved. And so the commander, on a military vessel then accidentaly creates a gaping hole in Walter's ship, thus stranding him upon their arrival at the island. One day, after many days of peace, the commander calls Walter, and informs him that another plane-spotter is on an island that is under Japanese assault. Walter must save him. Walter goes to the Island, and instead of finding the plane-spotter, he finds a woman and her schoolgirls.... The movie then continues on with how Walter will cope with these newcomers... Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Droll, yet simple","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" At his usual self, Cary Grant is the main reason to watch this movie. His always carefree attitude is tested in this film, where in the beginnings, he's just a simple man looking for peace of mind, and much to drink. But as the story unfolds, it's Cary in true form. Droll yet simple, drunk yet sharp. He hasn't slowed down in his age (this being his next to last movie), and keeps everything well together, along with his co-star in Leslie Caron, who basically take the ball and run with it, making their story of strange love the forefront to this cute little film. It's the kind of relaxing, Sunday afternoon drama that you'd be accustomed to. "},{"Title":"Cary Grant at his best.","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A man reluctantly agrees to watch Japanese activity around his island home in the Pacific during World War II. To top it all off the schoolteacher and her seven students are stranded with him. They must make good living conditions for each other, and make due of the situation on the island. Wondering how he and the teacher fall in love? It is a delightful comedy to watch over and again. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous and totally implausible","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" A pack of school girls in uniform and caps running around in constant tropical heat? Food and water never a priority and nobody showing a trace of sweat? This movie is so silly and unbelievable the comedy seems to be straining and never hits home.Cary Gant and Trevor Howard put in good performances. But I don't know how these fine actors could have resisted smirking and scoffing at this silly script. With all the alcohol consumption tagged as funny and frivolous by the storyline, no wonder Trevor Howard became a serious alcoholic and later succumbed as a result.The World War 2 setting as backdrop for a situation comedy rivals Hogan's Heroes. If this had been a story about survival on a tropical island during the war, even with some comedy, it might have worked. But the party-like atmosphere and antics under what would really be fear and hardship makes it simply silly, vapid, and uninteresting. A waste of acting talent and energy. "},{"Title":"Lightly entertaining","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This picture seems to take a number of elements from the superior African Queen (1951). However, Grant and Caron have nowhere near the chemistry of Bogart and Hepburn.That said, this is still an enjoyable comedy of the period. Grant can brighten up just about anything. "},{"Title":"This Won an Oscar?","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm confused by the number of good reviews for this film and even more by the Oscar this screenplay received. I guess people have childhood memories that are better than the picture.On the positive side, it was nice to see Cary Grant in a part outside of his usual flawless hero.On the negative side, Father Goose contains so much sexist propaganda that it had my girlfriend wincing in pain. That's a sad statement, because I never would have watched this film without her insistence.Grant plays an army officer consigned to a remote island to keep an eye on Japanese troop movements. He's shortly placed in charge of a group of school girls and their teacher, Leslie Caron.In pretty short order, we are treated to hilarity surrounding Grant's alcoholism. He discourages one of the young lady's crushes by coming on to her. Worst of all, we learn that the quickest way to a woman's heart is for her to be slapped in the face by a man. Over and over until she decides to marry the brute.For some reason, lots of reviewers seem to find this behavior enchanting, which makes some of the skewed ratings I've seen on IMDb all the more suspect. "},{"Title":"Successful Family Comedy.","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I know the plot sounds awful -- Cary Grant marooned on an island with Leslie Caron and half a dozen young girls -- but I found this pretty consistently funny. Of course you can predict just about everything that happens but it's so well written and the cast good enough that it should entertain most people.Grant is a grizzled, irritable, hard-drinking loner in New Guinea at the start of World War II and is finessed by the local Navy Commander, Trevor Howard, into manning a coast watcher station on an isolated island. Howard and his crew have buried bottles of whiskey around the thatch-roofed hut and arranged for the location of one bottle to be revealed with each confirmed sighting of Japanese aircraft or ships.Before long, circumstances force Grant to accommodate Caron and her diverse little charges -- two French, one Australian, and the rest British. There follow innumerable conflicts, small and large, as the unshaven, slovenly Grant is forced to sleep on his boat and does his best to avoid the kids, grumbling at their disruption of his unique life style and Weltanschaung.Largely because of Grant's superb comic timing and his expressive features and body language, the encounters are far more often funny than silly. Nor are they over-written. Example While the others are out somewhere, Grant sneaks back into the hut to search for the whiskey that Caron has hidden from him -- again. One child has been left behind and she stares at him silently as he rummages through the junk. Balked, frustrated, he glances sideways at her, there is a lengthy pause, then he speaks Beat it. Example two Believing Caron to have been fatally bitten by a venomous snake, Grant cuts the wound and sucks on it, then gets her drunk to make her death easier. Caron What did it taste like -- my blood. Grant How would I know? I'm not a vampire. Caron Was it salty? Grant is nonplussed Well, a LITTLE salty. Caron OHH, was it TOO salty? Grant (at his wit's end) No -- it was JUST RIGHT. Caron sobs a little and says No, I know it was too salty. On the screen, with Cary Grant at his best and Caron doing a fine job, it's not nearly as ridiculous as it sounds. Grant delivers exactly the right measure of chagrin.It's not an important film, not enough to go on about, but it's largely effective and should keep the kids laughing as well as the adults. The alcohol abuse we see is genteel. Grant swigs it straight out of the bottle but it's good Black & White scotch and he's never drunk. He is naturally reformed at the end. He even drinks a non-alcoholic beverage at dinner. Coconut milk. Mmmm. Young coconuts must love it. "},{"Title":"A Clean-cut Comedy","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a first post, so I'm not sure if what I have to say counts a spoiler. This movie lends itself well to a variety of audiences, including old people, young people, dates, families, and gatherings of friends. Cary Grant gives a great performance with some memorable quotes and an interesting twist on the whole surrogate family plot device. Though not entirely historically accurate this film takes advantage of the general settings of the World War II South Pacific to help drive the plot along. While the film is a generally a comedy they felt the need to try and insert action into certain segments. While this helps move the plot along, it is not particularly well done, or always thought out. However, on the whole, it is a highly enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"The Good One","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think that Cary Grant still had a lot to offer in the 60's (take Charade for example and, most of all, his 1968 movie Walk, Don't Run, which is fantastically funny and smart). The Father Goose movie featured another star from the early sixties, Leslie Caron, and to put those two together in a movie, you just can't fail. That's what a good movie is all about the sheer fun. I still don't think that Nort By Northwest is a very good movie, although it's not a bad one, and if I had to scan thru his filmography, I'd take his early movies with Katherine Hepburn (I Was A Male War Bride, Holiday) and the before-mentioned Walk, Don't Run. As for Father Goose, he updates his film role from Operation Petticoat with Tony Curtis and does a very fine job.  "}{"Title":"Cary Grant joins the war effort.","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cary Grant & Leslie Caron in what is almost a sitcom.  He's a drunk, she's a school marm, they're thrown together in the South Pacific during WWII with seven school girls.  Sort of like African Queen lite. "},{"Title":"A silly movie that--astonishingly--won an Oscar for the script!","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Let's see. Cary Grant plays a drunkard and ne'er-do-well. At the start of the film, we see him stealing military supplies from off the wharf. His country is fighting the Japanese in a war for survival following Pearl Harbor, but this character just wants to drink and fish--or drink like a fish.Then he meets the Leslie Caron character and the seven little girls in her charge. They all get marooned on a jungle island. Cary wants no part of the little girls and doesn't seem concerned that they have no place to sleep and no food, could wander off into the jungle and get lost, be bitten by snakes, etc. Not his problem...And by the way, he's the hero of our story.Then there's the Leslie Caron character. She takes over Cary's hut, confiscates all of his supplies, strips his boat of any usable goods....And she's the heroine.Of course, the whole point of this obnoxious behavior is that it's supposed to be funny. Certainly the Motion Picture Academy thought so. They gave the screenwriters an Oscar for best original screenplay.The 1960s were an abysmal time for the movies. Sex comedies that made wives look like broody hens. James Bond lookalikes with Playboy lifestyles that now seem like the fantasies of 12-year-old boys. On and on. Surprising how many movies of that decade are now unwatchable. "},{"Title":"You've Mother Goosed me for the last time!","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" WWII misadventures of a grizzled beachcomber and a prim, needling female schoolteacher and her gaggle of refugee schoolchildren on a South Seas island, all sharing one ramshackle hut and hiding from the Japanese. Would-be salty, family-oriented comedy is hardly a step up from the live-action Disney films of this era, with only Cary Grant's ruffled panache holding interest. Both Cy Coleman's embarrassingly derivative score and Peter Stone's lead weight script (co-written with Frank Tarloff from S.H. Barnett's short story) keep trying for coy laughs which may be successful only with very patient eleven-year old girls. Although a big hit in 1964, it is quite clear why Grant was losing interest in the movies at this point he was being turned into an overage juvenile. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A Bearded Cary Grant","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There was nothing left for Grant to do. He was an old man, his romantic-comedies did not transcend time into the 60's, and Hitchcock had got the best of him in 'North by Northwest'. There was nothing left for him to do. By the time Grant completed this picture he decided in his own mind that he was too old for Hollywood and that there was no more virgin territory for him to explore. "},{"Title":"Castration Comedy","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a sick, sadistic farce-a castration comedy sure to be a favorite with man-haters everywhere. Cary Grant stumbles into a war he wants no part of, and is blackmailed and conned into a life of utter isolation, spotting Japanese plane and ship movements for the Royal Navy. First his cruiser is scuttled-by the very people who have enlisted him-and next he is persuaded to transport a troop of Brownies from hell led by Leslie Caron. These lovelies promptly throw him out of his digs, bury his booze, steal his blankets, tools, and food, and endear themselves to the females in the audience by laughing when he cuts himself on the sharp edge of a can, biting him, and hitting him on the foot with a hammer-which they are in the act of stealing from him at the time. If you enjoyed the kind of cruel humor in Planes, Trains, and Automobiles, you'll love this movie. I just had a hard time sitting through the series of setbacks the Cary Grant character lives through in the first forty-five minutes or so of the film. If I want to see someone crucified, I'd prefer The Greatest Story Ever Told, not this Punch and Judy show masquerading as comedy. "}]