[{"Title":"Prophetic warning","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"63 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  An excellent cast, a well-crafted script, and a talented director add up to one of the great films.This movie captures the paranoia of the cold war and how that paranoia tested the strength and definition of a democracy. The importance of civilian control over the military is well illustrated in this chilling story of a plot by the Pentagon to overthrow the US President because the military disagrees with his disarmament policy.Use of black & white gives the film the look of a documentary, emphasizing the sense of realism for the story. If you have the chance, see this movie. "},{"Title":"Seven Days in May Was Anything But Far-fetched","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The novel and the movie Seven Days in May were based on a very potential reality. See James Bamford's 2002 book, Body of Secrets, which is about the National Security Agency. General Edwin Walker, mentioned in another review, was only the least of what was going on in the higher echelons of the U.S. military near the end of the Eisenhower Administration and the beginning of the Kennedy-Johnson Administration.At military bases, and even at the National War College in Washington, the most rabid preachings took place about the real threat of communism coming not from Russia or Cuba, but from high-ups in the domestic power structure, including the government. The entire Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS), led by Chairman Lyman Lemnitzer, was very right wing and rabidly obsessed with the idea that American civilization could not endure unless Cuba was militarily conquered and occupied in the long-term. They repeatedly threw suggestions for this at Eisenhower, who never took the bit. When Ike left the Oval Office and Kennedy, who had never been a military higher-up, replaced him, Lemnitzer felt adrift and became very paranoid. There were all sorts of JCS contingency plans, never implemented, for creating an incident that could be blamed falsely on the Russians and/or the Cubans to justify an invasion - a sort of second sinking of the battleship Maine. The more far-fetched of these ideas included terrorism at home to be blamed on Cuba and an attack on a friendly Central American country that could be falsely blamed on Cuba, all without the President's approval. Lemnitzer, according to Bamford, had little use for the concept of civilian control of the military. In fact,enough of this atmosphere within the U.S. military was in the wind that there was a secret Congressional inquiry into the potential for a military takeover of the government, which was based on more than idle wonder. Senator Albert Gore of Tennessee (the father of the recent Vice President), a member of the investigating committee, called for Lemnitzer's firing. Kennedy did not fire him, but did not re-appoint him to a second term as Chairman, preferring the more rational Maxwell Taylor.When the book came out, I stayed awake for 24 hours to finish it. I could not put it down. Mercifully, the film is shorter, but it is superbly acted and very well scripted. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Can It Happen Here?","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"31 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Fredric March is the President of the United States. He has just gotten a nuclear disarmament treaty signed with the Soviet Union's leader, and it has (barely) been passed by the U.S. Senate. Both countries agree to get rid of their nuclear arsenals, and to end decades of potential nuclear catastrophe. But there are many who oppose this treaty, including Burt Lancaster, the greatest military hero of the day and head of the Joint Chief of Staff. He is in contact with several others regarding these fears, and they are planning a coup, to replace the President and his supporters and rip up this dangerous treaty. That is the background and story of Seven Days In May, except that Lancaster's closest assistant, Kirk Douglas, is appalled at the scheme and tips off March and his associates (Martin Balsam, Edmond O'Brien, George Macready). We are also aware that there is certain information that can be gotten by the President that would tarnish Lancaster's American patriot and family man image - his love letters to his mistress (Ava Gardner). Also, as the film goes on, we are aware of the spread of the coup - how Edmund O'Brien is held imprisoned by mutinous soldiers. And how Balsam may have gotten a confession out of one of the weaker links in the scheme.This film is interesting on so many levels. Not only does it include so many good performances in it, it is one of the most Oscar filled film casts one can think of - March, Lancaster, Douglas, Balsam, O'Brien, and even the uncredited John Houseman (as the weak-link Admiral Barnswell) all do well in the film. But what is most interesting to me is that the film was made when it was. Because it brings up the issue of whether a political coup can happen here or not.The subject of a fascist or dictatorial government taking over America is not new. Jack London wrote of such in The Iron Heel at the turn of the 20th Century. Sinclair Lewis did the same in 1934 with It Can't Happen Here, turning real life demagogue Senator Huey Long into Senator Buzz Windrip who seizes power. Hollywood would have an unsettling faith (to us) in fascistic politics in Gabriel Over The White House, This Day And Age, and even Harold Lloyd's strange comedy The Cat's Paw. That the Depression scared the people does not really reassure us today. But Seven Days In May was written in the 1960s. It does show how close to success such a plot may go.SPOILERS AHEADBasically, what saves the day for President Jordan Lyman's administration, and the treaty, is that the confession of one of General Scott's confederates is found. Lyman is unable to bring himself to be as underhanded towards the General as the latter deserves (he can't bring himself to use the love letters the General wrote his mistress to discredit the man). The deus ex machina of the confession saves the day, and causes the other leaders of the coup to save themselves, so that Scott is deserted and discredited as a traitor (when Jiggs, sarcastically asked if he knows who Judas was, tells Scott that he is Judas Scott realizes it's over). His collapse is completed as he hears over the radio of the resignations of his co-conspirators.The interesting thing was that Knebel's novel pushed a different slant on Scott's final collapse. Lyman, in the novel, produces the confession to Scott, and they both hear of the resignations. Scott leaves the Oval Office aware that it is over, but thinking that he might (after he resigns) start a political campaign to replace Lyman in the White House in the next election. Instead, he is confronted by Senator Clark (O'Brien) and Secretary of the Treasury Todd (George Macready)outside the Oval Office. They remind Scott that if he intends to run for the Presidency rather than resigning, there is still the matter of the love letters. Clark tells him that while Lyman is too much the gentleman to use them, neither Clark nor Todd would hesitate the opportunity of smearing him as a moral hypocrite. Scott actually is more concerned about this - and actually tries to hide behind the theoretical skirts of his betrayed wife at this moment (You wouldn't want to hurt her - that sort of thing). Regretfully they wouldn't care.In 1962, John Frankenheimer had done The Manchurian Candidate, which also suggested a threat to American Democracy (although manipulated by foreign governments and their hidden agents). Then President John Kennedy was assassinated in 1963, and in modern times (sixty three years since the last successful Presidential murder) violence had shaken the government. So Seven Days In May was quite timely when it came out in 1964. It has lost none of it's timelessness since then.Oddly enough, Fletcher Knebel wrote another political thriller that never did get made into a film. I'm not referring to Vanished, which was made into a television movie in the 1970s. I am referring to A Night At Camp David. In that novel, a popular American President invites his Vice President to spend a week-end in the Presidential retreat, and has a series of conversations about policy plans that reveal to the increasingly frightened Veep that his chief is an insane paranoid, who is planning moves that may lead to global disaster. The problem Only the Veep has been informed of this - nobody else. How is the Veep to get the public to realize the danger, without people feeling the Veep is only spreading lies against a popular President in order to seize the Presidency himself? It is a fascinating plot, and I wonder why it was never filmed. "},{"Title":"a masterful thriller","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Seven Days in May is cold war movie making at its best. This film does not have a car chase, gun battles, or a President as villian. It does have great actors and is one of the finest translattion of a novel to screen. It is the first of the U.S. Militery as villian plot lines, since over used on both the screen and tv.  A number of years ago a remake was done for cable-The Enemy within-and it did not work. In that the President is to be over-throw because he will sign a defense bill! The Russians are no longer the enemy and that's why it fails. In the first, made three years after the Cuban Missle Crisis, the fear of the Soviets is real and provides the ploters with a major cause against the President's program of disarmement. One of the best movies of the last fifty years. "},{"Title":"Can it really happen? Is it about to happen?","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"35 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  John Frankenheimer directs this powerful political thriller about a conspiracy by top military brass to overthrow the government. A marvelous cast in a powerful, pulse pounding drama. Kirk Douglas is a Marine Colonel that suspects the Joint Chief of Staff Chairman(Burt Lancaster)of plotting a disguised military coup that would destroy the President's nuclear disarmament treaty. Veteran actor Fredric March is outstanding as the President.The very talented supporting cast includes the beautiful Ava Gardner, Martin Balsam, Andrew Duggan and Edmond O'Brien. John Houseman makes his debut in this Rod Serling screenplay. This one is a heavyweight. Paranoia prevails. The Russians are always suspect; but who would think of your own military turning inside out? "},{"Title":"Classic scene between two brilliant actors does it all.","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Somewhat forgotten political thriller about a military plot to take over the government. Great performances by all in this film, but mostly by Burt Lancaster and Fredric March who toward the end of the movie have a great scene with excellent dialog that sum up the true essence of the story. Ava Gardner is beautiful (literally) in this film. Edmund O'Brien is not to be overlooked as the bourbon loving southern senator. The first time I heard of this picture was when Gen Alexander Haig was being interviewed a number of years ago about the final days of the Nixon administration and was asked if he was thinking about the movie Seven Days in May Eventually I saw  it late one night on cable and was glad I did. "},{"Title":"Forget West Wing, here's political maneuverings with teeth","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A splendid ensemble cast brought together in a fun, tight political thriller. John Frankenheimer's direction is first rate. I can't imagine Alfred Hitchcock doing a better job. The novel by Fletcher Knebel and Charles W. Bailey II was first published in 1962 and takes place in the early 1970s. The film, made in 1964, is more of period piece, shot in black and white by Ellsworth Fredericks. Some of the dark tones in the film are inspired by the mood of the nation since the assassination of President Kennedy. The novel, by contrast, writes of a two-term Kennedy administration. The script by Rod Serling improves on the novel by creating a sharper climax as the president overcomes the brewing plot by panicking high-ranking military officers to overthrow the Executive Branch of the US government. The film is otherwise fairly faithful to the book. Burt Lancaster plays General James Mattoon Scott, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and universally idolized military hero. The man, it seems, would make an ideal president--and that just might happen on the seventh day in May. Kirk Douglass portrays the efficient Colonel Jiggs Casey, who is Scott's subordinent and reluctant hero of the film. Frederick March is credible as an aging, weary president who has recently won a hard-fought battle to ratify a treaty with the Soviet Union to eliminate atomic weapons. There is a vociferous backlash against the treaty, led by right-wing television personalities. Soon it is apparent that certain elements in the military, congress, and media are all in league to usurp power from the president and, as they would reason, save the nation from the worthless treaty. The film plays on traditional political labels, both pro and con. Even though it was made 28 years ago, one can identify with many of the characters and situations in the film. In the later 1980s, President Ronald Reagan was criticized by right wing conservatives for signing a treaty with the Soviet Union to downsize nuclear stockpiles. The film has some great editing as well, most notably the scene where some of the recent mysterious occurances are beginning to make sense to Jiggs as he watches Gen. Scott address a conservative political rally. Good camerawork as well, particularly when a nervous Jiggs finally sums up to the president the fantastic plot he believes he's stumbled upon. Another great shot occurs when General Scott presents a speech he is going to make against the president to his team of co-conspirators, only the back of his head is seen. The characters are human, the story is spellbinding, the film is a classic on all levels. "},{"Title":" Do You Know Who Judas Was? ","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" There are many movies directed by John Frenkenheimer which simply evolve over time into great works of art. In their own way, they exemplify his innate sense of mystery, suspense, and dark drama. Too many to list, one example would be Seconds. In this film, Seven Days in May we have what will surely become one of the finest examples of his craft. In the story, we have Gen. James Mattoon Scott, (Burt Lancaster) (in what certainly became a custom tailored role for him) who firmly believes that the president of the United States has criminally endangered the country by agreeing to a nuclear disarmament treaty. So concerned for the safety of the U.S. that he and several Joint Chiefs of Staff, decide to remove President Jordan Lyman ( Fredric March) with a cleverly designed military alert, or Coup d'etat. Unable to confide in his own aid, Col. Martin 'Jiggs' Casey, (Kirk Douglas), Scott, arranges to keep Casey out of the loop, until the overthrow is complete. Unfornatuately for the Generals, Casey suspects their innocent secret wagers are more menacing than they appear and hopes the president will believe him when he shares his suspicions about the man he work's for and admires. Edmond O'Brien is Sen. Raymond Clark, one of the few men the president can trust. The late Rod Serling wrote the script and like his twilight Zone episodes, this classic film has one wondering who the real traitors are? ***** "},{"Title":"Excellent Perfect 5 Stars","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A very thought provoking, realistic political thriller that succeeds on every level. This film features great acting from everyone involved but namely Kirk Douglas, Burt Lancaster, and of course Fredick March. Each one of these actors were very convincing it their respected roles. The film also featured amazing cinematography, directing, and very powerful writing. Given the current situation in the U.S. this film despite its age is a perfect example of what could happen in the next few years. Unlike the other anti-war film of 1964 (Dr. Srangelove) this actually presents its viewer with a believable story line, one that will keep your interest throughout. I highly recommend this film to any avid Film Buff because it is an example of perfect filmmaking. A terrific film that deserves all 5 stars that I am giving it.GRADE ***** "},{"Title":"This film will give you the chills!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Although it may seem dated because of its' subject matter (it takes place during the Cold War), the underlying content of political back-stabbing is still relevant.  In this star-studded cast, Frederic March gives an outstanding performance as President Jordan Lyman.  He shows how a great leader handles the toughest of situations.  This is a powerful film with some very tense moments.  It is also an excellent example of directing that makes the most of camera angles and lighting to enhance the drama.  Clean transfer to DVD. "}{"Title":"a fantastic thriller from Frankenheimer","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The director, John Frankenheimer, had an amazing string of movies in the early to mid-1960s. First, The Manchurian Candidate, then this movie followed up a couple years later by Seconds. These are three of the absolute best thrillers EVER--and all with the same director! Seven Days in May is about a coup d'etat in progress to remove the President of the United States from office. It seems his more liberal course in regard to arms control doesn't meet with the approval of those in the military and they are afraid the US will be destroyed if they continue on the President's path. This plot is great because you can see BOTH sides on this issue and understand so well where they come from and why they think they are correct, so it is NOT a cut and dried issue. IT MAKES YOU THINK and it seems so plausible the way it is laid out for the viewer.The acting is GREAT as well--with Burt Lancaster as the popular general planning the coup, Kirk Douglas as the military officer who agrees with Lancaster but cannot allow himself to violate his oath as an officer, Frederick March as the idealistic President, and Edmund O'Brien as his trusted (though occasionally intoxicated) adviser--along with many others.See this, then try the other two Frankenheimer thrillers listed. Unless you are extremely stupid, you'll love the films. "},{"Title":"Spare the Rod","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"30 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A fascinating movie. I have it on tape and watch it regularly. I'm not sure why. The story is a primitive one. There is a plot to take over these United States. (Even the tag line is incorrect. Douglas says the United States.) The script, by Rod Serling, is full of his trouvees. Ava Gardner says to Douglas I'll give you two things. A steak, rare, and the truth, which is very rare. (I'm laughing out loud as I write this.) Frederick March is always referring to his physician as the good doctor. A cabinet member, played by George Macready, is a yachting freak so he's always interjecting ejaculations like, Look out, Mister President! These are deep waters we're sailing in! He tells Douglas that he, Douglas, gets credit for whatever taste of victory they have in their mouths, just after Kirk has been forced through an immoral act. The taste in my mouth, Mr. Secretary, isn't exactly victory. But Rod isn't to blame for all of the script. Some is lifted from the novel, in which the president is referred to as Jordy. The novel's prose is, let us say, clumsy and a little hard to swallow sometimes. Yet I like this film a lot. The stilted dialogue is enjoyably comic. The photography has a pleasantly washed out diluted quality, particularly noticeable in the scenes in El Paso, where the featureless desert seems almost blindingly white. The performances are about as good as they get. Lancaster has made several movies with John Frankenheimer and I suppose they get along, their interests being as much alike as they are, and it shows in Burt's performance. Kirk Douglas, who made even more movies with Burt, looks snazzy in a bird colonel's summer uniform. The rest of the cast is simply fine. Edmond O'Brian is pretty old and tubby and looks the part of an alcoholic pol with backbone. His Southern accent is neatly done. His eyes sort of bulge out and look in two slightly different directions, lending his part a comedic undertone, regardless of circumstances. George Macready -- has anyone ever played an icey standoffish cold fish as well as he? Is that what going to Brown does to you? I've always admired Martin Balsam's style. He has a gift for draping ordinary lines in a kind of sonorous tinsel -- very New Yorkish, but quirkily so. The gift is on full display in this film. His exchange with John Housmann aboard the aircraft carrier is priceless. There is nothing dramatic about it. It's simply done very well. Housmann has a small part, but he's very effective in it. Frederick March, a reliable actor, is reliable here. The Secret Service guy is dispensable and seems dumb compared to the other characters. The politicians, except for the president and secretary, are pretty slimy, as you'd expect in a movie about a plot to take over these United States, and Hugh Marlowe, as the ranking politician conveys that sliminess. Ava Gardner I admire as a woman but have never found her much of an actress. Andrew Duggan ditto. Richard Anderson in a small part exudes his usual class. Richard Anderson is from the New Jersey shore. Everyone from the Jersey shore has class. Look at Norman Mailer. Look at Jack Nicholson. Look at Abbott and Costello. I'm certain that anyone who knows the politicomilitary bureaucracy could poke so many holes in this story that it would look like the brain of a cow that had died of bovine spongiform disorder, but it doesn't matter. It's a left-wing fantasy, and an enjoyable one. The only truly disturbing scene is when March is making his victory speech at the end. Something about marching out of the dark tunnels of ignorance into the bright sunshine of freedom. Absolutely nothing more than a collage of platitudes and clichés, totally content free. It's as if Rod had done some acid before writing it and kept getting lost along the way. It's like listening to Jeepers creepers over and over again without ever getting to Where'd you get those peepers? But that's okay. It's an enjoyable film. Very dramatic score, with lots of CLANGS -- ominous bells. Eleventh-hour-type bells. See it if you have a chance. "},{"Title":"A pleasure to watch","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I very much like this movie, and usually watch it when it crops up on cable, as it does quite frequently.The primary message is dated the prospect of a group of American generals plotting a coup d'etat is pretty remote at the present time, although it didn't seem quite so far-fetched in the sixties. But the primary message is only one part of the film; there's plenty more that has not dated one bit.First, the moral questions raised by the plot. Should Kirk Douglas betray his general? That's probably fairly easy to answer. But should he take up with the general's mistress to see if he can get some dirt? Should he steal the general's love letters from the general's mistress? Should the President use them?Second, the direction. The film is long, and there is no action in the sense in which that word is used nowadays; but the tension exists from the very beginning, and mounts relentlessly to the very end. This is the product of brilliant direction and editing. Third, the acting and the script, which I'll put together. The dialogue is succinct and clear, and the actors do it full justice. I don't think there's a poor performance to be seen. Ava Gardener perhaps portrays her character as a little too fragile, but in the scene where she discovers Kirk Douglas going through her rubbish bin, she makes you sit up and take notice. Burt Lancaster is as brilliant as he always is. In short, the script makes the viewer really think about virtually every character, and every actor plays his or her part so as to make the viewer aware of all of the implications of the script. "},{"Title":"Marvelously low-key suspense thriller.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps one of the most genuinely suspenseful films every made, this paranoic film should be seen in conjunction with its natural brethren, The Parallax View and The Manchurian Candidate (which is also directed by John Frankenheimer).The film's strength lies in a group of superb performance -- Burt Lancaster as the ramrod-stiff and egomaniacal general bent on saving the United States by planning the overthrow of the government; Kirk Douglas as his senior staff officer, who only gradually realizes what his boss is planning and just how dangerous he is; Fredric March as the world-weary President; and especially Edmond O'Brien as the souse of a Senator who, like March, demonstrates the kind of ingenuity and resolve that Lancaster and his co-conspirators assume they don't possess.  These performers, as well as a splendid supporting cast, make Rod Serling's sometimes preachy dialogue seem completely real, and some of the scenes -- notably the final face-off between March and Lancaster -- seem on the verge of exploding.Frankenheimer's low-key direction feeds this tension, by allowing the dialogue and the situations do the work.  Would-be filmmakers looking to specialize in thrillers should probably spend more time watching films like this than modern-day thrillers like Enemy of the State or Conspiracy Theory which rely more on violence than actual dramatic tension. "},{"Title":"The Quintessential Political Thriller","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Marvellous acting by antagonists Douglas and Lancaster, complemented by sexy and sophisticated Ava Gardner. Fredric March turns in one of his last great performances as a US President who has just negotiated a disarmament treaty with the Soviet Union.  Douglas, playing a Marine Colonel and Director of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, becomes disturbed by a number of peculiar events surrounding the JCS Chairman (Lancaster), which lead him to believe his superior is planning a coup d'etat.  By the time he manages to convince the White House that his suspicions are correct, less than seven days remain till the fateful hour -- which will destroy the Constitution and may lead to World War III.  Frankenheimer's direction is stark and taut, worthy of Hitchcock, while Rod Serling's screenplay remains truer to the novel than perhaps any other novel adaptation ever filmed.  Watch for an uncredited appearance by John Houseman. "},{"Title":"Vintage Rod Serling","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" After REQUIEM FOR A HEAVYWEIGHT, the screenplay for SEVEN DAYS IN MAY might be Rod Serling's finest effort. The drama of an attempted military takeover of the United States government, SEVEN DAYS is one of Serling's most tautly written scripts and was one he himself favored. It was wisely filmed in black and white with virtually no obligatory special effects--all of which works terrifically as the drama is structured on character and plot, not military pyrotechnics, Serling's usual formula for success.While working at the Pentagon, Kirk Douglas (Colonel Jiggs Casey) accidentally uncovers a plot to stage a coup of the government masterminded by Gen. Matoon Scott (Burt Lancaster). He dutifully reports his discovery to the President (Fredrich March) who receives the news with skepticism, though he investigates and later finds it to be true. He assigs his old workhorse pals Marty Balsam and Edmund O'Brien to dig in and get to the bottom of matters which they do uncovering the players in the plot, some military, some not.Ellie (Ava Gardner) is excellent as Lancaster's current girlfriend and the former lover of Douglas for whom she still pines. But Douglas must use her to acquire personal letters in her possession written by Lancaster which Douglas gives to the President in case he were to need them against the generals' denial of involvement. Interestingly, the President never uses the letters against Lancaster because of their highly personal and sensitive nature. Undoubtedly, Serling is showing us the liberal President is an honorable and decent man whose ideals, quite obviously, mirror Serling's politics.Steely Edmund O'Brien is his usual reliable self as the President's right-hand man who gets thrown into the tank on a remote military base while investigating the conspiracy. John Houseman makes a cameo appearance as a conspiring naval admiral who is confronted with the irrefutable evidence and signs a confession.The poignant confrontation between March and Lancaster in the oval office is perhaps the movie's finest scene. The President discloses his knowledge of the plot and Generall Scott not only admits to it, he unleashes his complete disgust at the President's liberal policies which he believes to be sending the country down the drain. It is a superb exchange over the constitution, its' integrity, and how a republic must abide by its precepts in order to survive. In all, vintage Rod Serling. After the general leaves, March reflects that it wasn't any single man, that caused the attempt to take control of the government, but rather an age meaning the anxiety of the nuclear age. Those who watched the Twilight Zone will recall numerous episodes about the insanity of the atomic era and the ramifications of turning weapons of mass destruction over to machines and systems. It was a theme that Serling often repeated.Not to be outdone is the brief, but pointed confrontation between Lancaster and Douglas after the plot has been dismissed by the President. Scott knows that it was Jiggs who informed the President of the coup. He orders him to answer the question Do you know who Judas was? Yes, answers Douglas. He was a man I admired until he disgraced his uniform. SEVEN DAYS IN MAY is a drama that one should study if he has even a slight interest in the work of Rod Serling. It is also a minor masterpiece of terse, point-counterpoint dialogue and worth studying if one has even the least interest in writing. Trivia If ever there was a man who killed himself with a four-pack-a-day habit who worked himself to death, it was Serling. Serling once called success the bitch goddess....One quotable from Serling referring to his writing work life when he was turning out scripts like factory sausages My diet consisted of coffee and fingernails....Serling also wrote the screenplay for PLANET OF THE APES...I saw Rod Serling speak at Chabot College in Hayward, Ca., in 1969. He made clear his disdain for the current cinema darling at that time EASY RIDER. Also, he admitted his worst effort was ASSAULT ON A QUEEN, the sleeping tablet of a film starring Frank Sinatra....But when asked his favorite screenplay, he said, SEVEN DAYS IN MAY.--Dennis Caracciolo "},{"Title":"We look for a champion in red, white, and blue","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Intense and gravely serious, Seven Days In May tells the fictional story of a super-patriotic American General, a man named James Mattoon Scott (Burt Lancaster), who may, or may not, be plotting with others to overthrow the U.S. Government. Much of the plot, especially early-on, is veiled in secrecy and mistrust.An alert Col. Jiggs Casey (Kirk Douglas) first gets suspicious when references to horse racing are labeled top secret. Then he discovers that a mysterious organization called ECOMCON doesn't officially exist. Casey's suspicions turn to Scott, because Scott disdains President Jordan Lyman (Fredric March) as a liberal pacifist. In the early going, it's up to viewers to figure out whether this military coup d'etat is real or imagined.The film's dialogue is heavy laden with import. Characters speechify with feeling about nuclear war, Pearl Harbor, disarmament, and other weighty issues. There's almost no humor. The forceful rat-a-tat-tat of the drums during the title sequence foreshadows a distressing tone foreboding, angry, discordant.It's a riveting story, with lots of tension. I would describe its import as comparable to All The President's Men. Acting is top-notch. I especially liked the performances of March, as the idealistic President. In support roles, Edmond O'Brien and Martin Balsam are terrific.The B&W visuals are quite good. There are lots of wide-angle and low-angle shots, which convey a heightened sense of visual perspective. There's some mood lighting at night in the rain, and some clever back-projection techniques.On the other hand, with such a large cast I found it hard to connect names with faces at times. And the romantic subplot with Ellie (Ava Gardner) is a tad distracting.But overall, this is a fine, high quality Cold War era film dealing with topics that were cogent in the 1960s, especially following the assassination of JFK.President Lyman summarizes the film's theme. The enemy is an age, a nuclear age. It happens to have killed man's faith in his ability to influence what happens to him. And out of this comes a sickness, a sickness of frustration, a feeling of impotence, helplessness, weakness. And from this desperation, we look for a champion in red, white, and blue. "},{"Title":"A great what-if political drama that still holds up","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  After having tackled the subject of brainwashing in his 1962 cult classic THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE, director John Frankenheimer took on the possibility that a sitting president could be removed in a coup d'etat in the equally classic 1964 drama SEVEN DAYS IN MAY.  Like Kubrick's blackly comic DR. STRANGELOVE, SEVEN DAYS IN MAY was a stinging indictment of America's Cold War policies and proceeded to further shake up a nation that had yet to recover from the murder of a real-life president (John F. Kennedy) that some would argue WAS a coup d'etat.This film's president is well-played by Frederic March.  March has managed to sign an agreement with the Soviet Union to reduce nuclear arsenals across the board and thus reduce tensions between the two superpowers.  However, the Soviets have had a track record of bailing out on their promises; and this causes March's poll numbers to sink.  Much more ominously, it causes one of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General James Mattoon Scott (Burt Lancaster) to plot a coup against him.  Left out of Lancaster's plan is his trusty aide, Colonel Casey Jiggs (Kirk Douglas).  Because Douglas is suddenly thrown out of touch with his superior, he begins to smell something awfully fishy and soon latches onto the coup possibility.  Although opposed to March's agreement with the Soviets, he nevertheless realizes that a coup is not the answer.  Torn between loyalty to Lancaster and a loyalty to the rule of law, he informs March about his suspicions.  March takes this seriously enough to have some of his closest political allies, including a congenial but often inebriated Georgia senator (Edmond O'Brien), to look into it.Pretty soon, March has enough evidence to catch Lancaster red-handed, but is shrewd enough to realize that Lancaster is not at the root of the problem.  It is rather the terror of the nuclear age that created the conditions for a coup attempt.  The final confrontations between Lancaster and March, then Lancaster and Douglas, are cinematic political drama at their finest.Based on the Charles Bailey/Fletcher Knebel novel of the same name, and brilliantly adapted to the screen by Rod Serling, SEVEN DAYS IN MAY benefits from the always superb acting of its all-star cast, which includes Martin Balsam, Ava Gardner, Whit Bissell, William Prince, and John Housemann, to name a few.  This is more than enough to ensure that, despite the Cold War having ended more than a decade ago, this movie loses none of its original impact. "},{"Title":"This intelligent picture is packed with  political events ,  tense , hectic intrigue and the suspense is maintained throughout","Date":"31 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Tension , excitement and thrills in this interesting movie with very good performances . Colonel Casey ( Kirk Douglas ) discovers what appears to be plans by General Scott ( Burt Lancaster) who schemes a coup to use false military exercises in his plans to remove President Lyman (Fredric March) from government office. US military leaders plot to overthrow the President because he agrees a nuclear disarmament treaty and they fear a Soviet attack . As General Scott first chief of ¨ Office of joint chiefs of the staff ¨ has formed a secret unity called Ecomcon with dark objectives . Colonel Casey , President Lyman , helper ( Martin Balsam ) and a senator ( Edmond O'Brien ) must find proofs that there is a coup planned and detain it , before it happens . Unfortunately , there isn't much days . And at the ending takes place an intriguing conclusion .Thrilling story with screenplay by prestigious Rod Serling about a coup de e'tat planned by military staff to overthrow US Republic government . This stirring picture is full of suspense , tension , thrills and is very entertaining . The film's intrigue snowballs toward an exciting final .Extraordinary casting , all of whom give admirable acting , as a terrific Burt Lancaster who heads the all star cast , he plays as leader of the coup , magnificent Douglas as Colonel who learns about the malignant plans and Fredric March as upright President under pressure . And awesome support cast as Ava Gardner as alcoholic ex-lover , Edmond O¨Brien as Senator investigating the events and John Houseman film debut in brief but crucial character , among others . Spectacular musical score fitting to action by the master Jerry Goldsmith . Furthermore an appropriate and atmospheric cinematography . The motion picture is compellingly directed by John Frankenheimer . At the beginning he worked for TV and turned to the cinema industry with The Young Stranger (1957) . Disappointed his with first feature film experience he came back to his successful television career directing a total of 152 live television shows in the 50s. He took another opportunity to change to the big screen , collaborating with Burt Lancaster in The Young Savages (1961) and Birdman of Alcatraz(62) ending up becoming a successful director well-known by his skills with actors and expressing on movies his views on important social deeds and philosophical events and film-making some classics as ¨The Manchurian candidate, Seven days of May and The Train¨. Rating  Better and average and well worth seeing. The flick will appeal to frenetic suspense aficionados and intrigue buffs. It's remade for TV (1994) with the title ¨The enemy within ¨ by Jonathan Darby with Forest Whitaker as the Colonel , Jason Robards as the General and Sam Waterston as the President . "},{"Title":"Compelling and timeless","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" With an unpopular nuclear treaty looming, top general Lancaster plots to overthrow the U.S. government. In lesser hands this would be schlock. As it is this is about as accomplished a cast as you'll ever see and they ride the story flawlessly to the bitter end. Lancaster plays his textured role to perfection, and his interplay with both March (as President) and Douglas (as his chief assistant) is classic work. Great supporting work by O'Brien as scruffy senator trying to sniff out the conspiracy. I think the lead comment is way off, maybe you had to be around when the nuclear scare really hit. I'm not so sure it's all that far-fetched (and I think Stone is a dishonest crack-pot) -- the idea that the U.S. would have agreed to disarmament in the 60's is unlikely, but that something like this could have happened in that event is not. You know, they don't make good political movies like this anymore, now it would just be some stupid paranoid thing. 10 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Excellent thriller with two excellent true Hollywood actors.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I caught this by total accident on a terrestrial channel in the UK one afternoon while I was off work ill, and I was extremely surprised. Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas just show why they are the most amazing screen icons, their mere presence in a scene commands it, but never to the detriment of the movie. The acting by all is superbly understated and restrained, especially for such a large plot. Without reverting to any of the tactics of current Hollywood, effects, set pieces, etc. The tension and action is built around simple dialogue, character interaction, and the slow revealing of information to our main character in Douglas. The method in which Douglas plays the conflict in this character - to do what the chain of command tells him, or what the constitution states &#150; is a wonder to see, and is held in looks, in words unsaid, and one tightly controlled outburst. Lancaster is also awe inspiring as a logically minded man whose actions seem almost madman like, yet they are his ways and beliefs. The direction of this movie is equally wonderful, and one of my favourite tricks is the usage of the scenes outside the gate of the Chiefs of Staff building, to timestamp the movie at various intervals. I just wish that the conclusion had been a bit longer and perhaps not so easily tied up, however it makes for a wonderful thriller. "},{"Title":"1960's nuclear nightmare alternative reality","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Given the hyper sensitive anti communist paranoia of the era & the big names involved this is a remarkable & highly underrated movie of its time. In the context of the Cuban missile crisis, the escalating conflict in Vietnam, the death of JFK & the fact that most of us baby boomers were watching  The Addams Family  McHale's Navy Combat The Jetsons & many other good & funny shows on television only to see this gem on saturday afternoon TV, it is utterly remarkable that the 7 - 12 year olds did not rise up & halt the  US military industrial complex in it's tracks.  Having given this 30 year belated blast to the geopolitical stupidity of the 1960s I must say that as this film is a contemporary of  Dr. Strangelove & having grown up with the belief that all things from the U S of A were good & right I discovered at a tender age that all is not necessarily what it seems. The possibility of a military coup in Washinghton is of course utterly insane but in the context of the times chillingly plausible & I ask the question could it have happened?? As a lifelong historian, partly as a result of having seen this film at a young age ..... is it possible ? There's lots of money involved & without an enemy there's no need to produce weapons is there. Hmmm  "},{"Title":"fizzles a bit down the stretch, but definitely worth a look","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  SEVEN DAYS IN MAY is a pretty decent thriller with Burt Lancaster as (**POSSIBLE SPOILER**) a right-wing general who plots the overthrow of the U.S. government.  Kirk Douglas, as a colonel who stumbles across the plot, and Ava Gardner, as a drunk sexpot (talk about your typecasting!), give especially strong performances.  The movie fizzles somewhat down the stretch (**DEFINITE SPOILER!!**) as the President (Fredric March) thwarts the coup by quoting the Constitution at Lancaster.  The great Rod Serling wrote the screenplay and should have known better than to switch the focus of the story away from Kirk Douglas who is left standing on the sidelines when Storytelling 101 suggests he's the guy who must make the key contribution to the movie's resolution.  Still, another taut thriller from John Frankenheimer and definitely worth a look.  7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Chilling Story That Has Few Flaws","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A marvelous and wholly believable account of a military conspiracy to overthrow the government of the United States after the President signs a disarmament treaty with the Soviet Union against the wishes of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.Rod Serling (known primarily for his work on The Twilight Zone) wrote the screenplay for this wonderful movie, based on the book by Fletcher Knebel. Serling masterfully builds the suspense from the very beginning and leaves the viewer hanging on every word, waiting to see how this plot is going to be stopped (or if it will succeed.)Burt Lancaster puts on a powerful performance as the megalomaniac General James Scott - Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff - who sees himself as the saviour of the nation opposing a weak and unpopular President (Frederic March, who does a good job of portraying a President perhaps a bit unsure how to handle the situation, but certain that he will not give in), and who is prepared to topple the democratically elected government to ensure that the President's disarmament treaty is stopped. Kirk Douglas is equally powerful as General Jiggs Casey, Scott's assistant, who gradually becomes aware of the plot. While personally sympathetic to Scott's antagonism to the treaty, Casey cannot convince himself to commit treason by allowing the coup to take place, and eventually becomes part of the President's circle trying to put an end to it. (In my opinion, the most powerful scene of the entire movie occurs near the end, as Scott and Casey disagree over which of them most closely resembles the biblical figure of Judas Iscariot.)Aside from an ending that was perhaps a bit anti-climatic there is very little to criticize in this movie, and it raises disturbing questions even today in the absence of the Cold War. What would happen if the democratically elected government set out on a course that powerful military figures genuinely believed would lead to the destruction of the country? How fragile is democracy? The questions raised leave questions ringing in your mind long after the movie ends.This one is definitely a must-see, and I rate it as a 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Who coups the coup factory?","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The crimes of the United States have been systematic, constant, vicious, remorseless, but very few people have actually talked about them. You have to hand it to America. It has exercised a clinical manipulation of power worldwide whilst masquerading as a force for universal good. It's a brilliant, even witty, highly successful act of hypnosis. - Harold Pinter Why has there never been a coup in Washington D.C.? Because there is no U.S. Embassy in Washington D.C. - Ira Kurzban Directed by John Frankenheimer, Seven Days in May stars Frederic March as Jordan Lyman, the President of the United States. Lyman has signed a disarmament treaty with the Soviet Union. Despite this treaty being widely unpopular, Lyman stands by his decision. Eventually we would have blown each other up, he argues.Opposing Lyman is the demagogic General James Scott (Burt Lancaster). Convinced that the President's policies will endanger Americans, Scott hatches an elaborate plan in conjunction with sympathetic Armed Forces personnel, he will depose the President. Scott's aide, Colonel Jiggs Case (Kirk Douglas), views Scott's actions as both unconstitutional and contrary to their military oaths. He assists Lyman in countering Scott's coup.John Frankenheimer could do little wrong in the 1950s and 60s. Like most of his work from this period, Seven Days in May (1964) is thus marvellously directed, boasting fine black and white cinematography and a script by Rod Serling which is a cut above most political thrillers of the era. Elsewhere Frankenheimer utilises guerrilla techniques, stealing shots of aircraft carriers, bluffing his way into government buildings, and indulging in his love for bravura camera-work. Whilst his film does eventually degenerate into sanctimonious preaching, it consistently delivers remarkable moments. One eight minute sequence, in which Case reveals news of the coup to Lyman, is particularly tense.Politically, Seven Days in May is mostly hokey. The real danger, according to Frankenheimer, is from the American Right. Red Scaremongers, the forces of Mccarthyism, the Military Industrial Complex and manic patriots are those who endanger Americans most. Presidents, meanwhile, are voices of reason, progress and levelheaded geopolitical manoeuvring. In reality, of course, Western warmongers and politicians are largely in mad lockstep. The film's premise - can it happen? (based on the 1933 Business Plot) - is thus largely irrelevant; it's always happening.Seven Days in May reverses history in other ways after Stalin's death, the US repeatedly scuttled Soviet disarmament proposals. Its own proposals &#x96; most notably the Baruch Plan &#x96; were meanwhile designed to maintain US superiority. Frankenheimer's last act then becomes a polemical attack on the evils of coups and the dishonorable ways in which coups subvert the democratic process, a quasi-religious process which America proudly stands for. The irony, of course, is that no nation has been behind more anti-democratic coups than the United States (currently still cooking up yet more coups in the Ukraine, Venezuela, Honduras, Ecuador, Syria, Libya, Somalia, Gambia, Congo, Ethiopia etc). Upward of 80 percent of the nations on the planet have been repeatedly couped by democracy loving US Presidents, these countries ranging from first world nations (Greece, Italy, Australia etc) to most third world nations across Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and Asia. All these coups have seen the US coup-machine actively siding with or putting into power reactionary forces, dictators, fascists or terrorist groups, and all have led to severe repression, disappearances, extra-judicial executions, massacres, armed conflict, torture, corruption, extreme poverty, inequality, the restructuring of national resources, the restructuring of labour laws and the retarding of democratic aspirations. America's obsession with asserting both hard and soft power has led to the creation of an entire industry engaged in the business of regime change. Such private companies and consultants are hired to carry out Washington's wishes on the world stage, creating front organizations, carrying out covert actions, and acting as a conduit for US government propaganda worldwide. The point? Frankenheimer's film may be interesting, but it's also a kind of historical inversion.7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"The Light of the American Constitution Shines","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Cold War Thriller that is a chilling account of an attempted overthrow of a Left-Wing Presidency by the Right-Wing of the Military. Resonating Today, this has become a timeless Classic. It is presented in a cold and stark Style that is indicative of the Subject Matter. Director John Frankenheimer and Writer Rod Serling traveled to the Near Future of a could happen at any time winding up this tight and tense Exercise in Political Science. It seems that Science has brought us to the point that the Seditious General is not the Enemy, it is the Nuclear Age that must be faced and overcome.Flawless Performances from anyone with Screen Time, this is a remarkable achievement, both technically and Philosophically. It truly is a Modern, Intellectual and Political warning that is presented in a sharp Deep Focus under glaring lights. Nothing is literally in the shadows, everything is clear and bright. This must all be exposed it seems to say and even if you hide in the desert or behind closed doors the light of Truth will seek you out. All the Images and the Dialog are used to reflect our Government like a Mirror or Crystal, solid but fragile. One of the Great Films. "},{"Title":"The electoral process has a purpose.","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is what power-hungry Army general Burt Lancaster must discover when he takes on the President of the United States (Fredric March) who is in the process of signing a peace treaty with Russia. Cold War notwithstanding, Lancaster believes that the Russians are only interested in a treaty to distract the American government from their real plans. The director of The Manchurian Candidate (John Frankenheimer) takes on another political melodrama about the obsession with power and the ideals that the electoral process was founded on. Like other military villains (real and fictional), Lancaster is cool, calm, collected and charming. He's also an emotionless lover as former mistress Ava Gardner informs another officer (Kirk Douglas) who is after private letters from her he intends to give to the president to prove his claim. Douglas and Lanchaster are friendly colleagues, so this is a Julius Caesar/Brutus type betrayal, set in modern times. Like The Manchurian Candidate, this was around the same time as the Kennedy assassination (just a year after that), so this really reflects the political environment of America during this time.It is ironic that while this deals with a treaty with the Russians, they are not the villain here. That goes to someone inside our own back yard that would gladly kill to get what he wants and utilize the military to force the president out of office. All of the lead actors are excellent, particularly March and Douglas, with Oscar Nominated Edmund O'Brien, John Houseman and Martin Balsam outstanding in supporting roles. The confrontation between March and Lancaster, both on a TV screen which shows them both live, and later in person, is riveting. The film does drag only slightly with the romantic elements concerning Gardner, but there is a purpose concerning her character, sadly not utilized when the betrayal does come to the forefront. The film certainly does not have the bang that The Manchurian Candidate had at the end, but what does result is an ending that satisfactorily exposes the villain yet warns the audience against the evils of one person obtaining too much power and the desire to use it in a negative way. "},{"Title":"Fun, thought-provoking, fantasy about civilan control of the United States armed forces","Date":"27 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I enjoy watching this movie (and even stayed up till 2 AM this last time just to do that) but that is not to say it that it is at all believable; with a plot that's pure fantasy from beginning to end, it makes THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE look plausible by comparison. A list of its story problems would probably be as long as the shooting script. Still, it has an absolutely first-rate cast giving decent performances, has some witty moments, and is filmed with glorious black and white cinematography, ever so-suitable for its subject matter. Moreover, it does actually develop its theme about the role of the armed forces brass in our government perfectly well enough to satisfy most any secondary school civics teacher in the land, and for that reason it can also be judged an honest treatment however fanciful it develops the details. Therefore I give it my personal idea of an IMDb seven-star rating not great but definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A meditation of democracy's strengthens and weaknesses","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I focus on one long scene the confrontation between President Jordan Lyman and General James Mattoon Scott.It is a compelling dialog about democracy. The general is full of himself, and realized effortlessly as only Burt Lancaster could do, an under-rated actor by all but Luchino Visconti. The beleaguered president, played with enormous conviction and depth by Frederich March, still has one thing the general does not have, an electoral mandate.While the film seems far fetched, a coup d'état in the United States, as others have noted, the underlying tension is real. There are times when the elected government may well have lost the confidence of the electorate, but it clings on because the constitution permits or indeed requires it to do so. The election occurred in the past, by definition, and events may have wrought great changes, or the government, in this case embodied in one man, the president, may have changed course for one reason or another. That electoral mandate is then a thing of the past, or so it may seem.There are many examples, an Australian prime minster was removed from office in mid-term as recently as 1975, Israeli governments have stumbled as changing coalitions have produced policies from pure air, the threat of coup d'état against Charles DeGaulle over Algerian independence was very real. More mundane examples likewise abound.An elected government confronts the reality of the responsibility of office and has to change its rhetoric form the carefree days of opposition to the hard edges of government. Its supporters feel betrayed and the opposition beats the drum for a change of government. In such a situation why wait for constitutional niceties? Throw the rascals out, now! Indeed, why not? Because in the longer run this kind of mob rule and demagoguery destroys order, stability, and continuity. The voice of the mob is not the voice of the people. Why not? Read on to find out why not.What is the worth of that dated mandate? President Lyman then makes an argument that the process that produced the mandate stands above all else, and it guarantees the continued worth of the mandate, dated or not. Process? The democratic election that yield President Lyman, that process.General Scott claims to represent the will of the people, and just maybe he does in the film. That is the tension. He may be as much right as wrong. He may be right about the will of the people. But he certainly wrong about the voice of the people.The voice of the people is not heard on talk-back radio, in studio audiences of public affairs television, newspaper letter pages, bars, and lobbies. The voice of the people is heard in the ballot box. That is Lyman's argument.If he has exceeded his mandate, if the will of the people has truly changed as Scott believes, then the voice of the people will be heard at the next scheduled election. To make that happen all Scott needs to do is declare his candidacy and run for election. He can do that at any time.Scott argues that time does not permit the luxury of democracy. The threat is real, material, and immediate. He might be right. Yes, also, this is ever the usurpers argument. It convinced Brutus to strike at Caesar. It led many well meaning people to support Adolf Hitler. Even if right, Scott is also wrong in a much more important way than he is right.That is the great constraint of democracy. It fixes the occasions of election in one way or another in any political system. The rhythm of elections may not match the rhythm of events. But to breach democracy in accord with the rhythm of events may be itself be more destructive than anything else because it destroys the process. That is Lyman's reply.After all, if the Soviets see a military seizure of power in the United States that alone will be sufficient to cause them to attack right now. The very thing to be avoided will be provoked by the effort to prevent it. But that kind of second guessing is just that, speculative second guessing.The note that Lyman strikes repeatedly is that democracy is the open and endless opportunity for anyone to take to the soapbox and rally the voice of the people, and that is the one thing General Scott has conspicuously failed to do. He speaks only to those who already agree with him. One of the hallmarks of democracy is that it requires those who seek office to meet those who do not yet agree with them. Though there is a lot of nonsense in electoral campaigns that essential requirement remains. To win any candidate has to get votes from that vast bulk of voters who are not ideologues.Rather than face the auditorium with it noisy but vigorous disorder, his meetings have been in closed offices, underground car parks, back rooms, and the like, all this to save democracy from &#x85; itself. "},{"Title":"A Truly Gripping Drama","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" As a citizen of the former country of Great Britain, I am not so familiar with the American political and constitutional system as to know whether or not the scenario depicted in this movie could actually happen. But portrayed here is - on the face of it at least - a very plausible story. It is a gripping depiction of a covert power-struggle - a palace coupe, between civil authority and potentially misguided military loyalty.It is easy to see each side of the argument. A feeble civilian government failing to respond to strategic foreign threat the same 'peace in our time' weakness that enabled Hitler to rise and rise. Yet a constitution that requires its military only ever to act under civilian discretion, even when that government is misguided and craven, even when the senior military strategists can see - or think they can see - the road to ruin laid out before them by that same civil pacifism. If the future of one's country and way of life is at stake; who really is right? Who is the true patriot? The enactment of this struggle is played out with astonishing fidelity. The gradually quickening pace of conflict is truly gripping. It's almost a game of chess worked with live pieces. The gradual polarisation of opinion, realignment of friendships, and affirmation of loyalty create a tremendous drama. Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas are entirely believable, and each convincing in the rightness of their cause.There is no murder. There are no pyrotechnics. There are no special effects. This is a movie that stands upon the essential merits of story-telling with complete conviction. It is a classic in the sincerest application of this term. Revel in the spectacle.I mentioned at the beginning that I was a citizen of the country that was formerly Great Britain. A democracy that, through years of lies and cynical deception, has been systematically betrayed to the remote and unaccountable foreign powers of a so-called European Union. That is how democracy ends; not with a 7-day bang, but a 20-year whimper. "}{"Title":"Fascinating Take On The 1960's Cold War Tensions in Washington D.C.","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A truly excellent film, one which has aged well and is still relatively timeless, and maybe even more fitting for present times based on tensions surrounding the current War on Terror, with hawks and doves alike looking to unseat the other and change the patterns of geopolitical interaction.As some reviewers have excellently summarized, the idea of a coup d'etat isn't terribly unlikely. One can look into the wealthy fascist elite that sought to overthrow Franklin Roosevelt in the 1930s for a prime example, or one can read about the personalities of such Cold War hardliners like General Edwin Walker. In many ways, the film is an extremely accurate depiction of where the 60's were at (riots in the street, tensions between the Pentagon and the White House) and an extremely disturbing look at what could have happened had things manifested in such an ugly light.The most intriguing thing about this gem of a movie is the blessing it received from none other than the sitting President of the United States at the time of production, John F. Kennedy. According to the recently published book Brothers by journalist David Talbot, JFK actually made behind-the-scenes moves for the film to be made. According to Talbot, JFK relied on Hollywood to spread the message of what the military was truly like, especially following what he saw as attempts to be strong-armed into all-out war with the Soviet Union and Cuba, notably during the Bay of Pigs and the Cuban Missile Crisis. Anyone interested in this film should give Talbot's book a read, as it is quite interesting (even if you do not agree with Talbot's conclusions that Kennedy's murder was a coup).Overall, I found the film to be very well-made and interesting (and far superior to the 1994 remake The Enemy Within), and in an odd way, it makes for a good companion piece to Oliver Stone's JFK as both films present a President being unseated by hardliners hellbent on war (though I personally feel Stone's speculative film is more in league with fantasy than Seven Days). It's very rare to find a political film from the era that can be applied to today, but Frankenheimer's vision of a coup d'etat in America is indeed one of those rarities. The performances are flawless, with Burt Lancaster easily dominating the screen throughout. What sets this film apart from many movies of the present day is the pacing and increasing amount of tension added, relying more on drama to create suspense instead of bullets or hand grenades.Well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Riveting Cold War Suspense Film","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" With a great cast, fine director, and screenplay by Rod Serling, there's no wonder that Seven Days in May is such an entertaining movie. The plot centers on the plans by Joint Chiefs Chairman James Scott (Lancaster) and his conspirators (including John Larkin, Richard Anderson, Whit Bissell, and Hugh Marlowe) to overthrow the U.S. government by a military takeover. The film details intrigue and the strategy of both sides after the plot is uncovered by Scott's aide Col. Casey (Kirk Douglas). The movie's pretty talky and has very little action, but remains entertaining throughout. The climactic presidential press conference is eerily authentic.The film is aided by a top cast, including the President (Fredric March), Lancaster, Douglas, smarmy Senator Prentice (Whit Bissell), a bombastic political operative (Marlowe), slimy conspirator Richard Anderson, steady presidential aides Chris Todd (George Macready) and Martin Balsam, Gen. Scott's mistress Eleanor Holbrook (Ava Gardner), and in a great performance, Edmond O'Brien as the chronically drunken Senator Ray Clark.The movie's in crisp B&W, and was very timely in 1964. It's top historical entertainment. "},{"Title":"Do  You  Know  Who  Judas  Was?","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Right after his excellent post Korea war suspense film The Manchurian Candidate, director John Frankenheimer surprised us again with this excellent cold war political thriller that deals with an intent of a popular Air Force General to overtake the Government of the United States because the pacifist President has signed a disarmament treaty with the Soviet Union.I imagine this must have been a most original picture in the USA where you could even rank it as a sci-fi product. In Argentina, for instance, military uprisings where common in the past century, many times with huge popular support to get rid of corrupt and incompetent civilian authorities. But fortunately we have enjoyed democracy since 1983 after the military Government won the war against Cuban trained and supported local insurgency that tried to export Castro's communist regime to our Country and all of Latin America in the 70's.As for Seven Days in May it is interesting right from the start with the titles running on the Constitution in the background, a most original idea that puts you in the subject right at the beginning. From then on, the plot is very well handled by Frankenheimer with no flaws aided by a perfectly chosen black and white photography, good dialogues, a great atmosphere and an excellent cast in a film where action sequences are not the main issue.Burt Lancaster is very convincing as the messianic general that thinks he is the man that will save his Country and so is Kirk Douglas as the army colonel that finds out what is going on and though an admirer of Lancaster doesn't hesitate in deciding where his duty and loyalty have to be. Frederick March gives also an outstanding performance as the threatened President who seems sort of weak but matches the circumstances. Ava Gardner, Edmond O'Brien, Martin Balsam and George MacReady complete the most competent cast.Seven Days in May stands as one of the best political thrillers in movies in my opinion. "},{"Title":"One of the best of all time","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A truly excellent film- with a stellar cast- all giving excellent performances. The films premise- extremism in the 'pursuit of liberty' is as meaningful today, and shows how dangerous those who try and manipulate the truth, scapegoat and smear others as being 'un American' can be applied totally to today's political culture. One can easily Draw parallels with certain political leaders we have today in the USA. The President in the film played by Frederic March- calls the views and attitude of one Senior Officer as 'fascism'.Part of my film collection. Frankenheimer does a fabulous job, in this political thriller. While Lancaster, Douglas, March and Gardner are in top form- with a great supporting cast as well. "},{"Title":"Another Stark Thriller from John Frankenheimer","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" John Frankenheimer (who died not very long ago) left us with a terrific repertoire of films, yet I don't hear his name mentioned often in discussions about influential American directors. Seven Days in May seems to be all but forgotten; at least, I don't know anyone who's seen it or even heard of it. But it's a terrific political intrigue film, its impact lessened only somewhat by the release of The Manchurian Candidate two years earlier. There's no mistaking the John Frankenheimer style the sharp black and white cinematography, stark sets and lighting, claustrophobic compositions. Faces are framed in extreme close-up to completely dominate the screen. He uses deep focus effectively; two characters will be having a conversation in the foreground, but a third will be constantly in view in the background, as if to suggest that every whispered secret has the potential to be overheard.This style is fabulously on display in Candidate and is reprised here in Seven Days in May. Frankenheimer makes great use in both films of TV screens a character will be simultaneously in view of the film's camera and projected on a screen within the world of the film, giving the movie viewer different angles of the same scene both literally and figuratively; since media plays a role so frequently in his movies, Frankenheimer constantly draws our attention to its existence and the power it has to manipulate what we perceive to be the truth.As for the performances, there is no improving on Fredric March's understated interpretation of an ailing president, stuck in the dilemma of acting in what he thinks is the country's best interests even though the country itself is rejecting his beliefs. Burt Lancaster does his usual steely Burt Lancaster thing as the film's villain and Kirk Douglas meets him line for line as a subordinate who begins to doubt his boss's integrity. Ava Gardner gives a somewhat weird performance as the film's lone female character; she walks through the film as if drugged, but it works. And Edmond O'Brien won an Oscar nomination as a hot-tempered southern senator and friend to the president, somewhat curious since March's performance of all of them seems ripe for Academy consideration.Seven Days in May isn't as taut a film as The Manchurian Candidate, and it's more heavy handed in its political agenda (this severely dates the film), but it's still a rousing good time and comes highly recommended.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Cold War constitutional intrigue at the highest levels.","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Great movie from a great novel of the same name. Douglas, Lancaster, March,,,on and on and on. Super script, just right for the cold war. Douglas/Gardner scenes seem a little out of place, a little stiff, not really needed to move the plot. Must see. Anti-missile treaty protesters assail the President's(March) attempt at rapprochement with the Soviets. Their anger goes all the way to the very top in the Pentagon who plan to take matters into their own hand. The only thing in their way are two men a loyal Marine Colonel(Douglas), and a determined President. The fall of the U.S. and the Free World nearly comes about, as politicians, and the military wrestle over the hearts, minds, and control of the American people. "},{"Title":"Seven Days - an amazing film even today 2003/04","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  2003/04 This is the fourth time, I have watched this movie over the years, and each time it just gets better; Its interesting, who could not be awed by Kirk Douglass as Colonel Jiggs Casey USMC and Burt Douglas as USAF Gen Scott the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs.The thing that got me this time was that ( I am now 39,) the supporting characters, especially the phenomenal Frederic March as President Jordon Lyman,  Martin Balsam as Secretary Paul Gerrard, and the amazing Edmund O'Brien as the alcoholic but heroic Senator Ray Clark are outstanding. Not totally true to the book but VERY exciting. Catch also John Houseman as Vice Admiral  Barnswell and Ava Gardner as Elie Holbrook.   This is a not to be missed movie.It seems slow by today's standards, but it is a worth watching  again. Funny how we come full circle, our cold war today is a little warmer in climate,but still cold in the mind.One of the 3 great films of the cold war `Seven Days in May' , the `Manchurian Candidate' & `Ice Station Zebra'.   Just my opinion of course.Comments are welcome (to the author, Robb Mavins) "},{"Title":"Very good adaptation of a nearly perfect novel","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I've worn out my VHS recording of this film, as well as two copies of the book.  When I first saw it in its initial release (it is a bit dated now) I was glued to my seat--except for the two scenes featuring Ava Gardner, where it comes to a screeching halt.  My immediate thought was What's she doing in this movie?  The studio must be under contractual obligation to cast her in an A movie somewhere, and for some unfathomable reason they stuck her here.Gardner's Eleanor Holbrook character is actually a composite of two characters from the novel, Eleanor, a bouncy, thirtyish, archetypical yuppie (before the term yuppie had been coined) who had had an affair with Casey (Kirk Douglas), and Millicent, an older woman who had been involved with the General (Burt Lancaster). Gardner played Eleanor as a middle-age, boozy has-been, and I wasn't able to understand how he could ever have been attracted to her.  On some level, the screenwriters sensed this, and created the Casey character as a bachelor.  The idea of a married Casey (he was married in the book) cheating on his wife with the movie Holbrook was about as plausible as an invasion by space aliens.And there was a strange absence of an event that was featured in the book A scene where one of the characters tails another in a car for several dozen miles.   If the movie were to be remade today, when a car chase is almost obligatory, the scene would be embellished, not omitted.Still in all, Seven Days in May is a great film, and I am counting the days until the DVD copy I ordered online arrives at my door. "},{"Title":"No Less Than Democracy Itself","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I'm not normally a fan of fiction for reading, but I have to confess that this was one of the very few films in which I actually did read the book as well as see the film. Seven Days In May refers to a week in which a small group of men help President Fredric March forestall a military coup d'etat in the United States Of America.Kirk Douglas is a high ranking Marine colonel who through some small bits of information he gleans, straws in the wind so to speak, he reasons out that the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff played by Burt Lancaster is plotting such an overthrow. March has been in negotiations for disarmament with the Soviet Union and Lancaster feels the country itself has been put in danger.All three of the leads are perfectly cast in their roles. The highlight is a confrontation with March and Lancaster and the two men are superb. Also to note in the cast are Ava Gardner as a former mistress to both Douglas and Lancaster, Edmond O'Brien as an alcoholic southern senator and close friend of the president and Martin Balsam as a presidential aide.What I liked best about Seven Days In May is the small and telling performances director John Frankenheimer got out of even the smallest roles. Some of these roles are considerably bigger in the novel. George MacReady is March's loyal Secretary of the Treasury who March says has the finest mind in government is such an example. It's cut down from the novel, but MacReady still delivers a forceful performance that doesn't make you doubt he has exactly what March says he does.Another example is Hugh Marlowe as a right-wing commentator that I believe was based on Fulton Lewis, Jr. Forgotten today, Lewis was quite a figure in right-wing circles at the time, his abrasive comments and support of Joe McCarthy in his prime made him a most controversial man. I still remember WOR airing his broadcasts for 15 minutes every evening right after the dinner hour.And yet another telling performance is that of John Houseman as the fence sitting Chief of Naval Operations. Houseman only has a couple of scenes, but he comes across as a real piece of work.Frankenheimer sets a mood and political tone for Washington, DC during the Kennedy years though the film was not released until after the tragic events in Dallas. In fact JFK himself read the book and liked it and made sure that the White House grounds themselves were used for shooting. That is the real White House you see being picketed in the beginning of the film.We face today a more insidious threat to our democratic way of life, in fact it's safe to say we'll never be quite as free as we were up to 9/10/01. I daresay that Fletcher Knebel's novel could be updated and made today with Islamic terrorism as the reason some would have us become a military dictatorship. Still with the classy cast Seven Days In May has I'll settle for what we already have. "},{"Title":"I think it's time we faced the enemy, Mr. President.","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" What a timely film to watch this week. As we celebrate our independence, we see a movie about a cabal of military officers that want to subjugate us again. Those who choose fear and might over diplomacy.With Ocean's 13 in the movies theaters right now, featuring some of the best stars of today, this film featured some of the best of yesterday.Burt Lancaster (Elmer Gantry, From Here to Eternity, Atlantic City, Birdman of Alcatraz) as Gen. James Mattoon Scott, the leader of the coup; Kirk Douglas (Lust for Life, Champion, The Bad and the Beautiful) as Col. Martin 'Jiggs' Casey, the man who exposed the plot; Fredric March (The Best Years of Our Lives, A Star is Born, The Royal Family of Broadway, Death of a Salesman, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde ) as President Jordan Lyman; Ava Gardner (Mogambo), one of the Sexiest Starts in Film History, as Eleanor 'Ellie' Holbrook, Scott's mistress; Edmond O'Brien (The Barefoot Contessa) as Sen. Raymond Clark (Nominated for Oscar) and Martin Balsam (A Thousand Clowns ) as Paul Girard.There were other great actors in the film, like John Houseman (Julius Caesar, The Paper Chase) and Leonard Nimoy (3 Emmy nominations for Star Trek), who were uncredited. It was a real ensemble of the great actors of the day.This is a superlative film that examines the possibility of a military coup and the reasons for preserving our democracy and a chance to see stars who have accumulated numerous awards and award nominations over the course of their careers. "}{"Title":"Outstanding political thriller!","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Great tension and political intrigue not to mention terrific acting abound in this memorable John Frankenheimer classic. Burt Lancaster as the rebellious general, Kirk Douglas as the torn officer, and Frederic March as they embattled president present a very believable scenario of how a coup of the United States government might occur. Ava Gardner also has one of her better roles in this film which is even more impressive since it's not a glamorous one. Edmund O'Brien gives another great supporting turn. Highly recommended, 9/10. "},{"Title":"Still holds up","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie once again last evening and was impressed that it still holds up as a political thriller.  If this movie were re-made today, about all that would have to change would be the scandalous affair (Ava Gardner and Burt Lancaster-- who would care these days?)  and the somewhat preachy ending.  Most of the dialogue would still hold.  I have to admit however, that it was odd seeing a movie that was almost 100% white male.  "},{"Title":"Potential unspent, like a made-for-TV 'Manchurian Candidate'","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  While the issue of military power and how it is used is ALWAYS current, this film directed by the almost brilliant Frankenheimer certainly brings it to a head. However, Fred March's rather weak performance as president almost made me rooting for Lancaster to usurp him. His climactic Serlingesque speech about the violent men are wrong is just too unrealistic. Aging Ava Gardner doesn't add much sympathy to the unionist side; only sensitive yet macho Kirk Douglas carries our idealist feelings throughout the film. At least Serling turned this book's climax, which is a whimper, into a dramatic bang for the film. "},{"Title":"Lancaster as Goldwater?","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Fletcher Knebel's classic novel has lost little since its publication 39 years ago.  Sad as it may seem, the hawkish rhetoric of General James Mattoon Scott could be spewed by a litany of politicos today.  Substitute Jessie Helms for Scott and Osama Bin Laden for the commies and its 2001.  While that may bode ill for the state of American political culture, it stands as a testimony to this film.  John Frankenheimer's direction coupled with stellar performances by Burt Lancaster and Fredric March make this a classic among political thrillers and one of the best dealing with Cold War issues.  It was somewhat of a disappointment that the film version of Colonel Martin 'Jiggs' Casey was not portrayed as an alcoholic, yet Kurt Douglas made the most of what otherwise may have been a slightly underwritten character.  The best part of the book and the screen adaptation, is the scenario isn't that far fetched.  Its easy to envision the final scene between President Lyman and General Casey as a behind the scenes confrontation between JFK and Goldwater.  As the years have gone by and the excesses of Cold War era brinkmanship have come to the public's attention, Knebel's vision looks more like that of a reporter than a novelist.  Seven Days in May is one of the rare films that adequately shows that for all that changes in American politics, things remain the same. "},{"Title":"1960's nuclear nightmare alternative reality","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Given the hyper sensitive anti communist paranoia of the era & the big names involved this is a remarkable & highly underrated movie of its time. In the context of the Cuban missile crisis, the escalating conflict in Vietnam, the death of JFK & the fact that most of us baby boomers were watching  The Addams Family  McHale's Navy Combat The Jetsons & many other good & funny shows on television only to see this gem on saturday afternoon TV, it is utterly remarkable that the 7 - 12 year olds did not rise up & halt the  US military industrial complex in it's tracks.  Having given this 30 year belated blast to the geopolitical stupidity of the 1960s I must say that as this film is a contemporary of  Dr. Strangelove & having grown up with the belief that all things from the U S of A were good & right I discovered at a tender age that all is not necessarily what it seems. The possibility of a military coup in Washinghton is of course utterly insane but in the context of the times chillingly plausible & I ask the question could it have happened?? As a lifelong historian, partly as a result of having seen this film at a young age ..... is it possible ? There's lots of money involved & without an enemy there's no need to produce weapons is there. Hmmm  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I read another critique on this movie. I think he saw a different movie. This was an excellent military political movie. Far from being far-fetched it based on reality. Any and all of the events could have happened. Remember this is 1967. We did not have instant communication and privately owned spy satellites. The secret base in El Paso was, and still is a distinct possibility.Fredric March fills the shoes of the President admirably. Burt Lancaster is Burt Lancaster. Enough said.The role Lancaster played was written for Kirk Douglas. He wanted Lancaster in the role. And since Douglas produced it, he got what he wanted.Edmund O'Brien got the Academy Award for his role as Senator Clark, and well done, I must say. Richard Anderson was as sleazy as always. Andrew Duggan was just there.Marin Balsam played his usual sober presence. But for the other writer to say it was less then outstanding is a surprise to me. Of course the movie was about the American way of life and rights and abilities. So take this old soldier's word, if you will, that it was a very good movie. Take this old professor's (PHD International Relations) word that it was rather chilling in reality. "},{"Title":"Powerful Cold War drama","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Powerful Cold War drama.It is the height of the Cold War and the US President, Jordan Lyman (played by Fredric March) has negotiated a nuclear arms limitation treaty with the Russians. The military and some politicians are not happy with this, figuring the Russians will renege on the deal, leaving the US vulnerable. Foremost among the opponents of the treaty is General James Scott (played by Burt Lancaster), Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. On his staff is a Marine Colonel, Jiggs Casey (played by Kirk Douglas), who starts to suspect that the General may be planning a coup...Intriguing, entertaining drama. Mostly plausible, though there is some looseness in the plot. In addition, it demonstrates well the link between politics and the military, and who, in a democratic society, takes orders from whom.Solid performances all round. Edmond O'Brien was nominated for a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for playing the drunken-but-resourceful Senator Clark. "},{"Title":"Who wrote this Script!  Hint The Twilight Zone Guy smoking in the corner","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Yep...could not believe the opening credits when I saw The Twilight Zone Guy's name Rod Serling!!! After watching the movie, I could tell...it didn't have the wierd camera angle's or the bizarre suspense music scenes...but, the brilliant agony-of-the-edge-of-your-seat anxiety and deep-dark-lurking-monster's-in-some-man's-soul intensity is just, well...Serling. And, Alfred Hitchcock too! As an ACTOR!?! Whoa! this movie is STELLAR!!! I Loved the Good Guys and I hated the Bad Guys, and, most importantly BOTH were as insightful and aggressive as their counterparts. And, yes...I am PARTIAL... I Loved Rod Serling's Twilight Zone series, and, with this movie, he hit the mark again. Brilliant screenplay,...Brilliant acting...Brilliant movie. "},{"Title":"What if life as we know it suddenly changed...overnight?","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" When I first saw this movie, I wondered, how far would things have to go, and, how badly would they have to get, before the US Military actually planned something like this and carried it through!?!? Events like this have been taking place all over the world for centuries...but, in the United States!?!?This is a well-acted, well-written, and, well-directed study of the possibilities of a US government overthrow in a time of fear and paranoia (The Cold War); and, when many top figures in the US Military, and, elsewhere in the US government, believe that the president is too weak and unfit to make the correct decisions to protect the United States due to his support of a nuclear disarmament during the communist nuclear buildup.Lead by Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas, this all-star cast delivers a powerful story (written for the screen by the great Rod Serling), that 'could have happened' during this fragile time of world crisis that was all-too-real after World War 2 and up until the fall of the Soviet Union on December 26, 1991. If some of these events in this movie (and, novel) played out, this just might have happened; and, the results could have been beneficial, or, down-right catastrophic. History has shown that a coup can occur most anywhere if the right people are involved.This is a compelling movie that everyone should see, and, understand, that this 'could happen,' making things better or worse; or, it 'could not happen,' making things better or worse.I highly recommend this Cold War Classic! "},{"Title":"The Lesser of Two Evils?","Date":"23 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Under what circumstances could the United States armed forces legitimately overthrow an elected President? The strictly constitutional answer is, presumably, never, but if one regards the question as a matter of ethics rather than of constitutional law, the answer is not so clear-cut. What, for example, if the President were planning an unprovoked nuclear attack on a foreign country? Might not Americans conclude that, compared to death in a nuclear holocaust, life under a military junta would be the lesser of two evils?Jordan Lyman, the fictional President in this film, is not threatening to unleash nuclear war, but in the eyes of his critics is doing something potentially equally disastrous. He has negotiated a disarmament treaty with the Soviet Union under which both countries will give up all nuclear weapons. The American political Right are outraged, believing that the Soviets are not to be trusted, and place their hopes in General James Mattoon Scott, the Air Force Chief of Staff, who is known to be opposed to the treaty. Colonel Jiggs Casey, an officer on the Pentagon staff, discovers a plot by Scott and some of his colleagues to seize control of the government by force and alerts the President. The film then follows the attempts of Lyman and a small group of trusted political advisers to thwart the conspiracy.The film was made in 1963 and scheduled for release in December of that year, but this was delayed until the following year because of the assassination of President Kennedy in November. (Dr Strangelove suffered a similar fate). It was made in black-and-white at a time when colour was fast becoming the rule, at least in America. I think, however, that monochrome was the right choice here. Director John Frankenheimer was aiming for a claustrophobic look, with most scenes taking place indoors or at night, often in airless underground rooms. Even when we know that a particular room must have windows, they most often remain invisible. The use of colour rather than black-and-white would have weakened this claustrophobic effect, which is heightened by the harsh, driving, urgent musical score.The subplot featuring Ava Gardner as General Scott's former mistress seems unnecessary; perhaps the financial backers insisted on a big-name female star. Edmond O'Brien was nominated for a Best Supporting Actor Academy Awards as the dipsomaniac Senator Clark, a key ally of Lyman, which always amazes me as I felt O'Brien overacted monstrously. It also seemed odd that Lyman should have trusted Clark so implicitly, even if the two men were personal friends, as drunkards are not normally noted for their discretion. There are, however, fine performances from Fredric March as Lyman, a decent, ineffectual-seeming liberal who proves more effective than he looks, and Martin Balsam as Paul Girard, another key presidential aide.The key performance, however, comes from Burt Lancaster as Scott. Given his own left-wing views, it would have been easy for him to overplay the General as a rabid, foaming-at-the-mouth caricature. Lancaster was later to play such characters in films like The Cassandra Crossing and Executive Action, but here he refuses to allow his politics to overcome his artistic judgement, with the result that Seven Days in May is a far better film than those two.Instead, Lancaster plays Scott not as a power-crazed lunatic but as frighteningly sane and frighteningly sincere. In his view Lyman's policies constitute a terrifying threat to national security and world peace, and since Congress backs those policies his only option is to think the unthinkable. Lancaster doubtless realised that to have portrayed Scott in any other way would have turned the film into a piece of reverse McCarthyism, a piece of blackshirts-under-the-beds paranoia inviting the Left to see all conservatives as sinister Fascist plotters.Of course, March's Lyman is equally sane and equally sincere in his pacifist views. So who is correct, Lyman or Scott? The astonishing answer is that we do not know. We only see the controversial treaty from the American side. We see nothing of the Soviets, so have no idea if they intend to honour the treaty they have just signed, to hold a few missiles in reserve to blackmail the West, or to launch a conventional war once the Western nuclear deterrent has been removed. We do not know whether the failure of Scott's attempted coup has saved the world- or condemned it to those very horrors which Lyman hoped to avoid.Another piece of ambiguity surrounds Lyman himself. Like Casey, who agrees with Scott politically but believes a coup is the wrong way of going about things, he is the representative in the film of a strict constitutionalism and the rule of law. Yet he does not order the arrest of Scott and his fellow-conspirators or attempt to have them put on trial, and it is never really explained why a President who supposedly stands for the rule of law is content to allow men guilty of attempted treason to escape into an honourable retirement; the possibility is even left open that Scott might run for President himself. (An alternative ending, with Scott dying in a car crash, was apparently rejected). Seven Days in May of course reflects the values of the Cold War which produced it. Yet, unlike some political thrillers from the sixties and seventies, it remains more than just a period piece, and not just because recent events in the Ukraine have raised the spectre of a new Cold War. It is the film's very ambiguity which brings home one of the central paradoxes of the post-war world, a paradox which remains despite the fall of Communism. The existence of nuclear weapons is a potent source of danger to the world. But any attempt to divest ourselves of such weapons might lead to even greater dangers. It is a film about an insoluble dilemma- and has the honesty to admit it is insoluble. 7/10 "}{"Title":"The blueprint for the coup...","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" SEVEN DAYS IN MAY may have seemed like science fiction back in 1964, but today, in 2015, it looks like nothing less than a blueprint for the political coup that began with Kennedy's assassination in 1963. (That's known as being prescient, for those of you who didn't know...) Tapping Rod Serling to write the screenplay was a stroke of genius from boxing (REQUIEM FOR A HEAVYWEIGHT) to Big Business (PATTERNS) to Fantasy (THE TWILIGHT ZONE) to down-to-Earth bona fide science fiction (PLANET OF THE APES), Serling was more than capable of spinning a yarn in cinematic terms, regardless of Genre. The complicity of the Media (Television in particular) and Big Business to overthrow the U.$. Government (i.e.; government of, by, and FOR The People) is highlighted in SEVEN DAYS IN MAY- exactly as it's come to pass. Says Senator Clark (Edmond O'Brien) in the movie This country will probably live as if peace were just as big a threat as war. How's THAT for prescient? This one must be Deep and Dark, Lancaster tells an aide. Is it just me, or is that almost word-for-word what we heard going into Iraq the second time...? We've all got to stay on alert these days, Whit Bissell advises, prefiguring the on-going, never ending War on Terror. But it's Hugh Marlowe as the televangelist newscaster who sums it all up best when he says I'm not a lover of Communists, Socialists, or intellectual bleeding hearts. I have only one interest, and that is symbolized by the red, white and blue of our glorious flag. The camera then lingers lovingly on the faces of the fanatical followers of Lancaster before he takes the stage and promptly declares his love for the Motherland. Shades of the Nuremberg rallies. When Martin Balsam's plane crashes, one can't help but be reminded of the documentary CONFESSIONS OF AN ECONOMIC Hit-man, in which just this kind of accident is detailed. March as The Pre$ident challenges Lancaster to beat him at the ballot box. You don't steal it after midnight when the country has its back turned. The Real World parallels are obvious. The Great Disregard with which The Man (Obama, not James Earl Jones) has been treated since being elected speaks for itself. "},{"Title":"Kirk True Genius!","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I will never comprehend the so called 'charity' of Douglas to defer the JCS Director role to Lancaster. Jigg's character was quintessential to saving the day for the USA! He had a much meatier script, showed stronger character and sensitivity and overall the much better man. How could this be seen as anything but a BRILLIANT choice! I have followed March's career since his earliest days and appreciated his tenure in many demanding scenes, a deep talent. The interplay of such strong roles mimics the existing tete-a-tete with the MIC vs Congress. I find it eternally entertaining when I hear a presidential platform stating their goals for military presence or withdrawal.High recommend for many seasoned five star players and exciting script. "},{"Title":"A Tightly Scripted, Well-Acted Drama","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" With a terse script written by Rod Serling, Seven Days in May is a political drama well worth seeing. The cast (Frederic March, Burt Lancaster, Kirk Douglas, Edmund O'Brien, Martin Balsam, et al.) has enough gravitas to sink a battleship. Filmed in B&W, it portrays an attempted military coup of the U.S. government.Because the history of the United States is free of such actions, the possibility of a coup seems foreign to Americans. But the film reminds the viewer that only years before a senator from Wisconsin captured the American imagination--with help from dramatic television images--and subverted the democratic process.During the Cold War, the fear of Communism (always portrayed as a godless force) was ever-present. The American military, American politicians, and many private patriotic organizations constantly beat the drum of vigilance. This film was released in 1964--in the midst of the paranoia. The hypothesis that a strident military--with its burgeoning budget and the constant attention of the media--might see itself as the solution to self-created global problems is within the realm of possibility.Tapping into that vein, Seven Days in May frames the question--literally--as a constitutional one, reminding the viewer that power is derived from the electorate through free discourse and orderly elections. In this sense, it is an important film.The drama of the film is finely crafted and presented as a battle of egos (as well as a question of propriety). Its wonderful cast is up to the challenge. "},{"Title":"The Traitor's Cookbook","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This classic defense of American Democracy specifically names the greatest non-fiction threat to U.S. freedom so far, Sen. Joseph McCarthy, the late Wisconsin Republican. All previous Democracies in world history eventually have fallen to goose-steppers such as the Burt Lancaster character in this film, Joint Chiefs of Staff head Gen. James Mattoon Scott. SEVEN DAYS director John Frankenheimer is predicting America will suffer the same fate if the type of people who watch movies don't vigilantly ride herd on the ilk that flunked history, civics, and suffered too many concussions on their playing fields. SEVEN DAY's screenwriters have been proved more clairvoyant than Nostradamus in outlining the fix we find ourselves in during 2013 with their flick. They foretell today's NSA internet and cell phone traffic intercepts--exposed recently by Citizen Snowden--with SEVEN DAYS secret desert Ecomcon base. They include a beta version of Rush Limbaugh and his henchmen blathering sedition. They show how a few True Believers may outweigh hundreds of officers remaining loyal to their Constitutional oaths. They illustrate how rogue elements of the military won't hesitate to explode a packed passenger jet for their own ends (think 9-11). They spell out how Blackwater types can easily make most Patriotic would-be whistle-blowers disappear into dark sites. Gen. Scott tell SEVEN DAYS' President Lyman to his face that it is our elected leader's duty to resign if a majority of the Joint Chiefs are against him and can use their Black Ops propaganda funds to bamboozle a vocal minority of weak-minded residents to swallow their lies like sucker fish on the hook. (You hear these sorts of things expressed on today's hate radio all the time.) As President Lyman, Frederic March tags these ideas as sedition and treason in the 1960s, and, of course, they remain as such even now. "},{"Title":"Thought-Provoking Drama.","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Burt Lancaster plays General Scott, head of the joint chiefs and likely presidential candidate who decides to lead a revolt against president Jordan Lyman, who is as unpopular as Scott is popular, but that doesn't stop him from pushing a nuclear disarmament treaty with Russia, which alarms and enrages General Scott, convincing him that he can't wait two years until the next election; he must act now. Kirk Douglas plays Col. Jiggs Casey, who remains loyal to the president, even though he doesn't agree with the president either. All three men are on a collision course to determine who stays in the White House, and emerges a hero.Fine acting by the cast, and solid direction by John Frankenheimer make this thought-provoking political drama quite interesting, although it is marred somewhat by an overly simplistic(bordering on sanctimonious) approach to General Scott, who may really have a good point, even though he is going about it the wrong way. Was Col. Casey so right after all? What if it turns out he was wrong? Film ends before we find out, which is unfortunate, but otherwise this a good thriller. "},{"Title":"Far-fetch? Not really, it can happen.","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" There have seven days to figure out what will happen on Sunday, May 18? You have 118 Minutes to figure out if an military coup d'état can happen in the United States of America. Directed by John Frankenheimer known for such works as the Manchurian Candidate comes a suspense and thriller on the possibly of a government overthrow. Seven Days in May is an American political thriller novel beautiful written by Fletcher Knebel and Charles W. Bailey II which was published in 1962, during the height of the Cold War, and fears of New World Order bankers. It's been said that John F. Kennedy says it's one of his favorite book he even read and believed the scenario as described could actually occur in the United States&#x85; to the fact that it's clearly did happen. The generals at the time actually want to get into an shooting war in with the USSR during the Cuban Missile Crisis which Kennedy was against. The threat of a military coup was quite real. Many of the shots needed for the movie was approved by JFK who fear a overthrow during his own presidency. The screenplay was written by Twilight Zone, Rod Serling brings the story of a unpopular President Lyman played by Fredric March whom pacifists agenda has just made a peace treaty with the Russians to get rid of the their nuclear weapons and that of a popular, General Joint Chief of Staff James Scott played by Burt Lancaster who believes the best thing for America is not to get rid of the weapons, because he felt the Russians are untrustworthy, and doesn't want America to get attack like Pearl Harbor 1941. Between these two men, is Kirk Douglas whom plays Colonel Jiggs Casey whom side with his superior, General Scott, but stands for following the Constitution. He quickly uncovers the plot to overthrow the president, but many of the facts has been well hidden that he doesn't know if he truly wrong, or right with his decision to tell the President about it. It's a quest to get the facts straight, and derailed it as soon as possible before Sunday. The way, it's written is brilliant, as it's makes it out to be a clock timing event. Time is running out. This movie came out in 1964, and became very controversial as many view it to be a leftist movie telling Americans that those of the ring will try to overthrow the government, as some view as a saver for one-world cynic ideas. Both ideas were address in the movie, very clear and clean. In truth, it's hard to case General Scott as the villain as he believes in his heart, what he's doing is best for America. The language addressed by him, during two key scenes the speech on TV and his meeting with the Senators were well-written to the point, that we understand why he's thinking the way he is. While many people think this might be far-fetch, in truth it did it. The basic of the plot might be taken from real life events. One must research the Business Plot of 1933, where Retired Marine Corps Major General Smedley Butler claimed that wealthy businessmen were plotting to create a fascist veterans' organization and use it in a coup d'état to overthrow United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt, with Butler as leader of that organization. The two characters of Casey and Scott is clearly based on him, each playing a half of him. The movie is very intelligent, as both the President and Scott's actions can lead to Marshal's law&#x85; limiting the right of the Constitution both way. The power of the military industrial complex and the vulnerability of the state to fascism during times of heightened national security concerns, is ever-present in American society. Watch it, it's a really good. "},{"Title":"Political Intrigue","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The United States is divided between those who support President Jordan Lyman (played by Fredric March) and his recently announced nuclear disarmament treaty with the Soviet Union--and those who bitterly oppose it. The leader of the opposition is Air Force General James Mattoon Scott (Burt Lancaster) who also holds the position of Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. While working for General Scott, Marine Colonel Martin 'Jiggs' Casey (Kirk Douglas) stumbles across top-secret coded messages which he suspects leads to an attempted military takeover of the government. From that point political intrigue takes over as the White House races against time to figure out what precisely is going on and how to stop it. Although filmed in black and white and clearly dated to the early to mid-60's, this movie still packs a punch and does an awesome job of setting up a realistic scenario concerning the difficulties both the military and civilian sectors would have in an actual military coup attempt. Not only did Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas perform in an excellent manner, but Edmond O'Brien won a Golden Globe Award for his performance as Senator Raymond Clark. Likewise, Ava Gardner also gives a decent performance as Eleanor Holbrook, the former mistress of General Scott. And while there are a couple of brief moments in which the camera isn't kind to her, she still manages to retain some of her former beauty for the most part. That said, although lacking action and special effects, I believe that this is a film that has just the right amount of drama and realism that the audience is sure to appreciate. "},{"Title":"Seven Days in May is classic political thriller","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" 1964's well-received Seven Days in May explores the possibility of a military takeover of the United States. An unpopular president, played by Fredric March, is ready to sign a controversial disarmament treaty with the Soviet Union and this doesn't play well with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Scott (a very rigid Burt Lancaster). The General believes that the safety and security of the U.S. will be compromised if the treaty is signed and decides to do something about it stage a military coup. Standing directly in his path is a Marine Colonel played by Kurt Douglas and certain U.S. Senators who discover the plot. Edmund O'Brien is one of the senators and his part was good enough to win a Golden Globe. The best scene in the movie is when General Scott is finally called into the president's office for a classic confrontation and showdown. The epic battle of wits between Lancaster and March is one for the ages and there can be only one winner.Directed by the great John Frankenheimer and with a screenplay by Rod Serling, Seven Days in May is one of the best political thrillers ever filmed and I'm surprised that no one has ever attempted to remake it for present-day audiences. Maybe it's because the subject matter wouldn't strike the same nerve it did in 1964. The movie was released relatively soon after the Cuban Missile Crisis and JFK's assassination. Also in the cast are Ava Gardner, who's more than window-dressing to the plot, the excellent George Macready and the always interesting Martin Balsam. This film is nothing short of a classic and is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The Judas Complex","Date":"30 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Attempting to end the Cold War, unpopular US President Fredric March (as Jordan Lyman) signs a nuclear disarmament treaty with the USSR. Meanwhile, Colonel Kirk Douglas (as Martin Jiggs Casey) thinks charismatic General Burt Lancaster (James Mattoon Scott) is planning a military coup. We're in for a week of unadulterated nightmare, observes the President, in Rod Serling's screenplay. This superb political thriller seems to have lost some steam due to its proximity with director John Frankenheimer's previous film The Manchurian Candidate (1962). Seven Days in May also has more build-up than climax, but the leading men are absolutely perfect, the cast and crew deep with expertise, and Mr. Frankenheimer works Ellsworth Fredericks' camera with a slithery perspective; it still seems real.********* Seven Days in May (2/12/64) John Frankenheimer ~ Fredric March, Kirk Douglas, Burt Lancaster, Edmond O'Brien "},{"Title":"cross between the US and USSR","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Seven Days in May and Dr. Strangelove both got released around the same time and both dealt with the insanity that had taken over the military brass. The former focuses on the prospect of a military coup in the United States, carried out by generals who fear a lessening of tensions with the Soviet Union. It was probably appropriate that the movie got released right after the Kennedy assassination, and right before the coup in the Soviet Union that replaced the progressive Khrushchev with the conservative Brezhnev.Obviously, this movie isn't as good as Dr. Strangelove, but should still be required viewing for anyone who wants to truly understand what the military hierarchy is all about. Really intense. "}{"Title":"Culture of Fear","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A peace sign turning into an instrument of violent in the subsequent riot, parallel war and anti-war demonstrations set the scene for this top-drawer screenplay by Hollywood's extraordinarily prolific angry young man, Rod Serling, whose own experiences as a soldier left him with strong opinions about the use of military force. So, the film provides a transfixing histrionic story of the action taken by President Fredric March when advised of a top secret hunch that Burt Lancaster, top Air Force general, also chairman of the Joint Chiefs, is leading a conspiracy to overthrow the government on a particular Sunday in May. General Lancaster, an abundantly admired hero, is moved to this disloyal venture because he fears the cost of a nuclear disarmament treaty with the Russians that President Frederic March has settled. Clues and information on this enormous scheme are quickly and elegantly trailed in the finest spy-fiction practice, startling finds are revealed and a culminating war of words between the President and his enemy is arrived at. The weight and significance of the crisis here takes a striking turn into a sensitive, precarious question of political philosophy.The people don't want war, but each and every time, we are invariably brought to the behest of the leaders. It proves easier all the time. All one has to do is tell us we're being attacked, and accuse peacekeepers of having no patriotism and of exposing the country to menace. During Serling's vibrant and incisive dialogue, the President sorrowfully observes that the basis of such a move toward mayhem is not an individual's hunger for power but the result of a dilution of fear and unease. The adversary is not the general, he declares, it's the nuclear era. It happens to have killed man's faith in his ability to influence what happens to him, he says. If for no more than this avowal, the film is of tremendous historical and social importance. To believe this was a time when politicians made insane decisions because they believed they were right, not because they were making power plays for the life raft while sinking the ship.But there's masses more in it. Everything involved realizes a stinging momentum and compelling tautness under John Frankenheimer's control, harvesting an essence of reality and credibility. It's a definite companion piece to Frankenheimer's baroque predecessor The Manchurian Candidate, but it's markedly less exaggerated, closer to possible realities. Supposedly, JFK had read the original novel and asserted that the scenario could actually happen, and he encouraged and assisted the film adaptation, despite the Pentagon's reservations about it. Pakula would further develop the underground garage and the kidnapping plot in the vast lake, though the real follow-ups must be examined beyond the frame, in the Reagan Doctrine, the Persian Gulf, the preemptive wars of George W. Bush, the Blackwater shootings in Baghdad, the torture at Abu Ghraib...Frankenheimer maintains a boding shiver, gently flowing through evenly lit deep-focus black-and-white compositions of hallways, board rooms, consultations and appointments. An urgent cut ranges from the astral wilderness of El Paso to a battleship on Gibraltar's shore. There's feisty senator Edmond O'Brien's peevish grappling with a bottle of bourbon in the subterranean vault of a cloak-and-dagger Army base, Martin Balsam's New York eccentricity as the President's press secretary passing momentarily through a deadpan stand-off with John Houseman, and, principally, the bite of Ava Gardner's resentment as a rebuffed Washington mistress with incriminating letters. But March as the President is the strongest and the finest. He exposes an alertness of the enormity of his angst.Kirk Douglas is forceful and heroic as the Air Force colonel who sniffs out the scheme, and Lancaster is remarkably powerful and persuasive. Among the numerous first-rate performers of minor characters are Houseman as a steel-faced vice admiral, Whit Bissell as a Senatorial snake in the grass and Malcolm Atterbury as the president's physician who uncannily strikes a parallel with the film's doomed era when he says, Why, in God's name, do we elect a man president and then try to see how fast we can kill him? As gloomy as is the tricky situation that they and this picture stage, the recognition of its odds and the finding of how it might be settled, with penetration and elemental nerve, make this a daring and potent film. "},{"Title":"Power Plays at the Top","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" First-rate political thriller. It's fascinating to watch Col. Casey (Douglas) and the president's loyalists uncover the plot to overthrow the elected government. The president (March) wants a nuclear treaty with the Soviets that the joint chiefs led by Gen. Scott (Lancaster) feel would leave the US defenseless. Actually, a nuclear test ban treaty with the Soviets was a live issue at the time (1963). Liberals and Pres. Kennedy were generally supportive, while conservatives were generally wary. I guess it's not surprising that two of Hollywood's better-known liberals (Douglas & Lancaster) would agree to star in the movie.Gen. Scott and the coup supporters are not so much depicted as evil as they are misguided, that is, unwilling to trust the rule of law during perilous times. Their motives are patriotic but their ends destructive of Constitutional rule. As the head plotter, Lancaster is perfect, unwavering and haughty. Ditto March as the principled president and Douglas as the conflicted aide to Scott. It's edge-of-your-seat fascination as the president's men fly here and there uncovering the guts of the coup. Director Frankenheimer orchestrates the elements superbly. Note the atmospheric use of electronic screens to heighten the sinister sense of remote controls. I guess my only reservation is with Gardner's role (Holbrook), which is only weakly connected to the single-minded narrative, but does get a woman's name on the marquee. There were a number of politically themed movies during this period, most notably The Manchurian Candidate (1962), Dr. Strangelove (1964), and Fail Safe (1964). Fortunately, this Seven Arts Production fits nicely into that provocative pack. "},{"Title":"Stunning on all fronts","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is a stunning motion picture.The suspense is taut as we see a military coup plot unfolding...not in some unstable third world country, but right here in the United States. We see it from the point of view of the plotters. We see it from the point of view of the President and his associates. The question is, who will prevail...although in our hearts we know that the Constitution will win out.The acting in this film is absolutely top notch. This may be Kirk Douglas' finest performance. He plays it straight, not over the top, somewhat restrained. He is impeccable as a soldier torn between loyalty and his oath to uphold the Constitution. Burt Lancaster -- not a favorite of mine, yet I always knew he was a fine actor. Here he turns in a wonderful performance as the chief coup plotter. Frederick March is perfection as the unpopular President. And, unfortunately, time has forgotten just how wonderful an actor he was over many, many years. Supporting players of note include Edmond O'Brien in a consummate performance as a dipso senator, for which he earned an Oscar nomination, and deservedly so. Another nearly forgotten, but very fine actor. Martin Balsam turns in his usual totally solid performance, typical of this distinguished character actor. There's also an interesting scene with John Houseman. Another when the President calls his closest friend a dipso Senator.There is one outstanding scene after another in this film. Of particular note is the scene where Colonel Lancaster informs President March his vague suspicion of an impending coup. It's difficult to find something to criticize here. This is an exceptional film. Make no mistake. This is the granddaddy of all political thrillers because as you watch it, and after you have finished watching it you think that -- at least at that time -- this really could have happened. "},{"Title":"Timeless Classic Thriller!","Date":"26 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" ... This movies stands-the-test of time in every way. It will always be fresh and relevant, since there's a constant tension between the citizen-elected Presidency and the military-run Pentagon! - With an amazing cast and director, Seven Days in May is enhanced by the taught score penned by the late, great Hollywood composer Jerry Goldsmith. One of the most thrilling assignments during my 15-yrs. work-for-Billboard Magazine in L.A., Vegas-&-the Bflo./Rochester, NY markets, was interviewing Jerry in 1979. ... Mr. Goldsmith had just completed the 1st. Alien and was starting the 1st. Star Trek. He graciously welcomed me to visit him in his 2nd. floor studio behind-his-home. I'd been-a-fan since seeing A Patch of Blue in 1966, which he'd scored. - A magical setting, with large overhead windows - allowing plenty of sunshine and views of trees above - Jerry shared how he created that wonderful melodic music. I was mesmerized and overwhelmed. ... Attending the sneak-preview of Alien at the 20th Century Fox back lot, was part of the assignment. I almost threw-up my popcorn on nearby Olivia-Newton John and Richard Dreyfuss during the scene when the alien burst-out of the actor's stomach! Of course, Jerry's music was magical! - Even though limited in this film, it's effective when heard. "},{"Title":"Taurus Rising","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Tension pack movie about an attempted US Government takeover or coup by the US military headed by Air Force General James Hattoon Scott, Burt Lancaster, and a number of his fellow, high in rank, military men.It's when Pres. Jordan Lyman, Fredrick March, signed a disarmament treaty with the Soviet Union that his poll numbers dropped dramatically with a majority of the American public demanding his resignation or, if he refuses to resign, impeachment. WWII and Korean War hero Gen. James Scott soon devises a plan to not only throw Layman out of office but have him tried for treason. Using the Preakness Stakes at the Pimlico racetrack as a cover for his real intentions Gen. Scott has the members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, that he's the chairman of, to place bets on the race. The military mens bets have nothing to do in who's to win the Preakness but, by betting on it, show their willing support of Gen. Scott's plan to take over the government with their help! As well as oust and arrest Pres. Lyman and those who support his policies in the US Senate and Congress for high treason!It's Gen. Scott's good friend and assistant US Marine Col. Martin Jiggs Casey, Kirk Douglas, who accidentally gets wind of his diabolical plan just days before it's to be put into action. Col. Casey finds out first about the mysterious Preakess betting pool that in turn also leads him to this this ultra secret US Army base in El Paso Texas that's been kept, by those involved in the Preakness betting, from not only the US Senate and Congress, who's to fund it, but from President Lyman himself! It's from that base in the middle of nowhere, much like the mysterious Area 51, that Gen. Scott's plans for a military takeover of the United States is to be launched!Getting in touch with Pres. Lyman Col. Casey who feels like he's ratting out his best friend-Gen. Scott-gets the president to realize that the country that he's in charge of is about to become a Fascist Military Dictatorship with it's both Constitution and Bill of Right, whom he's sworn to preserve protect and defend, suspended and eventually shredded! Faced with an uphill struggle to save his Presidency as well as his country's freedom Pres. Lyman has Col Casey do the unthinkable in him getting, like a schlock reporter for a sleazy supermarket tabloid or TV show, the only goods on his friend Gen. Scott that can both destroy and discredit him The incorruptible squeaky clean Gen. Scott's secret and illicit affair with Washington D.C hostess Elenore Ellie Holbrook, Ava Gardner.***SPOILERS*** Hard hitting as well as prophetic, in what had since happened in US politics, film that shows just how fragile our system of government really is when a populist and unscrupulous politician or military man feels it's no longer worth defending. It was Gen. Scott's false sense of national security, in the danger of signing an arms treaty with the Soviet Union, that had him and his fellow conspirators willing to overthrow and jail his nation's duly elected leader President Jordan Lyman!In the end it was Gen. Scott's fellow military men, not the hot and revealing love letters to his mistress Ellie Holbrook, who did the Great Man in. As it turned out Gen. Scott's cohorts just didn't have the stomach to face the music when the truth came out about their motives that was found in the wreckage of the plane that Pres. Lyman's good friend and confident Paul Girard, Martin Balsam, was killed in. It was Girard who got one of Gen. Scott's fellow conspirators Vice-Adm. Farley C. Barnswell, John Houseman, to confess in writing, or else end up behind bars for life, to Scott's planned government takeover. In the end Col. Casey as well as Pres. Lyman didn't have to dish out the dirt, Gen. Scott's love letters to Mrs. Holbrook, to put an end to Gen. Scott's insane and treasonous plan to save America from itself. It was his fellow military men and co-conspirators, by chickening out at the very last moment, who put and end to it and the General as well! "},{"Title":"Seven Days in May (1964) review","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This movie was a classic political intrigue, with Kirk Douglas, Fredric March, and Burt Lancaster wrapped up in a plot to overthrow the president! The film is packed with heavy material, courtesy of Rod Serling's master writing. Unfortunately, when the going gets good, meaning really hitting a fever pitch on day seven, the story goes limp and the ending is a big letdown. Still, Lancaster is unparalleled in a rare bad guy character, helped of course with an cordially solid supporting staff. This is one of Frankenheimer's best works. The confrontations between Burt Lancaster and Frederic March are written with a real tension, something well brought out by Frankenheimer who frames each argument in dreary relief. The climax of the film where Frederic March stands up and says that the greatness of a nation is built on peace is the sort of stuff that winning political speeches are made of. Frankenheimer shoots the conflict with a plainness that conveys a maximum degree of cold, frightening tension. It is tension that is aided enormously by Jerry Goldsmith's score, which consists solely of big, basso snare drumbeats. "},{"Title":"Gripping Political Thriller","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" In response to the President's disarmament plan, a dissident group within the US military plots a coup against the US government in this gripping political thriller. The top-notch cast is headed by Lancaster as a renegade general, Douglas as his suspicious subordinate, and March, especially good as the president. The excellent supporting cast includes Gardner, O'Brien, Balsam, and Houseman in an uncredited feature film debut. For Frankenheimer, this not only serves as a worthy follow-up to the great The Manchurian Candidate, but also continues a remarkable five-film run for the director, who here ratchets up the tension and maintains it high throughout. "},{"Title":"Lancaster & Douglas Score In Fifth Teaming","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" During the early sixties, several political thrillers were produced with the idea the public was still genuinely on edge because of the Cold War era despite the buffoonery of politicians like Joseph McCarthy. Seven Days In May is a terrific political thriller based on the premise that no one knows just the right way to keep the Soviet Union at bay. Burt Lancaster, a general, and several of his cronies plot a military coup without the president (Fredric March) realizing it until a colonel (Kirk Douglas) with a conscience and a sense of duty feels compelled to pursue his suspicions. Director John Frankenheimer again assembles an outstanding cast to tell a story of political intrigue, paranoia, and suspense. Ava Gardner is a mistress who may or may not hold an ace forcing the general to reveal his hand. Oscar-nominated Edmond O'Brien stars as Senator Clark, a boozy confidante of the president charged with getting to the bottom of a secret military installation. Hugh Marlowe and Whit Bissell are Lancaster's cronies. Martin Balsam and George Macready are confidantes of March. Frankenheimer utilizes the wide angle lens and two shots for the more dramatic moments in the film. Jerry Goldsmith provides the musical score. Frankenheimer's direction builds suspense, is taut, and effectively employs a variety of locations and sets. Rod Serling penned the script from the novel by Fletcher Knebel and Charles W. Bailey II. Look for brief appearances by Victor Buono, John Houseman with a small but key role, and Leonard Nimoy in a bit. The film progresses at a deliberate pace culminating in a tension-filled ending. ***1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"But wait a second","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is a fascinating movie, and I agree with an 8/10 rating, but there are a few things that bother me 1) It is not clear whether the Senate ratified the treaty or not. If they did, Gen Scott has no business blaming it on the President alone, and he is obviously more interested in his own future than the country's. If they did not ratify it (yet) he should be working on that angle, with his henchman from California, and shouldn't have any trouble getting the treaty rejected by the Senate if it is as unpopular and impractical as they say it is. 2) Nobody mentioned impeachment. If the prez somehow snuck the treaty past the Senate (see #1), and it is as bad as Scott says, then impeachment seems a good possibility. 3) Verification someone mentioned it, but it was then dropped. It sounds like we could have backed out as soon as we decided that the USSR was not holding up their end of the bargain. Did Scott think that would be too late? 4) As I understand it, we had overwhelming superiority over the Soviets in nuclear armament at this time, and Fletcher Knebel should have known about it. "},{"Title":"Excellent Thriller...","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A great movie directed by John Frankenheimer. Coming on the heels of the director's other political thriller THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE, it's no surprise that SEVEN DAYS IN MAY is so outré. Burt Lancaster is a four star general/joint chief of staff who clashes so bitterly with the President (a surprisingly non-hammy Fredric March) that he plans a coup. Kirk Douglas the aide who uncovers the plot. The acting in this film is all first-rate. Lancaster is perfect for his Machiavellian role and Douglas is every inch his equal. March, usually prone to overdoing things, keeps things low-key and save for one rather inane patriotic speech (the fault of Frankenheimer and script writer Rod Serling) is quite good. It's a quick moving, very entertaining movie. With Martin Balsam, Edmond O'Brien, Whit Bissell and Ava Gardner (great in a small but pivotal role). Famed producer and future actor John Houseman appears briefly as a turncoat admiral. "}{"Title":"defense of the realm","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" One of the better (and more believable) D.C. thrillers was at least two decades ahead of its time, suggesting that the greatest threat to national security lay not behind the Iron Curtain but in our own back yard, where a covert network of ultra-Right Wing renegade Army officers stage a military coup to rescue the government from a liberal president hoping to dismantle their precious nuclear arsenal. Such an outspoken criticism of Cold War power politics was unusual for the time (not long after the Berlin Wall and the Cuban missile crisis), but if anything the message would become even more relevant twenty years later Burt Lancaster's charismatic, fanatical General Scott is a ringer for super-patriot Oliver North. The secret agenda unfolds with cunning (and distressing) simplicity, but if the President (Frederic March) is less of a pushover than the Pentagon believes, and if Rod Serling's screenplay can't resist making one speech too many on behalf of the Constitution, it's only because the nation no doubt needed reassuring after JFK's assassination that the reins of State were still in able hands. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Seven Days in May is an excellent movie with an all star cast. I've seen the movie several times on cable and get more out of it each time. The movie is actually based in fact. In the early '30s FDR removed the gold standard and this sent a panic wave through some corridors of Wall Street. People felt their companies or investments might experience huge deflation from FDR's move. A quiet attempt was made to overtake the White House in the form of a huge march on DC with various veterans groups. The person sought for this job was a retired General named Smedly Butler. Butler blew the whistle on the whole charade and Congress went headlong into an investigation into Butler's allegations. Butler stated he was approached by a group of company owners, the D---- and the R------; you can fill in the spaces! Anyways, the wanted to reduce FDR to a figure head and let another Cabinet member call the shots. What is haunting is that Congress confirmed all of Butler's points. The 1973 book, the Attempt to Take over the Whitehouse confirms all that is said above.Also it should be noted that JFK gave his blessing to the movies producer, Frankenhimer, to film outside scenes of the Whitehouse. He felt, it is said in some circles, a Kindred spirit with the fictional President in the stated movie. Go figure.If you don't believe any of the above, do a little research then watch the movie again and see just how amazing history can be!!  "},{"Title":"Great drama that seems like it could happen","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This was a fine story with excellent dialogue and performances. Taken from an equally fine book, it came off very realistically. Both the fanatically devoted General and the President presented well thought out and mostly correct objections to each other's philosophies. I felt both were a little bit right and wrong, and would have probably sided with the General except for fear of a military despot. Tense all the way to the end. 5 stars. "},{"Title":"News article asks Does this movie represent current (2005) reality in Washington DC?","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The following article refers to the movie Seven Days In May and asks the question Have we reached Seven Days In May? ------------------------- The Toronto Sun    Paranoia Grips the U.S. Capital    By Eric Margolis     Sunday 06 February 2005     The film Seven Days In May is one of my all-time favourites. The gripping 1964 drama, starring Burt Lancaster, depicts an attempted coup by far rightists in Washington using a top-secret Pentagon anti-terrorist unit called something like Contelinpro.     Life imitates art. This week, former military intelligence analyst William Arkin revealed a hitherto unknown directive, with the Orwellian name JCS Conplan 0300-97, authorizing the Pentagon to employ special, ultra-secret anti-terrorist military units on American soil for what the author claims are extra-legal missions.     In other words, using U.S. soldiers to kill or arrest Americans, acts that have been illegal since the U.S. Civil War.      This frightening news comes as Washington is gripped by reborn, Cold-War-style paranoia, ominous threats of war against Iran from the real president, Dick Cheney, and a titanic bureaucratic battle just won by Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld.     Instead of being fired for the grotesque military-political fiasco in Iraq and the shameful torture scandals, Rumsfeld has just managed to create a new, Pentagon spy/special ops organization, blandly named Strategic Support Branch, that will replace or duplicate many of the CIA's tasks.     The CIA has been sent to the doghouse. Too many CIA veterans criticized or contradicted Bush's and Cheney's phony claims over Iraq and terrorism. So Bush has imposed a new, yes- man director on the agency, slashed its budgets, purged its senior officers, and downgraded CIA to third-class status.     Rumsfeld's new, massively funded SSB will become the Pentagon's CIA, complete with commando units, spies, mercenary forces, intelligence gathering and analysis, and a direct line to the White House. The Pentagon has just effectively taken over the spy business.     Used Terrorism Hysteria     Mind you, the Pentagon and its Defence Intelligence Agency have been deeply involved in intelligence around the globe for 50 years. U.S. Army intelligence and its covert sub- branches have long conducted black ops, including missions in the U.S. as well as assassinations and sabotage abroad. The Pentagon consumes three-quarters of the total U.S. intelligence budget.     Rumsfeld has skillfully used terrorism hysteria to wrest control of intelligence and make the Pentagon supreme in Washington's bureaucratic power struggles.     The Pentagon's new spy arm will be largely excluded from Congressional oversight or media examination. Its special operations teams will roam the globe, all under cover of deep black missions of which no records will be kept, and no questions asked.     Equally worrying, the Pentagon's new special-ops units are headed up by notorious religious fanatic, Lt. Gen. William Boykin, who calls the U.S. Army the house of God and Islamic insurgents agents of Satan. He warned Muslims, my God is bigger than your god, which is an idol.     Boykin's command will now dispatch post-modern Christian crusaders to cleanse the world of Satanic Muslims and other miscreants. The Pentagon's new special forces will be able to run operations of which the CIA knows nothing.     The 9/11 Commission called for improved intra-agency co-operation and data sharing -- instead, the U.S. will get far less co-operation, as the Pentagon goes its own, secret way.     Now, George W. Bush, who clearly believes he holds the mandate of heaven after being re-elected by the less mentally active half of American voters, has decided to unleash special forces and all sorts of irregular units, including mercenaries, uniformed bounty hunters, and mutants sporting t-shirts proclaiming kill 'em all, let God sort 'em out. These militarized thugs and video arcade Rambos are sure to run amok, dragging America's once good name ever deeper into the mud.     We have evidently learned nothing from the wars in Indochina and Central America.     Have we reached Seven Days in May?     Not yet, but the second Bush administration has been taking dangerous steps that continue to curtail personal rights, further emasculate the supine, cowardly U.S. Congress, and empower ideological or religious extremists and shadowy agencies with unrestrained powers that endanger Americans at home, and all abroad suspected of troubling the Pax Americana. --------    Eric Margolis is Contributing Foreign Editor to the Toronto Sun. "},{"Title":"The President's men","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The American President Lyman (Fredric March) with low approval ratings has passed a divisive nuclear disarmament treaty. The head of the Joint Chiefs General Scott (Burt Lancaster) opposed the treaty and is organising a secret coup with some of his supporters. His aide Colonel Jiggs Casey (Kirk Douglas) informs the President of the behind the scenes manoeuvring and Lyman instructs some of his trusted men to get evidence of the conspirators plans.Director John Frankenheimer loved a conspiracy thriller. Here he paints the conspirators as misguided and maybe the President as too honourable and principled.The film contains too much talking heads at times and it suffers from it during the showdown between Lancaster and March. The President actually does come across as weak and maybe proves Lancaster's point when in reality a more forceful resolution was required by the Lyman.The film is still masterful, full of intrigue and tension but it does move slowly at the beginning and has a major flaw. If the President was unpopular how did he manage to get the Treaty ratified by Congress? As the treaty is approved by Congress then it make General Scott's action more murkier and he should had been called out more strongly for his treachery. "},{"Title":"Realistic White House conspiracy drama","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" U.S. President Jordan Lyman (Fredric March) has only 29% approval rate while passing a divisive nuclear disarmament treaty. The popular head of the Joint Chiefs General Scott (Burt Lancaster) is vehemently opposed to the treaty and argues for more robust military posture. His aide Marine Colonel Jiggs Casey (Kirk Douglas) discovers a secret unit ECOMCON headed by Scott. Jiggs informs the president but it's questionable who can actually be trusted. Ellie Holbrook (Ava Gardner) is Scott's drunken former mistress.Director John Frankenheimer has given this movie a very realistic feel of a Washington conspiracy drama. The acting is superb. However there is a coldness to the beginning like trying to watch CSPAN. There is a little too much political talks from talking heads. It's too static. The tension isn't as exciting as I want it to be. It's still a good movie. I just want more action. I'm not looking for shoot outs and car chases in the White House. I am looking for more action in the staging and the camera movements. It's not the style of the era and that is a drawback from its modern counterparts. The opening act is very slow. After the meeting in the Oval Office, the tension rises noticeably and the movie improves. "},{"Title":"Served its Purpose, but now sustains the Myth","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I suppose, for its time, it was a progressive position to look upon the Constitution reverentially for its capacity to compel obedience to the sacred writ in the face of an imminent military putsch. And maybe having characters on the scene like Alexander Haag and Gen. Westmoreland during the Vietnam war era meant this film could be a warning signal, on the one hand, and, on the other, a cause for celebration that we have the best Constitution on earth (remember how Political Scientists used to tout the Genius of American Politics?). But that time has long gone, and now it's time to look our antediluvian Constitution squarely in the face and shout out F#@k the Founding Fathers. It's an 18th-century document devised by men, almost all of whom believed that Whites had an indisputable right to possess slaves, that women should be men's chattel, that only those in possession of property should enjoy the right to vote, that power in the hands of common people (as opposed to the gentry) was a menace to be repressed, and on and on. Nowadays our Constitution is a major impediment to having a functioning modern State and political system, with multiple points at which governmental initiatives can be blocked (almost invariably to assure the perpetuation of privilege and the concentration of wealth). The 2-yr-term of Congressmen means, for example, that they must begin fund-raising the day after they get elected--and ensures the stranglehold on our representatives of big-moneyed interests. All of this to say that this movie is, in the final analysis, a part of the great ideological propaganda machine that makes it impossible to think clearly about the actual efficacy of our Constitution and whether it genuinely serves the interest of the people. "},{"Title":"I STRONGLY DISAGREE","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Seven Days in May was a good movie. I saw it in 1993 and it gets you to thinking. What if the U.S. Army was about to overthrow an unpopular President? There was a movie similar to this back in1998 called The Siege. I never saw it so I can't recommend it. Ialso can't tell you if I liked it or not. Kirk Douglas is Colonel Jiggs Casey, USMC. Casey's an alcoholic who's having an affair with a Washington socialite. Jordan Lyman is the President of theUnited States. Let me clarify that last statement. Jordan Lyman is the unpopular President of the United States. General Scott is the popular Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Does he want to wait until the next election to unseat Lyman, who's just put adisarmament treaty with the Soviet Union through the Senate, tounseat him? No, he doesn't. He plans to overthrow Lyman in acoup d'etat, or what the Germans call a putsch, in order to become President. Frederic March is a senator. Casey, like the anonymous German officer who tried, and failed, to warn PresidentHindenburg about Hitler, goes to Lyman. He tells him that there's going to be a coup against him next Sunday. Does Lyman believe Casey? Yes, he does, and he confronts Scott. He tells Scott that if he has a disagreement with him, to resign and run for President. That's the way it's done here. The military, even if it disagrees with the President, is still subject to the President and Lyman reminds Scott that he serves at his pleasure. The script by Rod Serling is taught but definitely not, repeat, NOT DATED! I saw the movie and I read the book. Frederic March won an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor. Would he have had anything to do with a cenematic dud? "},{"Title":"Brilliant Filmmaking, Silly Story","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Seven Days In May is a brilliant piece of filmmaking with a story that is dated and ultimately doesn't hold up under analysis.  In addition to the gaps in logic already noted by others, if the nuclear disarmament treaty with the USSR is so deeply unpopular, how the hell did President Lyman manage to get it ratified by the Senate in the first place?  Did something happen to change the mood of the country?  The movie never tells us.On the other hand, Seven Days In May is a political thriller that is also a film noir par excellence.  Note that all of the action scenes take place at night.  Particularly noteworthy is the scene that takes place outside and in the garage of Senator Prentice's apartment building; the lighting, the camera angles, the sound effects and Jerry Goldsmith's score all add to the sinister atmosphere.Overall, a great movie stylistically, but enjoying Seven Days In May requires a major suspension of disbelief if you know anything at all about American politics. "},{"Title":"Jordan Lyman and George W. Bush","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" We hire our presidents for four-year terms. They have the luxury of doing what they think is right, regardless of how right or wrong history may prove them to be and how peeved the citizenry gets. President Bush is committed to a foreign policy that lots of folks are against. But, he gets to execute policies he thinks are right until noon on January 20, 2009.It's a heck of a good system because it demands faith and patience, virtues that are in short supply nowadays.Rod Serling and John Frankenheimer's film of the Fletcher Knebel novel, Seven Days in May delivers a perfect example of why NCA--National Command Authority--must stay in the hands of civilians and why limits on the Executive Branch should be slow in their implementation. Watching Frederick March's President Jordan Lyman struggle to push through a clearly dangerous and presumptive disarmament treaty with the Soviets while learning of a coup d'etat planned by his top military officers demands an answer from the audience Do you have faith in the Constitution? Seven Days in May is an absolutely riveting, quiet thriller, not the sort of movie that would appeal to people who want to be instantly gratified. There is no gunfire, no bouncing bosoms, only acting. It's in black and white, for crying out loud! So, unless you have faith in a movie to deliver the goods, to tell a remarkably relevant story (for 1964 and 2007), you probably won't like SDIM.You probably are one of the folks out there who want Bush impeached because you don't like his policies. That would put you with the conspirators in the movie, ready to crush the Constitution for convenience' sake. "}{"Title":"Too Many Characters","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  *** mild spoilers ahead ***The premise of this movie is solid, and the plot is believable.  Unfortunately, for the first-time viewer at least, the movie is bogged down by a morass of characters who are rather indistinctive.  Never mind that it's complicated enough to tell the good guys from the bad guys -- it's all the more difficult because many of the characters run together.  While each character plays a key role (as we discover by the end), not enough effort is made to develop each of the characters, so we can't really comprehend their importance to the plot.The is even some vagarity among the leading characters -- e.g. who IS the lead?  Kirk Douglas (Casey) is virtually invisible in the last half of the movie, as it evolves into a showdown between Lyman and Scott.  Yet Lyman has only one key scene sequence in the first half of the movie.The pace of the movie is also rather uneven.  The scenes featuring Ava Gardner are particularly tedious.  Then the plot speeds up to a breakneck pace, and it's hard to keep up.From a political scientist / historian point of view, Seven Days in May is interesting because it highlights the danger of military commanders who don't bow to civilian authority, the importance of having a strong and forceful leader in the White House who will defend the constitution before his own personal or political agenda, and the clarification of values in that loyalty alone should not always dictate important decisions or lead to dangerous assumptions.  Even though the Cold War setting of the movie is rather dated, these values (and others that I probably missed) are still relevant today.It might have been an interesting twist if the only way for the President to quash the military rebellion (and thus, defend the constitution) would have been for him to *reverse* himself on the treaty . . . again, demonstrating principle over politics.Another interesting note is the contrast of the dovish president and hawkish Gen. Scott.  While Scott clearly goes too far in the pursuit of his agenda (and, in fact, should not have been allowed to become a highly visible critic of the administration), it's more than a little ironic that his principles of a strong national defense and refusal to negotiate / compromise with the Soviet Union would be what would win the Cold War some 25 years later, when they were implemented by an actor-turned-politician named Ronald Reagan.  You can debate the politics of this all you want, but it can't be argued that the Soviets were brought down by a show of American strength, not by negotiation.  So, in at least that respect, General Scott was right!  His mistake, however, was choosing to advance his agenda militarily and not politically by running for office himself. "},{"Title":"Excellent cast and idea wasted on a bland thriller","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" During the Cold War, American president Jordan Lyman (is it me, or is it a play on Lyndon Johnson?) tries to sign a treaty for nuclear disarmament with the USSR. Fearing this will leave the country exposed to the Soviets, a plot for a military coup is put into play.Director John Frankenheimer goes at it again on a political thriller. However, unlike his previous excellent 'The Manchurian Candidate', 'Seven Days in May' is a very bland and poorly developed/thought thriller that works only thanks to its stellar cast. Kirk Douglas, Burt Lancaster, Fredric March and Edmond O'Brien are all excellent; Ava Gardner is okay too, though she looks far too old and nowhere near the beauty she is hyped to be (I've not seen earlier films of her, to be truthful).General Scott, played by Lancaster, actually comes down as the most sensible character at the beginning. Yes, nuclear weapons are bad and all WHEN USED, but people act in movies (and sometimes in real life) as if the US is trigger happy with its nuclear arsenal. Besides, how do you expect disarming yourself from the ONE THING that is keeping the Cold War from heating up is going to help?! The threat of nuclear warfare was what kept the thoughts of actual battle away from the USA, the USSR and any other major nations even today. Lancaster's reasoning is far more realistic, whereas the president (Fredric March) is (as Lancaster points out) far too naive.Yet, as the movie progresses, the moral line is blurred from both sides. General Scott and others plan a coup, which is inconsistent with his speech of protecting the USA, while Lyman's supporters try to resort to underhand tactics (using Scott's affair with Gardner's character) to undermine his reputation. All the while col. Casey (Douglas) is left as a moral stand point, being the character that this kind of film uses to try to represent (manipulate?) the viewer's perception of the situation.The movie tries too much to play for both sides, giving arguments in favor and against the points discussed, but in the end fails. They never manage to be consistent in the argumentation, interchanging strong points with terribly fragile ones it is unbelievable that the same character who makes such a strong speech at one scene is totally hopeless in another discussion. For a film that asks the viewer to think and reflect, 'Seven Days in May' is surprisingly weak minded in its arguments. The fact this is not an impartial movie (ie. it is quite clear which side of the discussion the movie supports) only worsens the arguments.The movie moves slowly; not the thrill-creating slow, but not quite the boring-slow. Somewhat in between. The extremely dull cinematography and rather pretentious tries at moralization, however, don't help. In the end, it is only the very good acting from a very good cast, and an interesting (if somewhat wasted) idea that makes this worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Several Actors In Uniform","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" What do you get when you combine a genius director of suspense films (John Frankenheimer), a quartet of Hollywood legends (Burt Lancaster, Kirk Douglas, Frederic March and Ava Gardner), and a platoon of great character actors (Edmond O'Brien, Martin Balsam and Andrew Duggan, just for starters)? Well, a surprisingly tepid political thriller, if you let TV-grade pseudo-intellectual Rod Serling write the script. All the elements are present for a worthy successor to Frankenheim's masterpiece The Manchurian Candidate -- credible intrigue, a charismatic villain, and shadowy, unsettling black-and-white cinematography. For about two-thirds of the movie, the filmic aspects of Seven Days in May are just gripping enough to overcome a script riddled with Serling's second-worst flaw as a writer -- the tendency to have all characters speak with the cadence and vocabulary of middlebrow magazine editorials (you make me think that fruit salad on your chest is for neutrality, evasiveness, and fence-straddling). But all the plot twists and jarring close-ups on Earth can't silence Serling's voice, which is a tragedy since the grandiloquent sermons he sticks in his characters' mouths -- his single greatest vice, here and in countless Twilight Zone scripts -- almost derail the movie towards the end. Seven Days in May turns the peculiar trick of being both suspenseful and boring, thanks to Rod the Modernist.The plot, which hinges on a series of coincidences and fortunate accidents which a more clever writer could have avoided, concerns Kirk Douglas, a Marine colonel working as an administrator for the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, coming to suspect that his superior, jut-jawed Air Force commander Burt Lancaster, is conspiring with his fellow military leaders to take over of the United States. Kirk reports his suspicions to President March, who has incurred Burt's wrath by signing a nuclear disarmament treaty with the USSR, and the rest of the film is devoted to foiling the attempted coup d'état. Ava Gardner, not aging particularly well by 1964, shows up as Lancaster's ex-mistress who may harbor some embarrassing secrets about the General, not to mention a potential love interest for Kirk. Balsam, O'Brien et al portray all the President's men, loyal operatives and sympathetic senators who scheme to keep the world safe for democracy. All of the actors are fine, making Serling's flights of expository eloquence (James Mattoon Scott hasn't the slightest interest in his own glorification, but he does have an abiding interest in the survival of his country!) listenable and almost plausible. Lancaster especially deserves a fifth star as the messianic four-star general, creating a credible and almost sympathetic character beneath all the bluster and bombast. But all of Burt's charisma and all of Kirk's agonizing can't knock Rod off his soapbox, nor can they induce him to make his larger-than-life archetypes as ruthless as Frankenheimer, at least, knew they should be, based on The Manchurian Candidate. Good movie, blown opportunity. "},{"Title":"Absurd","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The setup The President of the United States is persuaded that the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs is running a secret base within the US and is planning a coup to take place within a week. So what does he do? He sends a broken down drunken senator to drive over and check out the secret base, and meanwhile hyperventilates over his own helplessness - if he fires the general, the president fears he will be thought nuts. I won't say what happens after this setup, which is complete early in the movie, but it is absurd on its face. If you're the president, and you're told there is a military base in the US you've never heard of, you don't tell a personal friend, who is drunk more often than not, to drive over all by himself and see what's going on, you send a high-level delegation of military officers, headed by a 2-star general, to find out if the rumor's true, and it if is, to take immediate control of the base. The delegation remains in constant contact with military authorities who can send whatever military backup might be needed if the secret base command, which probably does not include any officer of 2-star rank, refuses to take orders. Indeed, even if an officer of higher rank were present, his authority would of course be trumped by an order from the president. As for the suspected rogue general, he need not be fired, he need only be (a) ordered to Washington for immediate consultations; (b) be kept waiting for his appointment with the president for, oh, a day or two; and (c) be sent on an urgent inspection tour of American forces on Okinawa. Meanwhile, with the general safely out of the way, you undertake an orderly investigation of his recent activities and, if you discover hard evidence that he really was planning a coup, you have him arrested. Frederic March is a great actor, no doubt, and looks presidential, but his total ineffectuality in dealing with what seems like a rather simple situation is inexplicable. As the body of the movie depends upon this setup situation, it's all really nonsense. That this can be called the quintessential political thriller only demonstrates how terribly small our film expectations have become. "},{"Title":"It shows its age!","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I only made it through about a half hour of this film.  I rented it one night because of the great cast (Kirk Douglas, Burt Lancaster, Ava Gardner, Fredric March) but the film clearly showed its age.  Also, I sat through a special edition of the film which showed previews of it!  It seemed implausible and hokey!  The acting looked forced and the riot scene in front of the White House was unbelievable (really bad) and poorly stage - even by 1960s standards!  Maybe it got better, but I got bored. "},{"Title":"Rod Against Himself","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is your only spoiler warning...Rod Serling brought us a new definition of irony with his kick-in-the-rear 'Twilight Zone' series.  The whole structure of an episode is creating a social-morality play and then twist the ending.  Nowhere else is this evident than in his script for 'Planet of the Apes'.Here Rod uses his typical moral self combined with Frankenheimer's sense of politics from 'Candidate'.  It's not the best combination, especially when such wooden acting is used.The story is ridiculous conspiracy plot.  Stone hit upon it again with 'JFK', suddenly turning an age-idea into historical fact.  That's another story...Nonetheless, for those Serling fans looking for him to do something abnormal, here is your ticket.  Frankenheimer fans should stick to either 'Ronin' or 'Candidate' because so much of his other work dates quickly.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"An Unrefreshing Drama Movie","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  When reading comparing user ratings between newer and older movies, I'm always surprised at the high scores which many old movies receive (that do not deserve it), and the palpable low scores of today's action thrillers (of which many do not deserve either). Although a few, such as Gone With the Wind, were fairly good, most depended on a solid story and acting, which can be, after awhile, tedious (not to mention, with no replay value).In this case, Seven Days in May unfortunately does not make the category of `great old movies' like Gone With the Wind. The movie, made in 1964 during the cold war, simulates a government coup d'état during Lyman's presidency. Lyman, who has just signed a treaty to drastically reduce the number of nuclear armaments in both countries, has created an uproar in the public and Lyman's popularity is an all time low. General Mattoon Scott, also believing that Lyman is making a mistake, feeds on Lyman's low approval ratings and becomes popular. However, there is still nearly two years until the next presidential election, and Scott fears that in two years, there will be nothing but rubble. So, in a decisive move, he begins to plan his own rise to presidency.The first thing I noticed when I started watching the movie was that it was in black and white. Black and white??? This movie is made in 1964! Gone With the Wind, released 25 years earlier, had color. So, I was disappointed from the beginning. And even before the film started, a 5 minute summary of the whole movie (with stinging drum/brass music that hurt my ears) outlined the whole plot and nearly gave away the ending since it revealed that there were not going to be any plot twists that are inherent in modern day movies.The movie itself, even though it contained some solid acting (which all old movies seem to have), was achingly boring and trite. Scenes would go on for minutes in monotones as one person spoke to another, and after the conversation, the camera would spend half a minute filming one person slowly walk from one place to another. And then suddenly, in the last 15 minutes of the movie, the scenes shift into breakneck speed and The End pops up. In one short speech, Lyman somehow destroys Scott's tremendous base and chance for presidency. Although Scott had the audacity to try and takeover the government militarily, after the speech, all he says is `take me home.' Now where's the drama in that?  "},{"Title":"Too Dated","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Seven Days In May does not hold up as well as The Manchurian Candidate because while the latter film is an effective satire of a genuine phenomenon (McCarthyism and its detrimental effect on the idea of true anti-communism), the former deals with a threat of the Cold War era that was misplaced and unjust.  Positing that the United States military presents a potentially greater threat to liberty than the Soviet regime might have made for interesting debate during Cold War times, but in the post-Cold War era it rings dated and hollow.  People have overinflated the braggadocio of General Curtis LeMay way too much in assessing the attitudes of America's military during this period and to me, Seven Days In May ultimately puts forth a dangerous idea that only our military stood in the way of reaching an earlier accomodation with the Soviet Union.I will note that the movie version skewers itself toward the philosophy of President Jordan Lyman (Frederic March) much more than the novel does, because the novel has an interesting wrinkle that forces one to think harder about the motives of General Scott.  In the novel, we discover that in fact the fears of General Scott and his plotters are borne out when President Lyman discovers that the Soviets do intend to cheat on his disarmament treaty.  In the end, the power of Lyman's argument to Scott is when he notes that if faced with the same crisis as president, the general would really act no differently than he (Lyman) intends to.  A much more effective, and fair, point than the perspective served up by the movie.While the character of Jiggs Casey is strengthened from the novel (he's much more wishy-washy in the book; Kirk Douglas instead portrays him as an admirer of General Scott who is torn between his admiration for the man and his respect for the rule of law), there are other things that make the film more silly today.  A right wing television commentator?  That's the strangest case of science-fiction I ever saw!  And Ava Gardner looks more haggard than usual this time out. "},{"Title":"HISR American Cinema","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" There was virtually nothing about this film that i could bring myself to enjoy. It had some of the driest acting acting that I have ever seen, it was painfully slow moving (I fell asleep in the middle of it and had to watch the second part the next day), and the cinematography is unimaginative, bland and boring.I'll admit that I have never liked war time movies (save Dr. Strangelove), however I can usually find something that is at least mildly admirable about the movie, whether it the be excitement of a war movies action, the films acting quality, or the use of good visual effects and cinematic elements. But I am sorry to say that, within this sorry excuse for an art form in entertainment, I found absolutely nothing enjoyable. "}]