[{"Title":"Why does everyone focus on the technicalities?!!?","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"100 out of 123 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Just about every comment posted here eulogises Soy Cuba's camera-work, which is certainly understandable as it is remarkably filmed, but this is done to the neglect of other extremely important aspects. Whether they are bigger fans of the camera-work or of the direction, however, all the commentators on these pages seem to share the caveat that arguably the main point of the film - its plot - amounts to nothing more than silly propaganda or a curiosity of totalitarian film making. Such an attitude is a terrible oversight! Soy Cuba is about people's desire for freedom and a better life, and the revolutionary potential of this desire when conditions reach a point beyond which people will no longer endure. It is about self respect, and courage, will and humanity and a human, filial patriotism; it is about the distillation of Cuba as an idea and a cause for justice and empowerment. I cannot understand how deeply postmodern and jaded, or just plain superficial, someone has to be to notice all the nuances of angle and light and completely miss the deep emotional and spiriual poetry of the content (in fact, the US government certainly paid good attention, for it banned the film until 1992)! It is like discussing Korda's portrait of Che Guevara in terms of focus and aperture alone!Did they not feel goosebumps as they watched the scene of the students on the steps, and the dead dove? I am lost for words! Indeed, if it were just a vapid propaganda piece, what explains its de facto censorship in the Soviet Union? I am quite sure that many of these commentators must have visited the Caribbean on holiday at one time or another; I know from my own experiences, and they ought to have immediately realised on seeing the film, that the portrait the it paints of Cuba remains the reality of Jamaica, Dominican Republic, Haiti today, some 65 years later. Watching this film, we should above all feel indignant, rather than heaping praise onto disembodied and decontextualised technicalities such as camera-work. To dismiss it as propaganda yet ogle at its images is akin to prostituting this beautiful, very deeply moving, and inspiring film, the same way that Cuba herself was prostituted. Shame on you. "},{"Title":"A pinnacle of cinematic art","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"36 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":"  Don't avert your eyes. Look! I am Cuba. For you, I am the casino, the bar, hotels and brothels. But the hands of these children and old people are also me -- Yevgeni YevtushenkoI Am Cuba is described by film critic Elliot Wilhelm as a unique, insane, exhilarating spectacle. Filmed in Spanish, dubbed in Russian, and subtitled in English, this unique collaboration between Russian director Mikhail Kalatozov (The Cranes are Flying), the poet Yevgeni Yevtushenko, and writer Enrique Pineda Barnet dramatizes the conditions that led to the 1959 Cuban revolution. Originally made in 1964 (and unpopular both in Russia and Cuba), it was released in 1995 through the combined efforts of Martin Scorsese and Francis Ford Coppola.I Am Cuba is set in the late 1950s when a ragtag bunch of students, workers, and peasants organized to overthrow the corrupt regime of dictator Fulgencio Batista. The film is divided into four sequences. The first depicts the American-run gambling casinos and prostitution in Havana. The next shows a farmer burning his sugar cane when he learns he is going to lose his land to United Fruit. Another describes the suppression of students and dissenters at Havana University, and the final sequence shows how government bombing of mountain fields induced farmers to join with the rebels in the Sierra Maestre mountains. The final scene is a triumphal march into Havana to proclaim the revolution.Marvelously photographed in black and white by Sergei Urusevsky and using acrobatic camerawork by Alexandr Kalzaty, some of the shots and distorted camera angles are so staggering as to be virtually unbelievable. In one sequence, the camera lifts off from a hotel rooftop, takes in the Havana skyline, descends several floors, winds its way through the poolside party-goers, and then takes you for a swim in the pool in one continuous shot. Reminiscent of Sergei Eisenstein, the caricatures are broad but are presented with such exuberance that it hardly seems to matter. Audacious and imaginative, I Am Cuba is a revelation, not only for its style but also for its inspiration. Filmed with true visionary poetry, I Am Cuba transcends the genre of advocacy filmmaking to reach a pinnacle of cinematic art.  "},{"Title":"Simply the most visually stunning film I've ever seen.","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"39 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":"  Every frame of this film deserves to be printed, framed and hung in a gallery. And the sound, wow. The sound...  Crunchy  super-intimate sounds- like the sound of machetes ringing in the cane field- are as evocative as the images.1964. It's amazing how much can be done with so little... "},{"Title":"Neglected Propaganda Masterpiece of Great Visual Beauty","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"29 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" I am Cuba/Soy Cuba features the stories of several Cuban citizen-types a young prostitute, a farmer, a young revolutionary and so on, up to the start of the island's Castro Revolution.If this sounds dull, then rest assured that the plot is minimal and, despite it's avowedly political purpose, hardly gets in the way of the film's main attractions today. What distinguishes the production is the cinematography. It is not an exaggeration to say that the images and technique in the film are breathtaking, and it is a tour-de-force of bravura camera work. Apparently Martin Scorcese has screened this film privately to work out how such-and-such a shot was achieved, and perhaps it's influence can be found in the famous through-the-kitchens tracking shot in 'Goodfellas'.This is a film where the camera is constantly in motion, with sweeping balletic long takes, crane and hand held shots, tracking shots, including some over and down the side of buildings, through cane fields, into swimming pools, around packed night clubs, even hovering and moving along high over a street in the middle of a packed funeral procession - all without the usual cutting. I estimate the average length of a take in this film at about 2 - 3 minutes, a figure rare and astonishing these days, even with the benefit of steadicams - but jaw dropping given the still-unwieldy equipment they were surely using in 1964. In particular one or two large scale sequences must have taken days, if not weeks, to prepare, and presumably needed government marshaling to choreograph. (Ironically, whether or not the film makers intended it, the liberated camera work on display here reflects the notion of revolutionary freedom far more than the actual story vignettes.)The film itself is shot in high contrast gleaming black and white, favouring wide angle lenses, and with a constant deep focus that reminded me of Greg Toland's work for Welles or some of James Wong Howes' work. Kalatozov's use of a handful of character 'types' throughout recalls Eisenstein's (and in fact there is a faint reference to his the Odessa Steps sequence in 'Battleship Potemkin' at one point when the revolutionary rioters march down some steps), but the effect here is far more sensual and lyrical. (Among the professional actors, Sergio Corrieri also appears in the better-known Memories of Underdevelopment). The film's 'artiness' is undeniably a distraction from the message of struggle, and to the original viewers the beautiful images must have been a long way from reality in the New Cuba.Today we don't have this problem and the viewer is left with a visual feast to enjoy over and over again.. "},{"Title":"Film School","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":"  No less than thirty shots have been ripped off from this movie in the past five years, in films like Out of Sight, Boogie Nights, and Pulp Fiction. Watching I Am Cuba is an education in film technique and the beauty of the eponymous country.  The picture's plot is abysmal.  It is an exercise in cinematography.  It is among the most influential movies, style-wise, that the American public has never seen and honestly brilliant on all terms.Imagine taking a tour of Cuba, in 1964, through the eyes of four metaphors luxury, poverty, revolution, and vagrancy.  Times are changing, the country is changing.  However, no matter how much anything changes, the sun-soaked gorgeousness of the land doesn't budge.  The camera glides around like a member of the tour who has gone off on his own, looking at the four principles.I Am Cuba is film that needs no hyperbole.  It Is Great "},{"Title":"Propaganda?","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" It goes without saying that this movie includes some of the most breathtaking camera-work ever seen. Many scenes will live long in the memory of anyone who's been fortunate enough to see it. But it seems to be downgraded in many peoples minds by the notion of it being a propaganda movie.I think its misleading to think of the movie as being 'propaganda' any more than most mainstream movies can be seen as propaganda for a particular way of life or viewpoint. The portrayal of the American characters in I Am Cuba is in many ways more fair-minded than numerous Hollywood or British movies (in the case of James Bond) in the portrayal of Communists or any other perceived enemy. Even anti war movies such as Platoon or Saving Private Ryan frequently portray the 'enemy' as faceless figures who are killed without a thought.I prefer to see this movie as a love letter to Cuba by some brilliant (but undoubtedly naive) Soviet film makers. The storyline is much more sophisticated and innovative than has been given credit. Many of the characters are stereotypes, but they are still sympathetic and real. The movie is by no means perfect, but to dismiss it as beautiful propaganda is i think to underestimate the skill and thoughtfulness of the team who made it. By overemphasizing the origin of the movie has I think killed the enjoyment of it for many viewers. Just go see it and enjoy the sumptuous imagery. If you want to dismiss it as propaganda, fine, but if it to be seen as propaganda, then so is most of Hollywoods output. "},{"Title":"Yes, it is the Best Cinematography","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" That I've ever seen, and I watch a lot of movies. The story is propaganda, to be sure, and some of the acting is horrible, but WOW! I couldn't take my eyes off of it. Shot after stunning shot....I don't know how they did it, but I didn't mind all the rhetoric because I kept thinking, Look, that's so beautiful and Wow, how did they do that? I do recommend it also as a historical document of a time most people don't remember....I was born the year it was made and remember the Communist Threat but I think a lot of people younger than myself may not remember.Not to mention that yes, some of the music was also amazing. A must see for any serious film buff. "},{"Title":"Swallow","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":"  This is my favorite piece of propoganda filmmaking -- and I'm remembering Reifenstahl when I write that -- but I think it's better than that kind of genre comparison implies.  The film takes a Marxist look at the state of Cuba in 1964;  it's episodic, and while the ideas expressed are nothing new, the film presents them so cinematically and with such overt fervor that it transcends its numbskull earnestness.  There's nothing naive about it this isn't the work of a starry-eyed naif, but rather a calculated piece of agitprop in which the Americans chew gum loudly and run their hands up the skirts of the innocent Cuban girls, and the blame for Cuba's woes is laid squarely on Batista's shoulders.  But it believes itself, and the film, when it connects, is as powerful as anything you've ever seen. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Four beautiful stories and breathtaking cinematography.","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" The four segments that give us an impression of Cuba around 1960 are all very fine. I' wouldn't call this any more propagandistic than any Michael Bay Movie, far less even. It really captures the soul of Cuba that was exploited by the USA at the time and took matters back in their own hand.I've been to Cuba last year and if the USA didn't boycott the country the Latin communism could work. But back to the movie. The cinematography is as it has been said so many times one of the best efforts ever, but it is not the only quality because the four stories are very nice and have influenced Hollywood filmmakers more than any American will like to admit. "},{"Title":"Sculpted Spatial Force","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Is this the best film ever made? For me today in its afterglow it is.I'm so fickle. I think if all else were equal, I'll always take embodied, real cinema that is coherently integrated. The way of telling the story is ideally complex and folded, using tricks to make the story matter. But if the storytelling is less spectacular, as long as the thing engages, that's what matters. If it changes me, its art and important, regardless of whether I can tell a good story about the storytelling.That's the way I prefer. But sometimes the storytelling is so spectacular, so engaging in itself, that it doesn't matter what the story is. These are rare, because after all, you need the touch to change your life. So a filmmaker as unsophisticated and unattractive as, say Elia Kazan, can modify my existence when partnered with Williams and Brando.And this story... what is conveyed here is mostly lies. Or rather it is a target story that is transparently bankrupt. Its based on an embodied reality of sorts. But its a twisted vision. The racism is palpable. The superiority of the European eye and mind are overwhelming. The simple notion of good and evil is less nuanced than in Star Wars or its predecendent westerns, and is intolerable. (This may be simply because history advises that both the Soviet and Cuban experiments were more brutal than what they replaced.)But what cinema! What life! Just inhabiting this world has adjusted my imagination and dreams. The focus is usually on the extraordinary flying camera, because its so obvious, striking. It is, and if it were just that, I would still get you out of bed and across town to see this. But the flying eye is integrated with an architectural expression that is far deeper. The actors and camera move through buildings, fire, smoke, cane, trees, exploding dirt. This is as amazing the first time, just in wondering how they did it. Knowing the technology used, it seems impossible, and that knowledge actually distracts. You have to see this several times to just get past the wonder at the talking dog.Then you can get into the visual poetry of thing. It isn't about people at all. They matter not at all except as fodder for ennobling posters. What matters is the structure of the forces that surround and channel them here and there like turbulent banks. This is a project centered on those forces, incarnated as spatial forces. Where in another project you wonder how a dog can be so dramatic, here you wonder how the director was able to control fire and smoke to be so perfectly compliant. Its not embodied in the story, which is daft, but in the real world that contains it.This is absolutely in the spirit of Tarkovsky, and is the only film I know that betters him visually. Its less human, but oh so spatial. You must, must see it.Ted's Evaluation -- 4 of 3 Every cineliterate person should experience this. "}{"Title":"Ultimate in Choreography","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":"  One of the advantages of making a propaganda film in communist countries is that you have full support of the government that you are favoring.  With that in mind, it's no wonder that a film of this magnitude could be made only in a communist country (before it went bankrupt).  Soy Cuba surprises the viewer over and over again as you expect the camera to cut, and just as you expect it to, it doesn't and whoosh, you're underwater, or you've just flown out a window and hover above a funeral procession of massive proportions. I ponder the planning it must have taken to concoct such long takes with each moment so thoughtfully planned out.  As much as most people will credit this film with fabulous cinematography (which it arguably has), it is a direct result of the complex direction by Mikheil Kalatozishvili that gives the film its flow and strength.  Long takes become boring if the rhythm of the film is not well choreographed (some Tarkovsky films have this problem, but not all).  Soy Cuba is never boring. Of course, what is most interesting is to see Havana in all it's beauty just after Fidel's revolution and then to contrast that with the Cuba seen in Buena Vista Social Club.  It says it all about the politics of this film. This one is purely worth watching for the choreography and cinematography, not for the silly ideology. This is required viewing for all filmmakers. "},{"Title":"dogmatic, but true","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" In talking about Cuba, people often forget about how things were under Fulgencio Batista. The Cuban-Soviet co-production I Am Cuba shows how things were. Throughout four vignettes, we see a Havana prostitute struggling to make ends meet, a humble farmer whose livelihood is destroyed by landowners, students fighting against the repressive police, and finally, people joining up with the revolutionary army.The whole thing is really socialist realism the heroic peasants rising up against the oppressive bourgeoisie and getting martyred. But, we have to admit that what I Am Cuba portrays is accurate. I don't know for sure whether or not things got much better after the revolution, but most Cubans certainly prefer things as they are today over how things were under Batista. Either way, the movie can also be interpreted through its camera work, showing Cuba's landscape and employing some interesting dollies.Yes, it's propaganda, but as far as I know, conditions have improved in Cuba ever since they abolished the ladyfinger system and prosecuted Batista's thugs. This movie reminds of things in the same way that Schindler's List does. "},{"Title":"Communist poem features sensational camerawork","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":"  Mikhail Kalatozov's 1964 I Am Cuba spectacularly showcases its fervent political ideology through a series of fascinating vignettes set all around the nation.  Made shortly following the collapse of the Batista regime, the picture takes up a fervently pro-Castro stance, painting the leader as a heroic defender of the poor, exploited people who struggle to make a living on the weeping island.  Most of the film's episodes are dazzling, and I particularly enjoyed the tale of Maria/Betty (played by the gorgeous Luz Maria Collazo), a young girl who turns to prostitution to survive.  Another excellent story belongs to Pedro (Jose Gallardo), an older farmer who burns his entire sugar cane crop and his home when he learns it has been sold by the landowner from whom he rents.  The second half of the film delves more deeply into the lives of some revolutionaries, especially Enrique (Raul Garcia), a student who contemplates an assassination attempt on a corrupt police officer.   One cannot watch I Am Cuba without noticing the stunning camerawork, which often seems free of the bounds of gravity, floating and gliding with a delicate ease through the lush scenery.  "},{"Title":"This is a beautiful black & white film from 1964 telling 4 different short stories in pre-Castro Cuba.","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" I had no idea what this film was about or when it was shot when I watched it. About an hour & a half into it I realized that I was mesmerized. I was weary from not blinking while I watched silently and then realized that I'd not moved from the moment of that first long shot from the party atop the hotel, which wound through the crowd into a pool below.Somewhere during the cabal in the night-club where we watched a young woman dancing disconcertingly and harnessed, I became riveted. Then as we watched her being followed home through a ghetto by a man from the club I felt like a voyeur, which worked through the end of that story and melded seamlessly into the next.It is a story starting at night as a young woman is approached and intimidated by a bunch of US Sailors and another clean cut Cuban student comes to her aid. Still I was feeling like I was just inside a window somewhere watching these people who might turn and look up to spot me at any moment. So I remained still and quiet through almost the entire film, and continued following the student and watching his attempts at assassination and his friends' deaths because they doth protest too much.Then I'm standing just behind a farmer melancholy in his doorway remembering... thinking as his grown children sleep just nearby. They all wake to work the land with their father. The images are starkly bright whites sliced by black shards of shadows and shapes that make up the surrounding overgrown land, buildings, people and that lone horse. I realize my stillness when my hypnosis is broken by the landowner riding up to tell the crushed old man that the land has been sold. He feigns being OK by sending his kids off to town to enjoy some sodas and music, for all their hard work. Then he burns their home to the ground.I think it is here that I take my first breath in 90 minutes -I exhale. Then the next think you know, I'm hiding and watching again, this time in the mountains and a guerrilla, who at first seems lost, lands on the doorstep of a small rural family with at least one child running around bare bottom. Everyone here looks weary and dirty, the soldier also, who is invited in to eat. As he eats the wife crushes corn in the background like the rhythm of a snare to the smoky voice of a jazz singer as the soldier speaks of revolution. The father strangely can't take this kind of aggressive thinking and has the guerrilla to leave. Just as I try to inhale, a bomb hits just next to the little raggedy house in the hills and the family makes a hasty retreat, but father and son get separated from mother and children. It's dangerous and sad, serious and almost silent. The little naked boy who retreated with his agonizing father gets killed. Father is reunited with his family under a cave-side waterfall. Pain, loss, grief, anger - he goes to join the revolutionaries in a final act of leaving his little family behind.Now I've watched the entire film and I'm still not sure how I feel about it all, but I'm breathing again, and I continue to live with the images.That is a good film experience. "},{"Title":"Cranes are not flying over Cuba","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" For the movie made over 40 years ago, Soy Cuba/I Am Cuba/Ya Kuba, is an innovative and very beautiful. I won't be original to mention at least two long scenes in the film that are absolutely brilliant and can be enjoyed on their own over and over again. Besides, these scenes don't have triple narration, just the music that makes them even more impressive. Speaking of the languages presentation, the DVD leaves a lot to be desired. The film is presented with English subtitles, spoken English and Spanish, and Russian voice over which is very annoying. Even though Russian is my native tongue, I looked for the option to turn off the narration but unsuccessfully. With all these voices and subtitles that won't go, you are distracted from the visual beauty of the film which is its best value. I suggest, you go on YouTube, find the rooftop scene and the funeral procession, and watch them in awe, be amazed and fascinated. That's basically all I have to say about Soy Cuba, the propaganda film that was made in 1964 during the victorious days of Fidel Castro Revolution and high hopes for new happy life for the hard working citizens of the Caribbean Paradise Island. Ironically, the film I Am Cuba, as anti-American propaganda as they ever come, made as a Cuban-Soviet co-production, was not widely released in either pro-Communist country and was almost forgotten until it was restored and presented in the USA in the middle of the 90s by two celebrated American Film Directors, Martin Scorsese and Francis Coppola.Of course, I am impressed by its brilliant cinematography, and who would not? I am not going to describe the beautiful insanity of Sergey Urusevskij's camera in the opening scene of the film or its free soar in the funeral procession later into the picture. It's been done hundreds of times already. If you need an explanation on how these impossible camera movements were achieved, go to Soy Cuba Wikipedia page - they have a thorough and detailed description of the shooting process and how it was done. But let me tell you something. If you really want to see a great Soviet film made by the same Director-Cinematographer team, the wonderful, engaging, fascinating, ahead of its time yet truthfully depicting the tragic events of the history FILM, with the shots that are included in the text books, with the poignant touching story, with the real characters that you never forget, watch Mikhail Kalatozov's B/W film Cranes are flying which he and his genius cinematographer Sergei Urusevskij made in 1957. Cranes Are Flying has never become outdated and never will. It will stay unforgettable and compelling as well as cinematographically perfect as long as the Art of Cinema lives. Cranes are Flying is timeless. Soy Cuba is a product of certain time period and its politics. It is not even the problem that the film is a shameless propaganda. The propaganda can be powerful and artistic. Watch for example ten minutes long animated film of Jan Svankmajer The End of Stalinism in Bohemia. One of the reviewers on this site is asking How did they dare to make such a film in 1963? I guess the answer is that by 1963 the short period in the history of the USSR which is known as thaw or ottepel' that began after Stalin's death in 1953, was over. The 60s represented the return to the Stalinism aesthetics even if officially it had never been admitted. It would take another quarter of the century until the truth about some events and politics was finally told during the perestroika in the late 1980s and after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. IMO, Soy Cuba is overall a weak film with very creative virtuoso cinematography. I suppose that the Film Students will learn a lot from its technical values but it is a film with the parts much better than the whole thing. "},{"Title":"A forgotten classic restored","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Kalatozov and Urusevsky's powerful propaganda story of the inequities of pre-revolutionary Cuba told in four vignettes filmed at the time of the Cuban Missile Crisis was rejected by Cuban and Soviet audiences alike at the time and subsequently forgotten until after the collapse of the Soviet Union when it was rediscovered by Cuban novelist Cabrera Infante and promoted by movie brats Scorsese and Coppola for its technical brilliance and unparallelled artistry.The pained tones of Revuelta guide us through the film as the Voice of Cuba building with each story the viewer's sense of injustice with beautifully nuanced performances from Collazo as the beautiful and vulnerable girl who falls into prostitution, Gallardo as the embittered sugar cane farmer who loses everything to the big U.S. corporations, García as the tank-top wearing, Caddy riding, Molotov cocktail flinging student radical turned would be assassin and Wood as the humble farmer feted by tragedy to march victoriously into Havana, all of whom manage to rise above Urusevsky stunning visuals to shine.Clearly influenced by Riefenstahl, to the point where several of the Nazi propagandist's collaborators where hired to work on the film, the filmmakers' take agitprop to a new level with high-contrast infrared film and impossibly complex tracking shots, some of which seem to last longer than the revolution itself and involved passing the camera down a line of stagehands, creating a powerful vision that is still unmatched in modern cinema.Don't lower your eyes, look around. "},{"Title":"If you liked this film, then check out...","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" This is a great film on many levels--and I can see why the Soviets put it in a drawer since the scenes of pre-revolutionary Havana were so vibrant.If you enjoyed the film as much as I did, look for a 2005 Brazilian documentary interviewing many of the participants the film living in Cuba who did not know that the film is now recognized as a classic. The documentary is called I am Cuba, the Siberian Mammoth, and it aired on the Sundance channel.Also look for Kalatozov's earlier film, The Unmailed Letter, which features equally stunning cinematography by Sergei Urusevsky. "},{"Title":"The sublime beauty of propaganda","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" The critic's dilemma with propaganda films lies in the controversial subject matter and the fact that they are generally made by the crème de la crème of directors - a blessing and a curse. All these films are supposed to convey is a certain political mind-set, the glorification of a person, revolution or regime - in impressive imagery that is, the rest is artistic license. The latter is why directors are carefully chosen for these projects in the first place - their unique style should warrant the film's success. This was the case with Eisenstein's and Dovzhenko's masterpieces in the 1920s/1930s or Riefenstahl's infamous Triumph of the Will aestheticising Nazis, and it also applies to Mikhail Kalatozov's I am Cuba retracing the Cuban revolution. Interestingly however Kalatozov, whose breathtaking Cranes are Flying took the Cannes Grand Prize in 1958, failed in the eyes of the Cubans and the Soviets, who didn't consider it revolutionary enough, too naïve, too stereotypical. Its rediscovery however is well deserved, and it's due to its sublime beauty.More than half a century on much more has remained from I Am Cuba than just a historic document tinged by communistic propaganda. Above all it is a poetic portrayal with incredible visuals, a riveting collage of very different lives on the same soil, connected by their love for their country. I Am Cuba is a feeling. It comprises the Cuban homeland and a time of upheaval, strong emotions that have bottled up for years and years to finally come to the forefront leading up to inevitable confrontations. The film's perspective still comes across as powerful and relevant, story-wise and camera-wise. Kalatozov films in long takes which are often choreographed with absolute precision, uses stylized high contrast black and white cinematography, extraordinary crane and tracking shots, tilted camera angles and seemingly even moves freely through Havana in one of the most famous continuous camera shots in film history. With his superb technical and cinematic artistry Kalatozov transcends the moment and while his approach wasn't appreciated back in the days, his rediscovery in the 1990s prompted an array of quotes from this work. Indicator enough that Cuba is worth a visit, at least on the silver screen. "},{"Title":"I Am Cuba is a Fine Art","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" An amazing film. That Yevteshenko sat down and put the ideology of Cuban and Russian understanding into perspective for the world is beyond much literal beauty. People need to wake up and get a hold of this movie, especially since the subject of Cuba is only poorly touched on in most places. I Am Cuba introduces viewers to a culture, a system and a country that possesses a unique beauty and an ethical, well educated mentality, despite its struggles and poverty. It teaches us that Cuban people struggle with dignity and self awareness, much like what can be seen in many Alea films. The world looks at Cuba with ignorant eyes, but Cuban cinema can easily correct our initial judgment. I Am Cuba was for a long time the most exquisite portrayal of Cuban culture I had seen, with a careful and original story that could not have been imagined in another society. But while the shots are gorgeous and the story compelling, for today's Cuban Talent fanatics I highly recommend a VLaMarko play in the city. I Am Cuba is hard to create on the stage, but the young Cuban writer seems to derive a lot of influence from Russian and Chilean literature, particularly Yevtushenko for his first production. Both of these monuments display a Cuba still ripe with revolution, humanity and struggle among beauty, although made nearly half a century apart. Thumbs up+++++ "},{"Title":"Stunning and beautiful - Amazing film!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":"  Fantastic cinematography. For fans of brilliant filmmaking, black and white film, or just stunning visual imagery, this is a must-see! It's not often that a film can kick my ass, as I'm difficult to impress with film and music, but this one did! I must thank Francis Ford Coppola & Martin Scorsese for getting the rights and helping it see release. Great music...this film is nearly perfect! I've read reviews by people who were disappointed with the transfer, but with film this old (1964)what do you expect? I rented the videocassette for my first viewing a few years back, and when I saw it would be available on DVD I pre-ordered it immediately! Thanks must also be given to Image Entertainment for constantly bringing amazing film to the public. From the opening credits, you're staring into eye candy. One of the most beautiful films you will ever see. Do it now.    "}{"Title":"Almost a Documentary","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Four vignettes about the lives of the Cuban people set during the pre-revolutionary era.The film was not received well by either the Russian or Cuban public and was almost completely forgotten until it was re-discovered by filmmakers in the United States thirty years later. The acrobatic tracking shots and idiosyncratic mise en scene prompted Hollywood directors like Martin Scorsese to begin a campaign to restore the film in the early 1990s.The film is great, but the story of its journey is almost greater. Because of the discord between America and Cuba, the Cubans turned to the Soviets for movie-making. The film was not popular, and was not shown in America (again because of the Cold War). And then it urns up one day... and what do we see? A great use of the camera, and something almost like a documentary, capturing Cuba in 1963/1964, not long after the revolution. Although scripted with actors, the scenery is very much a true document of Cuba. "},{"Title":"Citizen Kane meets Pre-Revolution Cuba!","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" What an amazing film! Martin Scorsese and Francis Ford Coppola sponsored it's resurrection. While certainly overall a communist propaganda film, it goes way beyond it, to be a very modern film.Directed by Soviet filmmaker Mikhail Kalatozov it is a masterpiece of black and white filmmaking. The use of amazing black and white filtration, ultraviolet filmmaking, spectacular storytelling and absolutely stunning tracking shots, is simply first class filmmaking. Kalatosov unfortunately would not have been considered for an Academy Award in the world of Cold War 1960s, , but the film is certainly worthy of one. A very modern story, with the sets using 1963 Havana, before the rot set in, makes it feel like any modern city. The story, could be taken from Viet Nam, Egypt 2011, Nicaragua 1984,or wherever a corrupt dictatorship, sponsored by western corporate support, is running roughshod over people just trying to live their lives. The film Even the Rain is similar to this in general idea. If you are into film, you really ought to see this film, regardless of your politics. Check out the fabulous trailer for it. I don't give it a 10, because it's storyline is bit dated and stilted, but still, the script is much more modern than many films of it's day. I suppose that given that the Manchurian Candidate was produced in this era, that it's right up there with that kind of film from the US. "},{"Title":"Visually brilliant allegory of  Cuban Revolution's beginnings","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" The cameras are flying in this remarkable display of cinematic poetry that elevates I Am Cuba's heavy handed and sometimes mawkish propaganda message to an effective and inspiring pedestal. Like Eisenstein's Battleship Potemkin and Riefenstahl's Triumph of the Will it is both visually mesmerizing and immediate to the early glories and heady times of change through revolution before the total onset of the totalitarian dictatorships that followed in each country.The dictatorial and brutal regime of Fulgencio Batista is in it's final days but the exploitation and repression of the Cuban people living amid poverty continues. The somber sultry beauty of the rhythmic isle we float through is suddenly thrashed by the crass noise of sloppy rock and roll poolside amid tall hotels and voluptuous swim suit models. Other interrelated stories feature a woman forced through economics to peddle herself to unctuous American businessmen and along with a student activist fight off a platoon of loutish US servicemen. Outside the city the farmers are also exploited by United Fruit Company and attacked indiscriminately by government planes. The cause is clear for all; they must rise up against the tyranny. This point is gracefully and heroically conveyed from end to end in I am Cuba.Matching their masterful artistry displayed in the powerful and moving The Cranes are Flying, Soviet director Mikhail Kolatozov with cinematographer Sergei Uresevsky blueprint some audacious camera acrobatics. With some of the finest tracking and crane shots I have ever witnessed (the hotel pool scene and the funeral for the student activist are as good as it gets in any film) I could rhapsodize endlessly on its form but I am Cuba's content also offers some fascinating incite to time and viewpoint. The film is anti American Imperialist, Capitalist, Western Influence and Coca Cola with a hint of anti-semitism thrown in but even with this stilted viewpoint I am Cuba remains a powerful and moving document on the struggle against government repression.All leaders of the Twentieth Century understood the power of film and its possibilities to reach, persuade and motivate the masses to their way of thinking. Propaganda is an indispensable tool to all who hold power and film is a perfect delivery system. Democracies (The 49th Parallel, Purple Heart) as well as Dictatorships (see above) and anyone else interested in consolidating and maintaining power would be lost without it. I am Cuba is a magnificent and passionate tract in that vein that clearly does Castro proud but with nuances in ideology would have done the same for Roosevelt Churchill or Robert Mugabe. In the case of I am Cuba it's the singer not the song that shines. "},{"Title":"Tracking Cuba and creating the poetry of a nation","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" The power of I Am Cuba as a piece of pure cinema is two-fold. The director, Mikhail Kalatozov, needed to make a film in the same urgency of the present tense with a country, to 'document' as it were the wave that Cuba was riding with its revolution. It was an exciting, dangerous, uncertain but promising time, and whichever side could agree that the country had changed forever. Like Eisenstein, one part of the impact is for Kalatozov to present fragments of the country of Cuba to the whole world, something that proclaims loudly, proudly what the country strived for an possibly won.But there's another part, maybe a more crucial one than the given propagandistic side of it, to take the art of film-making to breathless invention and surprise and passion, breaking the boundaries of the early 1960s via Eclair cameras. Perhaps instinctively Kalatozov, Urusevsky and his screenwriter knew that there had to be something else to the picture to make it stand out from typical propaganda, of the same beat of the drum. It takes so much courage to take the simplicity of message or rhetoric and to film it as if the subjects are documentary but the form is complete fever dream and heightened hyper-reality.I Am Cuba will remain a document of a time and place and aspirations of a people. But long after Castro dies or the Cuba of his uprising fades or changes to a different political denomination (if it hasn't already), it will be a great piece of film-making, one of the towering examples of taking the tools of the art- light, hand-held cameras, tracking shots, cranes, natural light and filters and the distinct lenses- and applying them like almost no other film like it at the time. The most wonderful thing to keep in mind about this filmmaker is that he's a poet and technical revolutionary first, communist sympathizer second.Some may disagree with the message, and they're not without reasons. Though it's hard to disagree on how much Kalatozov and his crew get done with seemingly so limitless a budget. So many scenes and sequences stand out as triumphs of control of the mis-en-scene, masterpieces of preparation and blocking out the scene and creating unforgettable figures with the locals. The scene early on at the hotel with the camera moving around from person to person and dropping down and then tracking into the swimming pool is the most famous example. Lest not forget transcendent shots like the nightclub tracking of the singing or simple shots like the farmer working the sugar cane happily at first, the camera gliding through the field and the canes, and then the fury of the technique mirroring the farmer's breakdown following being told his farm and home are no longer his (the actor, or non-actor as it probably was, is incredible here).Or the student, Enrique, who sees the hears a man singing a song as he enters a hotel to commit an assassination of a political figure, only to have the song come back into him, haunting his consciousness while he aims miles away. Another that could be analyzed in a master's film class, just one shot, is on the crowd in the street for the funeral of the boy, as the camera goes along on the roof then through the room of workers and finally gliding off the roof looking down on the crowd. Did I mention how awesome they use things like waves of smoke or camera tilting or just masses of bodies walking through muddy waters with rifles in hand? There's more and more I could go on about, but it might spoil some of the surprises in store.Is it, perhaps, a God-like or other-worldly presence Kalatazov means to have on I Am Cuba? Surely the narrative voice transforms it/herself into the very nature of cinematic expression at most times, an alive point of view. Above the political and national reason for the film to exist, which is a strong one, is as a testament of physicality, of atmosphere of a city or farm or slum or hotel or mountain, of the joys and horrors and sorrow that are in all people. The film is about Cuba and its people and political upheaval, but it is also about human nature, survival, adaptation to circumstances, love. And all of these themes and ideas are important as the subject matter, and this might already make it a must-see. But for anyone, any student of film or person looking to the past for possibilities of movies in the future, it is required viewing.It may have come to the United States and other parts of the world too late in an influential respect (think how rich the 1970s might have been if it had been released in 1964), but it's not too late to influence others, and it still does. Its significance with regard to film style is comparable to Citizen Kane - mesmerizing is the only word for it. "},{"Title":"Boring piece of trash","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" I had the great displeasure of sitting through this piece of rubbish film. Yes, I know it is supposed to be historical, it is a Soviet-Cuban propaganda film and the camera work is supposed to be fantastic. This film only appeals to ignorant students who think they know more than anybody because they are for the people and justice and communists. As Billy Joel once said, I had my pointless point of view. ALL the scenes are way too long, hammering the point home in 20 minutes when it was understood in 3 minutes. The nightclub singer repeating Crazy Love so many times you go loco, following the student revolutionary for 20 minutes through a building and up to the roof, a guy running through plants for 10 minutes, come on, enough! I bring this up because both the writer and the director are applauded as fantastic when their work, propaganda or not, is worse than an Adam Goldberg family video. Please don't waste your time with this film. Go get experimental brain surgery instead. "},{"Title":"A sensational dizzying masterwork.","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" I don't know much about Cuba. I do know that Mikhail Kalatozov's I Am Cuba is Mike Leigh's third favourite movie, so on that undeniable recommendation, I had to see for myself. The film dramatises the country's urgent need for revolution, as political oppression stirs great discrepancies in the communities. It's formed of four allegorical vignettes, covering many war- torn scenarios; a Cuban woman who sleeps with Americans to make a living, a farmer whose land is taken from him, a rebellious student who rises up against the oppression, and another farmer who realises the only way to get peace is to fight for it after his land is blown apart. Even though characters are clearly symbolic of class divides, ideologies, religions and cultures, Kalatozov's approach still leads it to being an actor's playground, as they tackle tough moral dilemmas and impossible problems often without dialogue.Although it often breaches melodrama, they're always deeply tender. Admittedly, the characters are superficial, obvious regarding what they stand for and too fleetingly presented to get under their skin, but the film manages to conjure the stomp of a nation with its network of active characters. What's most notable about I Am Cuba is the sensational dizzying cinematography. It's constantly mobile, hand-held, with a distorted lens, and it often opts for Dutch angles. But there are some improbable camera moves that made my jaw drop as the camera passes stories and through buildings and across streets. Even in black and white, it has such a hot suffocating atmosphere and captures such tension in the air. Paired with the abrasive music, it's an utterly remarkable experience. This is the type of film i would've fallen head over heels for just a few years ago - now I'm a little more reserved, but consider me floored for I Am Cuba.9/10 "},{"Title":"The Medium is Not the Message","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Thank you reviewer NIKITIN for bringing some balance to the body of reviews. Soy Cuba's themes are indeed more important than the flashy technique, dazzling as it is. Of course, it's hard not to be overwhelmed by the innovative camera work. And ironically this was at a time when Americans were told that Soviet cinema was nothing more than variations on the stodgy 'boy meets tractor'. Whatever the truth of this-- since their movies were never shown over here-- Soy Cuba shows the spirit of Eisenstein was still alive in some quarters of that huge nation.Actually, the movie could have been much more critical of US policy than it was. For example, the first vignette could have shown that Meyer Lansky and the mob were actually running the casinos and prostitution of Havana&#x97;one reason the mob conspired with the CIA to kill Castro. In fact, Cuba under Batista was sometimes called 'America's sewer'. Thus, the movie's revolutionary message should be celebrated along with the terrific cinematic effects. And had the US wanted a genuinely non-aligned Cuba, we could have started by avoiding the embargo, not invading the island, and foregoing efforts to assassinate its leader. Then the island nation might not have had to go halfway around the world to find allies and a trading partner.Anyway, the movie dramatizes key elements of the popular uprising, each vignette standing for a crucial broader dynamic. On the whole, the movie comes as a startling surprise that shouldn't have taken 40-years for the authorities to allow our public to see. "},{"Title":"The island of Cuba shares the story of her oppressed people","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Co-produced by the USSR, I AM CUBA (1964) is pretty heavy-handed propaganda for Fidel Castro's communist regime, but it is full of innovative camera-work and other artistic merits.The storytelling is effective and the scenes are gritty and real, shot on location throughout Cuba. Director Mikhail Kalatozov's floating camera produces some of the most astonishing tracking shots you'll ever see.Running at nearly two and a half hours, the film is broken up into four segments, each emphasizing a different aspect of Cuba at the time of its political upheaval in the 1950s. The first segment is about the evils of the decadent capitalist lifestyle, the second is about the plight of the poor laborers, the third is about the popular support of the revolutionary ideals (emphasizing the brutality of the current regime), and the fourth focuses on the guerrilla soldiers fighting the good fight for all of Cuba.The imagery is brilliant and the film presents its historical viewpoint with the emotional charge of, say, Eisenstein's BATTLESHIP POTEMKIN (1925). An interesting watch, although I tend to cringe when I see such unflattering portrayals of Americans in foreign films (though it's amusing in a way to see how we're perceived by others). The island of Cuba is beautiful. "},{"Title":"excellent  independent film","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Whats really different form a dictatorship centered around greed or one that's in the name of the people.Both are bad and Cuba is still not democratic yet.But this movie is good.Created in a documentary type style.At first I was surprised how it began , knowing that this was a communistic propaganda film,or seems that way.The modern hotel sequence .The beauty contest and the rock music.It later dawn on me that this was about Cuba in it's first dictatorship,right before more corruption.Baptista and Castro .Whats the difference?It first it starts out with a women name Maria who is forced to do prostitution to make end meet.Her boyfriend who sells fruit on the street wants to marry her in the church.But she reject him He eventually finds out when he goes to her hut with bananas and the tourist leaves.Then the tourist faces poverty every where .Children asking of money from him.The narrator states You want fun? that's fine but there's poverty too.Then the next story is a struggling sugar cane farmer and his two grown children.He has been struggling to grow sugarcane .He finally has done it.With his two children help they start chopping it down.everything looks good until the men he got the loan from take his land away from him,then theirs an attempt by an anti Baptista activist to assassination one of the officials.A student protest that leads to death.I don't know how the filmmaker got away with this.since it criticized the poverty that still existed after Castro.It really has not gotten better.Although years later Castro would allow the gambling place and more night clubs to reopen for the tourist economy.But it's difficult to visit and really it's not worth it,to give money to a dictatorship. 08/12/12 "},{"Title":"Simply the greatest achievement in cinematography, period.","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Just go get it and watch it, without delay. That's all I can say. Any serious video store should carry this, and if they don't, ask them to order it. Netflix does carry it. This is the peak of the art of cinematography. Nothing before or since compares to it, even with all the high-tech computerized wizardry available today. A landmark, and essential viewing for anyone interested in the visual art of cinema. The stories are interesting and I did not find it preachy or propagandistic at all. They are demonstrating what life in Cuba was like under Batista, and why the Communist revolution was necessary and appropriate there. But that's not really why this film is still remembered, it is remembered for its lyrical beauty and amazing technique. "}{"Title":"Is it really propaganda?","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Having had a long term interest in Cuba together with a passion for well made films (This started when my father introduced me to the original French Wages of Fear when I was 10 years old), I came to Soy Cuba only recently.If Soy Cuba is watched in conjunction with other productions such as Motorcycle Diaries, Il Commandante, Seeking Fidel, Havana, When Night Falls and even Buena Vista Social Club, you can see how the revolution was bound to happen. All this drew me to visit Havana again and again.This is a fabulous country of great people, loads of history (Havana established around 1498) then there's the music but most of all the proud people - there is still a kind of Blitz spirit blockade or not. Go before it is too late. "},{"Title":"Uniquely breathtaking (with only few others to come close)","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":"  This Soviet Union / Cuban co-production Soy Cuba (I am Cuba, 1964) is not among the most incredible, literally and completely objectively, pieces ever made for its message, universal theme or other mental content to be expressed, but for its camera usage and images. They are unlikely ever to be surpassed and even if they were, this was most likely the first that took the tool this far to the outer limits of human abilities!   Director Mikheil Kalatozishvili tells four different stories inside the almost exploding Cuba, calm Mother that cries tears for what people have done to her, that are practically not related even though they all show the politics and victims of the situation that led to violent revolution in 1959. But as mentioned, the ending of the film or political opinions are definitely not too special or universal, so the film would be pretty lame without its visuality.    Cinematography by Sergei Urusevsky is something that brings only few makers to mind. Soviet director Andrei Tarkovsky's Andrei Rublev (1966) has genuinely some of the greatest black and white photography and crane shots in cinematic history, but maybe surprisingly even more Cuba brings Ukrainian born montage director Aleksandr Dovzhenko's Earth (Soviet Union, 1930) to my stunned mind, with the latter film's totally incredible imagery in the calm country side fields to which the technology and civilization is arriving. One story in Cuba is very field oriented and even though Dovzhenko's camera angles and takes are not very able to be compared with Cuba (in fact, they are often pretty far from each other), the atmosphere is very similar with the films. And needless to say, the montage imagery throughout the film but especially at the ending of Dovzhenko's film is incredible and unforgettable.Another film that comes to my mind is Gillo Pontecorvo's La Battaglia di Algeri (Algeria, Italy, 1965) which is perhaps more vital in its message and varies from a very fast documentary style narration and feel of restlessness to more dramatic and calm moments with Ennio Morricone's music. This documentic and dramatic variation is often pretty similar with the two films and both films show the violent scenes very harrowingly in hald held camera and often with fast movements even though Pontecorvo's film has more of that kind of segments. And both have plenty of powerfully black and white smoke. It seems that these two films are so full of impact and timeless merits that all the things they have to deliver to the audience are almost impossible to take with just one viewing. The viewer is completely and literally breathless after both films either due to their speed and harrowing realism or poetic experimentations on camera possibilities never seen before.The crane shots, the low angle compositions, the long takes without cuts, the Peter Greenaway like usage of images that give space to the background (usually sky, which in itself brings Nicholas Roeg and his 1971 film Walkabout to my mind) are the things that burst out with the impact that is not to be written or described, it has to be experienced and seen as it is cinema. French director Gaspar Noé's cinematic tools are as powerful as those of the mentioned directors' and especially his Irréversible (2002) consists completely of long takes without edits and with miraculous crane shots. If the Cuba director and Tarkovsky would have been mutated into one individual, that would have possibly been Gaspar Noé as the visuality and themes these makers have are as unique as the amount of honest and uncommercial talents working in cinema nowadays.Soy Cuba is definitely among the few films that have my greatest praisings even though it offers no serious theme or message to deliver to the world, and the one it has to deliver to Cuba is the oldest mean mankind has lived together, always failing. The cinematic tools of the film are incredible and the two other directors mentioned here, having (had) the same potential have also delivered immortal and timeless themes and mental gifts to the world and mankind. Still that doesn't make the technical achievements of Cuba any less brilliant. "},{"Title":"great black and white film of Batistas Cuba, the the revolution","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Super cool film about Cuba during the corrupt Batista time. I am a photography instructor and loved the photography and the story line of the movie. the black and white filming is excellent. The film at various time uses in-fa red film, which has characteristic of the green plants showing white and the sky dark with the clouds staying white. Loved it. The film starts with a groovy bar scene and crazy music, then turns sad as a American picks up a girl that is very poor and she takes him back to her stick house. It ends bad for her. The movie switches to some poor field workers,(campesinos), who lose the farm. Next to disenchanted students and the start of the revolution. the film finishes with Castro's rebels. Excellent "},{"Title":"Who is the Camera in I Am Cuba?","Date":"4 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Mikhail Kalatozov's I Am Cuba and its production were an exercise in identity. Soviet-made, the film aspires to personify the revolutionary Cuban. It is renowned for its cinematography, which the paucity of dialog leaves to carry a heavy burden. Indeed, the camera itself is a player in this morality play about capitalism and communism. For instance, the opening sequence is a luscious homage to Cuba's unmolested natural expanses and true-to-their-land people. Kalatozov's shots often feel like POV&#x97;but whose? Perhaps the most remarkable of these pseudo-POV shots is the one that opens the first vignette, set in a Batista-era pre-Castro rooftop pool party. This Essay takes that shot as a case study for how the cinematography of Kalatozov and his DP Sergei Urusevsky further the identity infomercial that is I Am Cuba.The continuous three-minute-and-fourteen-second one-shot scene opens on an American-style brass band. The hand-held camera weaves among a coterie of barely dancing women whose main function appears to be looking attractive. Then its first magic face-en-face the railing, it slides down a couple stories&#x97;still outdoors&#x97;to the pool deck below. This is the first time we're sure that the shot is not POV, unless from the vantage of a levitating deity. Poolside, we meander throw more revelers sipping, sightseeing and sunbathing. We follow one into the water and&#x97; magic trick #2&#x97;beneath its surface for more flesh and frivolity. Everyone is white. The band plays on.To assemble the puzzle of whose eye the camera stands for, start with the scenes bookending this one. Immediately before, we have the film's very first images&#x97;those natural expanses of ocean and earth where folk toil with their hands. They stand for integrity. Immediately after, we're serenaded by a black singing of crazy love. He might have integrity, too, as might the Cuban women in this jazz club, but for the obtuse, uncouth, nasal, illiterate, uncultured, loveless American businessmen ogling them. Soon, we're back on the singer and the hand- held camera is drunk with his love. Once the men get the objects of their shallow affections on the dance floor, the cinematography shakes with an increasingly vertiginous violence&#x97;implying that Betty's pangs are of agony, not ecstasy. She's framed by the bamboo rods like an animal in a cage.Thus the sandwich of which the show-off shot by the pool forms the meat is (1) serene camera documenting an honest people; (2) voyeuristic camera snaking among lackadaisical partyers; (3) intoxicated camera witnessing corruption of culture. Its anthropomorphic feel&#x97;from a technical perspective, the result of the hand-held style and medium- close range&#x97;results not from identification with the I in I Am Cuba. Instead, the camera is a detective, dedicated to the truthful representation of this island nation in various phases. Sure, it can't help feeling moved by the inevitable emotions of what it captures, but fundamentally it is there as a journalist. For a film so propagandistic, using a documentary style was all the more important to maintain credibility.So back to the Batista-era pool party. Our first hope is that the camera is POV, and we're invited to the party and to rock out with the band. Next up, those dancers&#x97;didn't a couple of them make eye contact? Perhaps Kalatozov is being sloppy with the fourth wall here, but more likely he's deliberately stringing us along with our POV theory a bit longer. In any event, that game is up once we float down to the pool, and the road for the audience forks. Either try to enjoy as a voyeur, or resent being excluded. And even if you choose the former path, it usually leads to the second. Kalatozov leaves us underwater, the band finally muted, in a quintessentially voyeuristic and excluded perch. All the while, no one talks to us. No one notices us. We don't exist.Such a pejorative read of the first scene of the first vignette makes all the more sense when that scene is read in counterpoise to the last of the last vignette. That story's hero is trudging through mud and machine guns, fighting the good fight. The juxtaposition could not be starker sun vs. smoke, music vs. mortars (and music, too&#x97;but of a military variety), privilege vs. purpose, frivolity vs. fearlessness, sky vs. soil. Kalatozov's point is that the glory lies in the latter&#x97; and, as suggested in the final triumphant frames, that only by winning them the hard way can one enjoy the former. "},{"Title":"God's Eye View","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" There is a story from the early days of motion pictures, when crowds of people would shriek because a film of a train coming towards the camera was shown. Film is the most powerful of all the arts precisely because of its command over, and our necessarily intimate relationship with, vision. Soy Cuba's occasional brilliance stems from this knowledge. It is not, however, a complete film, but a film of contradictions. It takes freely from verite and expressionism, is subtle and didactic, visually brilliant yet contains heavy- handed symbolism, is enigmatic but clichéd, manipulative and sincere but ultimately entirely engaging. It's a sprawling filmic essay arguing in favour of the revolution of '59 containing four stories that each detail an area of life that needed reform, and as such takes us from the ghettos of Havana to the mountain areas &#x96; if it wasn't as interested in the lives of the proletariat, it could be considered an epic. In the end though it is the virtuosity of the cinematography that binds the film together, each story containing brilliantly conceived and executed sequences of visual beauty. This is a film that could have been a masterpiece, but for the overriding ideological aims which often take too much precedence. At its finest, particularly in the first story, this is a film of immense beauty. From the very opening shots, Kalatozov introduces us to what will be the defining style of the film long, unbroken shots that can seemingly reveal to us any part of this world; he positions us from 'God's eye view', allowing us to move in and out of the images. We are shown the countryside of Cuba, then its canals and finally a swinging party in Havana. At this point no narrative is introduced, and we are asked to merely observe the events we are witnessing; the contrast of the poor countryside to the decadence of Havana offers more than enough of an argument. When we finally do begin the narrative, we follow the character of Maria/Betty as American businessmen in a Cuban brothel/nightclub exploit her. The key to the success of this chapter is that Kalatozov trusts his camera to tell the story &#x96; the subtle and convincing naturalistic acting of the cast works perfectly against the enigmatic camera work (in a way, this kind of acting is entirely necessary, for the camera work is so planned, choreographed and manipulated that the naturalism of the performances acts as its anchor). When we see the change of the Maria character, we understand perfectly what has caused it and feel great empathy for her situation. Considering how little time we have spent with her, and how little we know about her biographically, this is a tremendous achievement and one brought about by its lack of didacticism; by allowing the camera to tell the story rather than dialogue, we are forced into engaging with her situation. Unfortunately, this quality of understatement is one that is lost in the rest of the film. Even towards the end of the Maria chapter, we have an exchange involving a cross, which is so explicit in its symbolism that it momentarily undoes the prior good work. This affliction occurs constantly in the next three stories, where dialogue is used to offer us chunks of ideology. Consider the farmer who is told by the landowner that he does not own the land, or the man in the mountain who is told reasons for why the rebels are good for him and his family. The frustration with this didactic dialogue is that is, by and large, unnecessary. Such is the visual skill of the director, as in the first story, we could have easily done without most of the dialogue, and the film would have been equally as comprehensible intellectually, and immeasurably more engaging emotionally. Yet despite this, each of the other stories contain spectacular sequences and moments. Consider the over exposed film used in the second story which make the sugarcane appear ethereally white, yet the sunny day behind menacingly black. Or the shot from a high angle of the dead revolutionary on the street, a crowd of people circling him as his revolutionary pamphlets float in the air, their shadows covering his body. Or take the funeral scene in the third story, which is perhaps one of the great sequences in film. Here we see a camera move with such independence and ease that, 50 years later, it is still mind- blowing. When Soy Cuba trusts its visuals to tell its story, it is quite brilliant, but unfortunately, as is often the case, ideology trumps all else. "},{"Title":"Dazzling display of cinematic fireworks!","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" My usual problem with Kalatozov, this time amplified by the propaganda nature of the film and made obvious for that reason, is that his subject matter keeps me at a distance. But at the same time, what dazzling displays of cinematic fireworks his movies are! No one films a clouded sky like Sergei Urusevsky, with that pristine quality dreamlike and supine, and no one has ever made a camera seem more alive dynamic and freewheeling than you'll find in Kalatozov's movies. There were times the movie made me wonder in awe with jaw agape as to where the camera was mounted, how it seemed to float in the air above a crowded street, having already tracked up four stories and across the street and through a room and out the balcony, hovering suspended in the air as though by an act of sheer cinematic will, amazing if just for the blocking and coordination it would have required. As someone who's indifferent/contrary to Communism, Soy Cuba's best case for the power of collective strength does not come through in the agitprop subject matter, the onedimensional depiction of hard edged patriotic Cuban guerillas fighting against all odds and oppressed peasants having their land stolen by rich landowners and student radicals rioting in the streets against the fascist police and being shot down by them, this in itself borderline successful not because it imitates real life because a propaganda piece is immediately negated if tries to replicate real life but because it imitates melodrama we're already vaguely familiar from other movie plots; Soy Cuba's best showcase of Soviet will comes in the amazing cooperation it must have took to make the camera move the way it does. These people were making cinema that was unthinkable in the US at the time for anyone not called Welles. If Soy Cuba is a celebration of Communist ideals, a failure as a narrative because of the intellectual dishonesty necessary in concocting a propaganda film, it's also a celebration of amazing cinema, a success despite itself, not for plot drama or characters, but for the simple joy of staging beautiful elaborate images, for the amazing camera-work, for the stark black and white, a lot of it self-indulgent, the camera moving for the sake of movement and the joy of it, the actors treated as little more than walking props the camera can circle around. When Kalatozov introduces a blurry dreamlike flashback it seems to swim out of the head of the character who experiences it. When the same character torches his own cane field, Kalatozov orchestrates a vision of hell, the camera itself dancing through swirling flames and billows of black smoke. I can't really praise the visuals enough. As with other Kalatozovs, the story prevents me from tenning it, but from a technical standpoint, this will blow your mind. "},{"Title":"Fine piece of art","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Soy Cuba is a vibrant piece of art heavily inspired by communist ideology. I wouldn't say You must be communist to enjoy this movie. Apart from the communist stance there's so much to admire The vigorous pictures of farm workers treated without mercy, the sad encounter of an American citizen with a Cuban prostitute.Particularly, it's worthy of mention those long one-shot camera moves Russian technicians must have played a role in these astonishing shots.The movie starts very tranquil, with great shots of Cuban landscapes. It portrays in detail how life was in the years before Castro's revolution bars, casinos, parties and night life.Then the director immerses in the poor neighborhoods of Habana. In the following he leads over to the equally severe conditions of life in the countryside.The injustice experienced in these scenes originates the fury of the later revolutionaries interestingly the fury is not limited to one social class but spreads over society as a whole.Towards the end you see fighting men in the Sierra Maestra as well as in the streets of Habana.In conclusion you can relish a contemporary portray of Cuba amid the struggle of revolution and rebellion. The main characters are not depicted as faceless supernumeraries but experience doubts and emotional troubles. "},{"Title":"Masterful","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Soy Cuba (I am Cuba) Is a beautiful and intelligent propaganda piece that captures the sincerity of the revolution but also its misgivings. To anyone well acquainted with Cuba, the cast is far more authentic and less idealised than you might imagine, to the foreign eye at least, however Cuban audiences felt frustrated that they had been overly stereotyped and no doubt an American audience would have felt much aggrieved.The film presents a strong and impassioned case for revolution without avoiding or shirking the consequences and the inevitable sacrifices necessary for the cause, this is its guiding force. The injustices that motivate the film are attributed primarily to an American influence that does not display the American involvement in Cuba, nor is it necessarily within it's scope to do so, as anything more complex than lascivious and exploitative, consequently the American characterisation lacks the subtlety and credibility to convince Western Audiences. Had this depiction been treated more skillfully the propaganda potential could have been far reaching with the American viewers quietly squirming rather than dismissive. Ironically the Cuban and Soviet authorities at the time seemed at odds with the film's political objective, but the aesthetic of the film is less deniable, the camera's repertoire is breathtaking and uninhibited, gliding effortlessly and intimately from scene to scene. One can only wonder, if the film had been shot in colour... "},{"Title":"Castro's Cuba Praised in a Most Visually Audacious Soviet-Cuban Film","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" With Fidel Castro currently in a precarious medical condition, this infamous 1964 film, later revered by film scholars like Martin Scorsese for its often breathtaking camera-work by Sergei Urusevsky, takes on a most interesting relevance now. As much as Leni Reifenstahl glorified the Third Reich in 1935's seminal Triumph of the Will, Russian director Mikheil Kalatozishvili goes the same route with this joint 1964 Soviet-Cuban production which has been designed completely as a pro-Castro tribute. Political controversies aside, what continues to fascinate about both films is how audaciously cinematic they are in their own ways.In Kalatozishvili's case, he uses off-kilter camera angles and naturalistic, documentary-like techniques in rich monochromatic black-and-white to bring to life four vignettes about post-revolution Cuba. Made in the throes of the Cuban Missile Crisis to prove to the world how Cuba has prospered, the film does evince a sense of dynamic liberation about the people, but it is not entirely successful in supporting the political causes it espouses. At times, the director can get somewhat didactic in his approach, especially in the unsurprisingly negative portrayals of the Americans. Make no mistake that this is a propaganda film. The stories focus on a prostitute in Havana who is abused by her wealthy American client, a farmer who decides to burn off his sugar cane fields rather than hand them over to a greedy landowner, a group of students who fight the police in the name of the revolution, and a peasant family who perilously joins the guerrilla forces in the hills.Starting with the use of a female voice-over as Cuba, the movie has some innovative elements that range from boldly symbolic to emphatically bizarre. The most famous is at the beginning, a long, uninterrupted tracking shot that starts with a beauty pageant on a hotel rooftop and then descends five floors to a poolside party below where the camera isolates a woman entering into the pool. Another is a massive funeral procession shot from overhead. The soundtrack is quite eclectic with native Afro-Cuban rhythms alternating with almost Coplandesque musical passages and he natural sounds of Cuban life. Sometimes the filmmaker's panache gets carried away with itself, especially when the vaunted execution of Marxist principles becomes intertwined with the majestic power of nature. Non-actors certainly add to the documentary flavor. It's an intriguing film well captured in a pristine print transfer on the 2000 DVD, but despite its originality, it runs rather too long at 141 minutes. The only other extra on the DVD is the 1995 re-release theatrical trailer. "},{"Title":"A visual experience","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Soy Cuba essentially tells the story of four different characters and their relationships before and during the Cuban revolution. The film is separated into four vignettes telling the stories of each character. Personally I didn't find these stories very interesting, especially towards the end when the theme of the film had been drummed into my head so many times that I knew what was coming and was just waiting for it to happen, but as this was my first propaganda film, I could attribute this to the fact that I didn't know just how repeated the message of the film would get. I'm sure if I knew the film was going to be a political message repeated over and over again in cinematic form, I wouldn't have been so bored. Despite this failing, which I presume would be the failing of most propaganda films, the film is absolutely remarkable. If you're the sort of nerdy type like myself who can't get enough of really long shots and great cinematography, you can't go wrong with this film. It is simply staggering, breathtaking, awe-inspiring etc. I can't praise it enough. Whilst I mentioned being bored by the stories, that is not to say that they are bad stories. Far from it. Each vignette is good in it's own right, some are superior to others in their depth and character, but sometimes it felt like the filmmakers were pulling out all the clichés in the book to gain sympathy for the characters.To sum up, the film is a remarkable effort of cinematography and should be seen for that reason alone. The music is fantastic, and the stories are for the most part enjoyable, if you can handle each one containing the same political message.Make no mistake, you should watch this film, this is a recommendation by all means, I think it may have work better as a series of shorts rather than one film as a whole. But I'm sure if you are prepared for the film's repeated political message, you will have no problems in proclaiming it as one of the greatest films you have ever seen. "}{"Title":"magnificent film","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" I recently saw the film on the Sundance channel and it is magnificent. Of course, the story line including the American Sailors, chasing the young girl ( GE and Coca Cola signs in the scene ) is blatant propaganda. The camera work is of the caliber of the Battle Ship Petemkin and the Orson Wells film, circa 1942 -43 of his visit to Brazil. This film is is all the more interesting since you can see Cuba of the 1960's, when many of the automobiles were relatively new and many of them are still being used in Cuba today.One can only feel sorry for the poor people who have to live in present day Cuba and has no freedom. "},{"Title":"dark, grainy, and terrific","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":"  This is a hidden gem of masterful camera work.  Watch particularly the scene on the roof of the hotel that begins with the guitar player in the first vignette.  Interesting to imagine the dolleys and cranes they must have employed out in the sugar cane fields to get the fluid shots from on high. Don't watch for plot - the propaganda is blatant.  What would this director and cinematographer have accomplished had they not been in the Soviet Union during the Cold War? "},{"Title":"Brilliant use of the long take","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":"  This film was on the curriculum of my introductory film studies course, to teach us about the use of cinematography, particularly the long take. This film has some incredible cinematography and long takes in it that turn it into an artwork not to be missed. Soviet propaganda aside, it's a beautiful experience. It's a cinematographic journey through expansive and exotic locales. Every meander into new angles makes you feel like you're fluidly moving through the world the film creates. Kalatozishvili explores the camera enough for even an untrained introductory film student like myself to notice his quirks and experiments.Story-wise, it is a bit slow, though. As stated, it's episodic, so at the end of each episode you sort of expect the film to be over - but no, it's not. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the Greatest Cinematography Ever","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" The story of this film is right out of yellow journalism (or should one say 'Red Journalism?') and it is, in short, not much more than a string of stories that portray Communist propaganda at its' best. But when we put this aside, and do not think about the laughable attempts at portraying Americans and the various melodramatic scenes, we can really find one tremendous aspect of this film...The cinematography is absolutely breath-taking. From the first scene to the last scene I really have to say that I have not seen better cinematography yet. Sergei Urusevsky really knew what he was doing, and I am motivated to see his other films just because of how impressed I was with his work. I am sure not many of us these days are Communists who believe in the great values of Fidel Castro and are ready to go to the mountains of the Sierra Maestra and fight with him against the imperialist government backed by United Fruit Company, but hey, this really is an amazing film to look at. I could find myself going from scene to scene, and trying to figure out how a lot of it was shot, my mind lighting up like a Christmas tree, stimulated by the artwork of Sergei Urusevsky.I really have to say, if you have any interest in cinematography (no matter how small) this would be the one film that I would recommend above all others. Rarely do I get that interested in the cinematography of a film, but this really is an amazing exception. The crew must be very happy and pleased with the work that they did with Sergei Urusevsky. The overall content of the film is mostly mediocre with some decent ideals and interesting stories thrown in, and really challenges the viewer (if they are not a Communist) to see the world through their eyes. But when push comes to shove... You could watch this film on mute and be struck by it. Anyone interested in the art of cinematography and filming, this film could be your Bible, and Sergei Urusevsky could be your Messiah. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking cinematography undermined by political propaganda","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":"  Let me start saying that I'm against any kind of political propaganda, no matter which side. This was such a wasted opportunity. It could have been one of the best films of all times. Unfortunately is mostly going to be remembered for it's visual achievement. The story is simplistic and declamatory, right in your face, up the point of caricature. That said, the film has amazing moments. Havana has never being filmed like that again. The camera movements have inspired Scorcese (Goodfellas) and Paul T Anderson (Boogie Nights) Still they don't surpass this, which was done 40 years ago.This is what cinema should be in the formal side. When are we going to get more films that look like this?  "},{"Title":"Viva La Revolucion","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Maybe one of the best movies ever made! I think I could watch Kalatozishvili (say it three times fast) film grass grow and be spellbound. The camera literally dances, and is a character in it's own right.Four stories about the Cuban life before, during, and ending with the revolution. We see the Havana nightclub prostitute (the films most dazzling moments, like coming to Cuba for the firs time), a farmer whose loosing his land to US Fruit(the films most spiritual moment), a student activist poised to be a terrorist or a martyrs, and a family man and pacifist driven to war...but who cares! This is not an effective propaganda film because by the end of the movie, your not so much mad at the big bad West, as you are just disappointed there isn't more. You care about the characters certainly, but you care about them as individuals, beset by the troubles of life, and not as a faceless nation, engaging in a fight. Propahganda to work needs a them for us to turn our attention towards, look at Micheal Moore's films, for examples of this. I Am Cuba has foreign and internal devils, but each story is told so well, you feel for the characters, and not some abstract notion of the the Cuban people.The sheer cinematic strength of the film, it's composition, AMAZING tracking shots(ripped off by Paul Thomas Anderson, Martin Scorcesse, and Tartovsky, to name a few...they each steal scenes, and even then that's not half of the amazing images.), music, and performances are so good they transform and transcend the story. What Sergio Leone did for the Western in Once Upon A Time In The West, and Stanley Kubrick did for science fiction in 2001 A Space Odyssey, is equivalent to what this film does for propaganda.Cuban public at the time though it was too stereotypical (a fair critique, the director and crew are mostly Russian), Soviets thought it was too soft on capitalism and the west, film makers everywhere I imagine wet themselves.Quite possibly one of the best films ever, never seen in the US, til the mid 90's. The portrayals of Americans are amusing to say the least (think of all those furry hated evil Russians in cold war movies to be fair. Think Red Dawn for Christ sakes) Anyway if you like great films see this, its exhilarating and beautiful, and as a whole it more than makes up for the sum of its parts. Incredible. "},{"Title":"You are Cuba; I am Impressed","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" I Am Cuba (1964) A breathtaking marvel of cinematography. Mikhail Kalatozov's I am Cuba, a joint production between Soviet and Cuban filmmakers, remains an astounding visual success, with its inventive and freewheeling camera style that went on to influence so many. So legendary is the films style that a great many filmmakers today likely do not even realize that they've been influenced by it through the work of other directors such as Martin Scorcese.The film, a hyper stylised perhaps propaganda film (although the film was berated on both sides - by the Russians as too sympathetic to Americans, by the West as entirely unsympathetic to Americans), it flows (and really is there a better word to describe this?) through a series of vignettes, dealing rebellious youths to slimy members of Western bourgeoisie.One could discuss the incredible long and free form shots, moving up and down buildings, in and out of water, soaring over crowded city streets - it is a technical marvel, at its release and even still today. The stories often get left out of discussion because of this, but it should be noted that they are quite powerful and moving, and propaganda or not, they express some profound tellings of the eploitative relationship between the wealthy American business class and the Bastista dictatorship.Whatever your political leaning, I am Cuba is an unquestioned masterpiece and innovator of the visual language of cinema. "},{"Title":"Scene 'Rip Offs'","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":"  'Eight Two' brought up a good point about how other films have borrowed shots from this movie. I could even go as far as to say some of the long takes have influenced Scorcese's famous restaurant scene in Goodfellas, given that Scorsese actually saw this film before then. Or, perhaps just coincidence. More than possible that Scorsese appreciates this film because it does resemble his own work, which you can't say about a lot of directors. Can anyone list some scenes in other movies that were influenced by this movie? The Boogie Nights pool scene was a good copy of the pool scene in Soy Cuba. Can anyone list others?  "},{"Title":"Amazingly beautiful","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":"  Who ever thought a propaganda piece could set forth some of the most beautiful images in filmmaking history? From the opening flyover scenes of Cuba, I was taken in by the sheer visceral pleasure of the movie. Even though it was shelved by the Russian government for being too beautiful, I could see it easily bringing people into supporting Communist regimes. The movie moved wonderfully until the final twenty minutes or so. There seemed to be several false endings, but I guess the point of how bad capitalism was had to be belabored even further. This is a must see simply for its historical value, much less for its breathtaking cinematography. "},{"Title":"Well made propaganda","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" I am Cuba is propaganda and cannot be taken very seriously as far as its idyllic view of Cuba is concerned. The Batista years and Americans in the film are almost cartoon-like in their simplicity-- it was not meant as non-fiction but as a way to drum up support for the Castro regime among the common people. But, if you look at the film for its artistry, it is very nice. It features some very creative and artsy camera-work--and so despite being in black & white, it looks great. And, while the style film wasn't exactly to my taste (with its lyrical and poetic qualities), it was well done. So, overall, I'd say that this Soviet-Cuban co-production is a pretty film and is worth seeing-- just don't take it as a snapshot picture or as pure history.By the way, because the film was not intended for American audiences, it sure would have been nice for the DVD to have captioning for the Americans. This is because I couldn't understand a lot of what they were saying--and I assume many other English speakers might also have this difficulty. "}{"Title":"A piece of lost time","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" It's hard to watch this film without asking yourself tough questions about the possible relationships of art and propaganda. The film is so utterly beautiful that it genuinely moves the soul, and yet so dunder-headedly transparent an attempt to propagate a problematic political position that you are often either bored stiff or laughing your head off.The I am Spartacus scene and other scenes reminded me of Ken Loach's Wind THat Shakes The Barley, I'm sure he saw this. That film is another film which attempts to show only one side of a political conflict, and though it's much more successful at convincingly involving the audience, that only makes one all the more suspicious of it.In the end what I drew from I Am Cuba is a blast of an almost science-fictional era that brought this visually stunning collaboration between two utterly disparate nations - cuba and USSR. And an overwhelming feeling of lost nostalgia for a time I wasn't part of, for a dream - communism - that had nothing to do with me.Whatever else that dream brought, part of it was this troublingly naive yet ultimately touching desire to save people from injustice. For people, read here attractive, docile young Cuban women....! (This film is not a feminist tract! ) "},{"Title":"Zany Propaganda Piece","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" I am Cuba is a Soviet funded propaganda film designed to promote international socialism. It deals with the Cuban revolution but is mostly remembered for its acrobatic and innovative camera work.The film was virtually unknown for a number of years, before reappearing in the late 80s. Its inventive style would prove hugely influential on both Paul Thomas Anderson and late period Scorsese. Goodfellas and Casino owe much to this film. Boogie Nights also copies a long take, in which a camera prowls a party before eventually diving into a swimming pool.Director Mikhail Kalatozov, who made the excellent The Cranes are Flying, remains virtually unknown today. His films are filled with remarkably complex long takes and some pretty daring camera-work. For I am Cuba he custom made his own rigs, dollies and camera mounts, and as a result the film has a virtuosity that you simply didn't see in the 50s and 60s. Kalatozov zooms along buildings, hurtles up staircases, zaps down Cuban streets and plunges through pulsating crowds. The film's actual plot consists of 4 interwoven stories, designed to promote revolution and the greatness of socialism. The problem is, Kalatozov is so in love with his camera that he completely forgets he's making a propaganda flick. The film touches upon some facts, highlighting that a handful of American owned mega corporations were oppressing the vast majority of Cuban people, but it also makes Capitalism seem damn seductive, by focusing on snazzy American hotels, partying Cubans and the fun nightlife.As a result of the film's confused message, I am Cuba was rejected by its Marxist backers. The film's flamboyant style was seen to be too free, too liberating, thereby obscuring the intended message. We see shanty towns and poverty and yet Kalatozov makes it all seem so damn sexy.7.5/10 - A strange film. Still, it remains a technical milestone.Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"So bad that it is good.","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" This is a perfect example of displaced kitsch, a pachyderm monument of propaganda with Eisenstein-Welles look and Stalin aesthetics of the thirties. How did they dare to make such a film in 1963?. The Yankees chew gum, the prostitute repents and cries, the students throw cocktail Molotov, the old man sweats and burns his farm, the camera pans down the swimming-pool and over the roofs, the palms and clouds are shot in short focus against the light, the peasant's conscience awakes and he joins the guerrilla, and the chief of police is fat. Everything is so outdated, schematic and overblown that eventually becomes naive and moving. No wonder that Coppola and Scorsese rediscover this film and call it a masterwork. "},{"Title":"Solid","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Mikhail Kalatozov's 1964 film, I Am Cuba (Soy Cuba) is probably the most divergent film I've ever watched in terms of the quality of its constituent parts. It is, as its reputation boasts, visually stunning, imaginative, innovative, and flat out great. But, in terms of its narrative, it is hackneyed, trite, and unimaginatively anti-American in its blatant agitprop, and laughably bad. And I say this fully aware of the Ugly Americanism that has wrought the communist fervor that still grips South America, as well as the Islamic Extremism, because the propagandizing in the film has a seriously negative effect on the film, to the point that its labeling as 'Commie kitsch,' by many of its detractors, and even some of its champions, is dead on.The film was a joint Soviet-Cuban production, meant as blatant propaganda for the Communist cause, but Kalatozov's film so rhapsodized Cuban sexuality and reveled so in its visuals, that even its backers as Mosfilms, the Soviet State film company, pulled it after a short distribution period. It was critically denounced both in Cuba and the Soviet Union. It was not until filmmakers Martin Scorsese and Francs Ford Coppola saw and championed it in 1995 that the film got its first taste of critical success in the West. The film was written by Enrique Pineda Barnet and Russian state poet Yevgeny Yevtushenko and the cinematography by Sergey Urusevsky, as mentioned, deserves all the plaudits it can muster. The acting is passable, at best, and wooden, stilted, and forced, most of the time. The film was shot in black and white, and used using color filters to exaggerate contrast, as well as using wide angle shots in a 1.331 aspect ratio. The film's music is diegetic and not, but the one aspect of the film that is neither good not bad, overall; although in certain scenes the singing and music are wonderfully evocative of time and place. "},{"Title":"Style over substance?","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" OK lets get it out of the way. This film has some amazing shots, thats a fact. The shot down the side of a building and into the pool, or through the building and out above the street, are the most memorable but it has a bunch of lesser shots that are still amazing.That said after a while its all the same, the film is pretty much the same tracking shot repeated over and over. And in the end it seems that even though the film appeared to be taking on a serious subject the filmmaker was more concerned with his camera. Its constantly canted just to be so, quick pans all over the place are plentiful and characters make tons of unnecessary movements just to give the camera something fancy to do.IMO the way the films put together a Italian Neo-Realist but made by a Russian about Cuba instead and with added propaganda.without the camera work(which IMO gets old after a while) it wouldn't be half the film it is. But then again maybe it could have been more if all the focus wasn't on the visuals.Oh and the dialogue as well as the dubbing can be horrible at times, and in most versions there's a Russian voice over you cant turn off. Also the films depiction of Americans is a freaking insult.But this is still a must see film for any true fans of cinema though, if just to witness some truly amazing shots. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, clunky communist propaganda","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" Cuba, 1964. A group of passionate young graduates from the Ukrainian film school in Kiev, steaming like new loaves with freshness, commitment and training, are sent to help the newly established government of comrade Fidel Castro to make a propaganda film. Their brothers from the revolutionary cadre of the people's university of Havana have prepared a story and a script. The peasants and workers willingly allow their comrades to film and give their services as actors and extras.This is not the scenario of the film itself, but the story of the making of it, which somehow pokes through as clearly as the poles on a wigwam. It is part of the finished film's charm that it wears its heart on its sleeve. Even when the roped-in comrade actors, or their lines, are pretty dreadful, they are clearly sincere in telling us that capitalism is the villain of world history, and socialism will save the oppressed people of Cuba from ignorance and poverty. Peasants, students and workers are politicised by pivotal experiences of corruption and brutality. All is shot in beautiful expressionist black and white, and there is enough accidental beauty in landscapes, buildings and people to touch the viewer unexpectedly, and give the film a depth, a feeling of nostalgia for sincerity and pre-post-modernism, which it has acquired, like a good bottle of wine, from being laid down for forty-odd years. "},{"Title":"I did not appreciate the artistic nature of the film nor the film itself.","Date":"18 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" I am Cuba is a movie best enjoyed by adults, 18 and older, who either enjoy artsy films, are artists in the film industry, are artists in other genres, and who enjoy the different kind of film. This is certainly the different kind of film. Since I don't belong to any of the aforementioned categories, I did not appreciate the artistic nature of the film nor the film itself. I found the film meaningless and rambling through the scenes. The music was okay. The movie was incredibly long, I think the film should have been edited down to one hour. I wouldn't bother with this film unless you like to torture yourself with something different for a change. Remember, different does not mean better in this case. Eat your whole dinner through this one. You won't miss a thing. "},{"Title":"Boring, and too many Stereotypes","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" This is a movie as Bogart described one of his own movies Beat the Devil (1954) as A movie only the phonies like. It is boring. Black and white does not capture the lush colors of Cuba. The acting is wooden. The client for the prostitute looks middle European or English and has a halting accent, and a beard that was not in style in 1958. His Goodbye Betty to the prostitute sounds like a phonetic reading from an index card. The Americans are bad stereotypes, gum chewing and wearing sunglasses in a dark bar. The prostitute's house at night looks like some bad set from a kids'TV show of the 1950s.The bar/casino looks claustrophobic. The real ones in Cuba were large and expansive. The bar looked like it was shot in a basement somewhere. Very amateurish.The scenes in the cane fields move too slowly. The student scenes in the city of Havana only underscore how attractive the city was 40 years ago compared to the dilapidated mess it is today. Even the documentary on the film underscores this when a 1964 and 2005 walk down the Malecon is done by someone associated with the movie. The contrast is stark.The farmer scenes look like they had to superimpose more smoke so as to get a fuller sense of battle. The farmer seems to walk right through explosions toward the end of the movie. Even John Wayne war movies had better battle scenes than that 20 years earlier! And I'm not a John Wayne fan! Very unrealistic.In short this is one of those movies that beats you over the head with how important and intellectual it is supposed to be. And I consider myself somewhat moderate to liberal politically, but find any celebration of this movie to be undeserved since the movie is boring, lumbering, poorly acted, heavy handed propaganda.As far as the photography, did I see white palm trees? Tell me that is arty.And finally, it appears to condone a dictator who has ruined his country, murdered and imprisoned tens of thousands and in 1962 almost started a nuclear war!.Sorry I cannot warm up to this one. "},{"Title":"You are Cuba?","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, War","Review":" I must admit, this is my first experience with a Russian propaganda film. Honestly, I didn't know what to expect. Willing and able, I was ready to be bored to death with trivial political matters, textbook film-making, and passionless stories. As the film closed, I did witness some of the aspects that I was expecting. The stories needed to be further developed and the politics of Cuba needed to be explained instead of countering with the mythological island conveying its heartfelt feelings &#133; yet there was something compelling about this film. The cinematography was brilliant. From the opening sweeping scene of the island to the dramatic walk through the streets of Cuba, I was captivated by the beauty that filmmaker Mikheil Kalatozishvili chose to explore while making this film. Without caring about the stories, you could easily be swept away by the sheer enjoyment of the camera work with this film. Kalatozishvili was that impressive. He reminded me of a mix between Jarmusch and Lynch and a sprinkle of Stone (Oliver that is).Soy Cuba was like watching a one sided debate, which works when creating a propaganda film. I know very little about the history of Cuba, or the regime in place prior to Castro, but I needed to see more of that in this film. I needed a bit of history, a little less overly played drama, and more true stories. If this is a Moore-like propaganda film, I have no doubt that Russia could pull true stories from the people of Cuba and recreate those instances. I do believe that what we witnessed were somewhat true, but overly exaggerated. If prostitution was an understandable and common, not respected, form of employment, than why would the boyfriend be upset? If sugar was such a priceless commodity, why didn't the landowner take that before selling the property? If the Cuban police force was that corrupt, would you feel that these students would have a secondary plan in place? Finally, the peaceful villager who wants to fight to end the war seemed a bit too bold to be honest. There just seemed to be a sense of drama surrounding these stories. Again, I suppose that you need them to create a true propaganda film, but would you not agree that a debater discussing the horrors of abortion by just telling stories after stories would not fully convey the point without some moments of history. In Soy Cuba, there needed to be more of these points. There needed to be facts, there needed to be honesty, and there needed to be a stronger divide between drama and truth. I believe that what Cuba was experiencing was terrifying, but I needed stronger evidence to support it. From an outside viewer looking in, I wanted to be persuaded. By the end of this film, I was not.I am a stern believer in skipping the special features of a DVD because those should not sell me on the film. It should be the film itself that is good, not necessarily the quality of the excess features. In past reviews, I have not mentioned the quality of the DVD because I want to have the film speak for itself. For Soy Cuba, I will break from this tradition, but just this once. The quality of this DVD is poor. I am not speaking of the transfer from film to DVD (which is not half bad), but it is the choice to use both Russian and Spanish dubbing with English subtitles throughout the entire film. I found no way to turn this off. Whenever a character had to speak in Spanish, we were bombarded with both the subtitles and the Russian dub over the voice. After the first fifteen minutes, this became extremely annoying. In fact, it takes away from the strength of the film. By the end of the two hours, you are either confused because you couldn't catch everything the characters were speaking, or you have a headache from trying to keep it. It was embarrassing.One cannot finish a review of this film without again stating the strength of the cinematography. Very few films seem to capture the beauty of a land, no matter if it is being torn apart by a government, or getting ready for a Russian rule. Soy Cuba accomplished the impossible and gave this beautiful island the cinematography it deserved. I mentioned before the sweeping opening shot, but the infamous top of the hotel to the pool shot kept me breathless. It was so impressive to the craftsmanship of the camera come into play with this film. You could tell there was heart and passion behind the camera, I just only wish there was more demonstration of that passion in front of the camera.Overall, the cinematography cannot stand alone. I thought long and hard about this film, and while I thought that Cuba was beautifully captured on film, the stories themselves did not stand up well over time. I also had major concerns about the lack of dedication to the DVD. The horrendous dubbing and painful translation was enough to churn the strongest of stomachs. With all of these points going against it, I do not think it is a film I could sit through again. There is a scene in the film where a man is boating down the river dodging your typical rivery obstacles, slowly taking his time as our island narrates some truths that are unknown. This scene best summarizes this film. Soy Cuba was slow, overly dramatic, and avoiding as many obstacles as possible that would have transformed this film into a stronger film. The only plus I can give it is the cinematography. Those interested in filming film need to see this movie, otherwise a National Geographic special would do better.Grade ** out of ***** "}]