[{"Title":"The point is of no return, and you've reached it!","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"53 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  From the beginning, you know that this monochrome Meyerama is going to be incredible--an Outer Limits-style voice-over pontificating on the violence of women, followed by incredible shots of three luscious go-go girls doing the Watusi as the Bostweeds' wild theme song blasts from the jukebox. Then things move to the barren California desert for drag races, catfights, murders, straining blouses, and a lot of torrid action and satirically overwrought melodrama.Tura Satana, Haji, and Lori Williams have terrific screen presence as the three tough-as-nails villainesses. They're the kind of deliciously over-the-top antagonists that you root for, especially since the nominal heroine (Sue Bernard) is a ridiculous dimwit who couldn't act her way out of a paper bra--I mean, bag. Highest honors go to the amazing Satana, shouting most of her lines and dropping sexual innuendos while resting her boobs on the dinner table.As usual, Russ Meyer fills the screen with sharp dialogue (Breast or thigh, darlin'?) and sharp camerawork. There is no nudity, since Meyer was trying to circumvent the censors in 1966, but there are some incredibly sexy scenes all the same. Excitement and laughs abound in this straight-faced send-up of action-flick conventions. This celebrated cult classic is one big-breasted Gothic melodrama-satire that really...um...stands out! "},{"Title":"The Citizen Kane of trash cinema","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"51 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Three go-go dancers - Varla (Tura Satana), Rosie (Haji) and Billie (Lori Williams) - are racing their sports cars out in the desert when they meet up with a young man named Tommy (Ray Barlow) and his girlfriend Linda (Susan Bernard). Tommy is an amateur car racer who has come out to do some time trials. Varla challenges him to a race. When she cuts him off with her car it leads to a fight and she kills him. Dragging the frightened Linda with them the trio go into the nearest town to fill up with petrol. There they see a muscly young man (Dennis Busch) carrying his crippled father (Stuart Lancaster) to his truck. The petrol station attendant (Mickey Foxx) tells the girls that the muscle man is retarded and that his bitter old father is reputed to be rich, but must have his riches stashed away somewhere at his isolated homestead. The girls decide to drop in for a visit hoping to find the old man's riches. They pass off Linda as a rich man's runaway daughter they are bringing home against her will. What they don't know is that the old man is a misogynist who delights in kidnapping women for his son, whom he refers to only as The Vegetable, to rape. They will have to rely on their own deadly talents and the possible decency of the old man's other son Kirk (Paul Trinka).Russ Meyer's black and white ode to the violence in women made little impact when first released in 1965. Meyer had taken the world by storm with The Immoral Mr. Teas (1959), the film most often credited with kicking off the nudie cutie craze. And he would become a household name with the success of Vixen! (1968). But the films he made between those two landmarks, though some of them are among his best work, didn't attract much attention. But then John Waters, in his 1981 autobiography Shock Value wrote  'Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill!'...is, beyond a doubt, the best movie ever made. It is possibly better than any film that will be made in the future. Waters dubbed Meyer the Eisentein of sex films because his use of skillful editing to get maximum impact out of scenes of sex and violence is reminiscent of the methods by which the Russian director managed to powerfully convey his political messages. Waters' championing of Faster, Pussycat!, in particular, led to it becoming a favourite on college campus's across America.If Meyer is the Eisenstein of sex films then Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! is the Citizen Kane of trash films. I don't use the term disparagingly. For me a trash film is a film which appeals on a visceral rather than purely emotional level. In trash films realism is bad style. We must always know that we are watching a movie and enjoy it as a fantasy formed from our own base drives - from those uncivilised aspects of our nature that we must repress to live a civilised existence. Hence the term trash for the substance of these films is those aspects of ourselves which must be discarded. The violence in the trash film appeals to the knot in our stomach from every time we've had to bite back on our anger. It's prurient sexuality appeals to the lusts generated by everyday existence for which we may have insufficient outlet. We don't sympathise with the characters in a film like this, but we can identify with their actions because they take place in an obvious fantasy world. But the trash film has another appeal - the exhilaration that comes from the transgression of the bounds of good taste. And its sense of humour is the kind which elicits a belly-laugh. The anarchic spirit of the trash film has no less value than the more rarefied pleasures and intellectual stimulation of the art film.What makes Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! great is the way that it takes the sex and violence of the trash film and distills them into something more iconic than explicit. Unlike most of Meyer's films, there is no frontal nudity or sex scenes. The violence is powerful, but not extended or shown in gory detail. Yet Tura Satana in her tight black jeans, half-exposed breasts practically bursting free as she eyes up a man like a side of beef or takes him out with karate chop to the neck, distills any amount of sex and violence into a single unforgettable mythic figure. Similarly the vastly underrated Stuart Lancaster is the very personification of sleazy misogyny. Add to this the brilliant build-up of the opening monologue, Meyer's masterful editing and Jack Moran's eminently quotable and often hilariously funny camp dialogue and you have a trash film masterpiece that just gets better and better the more times you watch it. "},{"Title":"Russ Meyer's immortal trash classic. Has to be seen to be believed!","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"52 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I have watched and enjoyed most of Russ Meyer's output, and will quite happily defend his lesser works, but two of his movies have a life of their own and have managed to reach a larger audience than just card carrying Meyer nuts. They are 'Beyond The Valley Of The Dolls' and this one, 'Faster Pussycat! Kill! Kill!'. Both movies are trash classics and never fail to entertain no matter how many times you have seen them. 'Faster Pussycat!' really succeeds mainly because of the three strong leads, Tura Satana, Lori Williams and Haji. Any one of them would be enough for Meyer to plan a killer movie around, but all three together is dynamite! Satana, strangely enough, did very little movie work after this, mainly a couple of Ted Mikels turkeys. But it doesn't really matter because her screen immortality is assured. Her performance in this movie is more than enough! Williams also went on to very little, but she is very good here, and stylistically reminds me quite a bit of Erica Gavin in 'Vixen!'. In fact one could almost bet that if Meyer had been aware of Gavin when he made this movie she would have played the part of Billie. Haji appeared in a few more Meyer movies, including his masterpiece 'Supervixens', but this is probably her strongest role. All three women, who play go-go dancers by night, thrill seeking criminals by day, are simply wonderful and their chemistry and repartee are priceless. Meyer regular Stuart Lancaster is also in fine form as a dirty old man with more issues than a daily newspaper. There are so many unforgettable scenes in this movie it's difficult to single any out. The whole movie just rocks period. Many late 60s movies attempted to emulate a camp, comic book appeal ('Barbarella', 'Diabolik',etc.etc.) but in many ways Meyer beat them all, and did so without technicolor, large sets, multiple costumes, special effects and other gimmicks. Just crisp black and white photography and three chicks in the desert. Plus a brilliant theme song later immortalized by The Cramps. Russ Meyer divides most viewers. You either get it or you don't. If you aren't familiar with his work this is probably THE place to start. Watching this movie for many is a life changing experience! 'Faster Pussycat!' is one of the most original and entertaining movies made in the 1960s, and continues to amuse and inspire right into the 21st Century. Every time I watch this movie I am knocked out. This is a bona fide cult classic that gets better and better as the years go by. Absolutely essential viewing for anyone who loves exploitation movies, The Sixties, rock'n'roll and/or buxom babes! "},{"Title":"Female domination meets Nouvelle Vogue in amazing trash cult fashion!","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"38 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I've got to admit, after the first ten minutes or so; I really didn't think I was going to like this film. However, it isn't long before Russ Meyer's film takes off - and before I knew it, I was watching one of the greatest pieces of trash ever to hit the silver screen! If you want a B-movie; this film has all the essential ingredients. We've got fast cars, fighting, killing, snappy dialogue and a trio of buxom beauties in the lead roles! It's quite clear that this film is made purely for entertainment value - as the plot is non-existent, and the characters don't go any deeper than the common B-movie stereotypes, but it doesn't matter - because entertain it does, and this is about as 'cult' as it gets! Shot in crisp black and white, and with all the energy of the Nouvelle Vogue cinema doing the rounds in sixties France, Faster Pussycat! Kill! Kill! (awesome trashy title) follows three women; dancers by night, and fast car riding killers by day! We follow them as they stumble upon an old farmhouse, inhabited by an old man as sick as they themselves. He's got some money hidden, and the lead chick wants it...only the old man and his sons stand in her way.It's immediately clear that acting isn't this film's strongpoint; the dialogue sounds forced and ridiculous, and none of the cast do good jobs of making their characters real - yet in true trash fashion, it's the ensemble that is this film's main asset. The trio of women are the main players, with the busty and exotic Tura Satana taking centre stage and being backed up by Haji, and the stunning Lori Williams. These three would make any film worth watching, and the way that Russ Meyer ensures that the girls are always the strongest presence on screen gives Faster Pussycat a lot of its cult value. The film moves quickly, and the action is fast edited and cut with an imminently cool soundtrack, thus making the film amazingly watchable and an obvious influence on the likes of Quentin Tarantino. The fact that this film pokes fun of cinematic violence by having women in the leads will always make it memorable; the fact that they've got big breasts only makes that more so. This is an absolute cult classic and, I suspect, a film that I'll be seeing over and over again. This is one of those films that has to be seen to be believed - so make sure you don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Great! Great! Great! Love it! Love it! Love it!","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I loved Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! from the beginning, together with its three great main actresses Haji, Lori Williams, but especially the outstanding Tura Satana. The film tells the story of three exotic dancers, who become outlaws, drive fast cars, wear provoking clothes and cheat and beat up men. The only not typical thing about this movie is, that none of the chicks has a nude scene, what is really a pity! On the first view, Russ Meyer´s flick is nothing else but a funny piece of trash from the swinging 60s. But on the second it´s a portrait about the power of female sexuality on men. The sex characteristics differ from the usual stereotypes the male are the victims, the women are the offenders, who apply their weapons unscrupulous to reach their aims. Also they are physically stronger and more cunning than the naive guys in this film. Especially Varla becomes a sexy, but immense violent murder machine and that makes her being one of the most frightening women in the history of cinema! But Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! is more than that it´s a piece of modern art, every lover of real cult movies or pop art should have seen it! (8/10) "},{"Title":"Coming At Ya From Six Different Dangerous Directions!","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" While there are some who argue that it is a pro-feminist flick with lots of social significance, truth is FASTER PUSSYCAT KILL KILL is a very deliberately made bit of ultra-drive-in trash, a movie that glories in all things low-brow, low-rent, and low-neck lined. And it has a cast that makes up for their collective lack of talent with lots of attitude and lots of cleavage.The story is as hooty as the cast. Tura Satana, she of the lethal chest, leads minions Haji and Lori Williams away from the grind of their jobs at the go-go joint and out into the desert. They race their cars. They wrestle in the water and then in the sand. They dance the watusi. They bump off this guy who shows up wearing plaid shorts. (Given his attire you might read this as a mercy killing.) Then they set their sights on an old lech and his dum-dum sons, hoping to make away with their money. Faster Pussycat indeed! The script is deliberately absurd, with an emphasis on memorable one liners that try to out-cliché all known clichés. But the real attraction here are the pussycats. It isn't often that you see a 2D movie with 3D effects, but that's exactly what happens when Tura, Haji, Lori, and their six talents hit the screen. These are three big-busted, nip-waisted women with evil attitude, and they sneer, snarl, snap, and slither around the screen with all the aplomb of trailer park drag queens gone bad. It's more tacky cool than a 1965 plastic jewelry box explosion.Now, how much you like this sort of thing really depends on how warped your sense of humor is. Cheap though it is, the thing is remarkably well done, and taken in the right way the combination of trailer-park chic, retro-hysteria, and ultra-attitude is a lot of fun... and when the pussycats hit the screen you may think you're about to get a black eye, and I don't mean from their fists! Breakout the popcorn and some protective glasses Tura and the Pussycats are coming at ya! GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Absolutely captivating.  Who knew?","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Please, take it from one who, until tonight, foolishly and ignorantly pigeonholed Russ Meyer as a Grade-B Soft-Core cult hero. What did I know? He's so much more than that. Think really good John Waters crossed with really bad Fellini (which is good, of course, in its own way) and you have just a hint of the inspired wickedness here.Three mean chicks in sports cars, on a road trip from hell, back in a blistering hot, black-plate California desert. The script is undisguised genius and the performances (particularly, of course, the sadistic, sneering Tura Satana) cross most known bounds. But you know what? Even with that firebrand in the lead, the others hold up incredibly well. Meanwhile, the cinematography is spot-on for the theme here, tilted and trenchant. The overall effect bracing--blinding, almost--and more than a little surreal.FASTER, PUSSYCAT KILL! KILL! It's hideous and hip. Nightmarish, and nasty. Scathing and scabrous. Insane, but inventive. It's not a film for everyone. Some will call it sick, some will dismiss it as camp. It's all that and more. Hardly a wrong note, and with *so* many opportunities too... I was glued to the screen from beginning to end. Wicked fun. Captivating. Can you tell I liked it? PS Also recommended for fans of NHB, male/female bare-knuckle boxing. You know who you are ;) "},{"Title":"Repeated Viewings Recommended","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"24 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The tendency to dismiss Russ Meyer's Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! (1965) as just a cult classic is probably due to the most memorable feature of the film, the girls. First there are the two quintessential Meyer women, Tura Satana and Haji, towering brunettes with enormous breasts who dominate all the men around them; or at least Satana does, Haji's character (with a strange Italian-Mexican accent?) is more focused on Satana than on men. They actually come across as a feminist empowerment fantasy, which is consistent with Meyer's almost exclusive career focus on situations in which women wreak their will upon men.If they are too extreme for your tastes there is blonde free spirit Lori Williams and air-headed sweet young thing Susan Bernard. While arguably the two prettiest women to have ever graced a film, there is no argument that William's character is the sexiest of all time. Interestingly, it was the sweet-faced Bernard who became a Playboy centerfold just a few months after the movie (December 1966).But Pussycat's greatness comes from the visceral power of Meyer's unusual images (can you say Fellini). Add to this abundant humor, inventive camera angles, fast pacing, clever editing, violence, and a generally amoral cast of characters.The film gets even better with subsequent viewings, you connect better with the twisted dialogue and the wry humor. "},{"Title":"A female Motorpsycho trio up to no good","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Expectations were very high when watching this, but its not Russ Meyers best. The superwoman are tough as nails or as a velvet glove dipped in iron as they say, almost all lines of the movie is memorable, Tura Satana and co shouts them out in the coolest fashion and this makes up for the strongest feat of the movie. I promise you'll laugh more than a few times by them..Its cousin 'Motorpsycho' however was more accomplished than this was. The story doesn't have as much potency (no pun), the girls are good, but not all that and the absurdity reached in 'Supervixens' and 'Motorpsycho' is not reached here.Its still a campy classic though. "},{"Title":"Ultra-violent, ultra-cool cult movie. What you might call a guilty pleasure!","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" When you talk about exploitation movies there are a handful of directors who truly stand head and shoulders above the rest within that particular field of film. Names like Jess Franco, Herschell Gordon Lewis, Al Adamson, Pete Walker and Russ Meyer would be mighty high on any list of exploitation masters. The latter, Russ Meyer, may well have a serious claim to be labelled the most important of all the exploitation directors, for his work goes beyond merely making money from sex, nudity, violence and other such sensationalism. Meyer is actually a serious artist, whose philosophies and techniques make his films instantly recognisable. In some ways, he is just as important and influential as Hitchcock, Huston, Lean and Visconti &#150; though critically, perhaps correctly, his films are received with far less acknowledgement and acclaim. Faster Pussycat! Kill! Kill! is Meyer's most popular, most famous and probably most entertaining film. It is a true original, perhaps too different for many tastes, but certainly one of the quintessential films within the exploitation genre.Three sexy go-go dancers &#150; Varla (Tura Santana), Rosie (Haji), and Billie (Lori Williams) &#150; spend their spare time car-racing in the Californian desert. Varla in particular has a competitive edge and a vicious streak, so when challenged to a car race by egotistical Tommy (Ray Barlow), she cannot resist. The race gets out of hand and Varla, a karate expert, ends up savagely murdering her rival Tommy. Following the killing, the trio of girls decide that they have nothing to lose and so indulge in various other unsavoury activities. First, they kidnap Tommy's girlfriend Linda (Susan Bernard), then head off into the sunset in search of further kicks. They eventually wind up at a ranch owned by a wheelchair-bound old man (Stuart Lancaster), who lords over two sons with an iron fist. One of the sons is sensitive Kirk (Paul Trinka), the other is a gigantic retard known simply as Boy (Dennis Busch), whose brute strength alone is fear-inspiring. Varla and her sidekicks suspect that the ranch-dwellers may have a fortune in cash and set about finding it and stealing it. They use their considerable sex appeal to seduce the younger ranch hands, but the bitter old man proves a far tougher nut to crack&#133;.This film is typical Meyer &#150; the usual doses of perversity, nastiness and excessive cleavage are there for all to see, and it is put together with considerable skill. Meyer usually served as his own producer and editor on films, and in this one his editing is especially impressive. The film is shot in black and white, but still manages some startling imagery, notably Santana's crunching slaying of Barlow early in the film, expertly framed against the dusky desert wilderness. The script is less impressive, with an almost adolescent, single-minded reliance on flesh and brutality that is taken to and beyond the extreme. Sometimes you might find yourself asking what the hell you're watching, especially as the film enters its deranged final section. You might even find yourself fearing for Meyer's mental well-being, for it does indeed take a pretty perverted imagination to come up with a story as twisted as this one. Generally-speaking the performances are rather amateurish, although Santana makes an unforgettable impression through sheer lip-smacking relish (as well as her extraordinary cleavage) in her role as the most sadistic femme fatale ever seen on film. If you're interested in cult movies, then Faster Pussycat! Kill! Kill! is an absolute must-see&#133;. indeed, only when you've seen it can you consider yourself a genuine authority on the subject of cult films. "}{"Title":"Lots of Boobs","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" All men are boobs. All women have two. Other than that, Russ Meyers didn't bring much to this picture. But then he never did. Meyers never created movies. His focus was shock. Find something weird; surround it with anything. In this movie, Meyers takes four well-endowed females and makes them mean. Well, one is stupid and likes to cry and run away. The other three are mean for no reason to everybody. Even when they are trying to trick people, they are mean. The bodies look great. The faces are hard. The minds are psychotic. Most comments go overboard about how beautiful these women are, but in truth, if you saw these women on the street, they should send you running. Even the stupid one looks psycho enough to make you hide the steak knives before you go to sleep. Meyers successfully ensures that the plot does not get in the way of the action. Great movie if you like angry women with large breasts, loser men who deserve to die and a gas station attendant who must be the crazy uncle of Goober and Gomer Pyle. "},{"Title":"Attack of the killer cleavage!!","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Woo-hoo! For as long as I showed interest for eccentric cinema, I anticipated this film. It has the coolest sounding title ever and the posters couldn't look more ravishing. Unfortunately, the Russ Meyer collection is pretty hard to find where I'm from so it took me years to finally purchase it. I own it now and I can say it fully lives up to my expectations. It's a gorgeous film, and typically Meyer. That doesn't mean it's a masterpiece but he has the talent to make words like `trash' sound good. Faster Pussycat Kill kill handles about&#133;well&#133;not all that much, but that's the beauty of it. Three beautiful exotic dancers (with the exact right measurements) revolt against the masculine lifestyle and go out on a rampage. Riding fast cars, provoke men and sweet similar stuff. Leader of the pack is the gorgeous Varla (portrayed by the more than impressive Tura Satana). She's one massive heap of estrogen who kills men with her bare hands and enjoys riding over people with her car. Her two accomplices have a tad bit more humanity in them. They're Lori Williams (a gorgeous looking blond girl) and Haji (her accent alone causes chemical reactions inside a man's body). The lovely threesome ends up among rednecks in a farmhouse, somewhere in the middle of a desert. Meyer's style is a joy for all senses! The film is filled with memorable quote material and the screenplay is very ingenious at times. The male weirdoes in the farmhouse actually pre-date Tobe Hooper's Sawyer family with almost a decade!  Faster Pussycat! Kill Kill has pretty much in common with Motor Psycho, a film shot by Meyer in the same year. There's a main villain, ultra-insane and prepared to go all the way while his followers merely fear him, rather than support him. So basically&#133;this IS Motor Psycho&#133;but with boobs!! Hey, I'm all for feminism so let's hear it for FASTER PUSSYCAT! KILL KILL! "},{"Title":"a one of a kind","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Russ Meyer's 1965 cult classic Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! has all of the earmarks of 60's kitsch, but comes at you with such no holds barred gusto as to allow it a place all its own. It would be hard to refer to it as the kind of film that or it's like this or that, because it truthfully stands alone. If anything, most of the relationships this film has to anything else have been forged with the pop culture it inspired.Given it really has one at all the film's plot revolves around a trio of tough women who are go-go dancers by night and wickedly violent speed demons by day. During one afternoon in the middle of the desert they encounter a young couple. Ultimately, one of the women kills the man, kidnaps the young woman, and attempts to use her as bait for a dirty old man and his sons.There's little rhyme or reason to most of what happens, except as an amped up display of well-endowed, sexually engaging women and raw, in your face violence. This highly lauded film among the art house and drive-in set is great, juvenile fun, with some exceedingly memorable, albeit corny, dialogue. "},{"Title":"symbols","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The female characters each represent the different aspects of the female sexuality innocence, female dominance, intellect, desire for other females, anger at power men have over them, etc. Same with the men. The old man was crippled by trying to save a girl from a train; raging male desire, and get emasculated by that pursuit. He has his new body son, do his sexual work for him. The women are after his money, a familiar scenario. The other son is male rationality and emotional strength that women really want; a daddy. The film is packed with symbols of human sexuality. New ones emerge with each viewing and interpretation, Very sexy. The story is brilliant and reminiscent of Greek tragedies and Shakespearean lessons. "},{"Title":"I see breasts and violence here...","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" There are certain movies that can be completely enjoyed against your better judgment. Most Ed Wood films, the occasional Michael Bay film and virtually all Russ Meyer films. I mean they are films that deal with angry women with big breasts killing or maiming men. Even though they were ahead of their time (think Kill Bill, Alien or the Terminator before women really became hard in films) they are really exploitation films of breasts and violence. Some may say the perfect films. The dialogue is also legendary, it's somewhere between the insane, Welcome to violence and the so corny it hurts, Here Rosie baby, pop the top before you blow your own!. Somehow Meyer still constructs a movie that although terrible bad in almost every way (the editing is quite good), is a classic in the way that only the truly worst can be. Enjoyable down to the last bad fight scene. I'll never race three strippers in the desert in the same way again. "},{"Title":"A wild ride with even wilder women","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Russ Meyers' attraction for women with ample bosoms and fiery personalities is well-known. FASTER PUSSYCAT still looks like nothing out there in theatres. A trio of go-go dancers meet up with a teenaged couple in the desert. In short order the hellcats have killed the boyfriend, kidnapped the hapless girlfriend(why? Some sort of unspoken lesbian undercurrent?), and head toward an isolated ranch owned by a wheelchair-bound old coot who, the dancers learn, has a hidden fortune somewhere on the ranch. Then things really get hairy! Led by the raven-tressed Varla, the three karate-chop, cat-fight, and seduce their way towards the money. The thing is, the ending is a let-down, since we're led to believe from all this female hellcat posturing that Meyers admires strong women(but not too strong, apparently). Still, the girls are a joy to behold. The creators of XENA must have been rabid fans, since the warrior princess so closely resembles Varla(right down to the hairstyle). Check it out. "},{"Title":"Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill!","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Brilliant trash from Russ Meyer about three volatile go-go dancers who live hard and race their cars harder. Their leader is Varla(Tura Satana), a benevolent sort of mad dame who loves pushing the boundaries of bad. She decides to kill an innocent man just out to test-drive his car for speed time. She is always looking for competition when it comes to racing, and this young man produces the seed to sprout that urge. He has with him a foxy young dame named Linda(Sue Bernard)for whom Varla just has to carry along(she's bi-sexual, but is kidnapping her for kicks because that's just how bad she is..always looking for something a little more dangerous).Varla is supported by lover Rosie(Haji)who is pretty much her servant girl for she even lights the woman's cigarettes. But, Billie(Lori Williams..who is absolutely scorching)is often a thorn in Varla's side because she challenges her authority and is quite a lousy drunk. Varla sees an opportunity for monetary gain in a crusty old man, crippled in a wheel chair(Stuart Lancaster)who has his stash hidden some place. She will scheme her way through the family to find the loot using means at her disposal such as her figure and possible sexual favors by going after older son Kirk(Paul Trinka)who admits he's weak when lust passes by. Billie sets her sights on the retarded, muscular son(Dennis Busch)who has a specific irritable weakness when trains pass..something about them scars his psyche. Will Varla find the old man's money? What will happen to poor Linda, who tries so often to get away but seems to never quite make it? Will anyone survive with Varla always scheming to find that cash? Ultra-violence prevails in Meyer's flick which is interesting because he allows Varla to be such a tyrant and seemingly indestructible when battling men. She swallows the weak whole and dominates all the characters. She sets her furious sights on something and doesn't think twice about diving after no matter what it is. Men presented in the film are weak and they seem almost knee-bent to the lusts they carry. The film has wonderful, slick beatnik dialogue and the way the camera shoots the characters is excellent. I loved how Meyer shoots the women behind the steering wheel. We can easily tell that they are merely in a superficial concoction with film crew-members moving the fake car with the girls inside, but this provides Meyer with a unique way of lensing their expressions of joy and malice as they race each other and chosen victims who have no idea what kind of dames they are dealing with. "},{"Title":"And the Academy Award goes to ...","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Oh, all right already, I confess it didn't occur to me to rent this until A & E on cable did an entire episode on cleavage featuring clips from the movie, at which point it occurred to me I'd never seen a Russ Meyer flick whereas I'd seen TWO by Herschel Gordon Lewis, for crying out loud.  So maybe it was a kind of pilgrimage but at least I knew I wouldn't have to kiss a large rock at the end of it. ....The key to enjoyable junk is that everyone involved with it be on the same page.  Whatever style of acting is employed, let it be  consistent cast-wide.  On that point Faster... succeeds big-time, with one exception the blonde chick comes off as doing self-parody.  Had everyone else been doing self-parody, that would've been fine.  Unfortunately, everyone else was playing it straight on the grade-Z scale.  This may not seem such a dire matter, but for movies like this, tone is all they have going for them. Like the Monty Python block of flats, it's only real if you believe in it...As for the (groan) plot, three strippers are spending their vacation cruising around the California desert and cross paths with a regular guy hotrodder and his sublimely ditzy girlfriend who, as in the de Sade novels, has no reason to exist except to be abused, so it doesn't bother us much. Then the femmes fatale learn from a Gas Jockey Ex Machina that there's an isolated household supposedly with a lot of money stashed, and dot dot dot. In the household are a crippled older guy with a pet shotgun and two sons, one a big lunk who's always eating and the other the closest this movie comes to a normal character.  One remembers that up to that time movies always provided the audience with a reference point in reality.  It wasn't until a few years later that John Waters came along to create entirely insane alternate universes, and then we had Texas Chainsaw Massacre and it's progeny ...The crippled guy and his back-story are interesting enough in their own right that for a while one is tempted to watch this like a real movie actually caring what happens to the characters, but of course Mr. Meyer soon puts that right and we're back to the high cheese, to borrow a baseball term.  The highlight is when the big lunk is seen actually impeding the forward progress of a car by leaning against it.  We're all familiar with cars, right?  Well, back then there was even more metal in them than now. At that point Faster... becomes a cartoon, but still worth finishing, having come that far and all.There's a kind of anthropological fascination at work here, it's like a time capsule from 1966.  (It's two years until the next election, one character reminds us.)  It's the Playboy era of innocent smut.  The camera is trained on the strippers' mammary glands so much that the latter deserve co-star billing.  There's no hint of sex, kinky or otherwise.  One gathers that the movie's directed at guys like those seen in the beginning, clean-cut & nicely dressed, happy for any kind of thrill.  Almost makes one nostalgic for when such thrills really were cheap, economical. (I'm remembering the lyrics of the Mothers of Invention as Ruben & the Jets Cheap thrills, in the back of my car ... cheap thrills, how fine they are...)   If Faster... were a modern flick, it'd have to be a blood-drenched semen-stained horrorshow even to get our passing attention. Ah, the Good Ol' Days ....The movie's title song by the Bostweeds (jeez, is that the lamest band name ever?) was later covered by the Cramps on their Peppermint Lounge album.  Those guys (and gal) were eons ahead of their time in mining the classic ore.POSSIBLE SPOILERSpeaking of goofs, in the scene where Rosie gets stabbed to death by the big lunk, it seems he's getting her in the lower belly, yet later when she's lying dead, her wounds are up near ... where else ... her chest.  Even the laws of anatomy know their priorities....     "},{"Title":"Too fast for love...!","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Considering its fame, it comes as a bit of a surprise to learn that this Russ Meyer movie wasn't successful on first release. In fact it did a lot worse than Meyer's subsequent effort Motor Psycho. The latter was essentially a more traditional exploitation flick in which a gang of thugs go around causing violence. The chief difference between this movie and Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! was that in the latter the villains were a gang of girls. It seems audiences in 1965 weren't ready for the kind of dangerous women that Meyer unleashed; women as amoral and violent as traditional male villains. Nowadays, there will be very few people indeed who consider Motor Psycho the better film, while Faster Pussycat is not only regarded by many as Meyer's best film but also one of the very best exploitation films ever made. The reason it didn't connect at the time was really because it was too far ahead of the game.For a film made in the mid-60's Faster Pussycat has a very modern feel. One of the reasons for this was because of Meyer's sharp photography coupled with his precision editing. His films were very stylised and Faster Pussycat is a great example. His camera-work is always consummate and great looking, while the three lead women are consistently well shot &#x96; Meyer always ensures that they look fantastic. These women are of course the pussycats &#x96; go-go dancers, drag racers, killers - and a cooler gang of villains there has never been. The leader Varla is truly a one in a million. Played by the indescribably sensational Tura Satana, she is clad entirely in black and goes around shouting lines of great dialogue at whoever comes within distance. Has there ever been a temptress as cool and dangerous as Varla in cinema ever since? No, there certainly has not. Then there is Billie played by Lori Williams who is the loose cannon of the group. On the surface she seems the least threatening of the trio but she is under no one's thumb and Williams is extremely seductive. Completing the trio is Rosie played by the one and only Haji. Personally, she is my favourite of the three. She has the most magnificent over-the-top (Latino?) accent and gestures I have ever seen. Needless to say, all three pussycats are glorious. The male characters are much less interesting &#x96; how could they not be? &#x96; but still Meyer regular Stuart Lancaster is once again very good in the role as a wheelchair-bound nasty misogynist, while it would be remiss not to mention that he has a simple minded son who is known simply as The Vegetable.But Faster Pussycat is not all about the visuals. The script by Jack Moran is extremely memorable and full of brilliant one-liners. Varla in particular spits out this dialogue with some verve. It remains a very amusing film because of the sheer funniness of the script. The movie even begins with a voice-over that starts with the genius line 'welcome to violence!' We are subsequently warned of a new type of woman, a dangerous female who will kill without warning. All of this is accompanied by a black screen with audio distortion lines. Directly after this we are in a go-go club where we are immediately introduced to the pussycats. And we are off, driving through the desert along with the ultra-cool theme tune by The Bostweeds. It's one of the greatest openings to any film in my personal opinion.Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! is a film full of entertainment from start to finish. There are many moments to savour and it shows - if evidence was really needed - that Russ Meyer was a really great film-maker. And yes, this really is one of the greatest exploitation movies ever made! "},{"Title":"Good B movie.","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I remember i watched a documentary about it and that's why i wanted to watch it. It's not common to see action movies with only girls, the last one i noticed was Sucker Punch. This movie is one of the favorite movies of Quentin Tarantino, i'm not a big fan of him but it can be also a reason to watch it if you like Tarantino. Honestly i didn't think i will enjoy much. I thought it was going to be boring but many scenes were good. I mostly liked the final fight and the race at the beginning. It's interesting to ask why they are not many movies like this, with girls as protagonists?. A guy will probably much more appreciate it than a girl. Recommanded for peoples who are bored bad guys. "}{"Title":"Entertaining Cinema....Thank God I now know Meyer","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is without a doubt one of the most entertaining cinema i have seen and I'm glad i have known Russ Meyer after all these days. I could actually see why Tarantino wanted to make a homage to this genre as I myself felt to do a homage to this film in particular. I felt that Death Proof a fitting tribute to an obsolete genre thereby reminding us of the kind of cinema that would not actually take itself too seriously and focuses on entertaining people. Watching this film is an incredibly exciting and endearing experience that I enjoyed a movie a lot after a long time. This is the sort of movie which asks its audiences to join the fun it is about to deliver at its very outset by a cantankerous voice-over. I loved the dialogue, particularly the references to Columbus and Einstein and the dialogues by the old men in the film are absolute crackers. The girls are busty with a lot of oomph and cocky attitude and I loved each of them except the little screamer kid. I can never tolerate girls who scream but the other performances are also too good and I would never have thought this to be a B movie if I wasn't told so earlier. Certainly there was nothing in the movie remotely substandard except the plot and the amount of cleavage shown which made it a contender for a B movie. The background music was so loud and over the top that after a while it became quite exciting and set up the tone for the film. I had not seen Meyer's other works so I could not comment on his legacy, but as far as this movie is concerned, it is a genuine masterpiece in its genre. "},{"Title":"One of Russ Meyer's Best Films","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Faster Pussycat! Kill! Kill! is like the loud empty roar of its female gangster-go-go heroes' little sports cars -- dangerous thrills stuffed into a dense package. The fact that this is one of director Russ Meyer's less explicit movies doesn't really detract from its quality as exploitation, basically because the film is so direct and caustic that there's no secret about its nasty sensibilities. Jack Moran wrote most of the films that initially made Meyer famous, including Mudhoney and Lorna, and he lavished his most extravagant, almost baroque I want to say, dialog on this strange little film. Meyer described it as an experiment -- he had made so many successful films with violence directed at women by men that people were imitating his formula. He thought he would see how it would work if there was a gang of women out to do violence against men. Instead of motorcycles, he made them sports car gangsters.Tura Satana was to say the least a fortunate casting choice. It's really hard to imagine what the movie would be with another performer in the role. She seizes all the energy in the movie and makes it hers, just like her character. Haji and Lori Williams look nice but their acting is pretty low quality.... Satana isn't much of an actress either but she knows how to use her presence. She's pretty frightening in some of the scenes, and kind of sexy. Stuart Lancaster does a good job as the dirty old man. It's not really a movie you watch for the acting.The pace of this movie and the way that it's edited is what I personally find the most exciting. Those early scenes with the racing seem really dramatic even though it's so cheap that there's not even any mattes or anything like that, just probably some guys shaking the cars while Satana and Co. make evil faces. I've always liked the way the film so quickly swings from this go go dancing and the little Gidget beach kid into anarchy and violence when the fight between Satana and the boyfriend takes place.This is a movie that makes little pretense towards morality, basically it's a celebration of the open road and it's about how people choose their own destinies by joining in the violence. You're a beautiful animal and I'm weak says the faux-hero Kirk, and we can believe him too. When concocting her crazy scheme, Satana's character Varla tells Billie, you don't have to believe it, just act it or words to that effect, which sounds like the voice of Russ Meyer. It's Meyer at his best -- totally and self-consciously absurd and unreal, but all heightened cinematically and with comic book dialog to the point where the film seems to create its own compelling universe. "},{"Title":"This is one of the great films of all time...","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is absolutely one of the great films of all time.  Russ Meyer was obviously aware of the cultural significance of his pictures before anyone else was.  Faster Pussycat is about beautiful women that kick ass and drive fast cars, and there is nothing more I really expect out of a movie.  The level of acting is far better than it should have been based on the budget. This show clearly gives 2,000 Maniacs and Teenage Cruisers a run for their money in this world of too many films and not enough movies.Clete Reid Atlanta, Georgia "},{"Title":"These girls are out to kill! KILL!","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  One of Meyer's best is this classic gothic melodrama biker chicks movie about a trio of bad-ass go-go dancers. Full of great dialogue and a true trash sensibility that inspired John Waters-it is a treat for those with more esoteric tastes.  "},{"Title":"Definitely before its time...","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  My main fascination with this film is not the acting or plot,  most is definitely drive-in stuff, but the fact that Russ Meyer  dared to portray women as openly aggressive (ie., like men).  In  a UK interview, he admitted that he wrote the characters as  that's the way he liked them  strong women turned him on.  It's a wonder this film wasn't totally banned in 1965.  But I'm glad it wasn't.  Tura Satana has some wonderful lines   "},{"Title":"Don't Change That Song.","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Before picking up a boxset of his films in the Christmas sales last year,I had heard about 2 Russ Meyer movies,due to both of the titles later being used as the name for some bands,with Mudhoney being one of the earliest bands from the Grunge sub-genre,and Faster Pussycat being a Hard Rock band,whose music video for the single Don't change that song was directed by Russ Meyer!.With having found Mudhoney to be a great,southern-fried Drama,I decided to find out how wild Meyer's cats could be.The plotSearching round for a place to do some test laps before a big race,Tommy and Linda are pleased to find a deserted desert area,that will give Tommy all the room he needs to run his test laps.Reaching the centre of the area,Tommy and Linda discover 3 parked up cars,that belong to a group of go-go dancers called Varla,Rosie and Billie.Attempting to politely introduce themselves,Tommy and Linda are instead pushed around by the gang,who tell Tommy that if he wants to prove the he is a real man,then he must go against them in a race,right now.Aggreing to the challenge,Tommy is left dazed and confused after the gang reveal their less than traditional driving skills.Taking advantage of the situation,Varla,Rosie and Billie grab Linda,and tell her that they are going to kidnap her,so that they can put Linda up for ransom.Rushing to save his girlfriend from being kidnapped,Tommy inadvertently runs into Varla's deadly karate chops,which lead to Tommy being left for dead,face down in the desert.Filling Linda up with sleeping pills so that she keeps her mouth shut,the gang head to a peteral station,so that they can fill the cars up,and get of there with Linda as quickly as possible.Waiting for the peteral station guy to finish filling up the cars,the gang notice a fellow,wealthy-looking,wheel-chair bound customer being helped into a truck by the man's son.Keeping their interest under wraps,the girls ask the peteral station attendant if he knows anything at all about the man.Taken by the girls sudden interest in local knowledge,the attendant tells the gang that the man lives in an isolated farm house with his two sons,and that their have been rumours going around the town for years that the man is sitting on a suitcase full of cash.Excited over the opportunity of grabbing more cash then she originally expected,Varla tells Rosie and Billie,that before they run off with their bounty in Linda,that it might be a good idea,if they pay this kind,wealthy old man a surprise visit.View on the filmReuniting with co- screenwriter Jack Moran, (who wrote one of the last titles from Russ Meyer's Nudie-Cutie era with Wild Girls of the Naked West)co-writer/co-producer/editor and directing auteur Russ Meyer shows in his eye-catching stylised directing a tremendous skill in combining the cartoon style aspects of his Nudie-Cutie movies,with the Film Noir path that he is currently on,so that Meyer can create an unforgettably wild,cartoon-bonkers,deranged Film Noir.Introducing each of the rough'n tumble amazonian women, (played by the splendid,and very easy on the eye's Haji,Lori Williams and Tura Satana) in a go-go dancing nightclub,Meyer bravely keeps away from building a safe centre-ground that the movie can relay on,to instead push everything contained within the film right to the edge of the sanity,with each of the actress's delivering their cracking dialogue with extremely over exaggerated pronunciation,which helps to create an irresistible animated atmosphere.Keeping away from making any of the stunning girls mere 2D characters,Meyer shows a surprising amount of subtly in the way that he reveals the true relationship that Varla,Rosie and Billie have with each other,with the relationship between Varla and Rosie being one the is filled with glances that last just that bit too long,which become much more noticeably on repeat viewings of the film. (In an interview on the DVD,Haji mentions that Meyer did not give her the full details of Rosie's relationship with Varla until the movie had finished shooting,due to Meyer wanting the true meaning of their relationship to be one that was hidden from the suffice of the film.)Along with the deadly kittens,Meyer and co-writer Jack Moran give the film a strong Horror element,with the old man,who the gang think they'll be able to steal a huge bundle of cash from,being revealed as not being a kind old man at all,but instead being one who is wicked,that also holds some pretty unsettling family values close to his heart,which lead to the gang having to risk everything that they have got,in the hopes that they end up becoming the cats who got all of the cream. "},{"Title":"Femme Fatale at its finest!","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Who would know that the 60's could produce a movie so intense, that it will be a gemstone of a lifetime. In Faster Pussycat! Kill! Kill!, it's a high octane thriller, that combines fast cars, fast moving women, and action that is non-stop. You have these three go-go dancers Varla (Tura Santana), Rosie(Haji), and Billie(Lori Williams). They go out in the desert to unwind, until a couple appeared and they started to have a race. Well, the original three were racing their cars earlier in the scene, then Billie decides to have a swim. When the couple joined the scene, things began to get ugly. After the race, Varla and the boyfriend get into a fight, which resulted in his death. Then they drugged the girlfriend, and take her onto a ranch where this old man who was crippled in a railroad accident. The deadly trio do want something from him, his hidden money. But unknown to them, he is not so vulnerable period. For he got his own plans for them. The only thing is, they are not weak women. These women can fight, kill, or play very rough at all costs. No one is safe. This movie is about violent women, and not about domestic violence in the house hold. Of course, with the simple-minded brother, it's all about personal demons. Rev up your engines and see this movie. 5 stars "},{"Title":"The point is of no return and you've reached it!","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" If you take a look around the internet at all the reviews for Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! you'll undoubtedly see the movie examined from every conceivable angle. You'll see some very learned people going on and on about female empowerment or the impotency of man or other similar topics. Don't worry &#150; I'm not going there. So leaving behind all the sociological and psychological mumbo-jumbo, Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! is just one cool, wildly entertaining movie. Not plain old cool, but uber-cool. This is trash cinema at its very finest. For me, Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! is about as straight forward as you can get. It's a movie about three women, three cars, six breasts, the desert, and a whole lot of violence. It doesn't get much simpler, or better, than that.There are so many things I want to say about Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! that I don't really know where to begin. I guess I'll start with Russ Meyer. From the opening voice-over narration followed by the three larger than life go-go dancers, Meyer gets Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! off to a kick in the rear sort of start. And he never lets up. Meyer keeps the images and pace coming fast and strong. After watching the movie, I'm amazed at what he was able to do with a budget that was probably less than what I spent on our last family vacation. Meyer uses his camera in a variety of unusual and surprising ways. I doubt I could think of a single angle he didn't use to shoot his three female leads. And Meyer filled the movie with some very interesting, almost ethereal, images. There are some shots of Varla during the race sequence with her hair blowing in the wind as she laughs with the utter delight of the situation that are like works of art. The fact that these close-ups are obviously stage-bound and the car is being rocked by some prop guys only adds to the surreal feeling. I've never seen anything quite like it.Speaking of having never seen anything like it, there's nothing quite like Tura Satana, Haji, or Lori Williams. Once you've seen them, you'll never forget them. I can honestly say I was impressed with all three &#150; and not just with their obvious physical assets. Each gives a more than serviceable, realistic performance. Of the three, however, Satana stands out. Is there a single scene in which she appears that she does not totally dominate? From the ample cleavage to the straight jet-black hair to the make-up to the clothes to that man-eater attitude &#150; she's absolutely mesmerizing.What else impressed me? Here's the quick list to save some time the music (both the jazzy, loungey score that runs through most of the movie and The Bostweeds title track); the often unexpected outbursts of violence; the dialogue (Tarantino wishes he could write dialogue half this cool); and the whole 60s go-go feel to the movie. It's just about perfect! "},{"Title":"Would you like to look under my hood?","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Before Arnold Schwarzenegger, Stallone, Van Damme and Seagal, and before Thelma and Louise, there was Varla, Rosie and Billie.Russ Meyer, who peppered his B movie trash with big-breasted women serves up a cult classic with three buxom strippers driving fast cars through the desert in search of adventure. The ultimate power-woman trip with sex served up not as desire, but as power.Tura Satana, who has been filling the screen with those humongous breasts for over 40 years, is a black-clad dominatrix that raises camp to an art form.Haji, who wasn't going to waste her 38D's on any man, was her partner. They added blonde bombshell Lori Williams and they took off to raise mayhem and kill! You can't really appreciate the trash that was released in the 60s without seeing this one. What else are you going to do at 3am when you can't sleep? "},{"Title":"QUEEN of BAD MOVIES a perfect example of a GOOD DUMB FILM","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Well, FASTER, PUSSYCAT! KILL! KILL! (1965) is the QUEEN of BAD MOVIES and a perfect example of a good DUMB FILM. Noted for its three chesty leads Tura Satana, Lori Williams and Haji, its classically so BAD its GOOD complete with sexploitive romps, drag racing, a lecherous old cripple, nubile innocent, musclebound moron, liquid eyeliner, and doped and drunk beauties. With a seriously implausible plot, grossly bad acting, and just enough sex and violence to keep you riveted, this film never takes itself so seriously that it spoils the cheesy fun. Simply put, FASTER, PUSSYCAT! KILL! KILL! is Sleaze Cinema at its most innocently amusing. Tura Satana, though no actress, is a sheer force of nature. It's wonderful to watch every character cower before her. I would like to say that the only thing bigger than this gal's cannons is her derrière, but alternately purring and roaring at friend and foe alike, the biggest prize would have to go to her mouth! "}{"Title":"Just saw the movie","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is a very good movie. You have to be in the right mood to see it. I started watching it 2 times and just turned it off. I'm about half way through and I just stopped to read the good old IMDb on it. I'm only trying to avoid the Anxiety of watching it. I'm not good at watching Horror movies.The Dialogue is second to none. Just the entendre is enough to keep me watching. The hot chicks are an added bonus to a mind altering experience. I'm just worried i'm missing out on more good movies like this. It basically starts the whole rob zombie thing. Also it defines a type of horror that seems to be sought after lately. Just wondering if there are any more movies like this out there. Early ones that are hard to find. And... how can I get them?2 thumbs up! "},{"Title":"A whole lot of fun","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" It seems now that in Australia, finally some great cult movies are being released to DVD. Although I've wanted to see it for years, I only just saw Faster Pussycat, Kill Kill, and it's my first film by Russ Meyer.If they're all similar to this, I can't wait to see more. The storyline is pretty dodgy, and so is the acting, but if you're watching a movie called Faster Pussycat, Kill Kill, you are probably after a bit of weirdness and campy fun. With Faster Pussycat, that's exactly what you get! Everything is great about this movie as far as I'm concerned. It's aged considerably, but that is what makes it so great.A must for any cult movie fan! "},{"Title":"A lot of fun!!","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie looks like an erotic  comic strip of the sixties.Today,it's priceless delightful trash .If you have a chance to see it -which is not easy- do not think twice.It could be the granddaddy of pulp fiction Texas chain saw massacre or Born killers with more humor than the three former works put together.The three girls act like men,they do not seem to like them -with the exception of the vegetable whom they despise anyway-.There 're probably in love with  bubble head girl Linda (they are caricatures of the dyke in the imagination of narrow-minded people) who spends the whole movie in bikini and whom they bind and gag with an intense pleasure! (Tarentino might have found the excellent bikini scene with Juliette Lewis in from dusk till dawnhere).They meet a family who lives in the desert.And what a family!a crippled (but wealthy)father in a wheelchair,a dumb muscle man son and another son,a two-bit hero.Russ Meyer parodies the intellectual  westerns and the Freudian thrillers of the forties !And even Hud! Hercules cannot stand the sound of the train ,and his father hates women what do you suppose THAT means?There's an explanation !When I started watching faster pussycat kill kill ,I did not expect anything! It's not to be taken literally.But if you want something drastically different,I would never recommend it enough. "},{"Title":"Excellent vintage trash","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  We french just love this movie, because of this attack of monster ants or twilght zone feel of old bw pictures of desertic landscapes with gloomy cars all alone in the middle, and of course because of the exciting rambuctious and desirable (yes indeed) girls with spitting-on-one's-face attitudes, the kind we hardly find in our own movies of the 60's... Definitely worth keeping!  "},{"Title":"Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to violence","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It's not a huge surprise people consider Russ Meyer as one of the biggest legends in the field of campy low-budget cult b-movies. Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! is perhaps his most famous work and even though it's actually one of his better flicks it's still totally terrible, dumb and senseless motion picture in every possible way you can think of. Nevertheless there's lots of people who happen to like really bad movies and this one is so damn bad you simply can't help of loving it. One way to watch Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! is just to explore the most idiotic lines from the extremely ridiculous dialogue. There's lots of good ones like-Someone mentioned my figure? -In that outfit, what's to mention?-You got a weird sense of humor. -Try again, I get funnier.-What do we drink to? -Oh, let's drink to trains. They're big, fast and strong and they make a lot of noise.-You're a very sick girl. -I was healthy enough a half hour ago, or do people look different to you when they're not horizontal?I guess the title says it all. Starting from the amusing foreword film includes foolish story with three devilish females, clumsy screenplay, horrible acting, speeding, lots of wrestling, fighting and couple of well-developed breasts. In the nutshell cheap mixture of sex and violence in the way of the 60's. If you want to find out what a real, old legendary exploitation trash looks like, watch Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! and you'll know everything important about the genre. By the way, theme song was kind of catchy... "},{"Title":"The film ...?  Sorry, my mind was on something else.","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not sure I get it.  We all know that Russ Meyer had a thing for big-breasted women, so why is Tura Satana the villain?  Or is she?  It's hard (for me) not to side with someone so very busty, in such a luscious top, with such a magnificent display of ... nostril-flaring.  No, really, that's what I meant to say.  We don't actually see her bare breasts, which is surely a missed opportunity of a monumental kind.Besides, the more traditional, modestly-proportioned women in the film are just so drippy.  In Meyer's world, a woman's strength of character is directly proportional to the size of her tits, just as her sense of ethics is inversely proportional.When I saw `Faster, Pussycat' the other people in the audience were clearly determined to snicker.  Two women leap into the water - ha, ha, what a ham-fisted way of getting their clothing to cling.  People speak histrionically - ha, ha, let's make fun of the dialogue.  I'm sure this let's-laugh-at-the-director approach is all wrong.  I'm not sure what the right approach is, but I'm sure that's not it.  In fact Meyer IS as skilled as I'd been led to believe.  There's nothing wrong with his timing or his visual sense.  The dialogue is conventional but not actually bad.  He gets perfectly fair performances out of a (largely) inexperienced cast.  And in fact, the men in the story, like the men in the audience, DON'T openly leer at Tura's chest like they're Benny Hill.  Mostly they play it cool and pretend they don't notice.  As if.It's a TRAGEDY that Tura Satana doesn't wave her bare boobs in front of the camera.  Please believe that I'm not joking.  This is a heartfelt sentiment.  Still, she's at least IN this movie, which is more than you can say for most movies. "},{"Title":"You'll Laugh till You Cry","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Hysterical!  This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  In fact the first time I watched it I had to turn off the VCR after half an hour and go lie down because I ached all over from being unable to stop laughing. The last thing that had that effect on me was Carol Burnett's version of Sunnyset Boulevard on the early 70s.  Like Burnett, or Monty Python, Director Russ Meyer and lead Actress Tura Satana have a true flair for absurd overstatement, though in their case it is carried out with a naive innocence that makes this movie stratospherically trashy camp.To quote another of the characters in the film  It's a gas!Tura Satana is now a grandmother.  Read the interview with her in the 1997 issue of Bust magazine.  Her unique talents were never again so magically showcased as in this incredible film. "},{"Title":"Decent Cult","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! (1965) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Russ Meyer film about three big breasted strippers who murder a man, kidnap his girlfriend and then hold up at an old cripple man's house so that they can steal some money from him. I know this here has the biggest cult following of any Meyer film thanks in large part to the three ladies but I found the film to be pretty much overrated. I enjoyed several other lesser Meyer films a lot more but this one here just seemed to be missing the humor that the other films had. There's some unintentional laughs like the cripple man who is constantly using his legs but other than that the film just didn't work. It remains entertaining throughout but it's certainly behind other titles. "},{"Title":"Meyer's Angels","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Three well-endowed strippers race! kill! and kidnap! - resulting in an ample female foursome. Their screenplay starts to unfold, according to star Tura Satana (as Varla), when they meet up with old man in a wheelchair Stuart Lancaster (as The Old Man) and his hunky son Dennis Busch (as Vegetable). They want to find Mr. Lancaster's stash, and check out the lay of the land. Another son complicates matters and relationships. There are some funny lines - like Ms. Satana mentioning Christopher Columbus to a leering gas station attendant. The best part is when Varla tries to pin Vegetable with her car. Ouch! A lurid trip. **** Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! (1965) Russ Meyer ~ Tura Satana, Lori Williams, Dennis Busch "},{"Title":"Russ Meyer jawbreaker may silence even the toughest critics...","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Russ Meyer's Faster Pussycat has echoes of other, more popular films in its set-up and design, certainly in its overall impact--yet this picture is the precursor to those, and as influential cult flicks go, it still stuns today. Three bosomy go-go dancers hit the desert in their sports cars for a little rowdy, competitive fun; they later end up kidnappers involved in murder after befriending a car-enthusiast and his teenybopper girlfriend. The plot is so reedy and bare it may pass for existential (you can attach any number of psychological theories to it and feel vindicated by the finish). Meyer, who also devised the original story and edited the film, holds back a bit on the overt sex but really lets us have it in terms of kinetic appeal. The picture, shot in crisp black-and-white, bristles with tension and energy, and the characters are so compelling and astutely drawn that even the outlandish plot-devices Meyer throws in hardly come off as cartoonish. Viewers are led (some may say unwillingly) wherever this director chooses to take them, and you can practically hear Russ Meyer cackling from behind the camera. Not for all tastes, but adventuresome movie-buffs should feast on this for some time. **1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"Russ Meyer's Greatest Film?","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Three strippers holding a young girl hostage come across a crippled old man living with his two sons in the desert. After learning he is hiding a sum of cash around, the strippers start scheming on him.I am not as familiar with Russ Meyer as I should be. He is a legendary cult director, but I think I know him best for Beyond the Valley of the Dolls. This one, however, is his signature film. It is well-known and has been referenced extensively by others (apparently more bands than other filmmakers!).You can judge it and say it is cheesy or kitsch, but that is what makes it a cult film. The cinematography is crisp and beautiful, and the overall plot is excellent -- sort of female empowerment meets the old western. "},{"Title":"You got two of everything and some left over.","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Varla, Rosie and Billie are nightclub dancers with attitude. They go out to the desert looking for trouble. They meet Tommy who wants to drive the salt flats and his innocent girlfriend Linda. Varla kills Tommy and they kidnap Linda. They drive onto the property of an old cripple and his muscle-bound slow-minded son, the Vegetable. They supposedly is hiding a money stash. The old man is interested in Linda who manages to escape. She's picked up by Kirk but he turns out to be the old man's son. He brings her back despite her loud objections.This is super camp. There is real bad acting. The line delivery by the girls is horrendous. Russ Meyer picked them mostly for their giant double assets. The fake laugh is laughable. Sue Bernard never stops screaming. Paul Trinka is forced to be dumber than the Vegetable and he's horrible at it. The writing is a mix bag. At times, it's painfully bad. At other times, it is pure cheese heaven. Overall, it is surprisingly watchable and awkwardly hilarious. "},{"Title":"Really enjoyable and supposedly different Russ Meyer movie!","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" What I've heard Russ Meyer is known for nudity on his films but this is different and that's why I like it.I'm the kind of man who thinks revealing skin and sex scenes belong to only XXX-movies. Other kind of sexiness is always a really welcome additional spice and this movie has just the right tingling hot taste. Really stylish, light hearted, black and white movie with tons of attitude, girl power and some old cars too. Acting can be cheesy at some points but that doesn't do the movie any harm; in the matter of fact I'd call it fitting in quite well.Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! has some really special charm and became one of my favorite movies during the first 15 minutes! I rarely rewatch even the movies I really like just for my own entertainment but this one has the potential and definitely requires a Blu-Ray purchase in case DVD quality doesn't make it enough justice.Despite being quite light-minded, I have a weird feeling of this movie deserving 10 after few replays but that's yet to be seen! (Sadly other Russ Meyer's movies might not be for me because of their nudity but hopefully there are other movies somewhere hitting the right spot.) As a conclusion, all I can say is Anyone even potentially liking old films should watch it. This movie is quite light hearted and barely has anything offensive (but maybe don't show it to some 12-year-olds without previewing it first). Got nothing to lose, right? So do yourself a favor. If you're anything like me, you will surely be delighted for stumbling upon this rather unknown movie- gem and even a potential master piece of some sorts ^__^PS. This was a first movie giving me the spark of writing a review so any kind of feedback is welcome, thank you! "},{"Title":"Does it really hold up after all these years?","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The cult of Russ Meyer had its heyday back in the late 70's and 80's when his work was embraced by people as different as John Waters and Roger Ebert, who championed his sex and violence epics as works of art with far greater depth and meaning than their sleazy appearance. It seemed that Meyer's trash was as profound as the serious work of Hollywood's best.But that was a long time ago and the culture has come a long way since then. As a kid, I remember VIXEN and HARRY, CHERRY, and RAQUEL playing at local theaters, but alas, I was far too young to see them. And as I have gotten older, I have learned that nothing ages faster than what was pushing the envelope yesterday.Only recently did I have an opportunity to finally see FASTER, PUSSYCAT! KILL! KILL! and I can say that while it shows its age, there is much about the film that still holds its own. What makes FASTER, PUSSYCAT! look like a senior citizen the clothes for one thing; Billie's miniskirt, Tommy's plaid shorts and Linda's bikini all scream 1960's. But more to the point, it is Meyer's leering, dirty old man point of view that makes FASTER, PUSSYCAT feel not only dated, but absolutely ancient. The way he asks us to pant at the sight of these bad girls gone completely out of control reeks of an era when Hugh Hefner was the epitome of hip and daring. What makes FASTER, PUSSYCAT! still have punch it's depiction of a world devoid of morality and goodness, where almost all the characters are murderous and lecherous; where the only innocent person, Linda, is constantly beaten and victimized by the three go-go dancing amazons or the old man and his mentally damaged son. In this way, FASTER, PUSSYCAT! beats NATURAL BORN KILLERS to the punch by a good thirty years.Meyer got terrific performances out of his actors and actresses that still hold up, especially six foot plus Tura Satana as Varla, the leader of the three bad ass women on a rampage in the desert. Varla, who karate chops Linda's boyfriend to death early in the film, is one of the cinema's all time great female villains, a character with no redeeming attributes beyond the obvious physical ones. She is matched all the way by Lori Williams's Billie, whether she's taking a shower outside under a water tank, getting drunk at lunch or throwing down with Haji's Rosie. And Stuart Lancaster perfectly captures the Old Man's pathetic situation as well as his vileness.And Meyer had a keen eye for the action that was as unique as his gander for the female form; just look at the scene where Varla tries to crush the muscle bound Vegetable with her car, there's nothing quite like in any other movie.To answer my question, yes, FASTER, PUSSYCAT! KILL! KILL! holds up pretty well, kind of like an old Ford Mustang whose paint is chipped and fender's dented, but whose motor still purrs like a pussycat. "},{"Title":"Their cups runneth over","Date":"9 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Three big-breasted sports car-driving go-go dancers go on a weekend murder spree in the desert. What could be more wholesome! Early on, the female trio meets their first victim, Tommy (Ray Barlow), and his overly-perky girl (Sue Bernard) who is so relentlessly whiny one almost hopes she gets clocked. But after she witnesses Tommy being rolled in the dirt to death, Varla and company have no choice but to take the bikini-clad youngster as their hostage. And there are big breasts.Big bad Varla (Tura Satana) is decidedly bi-sexual and clearly the head of the group; and what she says goes! Lori Williams (Billie) makes Nancy Sinatra look like Miss Marple by comparison, with hips that arrive five minutes before she does. Haji(Rosie), we later gather, is Varla's lover (a fact the actress herself was not aware of until she questioned director Russ Meyer regarding her motivation for a particular scene). Poor Haji has to speak all her lines using a ludicrous Italian accent and over-emphasized hand gestures; it's no wonder she never laughs or smiles during the entire film! She gets to spit out lines like I'mma gonna spinna dry you! And there are big breasts.Billie and Rosie don't like each other and are constantly at each others...throats, forcing macho Varla to be the peace officer. But while gassing up, the girls learn of a big stash o' cash on a decrepit ranch run by a warped old fossil (Stuart Lancaster) and his two sons Kirk (Paul Trinka) and 'The Vegetable' (bodybuilder Dennis Busch). With nothing but time (and men) to kill, the girls decide to dig around for the hidden loot. In the process the ladies wangle an invite to lunch with the boys, but little miss bikini keeps gumming up the works by trying to escape. And there are big breasts.The bodies soon begin to pile up, but Busch will live on to garner a cover of Muscle Training Illustrated in 1966, and the whiny bikini gets saved so she can go on to be Playboy Playmate Of The Month in December that same year. The acting and action are both laughable, but to complain about such things is like going to Disney World to admire the restrooms. Did I mention there are big breasts? This is the type of film for which the term Guilty Pleasure was coined. Just enjoy becoming abreast of the situation. "},{"Title":"The greatest disappointment","Date":"7 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The things in this movie that strike me most are the six guitar strings in the beginning which vibrate as the human voice delivers the top news of the world (weird); the camera angles (in drunken master style); the jazzy/funky music that goes nuts now and then (very refreshing and exhilarating); Varla's vile face expressions (plain menacing and sophisticated), tight gloves (ready for battle!), and her evil bursts of laughter (quite hellish); the hysterical behaviour of the kidnapped girl who even before her boyfriend's grisly death is lunatic (careless in a most childish manner); the goofy gas station attendant nicknamed Einstein (Do and think little but talk volumes, especially about other people's secrets! must be his motto); the way The Vegetable gives the knife to Rosie (what does she expect from the highly controversial and unstable knot of muscles? Here you are, take it, please?); the simplicity of the whole production (a few characters, minimum sets, almost no special effects, the stunning b&w picture).The greatest disappointment (the major spoiler ahead!) the three heroines all die in the course of the movie. That is unfair. They are too groovy and too busty to die. They should have killed off every other character in this flick and survive, walking away in the sunset with the smoking guns, bloody hands, and swaying hips. How could the director be so cruel to this trio that remains the best female criminal gang to ever hit the screen? The technical side of the film is superb. Hardly anybody could make it better. The WWII did not pass in vain for Mr Russ Meyer, that's for sure.A 7 out of 10 (because of the greatest disappointment - minus 3 points, alas). Thanks for attention. "},{"Title":"Grindhouse At Its Best!","Date":"1 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Grindhouse At Its Best! I've only recently gotten into Russ Meyer films and I find him to be one of the most underrated screenwriters ever. His films are a lot more than just sex and violence. Sure there's plenty of it. But it's done within the context of original characters and gripping stories that keep you hanging on to every last scene.One forgotten aspect of the grindhouse genre is the lack of profanity. While 1965 standards didn't allow four letter words Russ Meyer out smarts the sensors by proving just how imaginative he can be with sexual innuendos and dirty insults. Much like Frank Miller comics. It's much more imaginative than just the same old, F you mother effer. The plot Three bad girl beauties Varla, Rosie, and Billie are on the hunt for trouble in the deserts of the South West.After drag racing a couple, Varla beats the boyfriend to death just for kicks, and the trio keep his innocent girlfriend as their new plaything.A gas station attendant tells the girls about an elderly man The old Man whom recently got a huge cash settlement from the railroad after an accident left him paralyzed. The girls drive out to his desert ranch looking for a big and easy score.What they don't know is The Old Man lives with his two slow witted sons the peaceful Kirk and the dumb ox Vegetable. Ever since being paralyzed the family has been picking up pretty girls to murder for fun.It's the bad girls versus the psycho guys! Each thinking they're smarter than the other by pretending to be something they're not. "},{"Title":"Russ Meyer  Classic Film","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Was able to tape this film which was shown recently on TV and found it quite interesting with very attractive gals who took complete control of every situation in the film. These woman were very well built and were able to control men with every move they made. Most of the film was made outside in the desert and there were some men who met their doom and others who never made it out of the desert. However, some of these gals met up with a Samson type guy who was able to make all the girls lick their lips in desire. One very attractive gal found a knife in her back and others were being chased by a car down a railroad track. Russ Meyer made a masterpiece of this film which will entertainment many generations of movie goers. "},{"Title":"Bustin' out all over.","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I really didn't know what to think of this movie. I liked it and hated it all at the same time. It's about this group of women who have huge breasts and they go racing, they kidnap this girl and end up at this old guys house. I liked the main character with the eyelashes because she was so mean. There is so much sexual innuendo in this movie that it becomes quite hilarious. The whole scene where they are eating lunch just cracked me up. There is a lot in this movie that makes no sense to me at all such as the woman kissing the oldest son. That didn't blend well with the rest of the movie but it was funny. I still don't know if I like or dislike this movie. It's a great cult movie but it borders on the line of being too cheesy. Try it. "},{"Title":"Tura Satana rocks!","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Silly, but very entertaining. Tura Satana rocks! How come that we seldom see her in other movies? I love the violence, Satana is queen of Kung-Fu! This is probably one of the best B-movies of all time. It comes second only to Pink Flamingos, by John Waters. "}{"Title":"a Grindhouse masterpiece","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" How ironic that perhaps Russ Meyer's best film should not include one naked breast? This is not to say his penchant for the upper female anatomy isn't on display, far from it his main squeeze, luscious and Stallion-like Tutra Satana shows more cleavage than two dozen Victoria Secret commercials. But this time, even more so than Beyond the Valley of the Dolls, Meyer focuses on his form, which is one of the most fascinating things to experience in modern cinema. It hit its apex here, and still showed itself fine in Dolls and under-seen Supervixens. He's got a knack for natural balls-to-the-wall awesomely-bad comedy, the likes of which are a brand of its own. At the same time he's also a consummate professional, even arguably an auteur, who crafts his pictures without the least bit of amateurish sloppiness.Practically every image sparks and crackles off the screen clearly, and the editing makes it feel much more like a movie that came out recently than something well over 40 years ago (in fact Tarantino is rumored to remake it, which upon inspection of the original material is not a very good idea). What is Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! *about* you might ask? Not very much in terms of real solid plot, actually it's about a few hot-riding chicks (yes, I'll call them chicks, feminists) who ride around in their cars fast, drinking hard stuff, and wearing clothes that make some (i.e. old Republican in the wheelchair), and some other straight-laced guy and his chick come by in another car, and a race ensues and when the race is lost a fight breaks out, the guy is karate-chopped to death, and the rest of the girls high-tail it out of their to some farm where a rotten old man in a wheelchair and two sons (one a muscle-bound Spartan with two brain cells and a million times more brawn, the other just a regular cute guy Satara wants to have her way with) take them in reluctantly.So just from that little description, you can see where this might go. But then again, you might not. This is such a classic that only real fans of this particular kind of trashy movie will be able to appreciate. Are there great performances? Depends on what you think of Satara with a voice that usually goes up to yelling level to get dramatic and often acts tough enough that Clint Eastwood might be liable to pee himself, while the big galut barely utters a word and one of the girls (the blonde one, I forget her name) usually dances and makes comments like Me Jane, you Tarzan. But really, what's on display here isn't masterpiece theater it's what the audience wants and wants so bad that they can taste it through their drive-in mirrors, their sticky low-rent theater seats, through their (unfortunate) bootleg DVDs.This movie simply has, even by Russ Meyer standards, more intentional and/or unintentional comedy and more kick-ass take-no-damn-prisoners violence and not-really-X-rated sexual content than any other movie I can think of from its period. In its own right it's as influential as Night of the Living Dead, or from a more independent cinema perspective Cassavetes' Shadows. Not to compare them exactly, but what Meyer has here is something that breaks through it's no longer just some B movie with really bad acting and a bad plot and dialog that could make people want to hang themselves. It's actually fantastic dialog and skillful and creative camera-work and editing that beat the pants off of most action films from the decade let alone 1965. In its own kind of way, with its fast cars and hot/mean chicks and un-apologetic stereotypes and outrageous language as cinema and with the writing, its a masterpiece. Whether or no you'll want to see it I leave up to your discretion... ah, hell with it, see it or be square! A+ "},{"Title":"A great film worth watching!","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This film is one of my favorites. The main characters are empowered attractive women who love fast cars, the fast life and making their own rules. I love the dialog in the film. It is very witty and enthralling, however, the dialog is more catch phrases that Shakespearian prose which fits in well with the film and makes it a cult classic. All the characters are not what they seem which gives the movie great plot twists. Of all the Russ Meyers films, this is the one that made the least amount of money which seems to be attributed to the lack of nudity. I personally do not find that to be a flaw because there is plenty of cleavage and booty to keep guys' eyes glued to the screen. To sum it all up, if you like beautiful busty girls, fast cars, great catch phrases and lots of action, then you will not be disappointed by this film! It is definitely worth watching! "},{"Title":"I love this film!","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film once for the first time and I have to (and hate to) admit that while I thought it was decent I was a bit disappointed. Then I realized that i couldn't stop thinking about it and thinking about how impressed I was with the ending. I had to see it again. I did and the second time I loved it! It doesn't have a complex plot, but Russ Meyer was never known for such things. If you want to know the plot I'm sure other reviewers can tell you. It contains certain trademarks of Russ Meyer. It has well-endowed women playing lead roles, archetypes and stereotypes, and ends with a scene of violence. The characters are great! This is considered the best Russ Meyer film with good reason. It is essential viewing for any of his fans or for people just wanting to check out his work. Like most of his films it is a hilarious satire on sex and violence in all it's glory. If you like this one another essential one of his is Beneath the Valley of the Ultra-vixens. This film is for more than Russ Meyer fans, but the people that think Matrix Reloaded is the best film ever should steer clear. The dimestore dialogue, trademark editing, and beautiful B&W Russ Meyer quality look would most likely be lost on them anyway. This film is rare so if you're lucky enough to find a copy rent it. You can probably find it sold on ebay or amazon.com if your hopes are high enough to buy it. I think it's worth the money either way. I wish this would come out on DVD. Russ Meyer I salute you!   "},{"Title":"Priceless trash!!","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  GO GO GIRLS GO WILD & WREAK MAYHEM ON MEN!!!One of the all time classic trash B-movies and in my humble opinion Russ Meyer's greatest work (one of the few that had an actual plot).  He claimed it was based on a Greek myth (If anyone know which please let me know). It's late at night and I'm to tired to be more articulate and do 'Pussycat' justice.If you've seen it, see it again.If haven't go to it!If have but didn't like it you're hopeless! "},{"Title":"Dames, Trains and Automobiles","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Hi, Everyone, When a movie has one comma and three exclamation points in the title, it has to be good.This was made during that era when a few strangers could gather around the table for a chicken and corn on the cob dinner in that old fashioned way. One person at the table could talk about how much he hates his son. Another could drink wine until she passes out. A third could try to find out where the old man keeps his treasure.Then when the kidnap victim escapes again they could all go out searching for her. Unfortunately, a train goes by and toots its horn and the big Tarzan guy runs home.The music is good throughout the movie. The service station attendant gets some laughs as he lays pipe (exposition, plot revelation) while he gazes through the windshield of the mean killer girl's car.Fight scenes are imaginative and usually funny. Car chases are low budget but good for Saturday night bad movie get togethers. This is one of those people vs. people, people vs. car, people vs. knife, lunchtime frolics we see too little of today.There is one scene where a chase is taking place down a railroad track. It would have been funny if it could have been resolved the way they did it in Abbot and Costello's Ride 'Em Cowboy. If you like this I recommend Attack of the 50 Foot Woman and Amazons. There is also a fight scene in Diamonds Are Forever between James Bond and a tough Vegas showgirl.Tom Willett "},{"Title":"Sweet and touching ... bring the family.","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is my favorite Disney movie. Few people know it's based on a novel by Louisa May Alcott. The scene where the brave prince rescues little Amy always gets to me. And the things the Old Wise Man says ... well, that's advice more people should emulate.Remember the part where the little fawn is taking a drink at the brook, then looks up and a sunbeam comes down through the glade and makes him blink? Does it get any better than that? I get a catch in my throat every time.I give it ten bluebirds of happiness. Sniff.My teapot is whistling. Better go. "},{"Title":"Not good","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I was surprised to see just how awful this movie was after all the buzz ultra-violent, raunchy, lots of booty, savage, and many more superlatives are used to describe Faster Pussycat. In reality it's dumb, dull, and docile. Yes, there are some buxom-y ladies (but no nudity--not even ni---ple-bumps, and no sex, etc.), and some people do die--or I guess they do, as there's almost no blood when it happens (even after a brutal stabbing--and we have to watch that from behind the stabber so nothing is seen. The victim falls bloodless to the ground, but I guess there's a little redness on the knife?).I think Faster Pussycat might really have been meant as a straight comedy instead of an exploitation thriller; the fight scenes are laughable (such as a large woman karate-chopping a guy hard enough to give him a slight massage--but it kills him anyway), and the dialogue is inane.The story is slight, the scenery is humdrum (arid landscape for most of it) and the acting is horrible. It's not bad enough to rise to a good, bad movie, and it's not good enough for a cult classic. I have no idea why this thing even rates a look. Frankly I was shocked to find the lowest stars this movie gets--besides my rating--is like only four or five. I'm giving this tripe a 2 just because it has some notoriety. My advice . . . don't see it, and above all don't pull this out for you and all your friends to enjoy--they won't. "},{"Title":"The early days of exploitation.","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" In a way these sleazy '60's flicks are really being the predecessors of the '70's exploitation movies, especially this movie, since it's also featuring lots of violence, next to a whole lot of cleavage but no nudity though.Despite the fact that women get portrayed as sex objects in this movie, they are still the ones that are also being the strongest characters out of the movie. You really better don't mess with this girls, unless you have a death wish. It's a movie that celebrates the power and independence of women by also showing their sexual power and independence.It in all honesty is a well shot and told movie. The editing, the camera-work, the storytelling, it is all done quite well and professionally, which isn't something you would perhaps normally expect from a movie within this genre. But Russ Meyer was known as the Fellini of the sex-industry for a good reason. His style was really classy and he truly knew what he was doing and had an obvious passion for it. This movie is not just made for the money, or else it would had been filled with way more sex and nudity but it also has plenty of artistic and more noble integrity to it.I only wished that the story for this movie would had been a better one though. The story seems like a pretty odd one to me, in which also not always an awful lot is happening. What the movie is also really missing is a good and likable main character you could care for. It really isn't a very likely movie to watch and things that happen in this movie just don't always click. I understand its oddness is part of its appeal and makes this movie unique and original but I think that some more substance wouldn't had harmed this movie and could had also make it a more interesting and exciting one to watch.Well worth a watch but it's just not a cult classic in my book.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Monumental","Date":"23 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Usually b-movie madness, schlock film-making, and all that's best in kitsch and lowbrow wears its low-budget production codes as badges of honor in the worldwide cinema market, as grainy photography, mismatched editing, and hysterically bad acting is supposed to stand in the face of what audiences expect from a culture of Hollywood shine. Russ Meyer here proves to be an exception. He wants you to see every millimeter of gravity-defying cleavage in the clearest and sharpest image humanly possible, and he also proves himself a good eye for editing too! Well, so he didn't stand up against beloved b-movie tradition by hiring talented actors, but just watch this movie and tell me that those women aren't, erm, uh, talented.But no, really, if you're not won over by the very first frames (in which a soundtrack expands as a voice-over describes EXACTLY what this movie is going to be about), then there's not much more you can come to expect. You have beautiful women, crazy car chases, violence, and lecherous men. Some people discuss Meyer's work as artistic, some as trash, but it's obvious here that Russ doesn't draw a line between either and is willing to both explore the ugliness of individual people as well as make epic monuments out of women's bodies. In order to pull off what he needs, he sets his action in the desert and in far away removed houses, giving the whole movie a sense of science fiction, alternative space, which both helps the pulp and the themes. In a way he shares more with George Romero than he does with Herschell Gordon Lewis.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Wonderful, wonderful","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" What can I write about this film that hasn't already been written? An American couple goes to the desert to race their car and runs into a female gang. The gang leader kills the young man and kidnaps his girlfriend. The gang ends up hiding out in an old farm where they drive the family that lives there crazy. That's about it. This isn't a movie about anything other than action and sex. Russ Meyer stripped his story to the bare essentials.All the women are beautiful and most of them are bountiful. The men are weak or degenerate. It's this difference that makes the movie so much fun to watch especially when they're involved in hand-to-hand combat.If this isn't the greatest movie ever made, it's close. It makes me want to check out every one of Mr. Meyer's films. "}{"Title":"A Cult Classic","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is a classic a total art in pop culture.Three thrill-seeking go-go dancers &#151; Billie (Lori Williams), Rosie (Haji), and their leader, Varla (Tura Satana)are criminals(Billie not so much)they have a drag racing in desert and Varla kill one man and they kidnapped his girlfriend and hide herself all in one rancho and there meet one old-man and his two son's one is ordinary man,but other is stupid bodybuilder who afraid trains.Varla is very aggressive,draconian and felonious.I didn't liked this character,but all characters were without a doubt charismatics and Varla evil too that she killed Billie and made much hurt to vegetable.in the end Varla appears to win the fight and is about to kill Kirk. Linda gets into the truck and runs over Varla, killing her, leaving Kirk and Linda as the only survivors but this is brilliant is one of the greatest movies ever produced and this rating 6.6/10 is wrong.should in the at least 7.5/10. actors were good too few actors still a good work and director Russ Meyer pretty good too i guess.I'm waiting a remake from Quentin Tarantino were a beautiful porn star Tera Patrick is going to play a Varla.this gonna the hottest remake ever.hope it's gonna be complete soon. "},{"Title":"What a great movie!","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I just watched it, and I loved it!!, I'm not used to speak English, but above this barrier language i want to say go watch this!, it is great, it resumes almost all the thoughts and reflections of modern time violent type films, into an 80 minutes can of pure quality freedom movie making joy, this movie flies over questions such as how much childish are we as humans?, how violence and sex operates? how much resent arise from apparently decent people?. Its also so fun, so fresh, so not pretentious, I super recommend it. Anyway this movie is a cult film because it manages to produce magic, I mean, some things you can not express in words, the music of this film, the psychologically complex of the characters its superb, the seductive images, all being said, good bye, and good luck "},{"Title":"Great 60's Fun","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie is awesome, there's really no other way of saying it. I expected a sleazy and campy 60's picture with a weak story line. What I got was a sleazy and campy 60's picture with a great storyline! It's action packed and very intense at times and I think it should go down as one of the best thrillers of all time.What can I say about the acting? Well, it's definitely iffy and even poor at sometimes but I still got to know the characters well enough for the story to develop. The cinematography and direction are good as well. I think this movie would be perfect to show as a double feature with 1963's The Sadist. It's a lot of fun.See this movie if you're a fan of action/thrillers. You won't be disappointed if you watch it as a fun 60's film and not some masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill!","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Russ Meyer (Beyond the Valley of the Dolls, Supervixens) was a cult director of sexploitation and titillation films, and this one, with no real nudity, appears in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die. Basically three busty strippers, Femme Fetale leader Varla (Tura Satana), Rosie (Haji) and Billie (Lori Williams) are thrill-seeking in the desert. While there they meet a young couple, and after killing the boyfriend, they kidnap girlfriend Linda (Susan 'Sue' Bernard) and drive to a ranch where an Old Man (Stuart Lancaster) is living with his sons Kirk (Paul Trinka) and The Vegetable (Dennis Busch). They are hiding a tidy sum of cash, and the three women become house-guests and try seduce the men to find the money, not realising the Old Man has plans of his own, especially concerning the distressed Linda. In the end, Linda does manage to escape, and one by one the three women get what they deserve, with nasty Varla dying last. Also starring Ray Barlow as Tommy and Michael Finn as Gas Station Attendant. Nudity wasn't really allowed until the 70's, where Meyer embraced it with mostly busty women, the only sexy stuff to be seen here are curves, cleavages, naked back, nipples under dresses and bikinis. But with some witty dialogue, vicious and sexy women, and one or two exciting moments this is a pretty worthwhile cult satirical melodrama. Very good! "},{"Title":"John Waters' Favorite Movie","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is cult icon John Waters' self-proclaimed favorite movie of all time and with good reason. This black and white classic is directed by legendary Sexploitation film maker Russ Meyer and brags an unbelievably gifted cast of virtual unknowns as well as a hysterical storyline. This film is probably the most sought after cult movie next to the Rocky Horror Picture Show. Tura Satana brilliantly portray's the films lead villain, Varla. Haji plays her lover/accomplice, Rosie and Lori Williams is terrific as the third Pussycat Billie. Dennis Busch also commands the screen as the beefiest vegetable you will ever see! Recently, I attended a screening of this film and it amazes me that people still laugh, cheer, and yell back at the screen probably just as animated as they were when this film was first released many years ago. This is one cult flick that will never die...if you haven't seen it, shame on you! If you have seen it, no matter how many times, watch it again...it just gets better and better each time you see it! You cannot be considered cool until you have seen this movie! "},{"Title":"Definitely not one of the 1001 movies you must see before you die.","Date":"10 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I watched this movie because it was listed in the publication 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die. I think I could easily go to my grave having missed this effort from Russ Meyer.I understand that this movie has quite a cult following and I can only assume it has that status because it is so awful. The plot is silly and the acting is terrible. The plot is quite inane and the characters are cardboard cutouts. I guess you are supposed to treat the whole thing as a bit of a laugh.However, I did like a couple of things about it - namely the black and white photography is good and there was some interesting camera work. "},{"Title":"Stupid but fun","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Ridiculous story about three go-go dancers on a rampage. They're Varla (Tura Satana), her girlfriend Rosie (Haji) and Billie (Lori Williams). It starts right off with the three of them in separate cars speeding down a desert highway. Watch for the close-ups of them driving--the sky in back of them never moves! Also--within the first 10 minutes--Rosie and Billie get soaking wet and have a catfight! They attack an innocent couple, kill the guy and kidnap the girl. They then get involved with a lecherous old man and his two sons. The rest of the plot is just too silly to get into.For a Russ Meyers film this is pretty restrained. There's no nudity (although they come close) and actually has a PG-13 rating! The three main characters are all young, beautiful and have huge chests (a Russ Meyer trademark). Naturally they wear tight-fitting clothes and have no acting talent. The script has lines that are uproariously funny (I think in an unintentional way) but it's all played completely straight. There's also plenty of action and violence.This is considered to be Russ Meyers best film. I disagree--I still think Beyond the Valley of the Dolls is better. This IS a dumb film but I'd be lying if I said I didn't enjoy it. Turn off your brain and you'll have fun. "},{"Title":"sexy violent classic Russ Meyer","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" i have only seen a few Russ Meyer films,this one and beyond the valley of the dolls.but faster pussycat kill kill is a great one,and ahead of its time for 1965.its about three sexy go go dancers(tura satana,Lori Williams,hajj)involved in causing mayhem and even murder.there's enough violence to give this an r rating,but when i saw it on rob zombies underground on turner classics it was rated m,it was uncut,there's no nudity but tura satana,hajj,and Lori Williams look sexy throughout the whole movie.tura satana always looks like shes going to bust out of her top,and this was before breast implants,Russ Meyer delivers a real good sexy violent b movie with a lot of action.and a cult following,I'm surprised they did'nt try to remake this.i remember tura satana in a really bad movie called astro zombies starring the great john carradine, but ill have to say faster pussycat kill kill was a great Russ Meyer movie.filmed in glorious black and white.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Faster Pussycat! Wow! WOW!","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film has it all, from giant breasts- to, well, more giant breasts.  However, beyond that, this film is amazing on every conceivable level!  The characters are all fully developed and intensely interesting- with their own loopy back-stories and bizarre nuances.  The dialogue is killer and endlessly quotable, and the cinematography is exciting and enduring.  If one isn't engrossed within the first 5 minutes of this film, they are either dead-or-believe the pinnacle of cinema is the ungodly, atrocious, and just all-terrible The Matrix Reloaded.  I would recommend anyone and everyone track down a copy of this film, despite it rarity.  Perhaps, the most enjoyable and entertaining film ever made.  Faster Pussycat! Wow! WOW! "},{"Title":"Lots of bosoms, not much sense.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is absolutely meaningless and artistically worthless, but if it hits you in the right mood you may actually enjoy it. There is an improvisatory feel to it - how else can you explain the tons of bad dialogue and the cheerfully incoherent script ? Russ Meyer was probably one of the first - and few - filmmakers to deal explicitly with the link between sex and violence and to reverse the roles of the standard action movies, but technically his film is too cheap and amateurish - apart from a really gripping final fight scene.   (**)  "}{"Title":"The quintessential drive-in film","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" While it isn't my favorite film from Russ Meyer (that would be either Vixen or Beyond the Valley of the Dolls), it is the most representative of his oeuvre. In fact, I'd go so far as to say it is the quintessential drive-in film. It has everything a good exploitation film needs. Campy dialog, slight surrealism, quick pace, over-the-top performances, violence, and cleavage! What more can you ask for? There's no actual nudity, but I think that suggestion and subtlety are always sexier.The three lead performances are terrific by camp standards. Tura Satana is one of the best screen villains ever, a truly heartless yet sexy woman (and she knows karate too). Haji is cool, quiet, tough, and intimidating, with more than a few hints of lesbianism. Lori Williams is the most likable and compassionate of the trio, but for some reason she comes off as being the sexiest in my mind. Stuart Lancaster is pretty good as the old man, but the rest of the cast is pretty mediocre. Thats okay however, when you have such memorable leads.Russ Meyer was always an interesting director. Its difficult to tell by watching his films if he's serious or not. He just sometimes seemed a bit too consistent with the dementia of the films to actually be self-aware (despite numerous reports to the contrary). Anyways, this is the definitive drive-in film and one of the greatest of all cult films. (9/10) "},{"Title":"A Remake is On the Way ...","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" ... well, not exactly a remake but a tribute to this and Beyond the Valley of the Dolls, the other classic in the Russ Meyer canon. The film is called Vixen Highway and is slated to go into production under the auspices of Berlin Productions in the fall of 2000. The main characters are three foxy, busty women who find themselves delivering a most unusual package to an ailing rock star. Casting hasn't begun yet. Because the film is an ultra-low-budget affair, the filmmakers won't be able to afford name babes like Heather Graham, Mira Sorvino or Lucy Lawless (all of whom would be perfect) but will do their very best to find three vixens who will do justice to the formula. For more information check out the Berlin Productions web site at http//www.my.treeway.com/berlin. Updates on the deal will be a regular thing in the coming months. "},{"Title":"What a hunk of stuff!","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I don't usually watch trash movies, so this is my first review of any of that genre. It was shown on TCM, right after THE PHILADELPHIA STORY, and host Robert Osborne questioned the dichotomy of its selection paired with the above by his guest host. In some ways, they are not dissimilar. The main characters are compared to goddesses, one to the manor born and the other an exotic dancer who just looks like one, with two thrill-happy friends who may surpass her in looks but not deviltry. (Lori Williams may appreciate the hunk of stuff she ogles, but she's the best hunk of stuff in this picture.) While the George Cukor classic cited drips with charm and class, Russ Meyer here has neither, but it's still an entertaining flick. While my favorite genre is the western with good guys overcoming nasty villains, mixed with blazing guns and gut-wrenching chases, Meyer crafts a B-western of sorts, with the women wearing the black hats and the chases of the sporty looking, screaming engine variety. Strong women on film is nothing new, going back to the afore-mentioned heroine of THE PHILADELPHIA STORY, but these gals are over the top in more ways than one (or two.)The villainess on screen is every bit as sadistic as Robert Mitchum in CAPE FEAR or Anthony Hopkins in SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, and the final fight scene was as finely staged as one between opposite-sexed protagonists would hope to be.Fittingly, her end comes by means of one of her favorite playthings, which as close to a spoiler as I ever hope to write. By all rights, I shouldn't have enjoyed this so much. But the fight scenes and racing scenes were well done, and the shots of the desert locations, even though in glorious black and white, stand out nearly as much as the physical charms of the title characters. It's not great cinema by any stretch, but it's wonderfully trashy good, and I'll leave it at that. Dale Roloff "},{"Title":"Funny old thing, but I won't see it again","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is not your average movie, even though I'm giving it an average mark. It's called a cult classic. I think this movie is an either you love it or hate it film. Lots of booty in it anyway, so I guess it used to be something for the guys, maybe still is? The lines are sometimes dull, sometimes good. The plot is weak, but there's a lot of action. Would probably make a good new version, maybe something for Tarantino. There's a lot of violence, actually that's what it's all about, but the problem is that the violence isn't refined or martial arts, this is just old punching and kicking at each other.. Luckily the only young-girl-screaming is in the end, but the noisy music is a minus. That's why I'm giving it an average mark. Lovely ladies though.. ) "},{"Title":"girls gone wild","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" As I'd never seen a Russ Meyer film, I figured that I might as well start with what is probably his most famous one. If Meyer believed that a movie just needed to have speed, sex and violence, then he sure accomplished it with Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! (although it's quite tame by today's standards). Is there any real point to the movie? No, not really. But the movie doesn't pretend to be The Seventh Seal or 2001. This is all about the women and their tight clothes, the sort of thing that'll most appeal to teenage boys.Overall, I bet that they had fun filming this; it would have certainly been fun to be around those babes!. With movies like this, life will never get boring. A true classic. "},{"Title":"Fantastically campy little gem","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  My first Russ Meyer movie is now one of my favorite movies of all time! It has everything a psychotronic film fan could want go-go dancing, priceless dialogue, buxom women, hot rod racing, a constant aura of sex, and villains you can root for!I first became acquainted with Tura Satana through Astro Zombies (right now, my IMDB review for that film is the only one!). I knew she had acting potential, but in such a dog of a film, how could she do anything? Here, she's bitchy, sexy, lovable, exotic, and downright perfect! I have spoken to Tura via e-mail and she is a very sweet lady, but you'd never guess it by her karate-chopping, switchblade-throwing performance as Varla! Haji gives a great turn as the Hispanic Rosie, with constant rolling of the letter r, gorgeous makeup and costumes, and a slight presence of lesbianism. Lori Williams is also great as Billie, the blonde good girl who breaks into go-go dancing fits, seduces musclemen, and gets into a wet wrestling bout with Rosie!While plenty of people will not only accuse Russ Meyer of being a pornographer, but as being misogynistic, Faster Pussycat! and plenty of his other films are strongly the opposite. Faster Pussycat! does not expose one breast, instead reverting to constant shots of breasts just about to pop out of shirts, which, in my opinion, is just plain sexier than full-fledged nudity. All of the female characters (save one, the heroine) are strong women who take what they want, have personalities and feelings, and don't need men in their lives. In fact, men are seen as oggling perverts in the beginning sequence and in the character of the Old Farmer.While the rest of the acting isn't too great, the three female leads more than make up for it. Believe it or not, despite the popularity of the film and its title, it is very hard to find! If you do find it to buy, it will be guaranteed expensive. Meyer charges $80 per video and only leases Faster Pussycat! from his personal collection. If you find it to rent, buy it and tape it, it will make a nice addition to your collection! Both Tura Satana and Haji have websites where you can contact them! On a side note before I close, if this film is ever remade, Tura and Haji can take on their original roles, but Heather Graham would probably fare better in the Lori Williams role. "},{"Title":"Inspire, Pussycat! Bill! Bill!","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is the type of movie that inspired some of the big directors of our time, but it's worth has gone down now that movies made like it can be filled with better actors. That is the flaw of this film, there is a general feel of deliberate sleaze, but it is marred by the inability of the actors to fully push it. Kill Bill is a good example of a movie with some deliberately horrible dialogue that is fun because the actors are good enough to know how to say it. The highlight is definitely Tura Santana, who looks like Elvira on wheels. She lets her cleavage hang low and wobbles to and fro, she rolls around in the dirt throwing karate chows at a man in plaid shorts, and she seduces a country boy with her superior corn eating skills. "}]