[{"Title":"I hope we didn't scare the fishes.","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"37 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Out of the 20 official entries of the James Bond series (to date) Thunderball is often mentioned as 'the underwater one' and for a very good reason. It had big shoes to fill since the previous year's Goldfinger became a box-office phenomenon across the world. Although Thunderball was even more successful, there are debates on weather or not it was a better film. In this fan's opinion, it was. Picking up after the most unusual pre-titles scene featuring MI6 secret agent James Bond meeting his match with&#133; a man in drag and escaping in a jet-pack, Thunderball features the most generic (and parodied) Bond plot The international terrorist organization SPECTRE, led by a mysterious unseen cat stroking leader, hijacks two nuclear bombs for a huge extortion plan. James Bond (Sean Connery) is sent to Nassau where Domino Derval (Claudine Auger), the sister of the pilot who appears to be responsible for the theft, resides with her wealthy and older husband Emilio Largo (Adolfo Celi). Bond eventually finds out Largo himself is the eye patch wearing SPECTRE #2 and he is in charge of the nuclear warheads. Will he survive Largo's squad, including lethal assassin Fiona Volpe (Luciana Paluzzi), and a tank of sharks? Thunderball is directed by Terence Young picking up after Guy Hamilton from the previous film. Young, who directed the first two films of the series, is certainly one of the most important filmmakers of the Bond saga. In the hands of some hack, Thunderball could have easily been an overlong boring disastrous attempt, but Young fills the screen with the same thrilling charm and glamour that made the first two Bonds so unique. The most cinematic of all Fleming novels, the movie is quite faithful to its source material while adding some welcomed changes (the character of Fiona Volpe for example) an therefore making it a more entertaining movie-going experience. The action is mostly underwater and that is what usually divides fans of the series since some find them sleep-inducing. The special effects crew was awarded with a Best Special Effects Oscar in 1966 and for a very good reason. The film's extensive use of underwater photography was quite breath-taking for it's time. And the visual effects themselves are quite impressive, especially the explosion featured in the climax which shattered many windows in Nassau. Thunderball is based mostly on thrills than stunts, which is something recent Bond films should start to concentrate on. It is all well orchestrated to one of John Berry's most memorable contributions to the Bond saga. The '007 theme' is used at its best during the action sequences, especially during the climatic fight at Largo's yacht. The theme song, sung by Tom Jones, is one of the most memorable tunes of the series, although I prefer the original unused song Mr. Kiss Kiss Bang Bang.Two usual standards of the series, villains and girls, are both filled quite successfully. Adolfo Celi is one of the most parodied villains (eye patch anyone?) but his portrayal of #2 is incredibly fun to watch. He is indeed a one-dimensional character, but a very memorable one. Claudine Auger is one stunning-looking woman and her acting skills are above average for the time. She is one of the most likable Bond girls around and her lack of clothing makes her quite heir apparent to Dr. No's Honey Rider in terms of sexiness. But Luciana Paluzzi steals the show with Fiona Volpe. She is the first Bond girl to stand up to the agent's charms (Pussy eventually gave up) and the psychotic look of rage in her eyes responding to Bond's macho insult is particularly memorable 'But of course, I forgot your ego, Mr. Bond. James Bond, the one where he has to make love to a woman, and she starts to hear heavenly choirs singing. She repents, and turns to the side of right and virtue... (she steps on Bond's foot)... but not this one!' Volpe stands second only to Xenia Onatopp among the sexy girl villains.This is the last time we see Connery at his best portraying 007 before he was eventually bored with the in later entries, particularly in Diamonds are Forever. He indeed shows why he is considered by most fans to be the best among the Bonds. He has amazing screen presence and a suave charm of a sophisticated playboy that just makes every guy want to be him and every girl want to be with him. One of my personal favourites and certainly on my top five, Thunderball is one of the most well rounded Bond adventures to date. Exotic locations, beautiful women, battle sequences, gadgets, suspense, terrific music, and a memorable villain add up to the best of the popcorn Bond movies. Terrific entertainment! "},{"Title":"The idea of the British Government having Big Ben strike seven times at six o'clock is brilliant...","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"36 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A NATO Vulcan Bomber carrying two atomic bombs had crashed in the Caribbean&#133; To make a serious situation even more critical, SPECTRE then informed the British government that it had hijacked the plane's cargo&#133; Unless a ransom of £100 million was paid in seven days, a major city in England or the US would be destroyed&#133; M16 called in all its top agents, but only one had a lead James Bond&#133; With four days to go, 007 flew to the Bahamas, where a femme fatale, a beautiful avenger, and a big game predator fish collector, a tough Italian mafia type posing as a millionaire adventurer in Nassau, called Emilio Largo awaited him&#133; Largo (Adolpho Celi) is actually the ruthless one-eyed SPECTRE No. 2, who can easily turn from charmer to killer when SPECTRE business is at stake&#133; Fiona Volpe's introduction while wearing a sheer negligée in Derbal's (Paul Stassino) bedroom was definitely an early highlight of Thunderball. Luciana Paluzzi is a very sexy ruthless villain&#133; Definitely one of the better female characters in the series&#133;Bond appears to be a bit cavalier at times&#151;spending far too much time bedding one conquest after another&#151;when duty calls, he responds quickly and decisively&#133; After three films, the 007 character has been established&#133; Now, it's time for Bond to have a little fun&#151;as shown in the scene where he consumes Conch Chowder, Beluga Caviar and Dom Perignon '55 (he once scorned), or the scene in the French château where he kills SPECTRE's agent and takes time to throw flowers on the body or the scene in Shrublands where he discovers the body of a NATO aerial observer and steals a bit of fruit as he leaves&#133; Touches like these set Thunderball apart from other Bond movies&#133;With ingenious gadgets provided by Q, wonderful underwater sequences, great special visual effects (rewarded with an Oscar), nice music score, and exotic scenery, the film remains as a lavish tropical paradise where sandy beaches, coral reefs and bikinis prevailed... The viewer suddenly gets a tremendous sense of the tropics, of carefree vacations, cool tropical drinks, and moonlights romance&#133; "},{"Title":"So he strikes... like Thunderball","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"44 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the TOP Bond movies of all time.Sean Connery is at his peak of fame as 007 and his character of Bond works in an excellent way. His portrait of the suave sophisticated super spy is tough, ironical, glamorous and a bit cynical; physically he's in great shape. This is the definitive image of Bond -which entered the movie history.Thunderball is the fourth 007 movie. Many things have changed since the small budgeted Dr.No. Here we a have a larger than life adventure, full of gadgets and jokes.When SPECTRE steals some nuclear weapons Bond has to investigate everywhere -also under the sea- to avoid World War 3. He does it, as usual, facing a spiteful villain -Adolfo Celi- and a femme fatale -Luciana Paluzzi-. The prize for his effort is Domino -Claudine Auger-.The film is still exciting... 40 years after its release we always wonder how underwater scenes are so accurate. The film is a mix of revolutionary technology, British humor, sex and gorgeous women. In 1965 it was unbelievable to see such films. Thunderball in the Sixties was like Matrix in 2000, maybe with a stronger impact than the latter on audiences, popular culture and fashion.Thunderball marks the peak of Bondmania in the Sixties and the beginning of the gadget era for 007 -although for someone the decline of the serious James Bond begins here... "},{"Title":"Budget Bloated Bond still holds some merit","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"31 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the legendary success of Goldfinger , expectations were understandably astronomical for the next Bond installment, with 007 producers determined to consistently push the envelope, delivering a bigger and better Bond than ever before. Unfortunately, this determination proved to be both the strength and weakness of Thunderball, the resulting sequel. On the whole, the film is by no means a failure, but the producers' determination to cash in on elements which made Goldfinger such a success led to overkill excesses which sink Thunderball's overall quality.The plot is even more outlandish than Goldfinger's radiation of the fort Knox gold reserve, pushing the threat to a more global context with the destruction of major world cities by atomic weapons. As well as being a particularly poignant plot device at the time, in the midst of the Cold War, the gist of Thunderball may seem quite familiar to those who frequent more modern political action thrillers, such as The Sum of All Fears. Despite the larger than life premise, Thunderball remains far more grounded in reality than several later Bond exploits (including You Only Live Twice and Moonraker) which tended to drift into being overly silly and ludicrous. Thunderball still takes itself relatively seriously, with several surprisingly dark moments, which help counterbalance the slightly comical yet still thrilling sight of of seeing Connery in a jet pack, and dramatically aid the overall quality of the film. However, Thunderball's significantly larger budget is mostly misused through underwater photography sequences, which, although interesting to look at (and were likely moreso back in the 1960s, where such a sight was very seldom visible to the public eye) for the most part fail to further the plot in any way, and drag on excruciatingly long. However, the film does boast some strong cinematography (and some stunning locations), the action sequences (including a tense chase sequence through a Mardi Gras parade) are solid, and an unreasonably catchy Tom Jones title track surprisingly helps not hinders the film. Unfortunately, for however many of the film's previous strengths, the film descends into utter chaos during the film's final quarter with a painfully repetitive and indecipherable underwater battle (it is increasingly difficult to tell which underwater army is which, who is winning, or why it should even retain our interest) a boat chase flaunting special effects which have dated decidedly unfavourably, and laughably inexplicable character motivations seemingly thrown in to finally tie up the increasingly unravelling mess. It is a disappointment indeed to see what started out with such promise sink into such a banal conclusion.The character of Bond himself is surprisingly reduced to far less screen time than is usual for a 007 film, which is unfortunate, as Connery gives arguably one of his strongest performances as Bond, oozing self assurance and panache, yet an unprecedented darkness amidst the one liners (I think he got the point being the most classic). This time around Bond not only gets hurt, but is not afraid to hurt, unflinchingly bestowing surprisingly vicious physical punishment against his adversariesThe supporting cast proves to be a very hit and miss affair. While former model Claudine Augere certainly looks the part of a sixties Bond girl, but unfortunately for the most part retains the static lack of emoting also associated with them. Adolfo Celi's eye-patched frown makes a visually iconic Bond villain, and is suitably menacing, but as the film progresses, he loses his threat element more and more, eventually degrading to a flimsy carbon copy of an adversary by the final act. Luciana Paluzzi steals the show from all but Connery, making one of the most chilling Bond femme fatale figures in the franchise. Paluzzi, despite the potential to coast by on her sensual looks, refuses to play the part on autopilot, and exudes laudable charisma and threat throughout. The unfortunately named Rik Van Nutter makes the most generic and forgettable CIA agent Felix Leiter of the Bond series, but Bernard Lee and Desmond Llewelyn are on top form as the ever endearing M and Q. As overlong and let down by some unfortunate overuse of budget and dated special effects as the film may be, Thunderball is nonetheless a noteworthy and suitably engaging early Bond effort. Connery himself, in one of his most charismatic renditions of the role is enough to merit watching, and the film for the most part runs along at a brisk enough pace to retain audience interest. While the film is less likely to enthrall those who are not already Bond purists, fans of the character or series should easily be able to extract moments of enjoyment from Thunderball. -6/10 "},{"Title":"We've got ourselves a Broken-Arrow, James Bond style","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball is the fourth entry in the ever ongoing James Bond franchise and in my opinion one of the better installments. This film features the secret services arch-enemy SPECTRE and I must say that in this episode of James Bond adventures it works better than in From Russia with Love. What I liked about this film, was that there were a lot of good one-liners from Connery, that there weren't too many goofy stunts / henchmen / gadgets and that the film was able to maintain exciting throughout. I've read quite a few comments stating that the underwater scenes dragged on too long, but I must say that I felt even that bit to be quite entertaining and thrilling. I actually have only one criticism and that regards the ending. I felt that the whole out-of-control boat thing was really stupid. I mean I understand that they tried to make it look spectacular, but in using the same technique they used to buff up the fistfights, they made it look cheesy and cheap. Luckily this is just one short moment in the film and the film is not ruined by something as a dreadful character or a bad actor. All in all this is one of the better Bond films and well worth watching if one sets out for 2 hours of pure adventurous entertainment with a standard-formula story.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Thunderball 1965","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"32 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This James Bond film was fantastic. The characters in the film were really interesting and every single actress/actress plays his/her part with professionalism.This film involved a lot of scenes involving water, but I'm not complaining, because it was really fascinating to see that instead of the usual dry land scenes. One interesting note was the scene in which Fiona Volpe fires the rocket at the car chasing 007, Bob Simmons the stunt driver was almost killed in the spectacular scene. Simmons also played the man dressed up as a women in the beginning of the film. Sadly Bob Simmons died in 1988.Rik Van Nutter (yeah, yeah even I laughed when I seen his last name!) played Felix Leiter in a fantastic fashion. He was cool and when a situation arose he was calm about it. Van Nutter who is now 75 years old was not asked to play the part again, for reasons which are unknown but he will always be remembered for being one of the more memorable actors to play Leiter along with Jack Lord (Dr No, 1962) and David Hedison (Live and Let Die, 1973 and Licence To Kill, 1989).The man they called Ernst Stavro Blofeld oh yes! was played by actor Anthony Dawson who played Professor Dent in Dr No. Although we don't see Dawson's face in the film his voice was dubbed so it could be more frightening and entertaining. Just seeing Dawson sitting in that chair behind the screen with that little white cat (isn't that cat a legend?!) sends the chills down your spine. Anthony Dawson sadly passed away in 1992 from cancer.Finally the villain who was wonderfully played by Adolfo Celi - Largo was a fascinating character. Even this SPECTRE agent had his love for a particular animal that being Golden Grotto sharks. As suspected Celi had his voice dubbed for the final version of the film. Unfortunately Celi passed away in 1986 from a heart attack.This film ranks up there with the best along with From Russia with Love (1963) and Goldfinger (1964) and if you like James Bond you'll like this! Overall Grade - A* "},{"Title":"My favorite Connery Bond movie.","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"36 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Out of Connery's Bond movies this one is my personal favorite.  It has the best location, the best action, and the best women.  Sure it also has lots of flaws, but I still really enjoy this one.  SPECTRE has hijacked some nuclear weapons and is threatning to use them if they do not get what they want.  So Bond has to find the missles and put a stop to SPECTRE's plans once again.  Almost the entire movie takes place on a tropical island, much like Dr. No, but this one has a better plot and a great underwater fight scene at the end that make it a much better film than Dr. No.  From beginning to end I find this one of the most enjoyable Bond flicks. "},{"Title":"Excellent entry in which Bond goes into action  to recover two nuclear warheads stolen by Spectre","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Over-the-top James Bond movie in which he confronts Spectra and killer hoodlums around the world . World is threatened with destruction James Bond (a magnificent , as usual, Sean Connery) then goes to Bahamas and meets Emilio Largo (Adoldo Celi , as a formidable Bond villain) , a high-ranking nasty agent and involving a beauty (Claudine Auger) in order to retrieve atomic missiles that were stolen by Spectre and its Agent nº 2 . In Bahamas James has an ally character , another agent named Felix Laiter (Rick Van Nutter) . 007 is being lured into a deadly trap , and he will need all of his force , intelligence and cutting-edge technology to triumph over the enemies that seek to destroy him . Bond is pursued by Largo and his hoodlums .This solid , slick thriller with magic mix of action-packed , dazzling stunts , gadgetry , self-deprecating humor and romance provided by sexy company as Claudine Auger ; in addition , Luciana Paluzzi as a memorably sexy villainess , after being rejected for the role of Domino . This is a very amusing installment , though when was released suffered from comparison to its two admittedly superior predecessor ¨From Russia with Love¨ and ¨Goldfinger¨ . Fourth entry Sean Connery as James Bond is very fine , he does remarkably well , he has toughness , irony, humor and sympathy, however also has coldness ,cunning , intelligence and roughness . Sean Connery said that this movie was his personal favorite out of the Bond films he did . Here Bond is an efficient , relentless agent trying to chase obstinately the criminals , traveling around the world as always , as this time is mostly set in Islas Bahamas . Bond to achieve his aims , along the way uses violent means , pulling off brutal killings against enemies who wreak all sorts of havoc . As always Bond will use state of the art and fantastic gadgets provided by ¨Q¨ interpreted , as usual , by Desmond Llewelyn , he would reprise the role of Q in 16 subsequent Bond films . In addition , there appears the usual as Lois Maxwell, ¨MoneyPenny¨ and Bernard Lee as M . Here appears four wonderful women ; Claudine Auger , Molly Peters Luciana Paluzzi and Martine Beswick who formerly played in ¨From Russia with love¨ as a gypsy at a memorable fight . This was the second James Bond movie to provide key elements for the series' success ; it was the first of Maurice Binder's opening titles sequences created in the form that they would become most famous for. It was also the first to have movie posters which had panoramic adventure-scene artwork.The picture contains Connery's stylish acting , comic-strip adventure , sensational pursuits , spectacular set pieces , great stunts , tongue-in check humor , frantic unstopped action , amazing gimmicks and stimulating images like are the spectacular chases , the overwhelming underwater scenes made by Ricou Browning , and the breathtaking fights . As is like a roller-coaster , as is fast-paced , light, excitement, funny and entertaining ; it's a winner for oo7 fans and non-fans alike . The chase and suspense formula wears strong in this entry . The action-packed includes  impressive chase scenes in his Aston Martin , underwater battles and Bond escape in a rocket-propulsion Jet Pack originally designed and invented for military use , it is also known as the Small Rocket Lift Device . Hoping for an end to the Cold War, producer Kevin McClory didn't want James Bond's main enemy to be Russian, so for the film version his nemesis is the fictitious criminal organization Spectre . Enjoyable title song and stirring musical score fitting to action by John Barry in his classic style , the score allegedly still contains riffs from Monty Norman's work on ¨Doctor No¨. In premiere , ¨Thunderball¨was panned by reviewers , ; however , time has proved it to be one of the more amusing films based on Ian Fleming novels . . It was remade eighteen years later as ¨Never say never again¨ by Irvin Kershner , with Klaus Maria Brandauer (Adolfo Celi role) , Kim Basinger (Claudine character) and Barbara Carrera (Luciana Paluzzi role) .Riveting and fancy main titles by habitual Maurice Binder , he returned to the series to design the main title sequence for this movie after being absent from the previous two Bond movies ; for the opening main title sequence, title designer Binder filmed swimmers swimming naked in black and white before adding in the color by an optical process afterward. Furthermore , eye-popping and overwhelming production design by Ken Adam . It's brimming with colorful and fascinating cinematography by cameraman Ted Moore . Evocative photography ,much of the film was shot on location, with only a bare minimum of back projection used ; something quite unusual for a film of 1965 . The motion picture was well directed by Terence Young ,author of three best James Bond films  ¨Dr No¨ , ¨From Russia with love¨ and ¨Thunderball¨ and directed to Audrey Hepburn in a good thriller titled ¨Wait until dark¨ and a failed film titled ¨Bloodline¨. "},{"Title":"For entertainment this achieves the highest of any other Bond movie.","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Connery is back, better and more buff than ever, as super agent James Bond 007, this time seeing him on a mission in the Bahamas to prevent a nuclear catastrophe from happening. The cinematography is beautiful, as the Bond Girl Claudine Auger, who looks smoking hot in her bikini.For the acting, Connery is always there to take the spotlight. He zigs and zags his way around friends and foe in order to succeed. He is still the charming, witty, and deadly secret agent we have come to know him for. The villain is also good here, because not only he has one of the most diabolical plans ever, he also looks diabolical (an eye patch).The action here is non-stop, especially the underwater scenes. Some call these scenes overlong, thus causing the length of the film to be 2 hours and 10 minutes, quite long, but to me, it's just breathless and pulse-pounding. Also, the beginning of the film will want you begging for more Connery. Most of the action sequences rely on the team's special effects, but it's no problem, since the special effects are damn good for a 1965 movie, even by today's standard. Which is why it deserved to win the Oscar for Best Visual Effects.Crew also reigns here. Producers Brocolli and Saltzman return once again, as well as Terence Young, director of the first two Bond films. This was his final James Bond film before he went on to direct Audrey Hepburn in her Oscar-nominated performance in the 1967 thriller Wait After Dark. It shows that you have a class filmmaker at the helm. John Barry gives us a beautiful and fast-paced score that mounts up the tension every time.Overall, probably the most entertaining Bond ever.7.73/10Delton "},{"Title":"Sir, I'd respectfully request that you change my assignment to Nassau.","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball is directed by Terence Young and adapted to screenplay by Richard Maibaum and John Hopkins from a story by Kevin McClory, Jack Whittingham and Ian Fleming. It stars Sean Connery, Adolfo Celi, Claudine Auger, Rick Van Nutter and Martine Beswick. Music is scored by John Barry and cinematography by Ted Moore.The fourth outing for James Bond (Connery) sees 007 assigned to the Bahamas to try and thwart SPECTRE's number 2 operative, Emilio Largo (Celi). Largo has hijacked two atomic bombs from NATO and sets about extorting huge ransoms of money. If his terms are not met he will blow up major cities.It was meant to be the first James Bond film, but Thunderball became part of a long drawn out legal battle between Kevin McClory, Jack Whittingham and Ian Fleming. Eventually an out of court settlement was reached and Thunderball rolled into theatres in 1965. After the colossal success of Goldfinger, and Bond as a pop culture phenomenon, producers Albert Broccoli & Harry Saltzman knew that they had to try and up the ante to keep Bond on top. They were also acutely aware that many imitators were springing up on film and TV. These facts led Bond to go epic, with the producers going for a more is more approach, however, Thunderball is a considerable step down from Goldfinger.As with many other Bond movies, Thunderball polarises opinions amongst the fans. Some are happy to laud the pure entertainment value on offer, the reliance on hardware and gadgets viewed as an aid to the Bond persona and not a hindrance to his humanistic worth. Technically the film is often exceptional, be it on or under the water, director Young really crafts some Bondian quality. The exotic Bahamas locale is beautifully realised by Ted Moore, Barry's blunderbuss score is one of his best for a Bond movie and Connery has charisma in abundance. The girls, too, are delightful, particularly Auger who positively sizzles with sexuality. Bond's by play with M, Q and Felix Leiter (Nutter very enjoyable and more charismatic than Cec Linder in Goldfinger) is well scripted and performed. While for those who adore the gadgets and daring stunts? Thunderball excels with its assortment of trick vehicles, under water weaponry and aids and radioactive pills! Without doubt the near $6 million budget is all up there on the screen.Yet for other fans, and this is the category I fall into, it's a film of too many flaws to be considered one of the greats. Whilst it's undeniable that when it hits the high points it excites royally (the extended underwater battle is eye popping brilliance), but there's too much languid passages in the overlong running time. Young himself lamented that he couldn't get the pace right on account of the plot structure. The other major problem for me is Celi as Largo. Visually he's striking, with his white hair and eye patch, he well looks villainous, but physically he's wrong and someone you can't buy into as a man able to not only take on Bond, but to overcome him as well! While the finale lacks a grandness to reward those having sat for over 2 hours with the film. But what do I know? Film made a stunning $141 million at the box office! And the fanaticism that began with Goldfinger reached epic proportions here.The more is more approach worked for the makers, and it ensured that for the time being Bond was going to stay in this epic, gadget, effects strewn groove. Connery wasn't happy, he had voiced his concerns about Bond becoming characterless, while he hated the mania surrounding the films and his role within them. He would return for the next instalment, You Only Live Twice, question was, would it be his last performance as Bond? 7/10 "}{"Title":"Great Villain and the Best Bond Babes!","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This Bond film (the 3rd best; the others being From Russia With Love, Goldfinger and 4th would be Dr. No) has exotic locale, superb soundtrack, formidable bad-guy, the hottest real Bond gal (Claudine Auger as Domino), other hot chicks - Martine Beswick and Lucianna Paluzzi, and Sean's toupee still looked good before his final three Bond adventures.There may have been too many Bond effects underwater in this one, but everything else about it makes up for the scuba scenes, which are necessary to the plot.  Adolfo Celi (Largo) had presence, great white hair, an eyepatch, and figured out Bond almost immediately.  It flows with best scenery (Bond-wise) and had no major problems, although a tad long.  A 7 out of 10.  Recommended for 1965! "},{"Title":"One of the best.","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I really loved this Bond film. Though the film itself is not why I like it so much. It's the villain Fiona Volpe, who has become one of the best Bond and best villains ever in my book. She sets the standards for many other female villains in the series such as Helga Brandt, Naomi, Fatima Blush, Elektra King, Miranda Frost and many others, and unlike others she does not fall for Bond and almost comes close to killing him a few times. And her motorcycle kill was awesome! The film is good but to me is not as good as Octopussy which is my favorite. I hope this review helps even though it wasn't very long. Go and get this film now you have my approval that its good. "},{"Title":"A Thunderous Bore","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball &#150; as if the name itself wasn't ridiculous enough, they had to go and make a movie. And although I guess it probably pleases the hardcore James Bond fanbase &#150; after all, it's one of the ones with Connery &#150; for me it is a near-complete bore. I'm not a fan of the films in general but I can sit through most of the Connery ones and a few of the Moore ones and have a good time. This movie just gets tired really fast. There's absolutely nothing new or original going on&#133; same type of bad guys steal a nuke and hold the world for ransom, Bond can find said supervillains hanging out at a resort in some exotic place, and good looking women who will probably betray James Bond (who never seems too surprised, nor should he). As in all James Bond films, the action peaks at the appropriate time but the movie goes on for another 30 minutes to make sure the audience has seen enough exploding boats and airplanes to feel they got their money's worth.There's some very lovely ladies, of course. Martine Beswick (who I saw earlier this week in an Italian Western, incidentally) is the most fun to me because her character is sort of sneaky and unpredictable (relatively speaking). Luciana Paluzzi is really lovely but it was hard to buy her as a tough gal.Based on the huge and seemingly undiminished popularity of the franchise I guess this movie probably supplies everything necessary for a good night at the movies, but for me this one is particularly dull even compared to the average James Bond film. People rave about Ricou Browning's underwater photography but for me these long slow motion underwater fights are basically water torture. What can you say about a movie where the audience applauds because a boat split itself in half? I think I can understand why people like these movies &#150; all the girls, action, gadgets, etc. For the ladies, there's always Connery's hairy torso, which also drew applause from the audience last night. In the best of cases these things are enough to distract and entertain the audience for a few hours. But Thunderball, being a bit sub-par and a bit tired-out, really shows up the essential weaknesses in the formula for me anyway. James Bond is the most dull character in the movies &#150; he never changes his character. Heck he never even changes what drink he likes or what clothes he wears or what card games he plays. Maybe in this ever changing world in which we're livin' that provides some comfort. But it's far from compelling for this movie fan. "},{"Title":"A great Bond Movie","Date":"26 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a great Bond film for many reasons. The story is a really good one and Bond seems more like the spy he is suppose to be.Two war heads are stolen and Bond is sent to track them down.We see some lovely Caribbean locations and also the lovely Claudine Auger as Domino, one of the prettiest Bond girls.SPECTRE agent Emilio Largo is a great Bond villain and we are treated to lots of under water action (although some of the under water fights are a bit silly, pulling off a divers mask does not cause them to flay about in panic. Removing and refitting your diving mask is part of the qualification that all divers take ).Sean Connery is really good in this film and moves like a cat.Some aspects seems a little dated today but still worth watching over and over. "},{"Title":"A kind of good Connery Bond","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Rating-7/10Thunderball is a Bond that may be slightly slower than the ones before it, but it still packs a punch in the franchise and stands tall among all the entries. With Connery continuing his suave but violent role, he manages to make this film fun yet plausible at the same time with the villain being not so insane as seen before. I felt that this film was solidly a Kind of good film film, and here below is why I felt so.The story is good fun and the adventure although maybe not scraping every part of the world, still manages to get a lot of out of only one real location it is set in. It has some good action and good scenes that are quintessential to any Bond fans, with big weapons and an underwater scene that is one of the resounding images of this film, it is just all good stuff, and with a plot that isn't afraid to be both light and dark.Connery comes back with maybe a film that wouldn't be his proudest Bond, but still manages to entertain and do a job that many think, no one can do better. Largo the villain is a good villain, maybe slightly stereotypically Bond but is still a bad one, which turns out good. I felt Adolfo Celi who plays him is very good and stands out for me as one of those villains who is evil when you least expect it, a cunning man indeed.The stunts are good fun and some of the things involved go a long way to entertain you, I especially liked that this film didn't have to rely on car chases for fun, it has more thrilling chases and a lot of boats are involved too. It is written OK and the script doesn't really go anywhere to help the film although Connery uses it well to his advantage, overall it is Connery who helps this film to it's rating.The only thing I could really find wrong with this film is that at times it can be slow and maybe just a bit boring, I feel this was only because the film has one setting for the majority of the film and although it is an interesting plot, maybe the over use of location effects it. It could also be said that the film lacks enough humour needed for early Bonds but that it is really up to you if you decide to watch it.Bond fans should enjoy this and although I don't think this will be there favourite one, it will still serve to entertain. Those who like Bonds with a much more spy like feel will enjoy this as he seems to get into some hiding places and stake outs to root out his enemy. One more thing to say is that this film has some great characters throughout and who is good and who is bad is always hard to predict, good fun.Overall I give this a 7/10, Solidly a kind of Good film, with this you have to just enjoy this and see exactly what Sean can do in a Bond film, I will mention the underwater scenes again because Connery executes them very well and it is one thing that sticks in your mind when you think about the film. Just see what you think with this and ignore all other ratings including mine, you might just love this. "},{"Title":"Underwater scenes slow down action","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the fourth Bond film, and it's a bit of a step back. SPECTRE has stolen two nuclear weapons from a NATO aircraft, and is blackmailing the west for £100M. Bond must investigate leading him to Bahamas.Adolfo Celi is playing the bad guy Largo. He's not as scary. The most interesting thing about him is an eye patch. The pace is a lot slower this time around. It's mostly due to the massive amount of underwater work. It's a big technical challenge, but it doesn't maintain the tension. The action is slower underwater, and the people can be obscured by the action. I guess the underwater work was cool back then, but it doesn't make it great viewing today. As far as gadgets, the Bond franchise keeps it coming with a rocket pack. There isn't an evil henchman like Oddjob. There isn't an iconic Bond girls in this one although they are very beautiful. It's a small step backwards for the franchise. "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable Film from an Equally Enjoyable Series","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Two nuclear warheads are stolen from a British Vulcan by the secret criminal organization known as SPECTRE. With only a small time to meet the blackmail demands the British send James Bond (Sean Connery) to the Bahamas to try to find the warheads and the people responsible. Anyway, what I liked about this film was that it had just about all of the ingredients that have made this series so entertaining. It has action, suspense, sly humor, innovative gadgets and a bevy of beautiful women to include Claudine Auger (as Domino) who won the title of Ms. France in 1958, Luciana Pullizi as the evil assassin named Fiona, Molly Peters as the attractive masseuse named Patricia and Martine Beswick (Paula) who played the role of one of the gypsy women in the James Bond film From Russia with Love in 1963. It even won an Academy Award for special effects. Along with that, I especially liked the underwater battle between the frogmen at the end of the film. In short, I thought that this was an enjoyable film in an equally enjoyable series. Definitely recommended for all fans of James Bond. "},{"Title":"Watery Bond.","Date":"16 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Based on the first four Bond films alone, I would say that Connery peaked as the nation's greatest spy in From Russia With Love, the series dropping considerably in quality thereafter. Thunderball is perhaps a minor improvement over Goldfinger, but still nowhere near as good as his sophomore adventure.The main issue I have with this film is its rather thin storyline, which displays very little in the way of imagination SPECTRE steals a couple of nuclear bombs and holds the UK and US to ransom; Bond investigates. The fact that I have been able to sum the plot up in so few words gives some idea how pedestrian it all is.Thunderball also suffers from some incredibly ill considered moments, the 'rack' on full speed and the blatant use of back projection and speeded up footage during the car and boat scenes being particularly cringeworthy; the less said about Bond blackmailing a hot health spa nurse into having sex with him the better...The film's spectacular underwater finalé is well staged and the cinematography is good, but it lacks a sense of genuine excitement, the action seemingly moving at half speed, failing to generate the adrenaline rush one might expect from a climatic Bond battle. It all gets so tedious that the camera even occasionally wanders from the fight to explore some of the colourful underwater wildlife.On a more positive note, the opening fight scene is full of energy and sexy SPECTRE assassin Fiona Volpe (Luciana Paluzzi) has a very impressive rack. "},{"Title":"The Best of Connery's James Bond ?","Date":"26 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Apparently many viewers seem to favor Thunderball as one of the top ranking Bond films. I have seen it three times but really didn't find the movie to improve with each viewing. Is it fair to say that Thunderball is the worst of the series? Definitely not. In fact, it isn't what I would call a bad movie. So then why do I give a 4/10 rating? Well to be quite honest, most everything held up except for the pacing. The story is good, the acting is good, and some of the characters are interesting. Sadly, THE PACING IS TERRIBLE! This is what ruined Thunderball for me. My biggest complaint aside from the dull moments of this movie is the much appraised underwater climactic scene. I'm sure the scenery for it's time was deemed magnificent. To be fair, the underwater segments were shot quite well. The problem is that they went on for far too long. Moving on to the bond characters of Thunderball; three in particular. The central villain of this movie tried to come off as a fearless leader yet had the personality of a rock. The bond girl really wasn't given much to work with and between her and the female villain, I rather fancied the female villain. OK, moving on... After seeing Connery's Bond reach his peak in the superior Goldfinger, I suppose my expectations for Thunderball were not met. Final Thoughts A number of those who read this review will probably not agree with it. In fact, I found the loose remake of this movie (Never Say Never) to be the better version of the two. Mind you, I have all the Bond films and really enjoy most of them. Still, Thunderball is one of the few that just didn't do it for me. "},{"Title":"Too many boring underwater scenes","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Do you have an enthusiasm for water sports like Bond? If you do then you will probably love Thunderball. For me, however, there were too many boring underwater scenes (snorkeling, diving, or whatever he was doing), and that drags the rating down to a 6/10. This film is still a fun adventure. It just doesn't compare favorably to the other Bond films. I actually liked the remake, Never Say Never Again, more than this. On the plus side, Thunderball has more than the usual number of Bond girls. I counted four (two good, one henchwoman, and one which was not involved in the plot). The bad guy (No. 2) was also one of the more memorable Bond villains. A 6/10 is still a good score for me, so don't get the wrong impression. I still like this film. It just has some boring parts that make it a below average Bond film. "}{"Title":"Barely Good Enough","Date":"4 July 2013","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have gathered from my reading about Thunderball that both past audiences and today's viewers consider it a drop in quality compared to its three predecessors. Try as I may, I cannot find reason to disagree. Every positive I find is matched by a drawback. Thunderball has no exceptional aspects to hide those flaws, and that makes them really hurt. I have pondered and analyzed this Bond movie more than any other over the years. All of those thoughts cannot be placed in one review, so I am going to stick to some of my main thoughts on the fourth James Bond movie.James Bond (Sean Connery) spends the first section of the movie at an inpatient health rehab clinic. Officers of SPECTRE, returning as the enemy after a one-movie absence, are using the same clinic to set up their next project. First, Bond discovers a murder. Then he is recalled to work when the English Prime Minister and the American President receive an extortion demand from the now nuclear armed SPECTRE. James recognizes the murdered man from a photograph in his briefing file, and embarks for Nassau to find the victim's sister (Claudine Auger). Bond soon discovers that in order to have access to her, he must deal with Emilio Largo (Adolfo Celi), who is also SPECTRE'S second-in-command.1) Sean Connery gives his final good performance as Bond. He carries an innate toughness and confidence along with charm and likability. Even down to his smallest mannerisms and inflections, Sean took complete ownership of the part. Bias is not the only reason he is still considered the best in the role; he earned that respect.2) The early Bond movies boasted a lineup of great villains. First came the calm genius Dr. No; second, the demanding authoritarian Rosa Klebb; and third, the ever creative Goldfinger. Largo is an acceptable villain, but falls far short of the prior three. He has his moments, such when he murders an employee for failing a mission that never had any chance of success. Overall, Largo never makes the audience feel the great authority he wields; he just comes off as smug. Part of the problem comes from the next item.3) Luciana Paluzzi plays beautiful villainess Fiona Volpe. Paluzzi's predator-in-disguise acting makes Volpe far more fearsome than Largo. Regrettably, the script tarnishes the strength of the character by making her look good through the stupidity of the male villains. Count Lippe (Guy Doleman), the lead bad guy during the clinic portion of the movie, is incompetent. Volpe is a good enough character to be taken seriously without displaying her next to Lippe's carelessness.That flaw repeats itself when Volpe turns up in Nassau. She openly rebukes Largo at one point, and then speaks to him as if she is in charge. If Largo holds the second highest rank in SPECTRE, who is she to give him orders? Largo is supposed to be more powerful than any of Bond's opponents so far.4) Felix Leiter has made nine appearances so far. In Thunderball, Leiter is his best. Goldfinger portrays Felix Leiter like a surrogate uncle to Bond. Rik Van Nutter takes over the role here. Of the six others to play Leiter, only the underused David Hedison has matched Van Nutter's sincerity. He shares an unforced chemistry with Connery. Bond and Leiter are best friends and make the perfect team, so much so that Bond reminds Leiter that he knows him better than that. It is too bad that Van Nutter only had three English speaking roles, because many movies, Bond or otherwise, would have benefited from his presence. My favorite moments in Thunderball are ones with Felix on screen.5) Approximately half of the action occurs underwater, where the photography is remarkably clear and colorful. The climax is set down there, but at over eight minutes far outstays its welcome. It soon becomes repetitive shots of two men floating in circles trying to best each other along with a few wide shots where rising air bubbles are potentially distracting. Contrast that with the Wavekrest scene in Licence to Kill, which worked perfectly because of its variety and brevity.6) The rest of the action is fine. The pre-title scene contains one of the series' most rousing and creative brawls followed by one its most delightful surprises. It is the highlight of the movie. Bond has a lot of gadgets here, and their use is dispersed well throughout. That is always a plus.7) Terence Young, an excellent director, tries to manufacture tension during times the script fails to provide it. One embarrassing scene stars a traction machine with settings ranging from Therapeutic to Homicide. As with too many other scenes, the music is more menacing than what happens on the screen. These scenes are awkward.8) Finally, the movie runs too long because it moves too slowly. No major cuts would be needed to fix that. Thunderball spends far too much time displaying the mundane. Removing ten seconds here and 15 seconds there in a dozen or so scenes would have made a giant difference without removing a single scene.Overall, Thunderball is not a bad movie. I think the term Thunderbore is unfair. Compared to From Russia with Love or Skyfall it is boring, but I never felt like I was going to lose interest. Thunderball receives a passing grade on the strength of Connery and Van Nutter, and on Young's stalwart direction. It could have been better. It also could have been much worse. I say a five out of ten is a fair number. "},{"Title":"Sending In Their Best","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After saving Fort Knox from an atomic explosion in Goldfinger, James Bond has not one, but two atomic bombs to deal with in Thunderball. Sean Connery also gets to spend a good deal of time in the beautiful waters of the Bahamas where arch SPECTRE villain Adolfo Celi has made off with one of them to use on Miami Beach.If this sounds familiar the story was done again and by Sean Connery as James Bond in his last Bond film, Never Say Never Again. Only there the story was shifted to the Mediterranean. Who knows if current James Bond, Daniel Craig will do this one yet again.Celi who is the current number 2 in SPECTRE the infamous third echelon has hijacked a British Vulcan bomber and stolen the two nukes on board. He's issued a demand for payment from the NATO countries to be paid in uncut diamonds or he'll use them on a couple of American or British targets with large populations. Of course the governments of both are ready to shell out to save casualties in the potential millions, but not without sending in their best to stop SPECTRE which means 007.Two women became Bond girls in Thunderball, good girl Claudine Auger and bad girl Luciana Paluzzi. Paluzzi is one of Celi's assassins as good at her job as Connery is in his. The sexual tension between the two of them crackles even as she's trying to kill him.Thunderball has some great underwater cinematography as the forces of SPECTRE battle the US Coast Guard and James Bond on the ocean floor as SPECTRE tries to take the bomb into Miami Beach harbor. In fact all the Bond films are noted for that, even the disastrous first Casino Royale.You couldn't deny that James Bond was keeping Sean Connery's name in front of the movie going public. He wanted so badly to make a reputation for himself in non-Bond roles. Eventually he did, but it was a struggle.Made comfortable by the money and box office drawing power that films like Thunderball were giving him. "},{"Title":"My favorite bond movie.","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is by far my most favorite James bond movie of all time because Sean Connery does James bond the best in this movie there is lots of action espeacilally when they are under water the fight scenes are amazing the story is great the acting is good the actors are good everything is good i think all the James bond movies are good i own all of them but this will always be my favorite James bond movie. Great adaption of thunderball. So make sure you buy or rent thunder ball best it is an awesome James bond movie and is my favorite.Overall score ********** out of *************** out ***** "},{"Title":"On rewatching Thunderball","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Not as good as I remembered it though there is still a lot to admire. Most importantly of course, it has the single two most beautiful women of all in it (Martine Beswick (why was she never given a bigger role?) and Claudine Auger). Also it's got my favourite portrayal of Bond of any of the films, with Sean Connery playing him as a very rude and self-confident guy. Classic stuff! I'm not impartial to its tropical setting and John Barry's magnificent score either.The only negative points are the underwater scenes, of which there are too many (it must be difficult to make fast and exciting action sequences in water), and the death of Paula Caplan (yes yes I know, it's called the sacrificial lamb, but couldn't we have seen a bit more of her?). "},{"Title":"excellent Bond adventure - Connery on form again","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sean Connery (Indiana Jones) reprises his role as the cool clever 007 as he uses his charm and skill to full effect on a mission to recover stolen bombs from evil villains.Connery has always been my favourite Bond and I personally believe this is one of his best performances as the agent. Whenever I see him on screen in this role I instantly smile as he is such a well placed actor, always suited to this particular role.Connery has always been my favourite Bond character.Connery I believe carries this film and is well juxtaposed with the Bond stereotyped women and gadgets again but that's what we expect and love from Bond films, that and tons of cool cars, action, fighting and adventure, which Thunderball delivers throughout.This gripping slightly less action based plot is always entertaining through a snappy quickly written plot with many action scenes to sustain audience interest. There are less action scenes, gun fights etc then the more recent Bond films such as Tomorrow never dies and The World is not enough but in my opinion having less is probably best as it gives a more accurate portrayal of the agency, not an idealist world which more people nowadays may hope for.However there are many action scenes which play a great part in this film, such as a shark pool, a car chase, corpses and boats. It's a thrill ride throughout, maintaining an interesting dialogue from the very beginning.The setting out at sea was great. A large proportion of the film is set out at sea with its many creatures and wonderful scenery and captures a great essence of beauty, even with what's taking place when it appears.Compared to other Bond films I think this is one of my favourite as it is mysterious, action packed, beautifully directed, has great characters (even though confused at times wondering who was who) and the narrative is consistent and energetic, one of the best Bond films.as with all other Connery Bond films, this is worth watching a few times for sheer enjoyment "},{"Title":"A Huge Step Down From the First 3, but Still Decent","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Some people consider this to be in the higher echelon of the James Bond series, but I'm not one of them. The film is fairly entertaining and has a lot going for it, but there are lots of flaws that bring the film down.First off, the film is a about 15-20 minutes overlong, and it didn't have as much action as I would have liked. The plot is okay, but it can be quite formulaic at times.There are also many slow scenes that really tend to drag on. The underwater battle at the end, while beautifully choreographed, got very boring after a while.However, the film isn't bad by any means. Sean Connery is every bit as good as ever, and Emilio Largo, played by Adolfo Celi, is a terrific villain. He is very sinister and he's 10x better than Klaus Brandauer's underwhelming portrayal as Maximillian Largo in the remake, Never Say Never Again. His henchmen were quite dull, however.Claudine Auger's Domino is one of the most attractive Bond girls and the film is beautifully shot, taking place in the Bahamas. The music score By John Barry and theme song by Tom Jones are also stand-outs and the cool sequence with the jet pack is one of the better pre-credit sequences in the series.This film is not one of my favorite Bond films, but it certainly isn't the worst of the series or even Connery's worst. It's worth a look if you're a fan of the series. It just wasn't really my cup of tea.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"A classic movie with some bloat","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" You'll immediately notice that this movie's budget is a big step up from the previous films. The comedy, the gags and the gadgets (like the jetpack) were increased as well. This film contains a lot of my favorite moments of the franchise Blofeld punishing his SPECTRE employees, Bond intimidating Emilio Largo during a card game, Bond escaping a pool of sharks, Fiona Volpe and her fate.1/4 of Thunderball involves underwater action sequences, and especially during the third act it starts to feel dragged out ; 15 minutes could have been trimmed off easily. The climax and ending is also a little underwhelming. It may not match up to the caliber of the first 3 Bond movies, but it's still good in its own right. "},{"Title":"Good, but not among the best","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year and in 1965 Sean Connery was already pretty experienced with his role as the first James Bond. New Bond movies were very frequent back then, pretty much one per year. Connery returned for more movies, but for director Terence Young it was his third and final installment. And he went out on a high note as Thunderball won the only Visual Effects Oscar of the whole franchise. All in all, there are a total of four wins. The most recent entry Skyfall actually managed half of these. And the very first went to Goldfinger.Thunderball is a worthy addition to the series. However, I have to say it is not really outstanding in any regard. Largo I personally found one of the more forgettable villains of the series and his henchmen are not too memorable either. Rosa Klebb, Goldfinger, Oddjob or Dr. No from previous films were all somewhat more special in my opinions and made their films really worth watching. In terms of the story it's also nothing that hasn't been done before. However, this time it is more about a terrorist attack than about Cold War. Bond and the MI6 know by now that it's not the Russians doing bad things to the western world, but that it is actually SPECTRE. Our hero has to recover two stolen atomic warheads this time before Largo can fire them on Miami or a major British city. Oh yeah, but Claudine Auger is as attractive as it gets, easily among the hottest Bond girls in history. And then there are Q, M, Moneypenny and Leiter, all the usual suspects, but none of them with much impact or screen time in this one.There are several pretty good scenes, such as the scene where Bond is almost killed on that spine stretching machine, maybe an equivalent to the laser machine from Goldfinger, the scene in which Bond quickly turns around during the dance scene before he gets shot, the very early scene where we see how Blofeld deals with traitors, the Big Ben reference and a handful more. However, the several underwater scenes I found not too thrilling really, even if these were maybe the ones that resulted in the Academy Award win. But I really love Tom Jones' song, maybe the most memorable aspect for me personally and easily in my Top3 Bond songs, if not number one. Quite a shame it was not featured that much during the film like other Bond songs. This would have made a great Academy award winner. All in all, I enjoyed watching these over 2 hours, but I feel no need to watch it anytime soon. A good watch for people who love spy movies. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Overboard on action...","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ***Warning! Spoiler Information Inside*** After the rousting success of Goldfinger (1964), The Eon writers come up with Thunderball over drinks with a man outside the company named Kevin McClory. Disagreements over who said or thought what, would spawn the unofficial bond movie Never Say Never Again (1984).In this version, Bond is hot on the tail of stolen nuclear weaponry acquired by S.P.E.C.T.R.E. . Bond tracks the missiles to the possession of a man named Largo intent upon extortion. He must also avoid a deadly assassin (Luciana Paluzzi), while rescuing the damsel Domino (Claudine Auger)From Largo's deception.The script is spectacular, the cinematography (especially the underwater fight sequences) is unmatched for it's day. Terence Young smoothly directs a confident Connery who delivers at every turn, Thunderball would remain the top Bond film, until surpassed by Moonraker.Four stars(of 5.) "},{"Title":"Licensed troubleshooter","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond is the quintessential wish fulfillment fantasy for teen/adult males a stylish, unflappable Ubermensch who travels around the world shooting bad guys, bedding hot women, driving cool cars and playing with hi-tech gadgets. A guilty pleasure, but a meticulously planned one.The main reason of its initial success was creator Ian Fleming's skill, with his vivid prose and gift as a storyteller; still, what catapulted the character into super-stardom was the casting of Sean Connery in Dr. No. Once established the template, these movies started to live and die by the strength of the following ingredients a solid 007, a charismatic villain, captivating Bond girls, memorable set pieces.Thunderball features a still excellent Connery in the main role - his performance would start losing steam with You Only Live Twice; a cunning villain in Adolfo Celi's eye-patched, beak-nosed Emilio Largo, who owns a swimming pool with sharks and has stolen an atomic bomb for SPECTRE; two of the most beautiful women in the series, elegant brunette Claudine Auger and voluptuous redhead Luciana Paluzzi; an underwater battle which has aged surprisingly well.Later remade with the unofficial (as in not part of the canonic movie series by Eon Productions) Never Say Never Again, notable for a suitably odious Klaus Maria Brandauer as Largo and a borderline-geriatric 007, the age gap between Connery and Bond girl Kim Basinger being over twenty years.7/10 "}{"Title":"Bond Month #4 Really Slow but Still Good","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" There are quite a few occurrences in the Bond canon where you have a near masterpiece, and then a sort of run of the mill letdown. Unfortunately this is an occurrence of that sort. Thunderball, while good, is super-slow and not all that interesting. Its has good bits though, lets see who holds the thunderball. SPECTER is back once again in the form of Emilio Largo (SPECTER #2) He has devised a plan to steal two atomic bombs and hold them for ransom. This would seem pretty bland, but it's unique that he deliberately downs a bomber into the Bahamas so he can steal the warheads. Bond must stop him in six days (though the time-frame is of course, never specified as the film progresses)or Miami or somewhere blows up. The story, sort of like Dr. No, is a lot of filler. It has a story (unlike Dr. No) but it's too slow and filled with other scenes that seem very irrelevant.Well, I'm going to knock out the weaker elements of this movie before I go into the good things. Sean Connery is now looking bored silly and is surprisingly flat in this movie, which is a surprise after 3 great performances before. Largo is pretty bland and not really bad-ass or interesting. There are too many characters in this film to boot therefore they don't get much development or screen time (HECK we can even IDENTIFY who these people are half the time) The first Bond girl is something of a mystery to me. Claudine Auger plays Largo's ward Domino. She is a different kind of Bond girl. She is very beautiful, but not brainless. She possesses some sort of inner dignity but is naive in what her guardian really does. She is not tough, but very competent. She is good. The other Bond girl is Fiona Volpe. Now here is a femme fatale to the finest. Luciana Paluzzi is an ace. She is super sexy, conniving, manipulative, and extremely persistent to finish her job regardless of outside circumstance. She too possesses an inner dignity in that she doesn't like cheap sex or thrills or money, she is just bad but very good at what she does.The action sequences are an oddball of the franchise. They are way too slow paced and really long to watch. But with that, they are very impressively filmed and carried out. The producers even hired the Creature of the Black lagoon himself, diver Ricou Browning, to supervise them, and they are good, just a bit of editing might have helped a great deal. And then the final fight on the boat is really brisk and exciting, if only the rest of the movie was as exciting as the finale.This was a troubled production because of a plagiarism dispute between Bond writer Ian Fleming and producer Kevin McClory (both sides saying that the idea was stolen from each other). Series Producers Albert R. Broccoli and Harry Saltzman decided to give McClory rights to film Thunderball under their roof. What results is McClory's vision of Bond, which is overall dull. Like I said before, this movie has some really good things, but is overall, not very interesting. Its worth at least one watch, but others may take a lot of time out of your day. "},{"Title":"Thunderball","Date":"6 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If the first three Bond films grew if not better then at least more balanced between camp and cool, Thunderball is the first one that feels slightly done on routine. You have already seen pretty much everything in this before, and in superior renditions to boot. That being said, Thunderball does bring something slightly new to the table with its strong focus on underwater action, which, while not always quite as exciting as I think the filmmakers believe them to be, does feel fairly fresh and exotic. And in any case, any excuse to shoot Sean Connery and/or one of his lady friends emerging from the water is accepted in my book.The plot about SPECTRE's number two (eye-patch notwithstanding far less intriguing than the concealed number one) hijacking a couple of NATO atomic bombs is quite stale. Instead, the film is more interesting in the love department, with a couple of elegant encounters, reinforced by the terrific leitmotif, where Connery is as charming as ever and delivers his pick-up lines effortlessly. I could probably just watch Sean Connery being smooth for two hours. The ass kicking is just a bonus. "},{"Title":"With this movie, I'm starting to turn into a big fan of 007","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" We've gotten 50 years' worth of Bond movies and when looking back at the best ones, you're looking for something that sets them apart from the rest. After all, you don't expect Bond to ever die at some point in the film so there's a certain amount of predictability to them. Thunderball has plenty to set it apart from the other ones and even though it's been remade as Never Say Never Again it holds up as a terrific spy thriller. The story begins when SPECTRE, the evil agency whose objective is to make money through criminal acts acquires two atomic bombs through a complicated plot. They now hold the world ransom and demand to be compensated for their efforts. MI6 agents are dispatched across the world while the governments count down until their deadline is up and they will have to fork over the millions or face catastrophe. That's where James Bond (Sean Connery) comes in, allied with a woman named Domino (Claudine Auger), he slowly pieces together where the weapons are located and gets ready not only to foil the plot. But that won't be enough for this new duo; they also need to ensure that the people responsible pay for their crimes.What stands out with this movie is the underwater cinematography. We've got Bond being thrown in a pool of man-eating sharks, nuclear weapons being salvaged from underwater crashes, our heroes infiltrating submarines and a big climactic battle with dozens of agents battling to the death in scuba gear. The climax is really interesting because it's truly a fight in three-dimensions, with vehicles crashing against each other, harpoons flying in all directions, the dead sinking to the bottom of the ocean, and the injured frantically trying to swim up to the surface because their breathing tubes have been damaged and they risk drowning. We've got a pretty good assortment of gadgets, with some really fantastical stuff like a jet pack early in the film and more plausible stuff that would be really handy for a spy like an underwater infra-red camera. My favorite gadget is probably a re-breather that allows the user to fake his or her own death by sneaking a tiny device on their person and pulling it out so that they are able to stay underwater long enough for their opponents to think they have drowned. I also got a real kick out of the final sequence of the film. If you're a fan of The Dark Knight, it will really blow your mind. There's a lot of enticing action here and despite the fact that ultimately you can see where the movie is going to go, it will sweep you up in all of its intrigue, spy work and action.I'd say the ending of the movie drags a bit, but it's nothing too serious. I am not overly familiar with the Bond films, having seen maybe a dozen or so, but this is one of the movies that compelled me to buy the nice fancy 50 years of Bond Box Set and add it to my shelf. I think you'll have a great time with it. (Theatrical version on the big screen, February 2014) "},{"Title":"Underwater Adventure.","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Fourth screen adventure of James Bond 007 sees Sean Connery returning to his signature role, this time on a mission to retrieve two nuclear warheads that were cleverly stolen by the criminal organization SPECTRE, led by arch-rival Blofeld. Though here, Bond must battle another of his agents, Emilio Largo, who has a kidnapped scientist to help him use the weapons. Bond also romances the beautiful and mysterious Domino, who is with Largo, but perhaps can be turned against him? The bombs are kept underwater, leading to an extended fight sequence there and then on a runaway yacht. Largo also uses captive sharks to enforce his will. Just as much fun as the first three, this is fine escapist fare. "},{"Title":"One of best Bond movies even after 50 years","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In the genre of Bond movies up to the modern day Daniel Craig, I'm a fan of the suave, ruthless Bond that surprises you with his somewhat callous attitude towards killing and making love, all in the same 10 minutes.Sean Connery looks fabulous during Thunderball and maintains the necessary attitude of detachment and insouciance throughout the movie. He's helped by an outstanding supporting cast, especially in the characters of Domino and Largo.The most irritating aspect of Thunderball is the gadgetry - especially in the ridiculous prescience of Q in equipping Bond with the right gadgets to help him out of each tight spot he gets into. And Bond's invincibility in fight scenes is a little tedious.That said, this is spectacularly filmed (especially underwater), has a decent plot, and shows Sean Connery at his best. Ranks up there with the best Bond and Bond movies. "},{"Title":"Terrence Young,s Messed Up Direction.I Never Expected This.","Date":"18 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" thunder-ball the 4th bond film starting Sean Connery fails to impress me because of many reasons.the story was well written but the screenplay was weird.i love all bonds films except Daniel Craig era.but when you talk about Sean Connery he is the best & first bond.he put a lot of effort in this film.he acted well as always but the most disturbing thing here is that all the burden Connery had to take to make this.those big flaws by Mr Terrence young left for the entire cast to cover it.what was he thinking.Dr no was best film of histhere was no need for longer underwater fight scenes i get it the theme of the film surrounds around water .but it needed editing.hold it just there the plot is about specter stealing 2 nuclear bombs & asking for demands being fulfilled.but as the films starts the bad theme song comes.then rushed up shaky cam fight scenes plus the aspect ration of the film is messed up by MGM.the largo guy is a coward the girls are main villains here.what Terrence young did here is that he increased the Pace of film capture trying to give a new feeling to the project but at the same time messing up the whole thing.who was holding the camera & who edited this film is embarrassing..anyway i am an Asian guy who loves action & specially bond films.the acting was cool here.but once again look at the ending please here bond goes to stop largo & the ship just goes out of control like some cardboard cartoon puppet .thats all from me over all i liked this film for was what it was still better then Craig films like casino Royal & quantum. but i still choose the remake of thunder-ball never say never again 1983 starting Connery once again for the last time as bond.Nsna removed mistakes that were in thunder-ball.thus i like it very much.over all please don't hate me this is my opinion of what i think about this film.my rating is 5/10.the director & technical department did a terrible job here..sadly "},{"Title":"A little slow and bloated but still decent","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After Goldfinger the Bond series had become the biggest theatrical event on earth and while I wouldn't say they dropped the ball with this one it doesn't hold your attention as well as Goldfinger and especially From Russia With Love. For the one thing the plot is a rather generic one with the villainous organization SPECTRE demanding a considerable ransom for two stolen nuclear warheads or they will blow up a city or two. And the movie is a tad too long as well. Some scenes seem like they should have been cut or at least trimmed and at times the movie gets a little boring. But it's not the fact that Thunderball is a bad movie. There are some interesting action scenes such as Bond being trapped in a pool full of sharks, a pursuit on foot through a junkanoo parade and especially a big scale underwater battle between good and evil frogmen with Bond joining the fight. Sean Connery is still at the top of his game and has several great lines like I think he got the point (You'll get it when you see the movie) and while Largo isn't as intriguing a character as Goldfinger, Dr No, Rosa Klebb or Red Grant he is still a fine villain played with menace by Italian Adolpho Celi and Fiona Volpe played by Lucianna Palluzi is a memorable sidekick to Largo. I would recommend many other Bond movies over this one but I certainly wouldn't tell you to stay away from it as it does have it's high points. "},{"Title":"If you love loads of underwater scenes you'll love this...","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 4th of 23 Bond moviesAs for me, I didn't find this kind of over emphasis on underwater scenery all that appealing. This fourth instalment of the spy franchise pretty much keeps to the recognisable formula established in the third movie Goldfinger Setting Shot in the Bahamas, for the most part, those who like this kind of scenery will no doubt enjoy the movie more than I did.Plot S.P.E.C.T.R.E returns as a recurring force of evil that Bond faces. This time the mysterious #1 is seeking £100,000,000 ransom from N.A.T.O after stealing two nuclear missiles. If N.A.T.O does not pay up, one of the U.S.A or U.K will be targeted by a nuclear missile.Pre title theme song sequence Yes. You get the Bond theme with Bond firing a shot at you...Connery's usual awkward gait followed by his wobbly back leg in taking the shot. The following pre theme song sequence does has fanciful elements to it...Bond using a jet pack...and it's not exactly clear how he managed to have the jet pack be where he wanted it to be. Don't let people tell you that Roger Moore's James Bond had a monopoly on silly scenarios! Guest artist singing theme song Yes. Tom Jones sings here. Big name, but not a personal favourite song of mine...the ladies seem to have all the classics up until this point! Silly female names No! Massive oversight? Sexism Yes. Bond forces himself on a very attractive female character in this movie. I am sure that attractive women all over the world will be aghast at the thought of a virile Sean Connery manhandling and forcing himself on one of them. He also blackmails the same woman. Would blackmail be what it takes for an attractive woman to go to bed with him? Bond as a wine snob Hmm....either this is another oversight, or I neglected to observe this in my notes! Q Yes. He makes another appearance...he seems the male counterpart to the kind of complex relationship Bond has with the secretary, Moneypenny.End teaser No, I don't think. Things to watch out for * What happened to Bond's hat when he came out of the briefing with other 00s? * The existence of other spies like Bond is established...there are nine such 00 (double O) spies...you only glimpse the side of one's face in that sequence.* Bond gets shot in the leg but later goes diving in a place where the scent of blood in the water would be most unwelcome indeed! A continuity error?* It seems that at least 3 sharks really do die for the purposes of this movie...if that is the case, animal rights supporters may not appreciate this element of the filming of the movie. Apologies if this is not the case.* What happened to that guy at the end of the movie...did Bond just leave him there? The poor guy couldn't swim and he was in shark infested waters!This movie doesn't have a lot of repeat viewing value, I don't think, but for a first time view I could give it 65/100...actually, on first viewing I gave this movie around 75-80 out of 100. It just doesn't stand up well to repeat viewing, unfortunately. It's a pity about all that underwater action though...hard to know who was doing what to whom! Sean Connery does, however, fill out the role...he has settled into this character by now. "},{"Title":"Thunderball James Bond's finest moment.","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball after Goldfinger gave us more gadgets and a more coherent plot that makes good use of Bond's 00 status. The Film begins with Bond killing a enemy agent who killed two of his friends and a incredible escape by rocket pack. We are then lead to M's office where M orders Bond to a health club called Shrublands to rehab his body of all of Bond's bad habits. While there Bond becomes the attempted target of Count Lippe who tries to kill Bond after seeing him Lippe panics and believes Bond is onto him and the latest SPECTRE scheme. Bond is almost killed but pays Lippe back in turn when Bond gets orders to report to HQ. Two Atomio bombs are missing and SPECTRE has taken credit for it and threatens the world. The Mission is codenamed THUNDERBALL And The stakes are high . This movie creates a suspenseful atmosphere and gives us a credible picture of Bond at work rest AND play during this deadly mission. the film's diving and underwater fight scenes are the best filmed fight scenes in the movie. While some have criticized this film as being weak or boring or dull they are far from the mark this is perhaps one of the best Bonds ever made. Despite the Gadgets despite Sean Connery's growing displeasure with t he role of James Bond Thunderball remains a highlight of the Bond series. the Acting was never as good again and the plots just got sillier after this . But this is still the last Great James Bond before the sixties ended. worth seeing if you are a Bond fan and a worthy introduction to those who are not a Bond fan yet. "},{"Title":"Before Broken Arrow, There Was Thunderball!","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The fourth James Bond movie, Terence Young's Thunderball, by far the most ambitious 007 escapade when it came out in 1965, is the only Bond picture that won an Oscar for Best Special Visual Effects. Scenarists Richard Maibaum and John Hopkins brought back the worldwide criminal organization SPECTRE, the Special Executive for Counterespionage, Terror, Revenge, and Extortion, to menace Bond after his adventure against Auric Goldfinger, who had cooperated with the Red Chinese. SPECTRE was behind Dr. No in Dr. No, the villains in From Russia with Love as well as here in Thunderball. Blofeld appears in close-ups with a white cat in FRWL and here at a criminal organization summit when he kills a traitor. The Bond producers let Blofeld come out into the open for the next Bond epic You Only Live Twice. Like the best 007 movies, Thunderball takes advantage of actual events and the main real life event was the loss of two atomic bombs in the early 1960s. Blofeld's number two man, Emilio Largo, hatches a grand scheme to steal two A-Bombs from NATO and use them to hold the world for ransom. Bond villains come in three types those like Blofeld who are criminals and want to make the world powers pay, but they don't want to destroy the world. Those villains, like Stromberg and Drax in later Bond movies The Spy Who Loved Me and Moonraker, who want to destroy the world and recreate civilization in their own image. Finally, there are the independent villains, like Franz Sanchez in License to Kill, Mr. Big in Live and Let Die, Goldfinger, and Max Zorin in A View to a Kill who want to corner a market, but who have no designs of world domination. There is also a mention about the real life British train robbery that occurred before Thunderball was released.The Thunderball pre-credit sequence ranks one of the top five James Bond pre-credit sequences because it contains a surprise and a gimmick. James Bond and a French agent are at a funeral and the casket bears the initials JB, but the initials stand for Jacques Bouvar. Bond knew Bouvar as an assassin who had murdered two of his colleagues. He watches a veiled widow leave and climb into a limousine. She pulls the rear door shut without help and the vehicle drives off. At a French château, the widow enters a large drawing room to find 007 awaiting her. He rises, expresses his condolences, and then decks the lady with a right cross that sends her flying across a table. My dear, Colonel Bouvar, Bond informs the man in drag, I don't think you should have opened that car door yourself. A brief but potent slugfest ensues until Bond chokes Bouvar to death with a fireplace poker. Bouvar's henchmen break down the door seconds before Bond exits. He straps on Bell Aero systems Rocket belt jet-pack and flies off to his Aston-Martin where the French agent is waiting. They shove the jetpack in the trunk. Bond activates the bulletproof shield from the trunk. Never mind that the jetpack and the retractable shield could occupy the same space, then unleashes to stream of water that knocks Bouvar's gun-toting henchmen down.Bond gets himself into several tight spots in Thunderball. At the Shrublands clinic, Colonel Lippe (Guy Doleman of The Ipcress File) catches Bond on the exercise machine and cranks up the speed. Bond is harnessed to it and cannot stop the machine. Later, he exploits his advantage over the nurse and has sex with her to maintain his silence over the incident. Bond is trapped during a fight in a swimming pool with one of Largo's henchmen and Largo lets in the sharks while placing a shutter over the pool. Bond is nicked in the ankle during the Junkanoo parade, and later a Largo henchman almost spears him under Largo's yacht.Adolf Celi makes a superb villain with his scimitar shaped snout, the black eye patch, and his razor sharp voice. He is despicable from start to finish, especially when he threatens to apply hot and cold torture to Domino with a burning cigarette and ice cubes. He feeds one of henchmen to the sharks when the man fails to deal with 007. Later, after the RAF Vulcan lands in the Bahamas, he refuses to cut the impostor pilot Angelo Palazzi (Paul Stassino of Escape to Athena) free of the cockpit straps but slashes the man's air hose so that he drowns. Earlier, after the villains killed the real RAF pilot, Palazzi demanded more money because of the plastic surgery that he had to undergo to impersonate the pilot. Clearly, Palazzi's greed motivated Largo in part to kill him, but Largo is just enough of a dastard to have done it anyway to keep from paying Palazzi period.They plan to crash land an RAF Vulcan at sea, retrieve the bombs, and camouflage the aircraft with sharks swimming around it to ward off the curious. While the landing isn't that convincing, it will do, but once the plane is on the ocean floor, it looks cool. The climactic undersea battle off the coast of Miami has been vastly underrated. At the time, this represented the biggest underwater battle in cinema history; indeed, the Bond producers would mimic it in outer space for Moonraker. Despite the continuity problems in the underwater battle, Young and second unit director Peter Hunt have a blast, even the lobster trying to avoid the fighting is amusing. All the scenes with the sharks are neat. Bond's first two encounters with Largo at the casino and later on Largo's estate where they shoot skeet are first-rate. Young keeps the tone of the film rather serious and the one-liners and puns pay off beautifully. The briefing of the double-00s in London in that cavernous room with the huge wall map is very atmospheric. John Barry's music is tops. "}{"Title":"Speed Boats and Nuclear Weapons","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball is an example of a Bond film that starts out interesting, but turns boring and excessive towards the end. Thunderball suffers from its over-emphasis on gadgetry, becoming too campy to bare. The films attempts at being more serious with other scenes just creates an uncomfortable contrast that doesn't enhance the film in any way.The villain's plot in its intricacy is interesting to watch, but after that everything falls to pieces in the fashion of Largo's speed boat. The film is made slightly interesting by a larger cast of supporting characters, but the over-all weakness of the plot, backed by a rather disappointing climax makes this a very flat Bond to watch.Even Connery's typical charm can't save the film from it's excessiveness. This goes to the bottom of my Bond-film list along with 'Man with the Golden Gun'. "},{"Title":"Best Original Story!!!!!!!!","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sean Connery is at his best in the ORIGINAL story of Thunderball. I say original because about 18 years later he would make the biggest mistake of his life by doing a remake of Thunderball called Never Say Never Again. Here he tries to stop SPECTRE from launching stolen nuke missiles to annihilate the world. The original story is a lot better and there should never have been a remake of this classic Bond film. Unfortunately, there aren't any other big name stars in this film, other than Connery, but the acting is quite superb in this film. The main highlight is the pre-psychedelic opening sequence theme song sung by the great Tom Jones, himself. "},{"Title":"THUNDERBALL- My Alltime Favorite 007 Flick","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Let's get this straight right here and now,this is my favorite Bond flick.Do I consider it the best,almost.That honor goes to FROM Russia WITH LOVE however THUNDERBALL is my personal favorite.Let's start with that man among men, Sean Connery.In THUNDERBALL, he's at his physical peak as an actor, he owns this part,otherwise every actor since him wouldn't be unfairly compared to him when they play 007.In this movie he was 34 or 35 and looks like he could take out a terrorist organization.Plus Connery has more charisma than any twenty actors that've ever lived.His Bond was a total s.o.b. which is why he's my favorite Bond,no teary eyes when a colleague or dame gets offed,he just catalogs it and takes it out on the perpetrator when he gets his hands on 'em.He's a brutal cold-blooded assassin.A football hooligan in a Saville Row suit.Is this exactly what Ian Fleming had in mind for 007? No, but with Connery you believe he could pin a man to tree with a speargun and go back to charming a beautiful woman less than a second later. He is my idea of 007 in this movie, Charming, hard-as-nails and will use anyone and any tactic to stop the bad guys.It obviously bothers him that Domino gets hurt (otherwise he'd have left her on the boat in the climax)but he's got a job to do.His fight scenes are fun to watch (not like real fights which aren't fun in any way to watch),they're ooh cool! and build up the idea that Bond is the secret service's best agent.It can't be said enough times,Sean Connery is the coolest actor who ever has or will live.I like the other Bond actors, all of 'em but for me Connery is IT. Now, The villains,I've heard some folks say Largo in this movie isn't up to snuff.I highly disagree, what is a SPECTRE if not a glorified mafiosi? Terrorists, mobsters the only difference sometimes is ideology and that is only sometimes.Adolfo Celi has beau-coup presence and charisma, enough to where you think he could be a criminal mastermind,easily.He ain't pretty or young and I think that's what the younger audiences don't like,nowadays everyone in movies has to look like GQ posterboys.Celi is loathsome as Largo,you can't wait for him to bite the big one and how he does is absolute poetic justice of course seeing Connery beat him savagely is lotsa fun too. Luciana Paluzzi as Fiona Volpe is my all time favorite Bond girl,she's cruel,vicious,sadistic and a match for Connery's Bond in the bedroom and the killing fields.She's one of the few henchman to put Connery's Bond on the run and bleeding to boot.Plus she's one of the sexiest redheads in the history of mankind.There's no converting her to the side of the angels she likes being evil, it gets her off.It's nice not seeing a character being rationalized and given the relativity of evil crapshoot we always see nowadays in flicks,some people just love hurting others and it's fun watching an actress playing that kinda part especially with as much relish as Luciana Paluzzi does here. Now to the good girl,Domino as played by Claudine Auger.WOW! she's beautiful no matter what.She's not given a lot to play with here but she's playing the innocent in wayyy over her head and in need of a real man like Connery's Bond to rescue her, although she does return the favor later in the flick.She's sympathetic,lovely and seeing her being tortured by Largo just intensifies one's desire to see Largo dead as Dillinger. The story is a cool race against time as Bond tries to find the stolen nukes before SPECTRE unleashes them on the western hemisphere. Bond goes through Largo's lackeys like crap through a goose and it's fun to see Connery in unabashed anti-hero mode.It's wrong maybe of me to enjoy it so much but his speargunning of Vargas is my favorite part, Vargas was such a loathsome little maggot,as a kid he kinda creeped me out so when Connery offed 'im, I cheered. If there's a weak spot in this flick it's Leiter,I wish Jack Lord could've returned but Rik Van Nutter was the closest to the Fleming Leiter in looks (except he had all his limbs, then again that've been taking method acting a bit too far).However he is my second favorite Leiter. The underwater action sequences are a bone of contention with lots of folks, but not me.I love'em, I have no problem differentiating the good guys from the bad guys.The music, the grappling over knives and spearguns by the combatants it gets my blood pumping.Not to mention Bond's dirty fighting tactics and his gear,or maybe I'm an aquatic action movie junkie.All said this flick is the epitome of the cinematic 007 for the Fleming 007 that's FROM Russia LOVE. I love this movie sooo much it's one of my ten favorite all time movies.Those that don't like it well that's your God-given right but I just don't get ya,probably a two way street,eh? If you like good harmless,non-p.c. 60's action movie fun, I don't think you could make a better choice than THUNDERBALL,made in the days when action movies didn't have the pacing of an A.D.D. victim on crack,sorry that was cheap and beneath me,albeit true. "},{"Title":"Shaken and Stirred into Fantasy land","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I found this Bond a lot harder to believe than the others I have seen. Especially the final scene where he far exhausts his breathing supply. At only 4 minutes his little tube would not sustain him while in a constant fight for closer to 10 min. But its Bond so thats expected. The overall plot was simplistic and not that fun to try and follow as some are known to be. It also broke many of the traditions of the formula for Bond. Which could be taken either way. This was a good Bond but not a very entertaining one.5/10  "},{"Title":"Water-logged","Date":"1 October 2015","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Most of the James Bond films follow the same format but with a slightly different villain and love interests for 007 to go after. Thunderball is a vastly different film than any film in the entire franchise. This is perhaps one of the more controversial of the series because to me and other people, this really isn't a Bond movie at all. Sure, he's going after yet another henchmen or 'number' from Spectre, but the feel and aesthetic that Bond movies have, is not here at all.To begin with, 007 rarely ever shoots his own gun in the film. In fact, it isn't until nearly an hour and a half into the film that he uses his gun. But even that was as a distraction for the villains. A trademark of the franchise is the action sequences and in the tension and intensity they bring to the screen. The underwater sequences look cool, but I wasn't all that nervous for any of the characters. Don't get me wrong, the visuals and cinematography is borderline breath-taking and very deserving of an Oscar for visual effects. I just don't like the idea of a James Bond film 75 percent underwater.I will say I don't think the music has ever been better than Thunderball. The opening credits song was fine, but the score is slightly different this time around and it was incredibly effective. Other than that, Thunderball has a clichéd villain (he even has an eye patch), boring action sequences, forgettable Bond girls, and an unrealistic climax. I give the people behind the camera credit for trying something different, being the 4th of the franchise, but it just fell flat to me.+Score+Breath-taking visuals underwater-But why is Bond underwater so much in the first place?-Bland villain-Tired of Spectre henchmen5.8/10 "},{"Title":"Under the Sea","Date":"1 October 2015","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the outrageous thrills of 'Goldfinger' it would be unwise to think that 'Thunderball' had a chance of bettering its predecessor. It ends up amounting to the lesser of the Bond films from the sixties, but is fun nonetheless.Bond manages to find himself up against another member of SPECTRE. Emilio Largo has stolen two nuclear warheads and plans to activate them unless his price is met by the British Government. Bond most locate the warheads and deactivate them, in order to ensure that war is evaded.The key for any Bond film to succeed relies on one key element; the villain. As Bond is extremely talented, he requires a worthy opponent; someone who can match his skills and provide a challenge to overcome. Largo fails to live up to the standards set by previous villains such as Grant and Goldfinger. Apart from his eye patch there is little to remember him by. If Bond was given the opportunity to dispatch Largo in the early moments of the film then it would all be over in a matter of minutes.The women however, actually serve a purpose in this instalment other than standing around looking pretty. The Bond girl this time, Domino helps Bond against Largo and her talent extends beyond her good looks. Whereas, Fiona Volpe who works with Largo, acts as a much more compelling villain and is the first femme fatale that the series has to offer. Volpe personally wants to be responsible for Bond's demise and fantasies about it with relish.'Thunderball' unwisely has a runtime exceeding two hours. This leads to a final act that becomes ponderous. An underwater battle. The stakes feel far too low, because we cannot tell who is fighting whom. I know I lost interest and it's a shame, tighter editing could have fixed the majority of the film's problems and it would be a greater Bond film as a result. It sadly lacks the forward momentum of 'From Russia with Love' and 'Goldfinger'; it cannot hold a candle to their sheer power.'Thunderball' is a solid if underwhelming action film. The best roles are given to the women and that's great because it distinguishes itself from its more talented brethren. However, in a series of twenty three films nearing twenty four, that can only get you so far. Largo lacks the power that we have come to expect from a memorable Bond villain and he's just not interesting to watch. Unfortunately 'Thunderball' remains a lesser Bond film that with some minor tweaks and fine tuning could have been great. But, at the end of the day that's all that the film amounts to, a solid Bond film that should have been great. "},{"Title":"Relatively Standard Bond Fare","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" By the time Thunderball came out, Bond-mania was all over the world. People were clamoring for it, and the formula had already been established by the time this fourth film was released. Notable for the legal disputes behind the scenes, the film is again based on the Ian Fleming novel of the same name, with creative help from Kevin McClory. Terence Young returns to the director's chair for a final time after being absent for Goldfinger. When Thunderball hit theaters, James Bond was a global phenomenon, and it doesn't really stray from the formula all that much.The film retains the idea of an unrelated action sequence before the credits, and it's easily the best part. The action in this opening scene is intense, and a number of really cool gadgets are put on display, like the jetpack, and the iconic Aston Martin makes a grand return. It's a bombastic, explosive action sequence that really stands out amongst the rest of the film.From there, we turn to the main plot of the film, which involves SPECTRE threatening the US and the UK with nuclear destruction in exchange for money, and Bond is sent to the Bahamas to investigate. The plot takes a while to get going at first, but once Bond leaves the health clinic he spends the first half hour or so at, things really pick up. You get the feel right away that the stakes are higher this time around, especially through the MI6 scenes. Once he arrives in the Bahamas, things pick up a lot. Adolfo Celi as Largo makes for formidable villain, particularly when going toe to toe with Bond. Their verbal battles make for some of the best scenes in the film. We also get two Bond girls this time around, a heroine named Domino (Claudine Auger), and a villainess named Fiona (Luciana Paluzzi). Both make for pretty memorable characters, and it is refreshing to see two independent females, a rarity in these early films. However, some of the violence against women depicted in the film gets rather uncomfortable.The biggest issue I take with the film is the fact that so much of it takes place underwater. The underwater photography is well done, and was groundbreaking for the time, but it feels incredibly labored now. The action feels lethargic, like watching a fight scene at half speed. There's also no dialogue going on underwater, so these scuba sequences just feel rather dull now. These sequences are a bit of a chore to sit through by today's standards, making the whole film lose its momentum in the climax.All in all, Thunderball is not a bad film by any stretch of the imagination. In many ways, it retains a lot of what made the previous films so good. There are tons of great, iconic moments here, but it drags a lot due to the underwater sequences. It also has its fair share of really goofy moments, losing a lot of the seriousness of previous films. That being said, it's still got a lot of good. Tom Jones' title theme is great, there is a lot of fun to be had from lots of the action, but when stood up against its predecessors, it just sort of blends in. It's relatively standard Bond fare, one that I could easily throw on TV and watch once in a while, not the greatest but still worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Where THUNDERBALL Stands","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Hello readers, welcome to the James Bond review on my favorite film of the series, Thunderball. This film obviously stands 1st on my list where I have ranked the Bond films from worst to best. Sean Connery is at his best here and delivers some of his coolest puns. I love the before credit sequence at the start and I guess it is my favorite as you can see on one of my lists. I hate how people sometimes detest that the underwater fight scenes go for too long, for me they're pretty entertaining and I really can't see how people can't find this scene fun, the makers tried really hard to make it so give them some credit. Anyway, I think Domino is the prettiest Bond girl of the series and Emilio Largo is the best 60s villain, he is also one of my favorites. Fiona Volpe is a great character and an even better villain mistress. And so ends my review on the best Bond film of the series. (in my opinion!) "},{"Title":"THUNDERBALL is More Style than Substance and, Worst of All, Dull","Date":"24 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In 1962, the world was introduced to James Bond in DR. NO and he was proved to have a lasting impact with the success of FROM Russia WITH LOVE in 1963. The series officially found its stride with 1964's GOLDFINGER and followed it up with what many people consider one of the best 007 films in 1965 THUNDERBALL. I don't share this affection for Bond's adventures in the Bahamas. Instead, I was bored out of my mind. I hate to say it because director Terence Young is had a good track record with the character until this point. My belief is that THUNDERBALL arrived at a point where 007 movies were a cultural phenomenon and came with a massive budget (for the period) and he went a little nuts with the cash, foregoing substance for style. The movie kicks off with an elongated sequence in which, for once, we watch every major phase of SPECTRE's plan in action. Emilio Largo (Adolfo Celi) has organized a hijacking of two NATO atomic weapons and SPECTRE declares that cities in both the United States and England will be destroyed unless a sizeable ransom is paid. James Bond (Sean Connery, returning) is dispatched to Nassau in the Bahamas to locate a woman named Domino (Claudine Auger) who might have ties to the men behind the hijacking. From there, we are subjected to more than two hours of mind-numbing investigations and an overwrought climactic final scuba battle between Largo's men and the U.S. military forces.THUNDERBALL is one of the harder 007 movies for me to comment on because, and I'm not exaggerating, this movie bores me to the point where I have a hard time paying full attention to it. So there is probably a good deal I might have overlooked that add to the quality of the movie. The first 45 minutes of the movie are pretty cool with the focus being on SPECTRE's operation. Normally, we might get a glimpse of the plan in action as the warheads are seized by enemy forces but THUNDERBALL gives us insight into a meeting of SPECTRE's top officials, the preparation stages of the heist, and even allows us to watch the full plan go into effect while we cut back and forth to Bond's recovery in a rehabilitation center where he's slowly made aware of the evil-doings going on in the next room. But by the time 007 arrives in the Bahamas, every sort of slows down. His investigation into the missing warheads and his run- ins with Largo and his minions, including the beautiful Fiona Volpe (Luciana Paluzzi) and silent Vargas, are fun enough and are generally on par with the secret agent fun of the first three movies. The real problem is the entire final act of the movie where Bond and some U.S. forces engage Largo and his men in a long, drawn-out underwater battle. It's horrendously paced and essentially shot in slow motion with a single movement taking twice as long as men attack each other clumsily while trying not tangle their scuba gear.There are a handful of underwater sequences in the film, and this is where I believe Young went a little overboard. I imagine the sequences were meant to give the film an epic feel and an exotic look but all they end up doing is killing my interest. Maybe it amazed audiences in 1965 who weren't accustomed to seeing such detailed underwater choreography, but I was born almost twenty years after this movie debuted. Underwater battles don't amaze me, especially lumbering labors like the sequences in THUNDERBALL. It doesn't help that Largo isn't a villain as memorable as any that came before him. Dr. No was a seriously creepy dude, Red Grant was a stone cold killer, and Auric Goldfinger was overly extravagant and larger than life. Emilio Largo is&#x85;a man with an eye-patch. Celi does well enough giving him an evil vibe but he just doesn't leave any sort of impression. Honestly, for years after first seeing the movie I couldn't even remember who the villain of the film was without looking it up. I have the same problem with Claudine Auger as the movie's Bond woman, Dominique Domino Derval. She's definitely beautiful but she doesn't bring anything special enough to the role to help her stand out from the ever-growing list of beautiful Bond girls. In the end, THUNDERBALL is just a blend of mediocre ingredients mixed together to create a stylish adventure without any stand-out performances or memorable moments that sort of lazily rode the wave of 007-mania that was hitting hard in the mid-60's. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Bond Movie","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Connery peaked in this film. He was in shape, exuded confidence, and seemed to really be into the role. The production was magnificent; the plot scary, and the villain, Largo was very sinister. The Bond girls - Domino, Fiona,Patricia, and Paula; were the best in any 007 film. The plot was intricately laid out and very believable.The underwater fight scenes and the out of control Disco Volante hydrofoil were cinematic masterpieces that can never be eclipsed. This film had it all - gadgets, wisecracks, and above all, it took itself seriously. Great theme song by Tom Jones amid silhouettes of swimming babes. If you ever see one Bond film, this is the one. Just one thing - that high-pressure water jet coming from the Aston Martin's exhaust? Uh-uh. "}{"Title":"Sean's best Bond","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After disliking Goldfinger, because of the pasty-faced, chubby villain with the mute hit-man joined to his hip, I really took a liking to this flick. Emilio Largo, though much older than James, is a more-worthy, quite-athletic opponent who's surely able to beat the crap out of you if he can't beat you with plots and technology! Loved the appearance of the Vulcan bomber, the underwater photography, the basic plot line AND the very-beautiful, very-evil Spectre Woman, Fiona Volpe! She can murder me anytime. Also enjoy Bond's numerous, surely remarks throughout...when Every Double-0 man in Europe is hastily called to a meeting in Whitehall, James sloughs off it's importance Somebody probably lost a dog. This helps set the tone for the casual bravery of Willis in Die Hard and Gibson in Lethal Weapon. James Bond just doesn't take much seriously, even when his life is in peril, or when someone has just accidentally murdered his dance-partner. "},{"Title":"Very good in general, but best villainess of all.","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I've always liked it in general, but I've always been attached to it for more lopsided reasons. The main reason is Lucianna Paluzzi as Fiona, so I'm glad about some of the comments that have been made here. It seems like, if an actress is in only a few minutes of one of these movies, let alone a bigger role, she has that label Bond Girl attached to her (a mixed blessing, of course). But with this actress/character, it's just the opposite- I've read longish descriptions of the film without one mention of her. But - no offense to Claudine Auger/Domino - Fiona really steals the movie as far as female characters, good or bad, go. I know there have been complaints here, of a technical kind, about the showdown with Bond, Fiona and the gunman (problems with her height and so on). But I've always thought (as far as I've analysed it at all) that what he did was supposed to be a calculated risk on his part, simply enough. And as for the scene before it, in the hotel room - and this remark isn't a comment on nudity - it showed just how steamy a scene can be with a couple under bedsheets. I have only one complaint about that scene, and it's only a half-serious one. Afterwards, when Fiona reveals who she really is, Bond makes the stinging remark (and maybe that's all it's meant to be, I don't know), that the lovemaking gave him no pleasure. Now, does anyone who sees Luciana / Fiona in that film, and who knows the Bond character, really believe he didn't enjoy her, enemy or not? In fact, after the bed scene, she banteringly calls him you sadistic brute. So (to get into a slightly touchy area), maybe he combined the two things, by enjoying it AND making it a little rough for her. But no pleasure is pretty doubtful. Some Bond fans, maybe even a lot of them, consider Thunderball at least a relative disappointment, maybe even more than that. But to me (and evidently I'm not alone), the only disappointment comes after Fiona sits this one out. I think there's never been a better femme fatale in the movies. "},{"Title":"Wet fish","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The first mess. There are a number of things that weigh Thunderball down - the dialogue-voids of underwater sequences, or an opening exposition that takes ¾ hour, to list a couple. Principally, I became tired of the chopped-up over-dubbing, particularly that added after the fact to tweak the story. There's a lot of it. It's ugly and muddling.The story, such as we get it from the screen, becomes a mosaic of loose ends, non-sequiturs and redundant ideas. The core plot - SPECTRE steals bomb and makes threat, Bond investigates, action third act - runs rather well but the detail, the episodes are torturous.There is some respite, some invention and delight. John Barry clearly saw the restrictions of the underwater sequences as an opportunity, creating a wonderful hybrid of Saint-Saëns' Aquarium and the flute- inflected espion-intrigue music with which he ruled a decade of screen composition. There's also some good underwater photography and the two combine to make something lovely of a romantic vignette which is otherwise crowbarred in. Connery and other regulars are on good form and chief baddie Adolfo Celi is convincing. Relief from the trend of using glazed models instead of actresses comes by way of Luciana Paluzzi's beautiful, flamehaired henchwoman Volpe.The final underwater set piece is terrifically marshaled and shot, a peak of the variable thrills of the production. Yet it's also typical of the film in total, over-long and full of dramatic tangents. The final tableau is the nail in the coffin - Bond fussing with stuff when he should be stuffing the... you get it. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Probably looking for something different, taking Bond to a new level, Thunderball spends too much of its time underwater, but this is only one of its flaws. SPECTRE has been stealing Nukes, so Bond investigates. Bond finds that SPECTRE'S no. 2, Largo has taken the bombs, and will detonate if 100,000,000 million or some insane amount is not handed over. Bond meets Domino, a scuba diver who becomes entwined with the plot, and falls for James.The film is simply too slow after Goldfinger, Largo is a weak villain, the theme song is poor, the action is mostly underwater making in completely unexciting and difficult to understand as it is so dark. The only truly memorable scene is the shark pool one, but it is not enough to rescue the film. However, the movie was a massive hit. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The biggest disappointment of all Bond films.","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I perhaps despise Thunderball so much because I had great expectations when I watched it. Considering it is the highest-grossing Bond film of all time, I expected it to be at least on the same level as Goldfinger. But it wasn't. As a matter of fact ,it is rather mediocre. The problem is not that silliness that plagued so many Moore's flicks( many of them were nevertheless enjoyable), but a horrible, ill-conceived screenplay and a technical work which seems amateurish. As I have stated many times, Bond films( From Russia with Love aside) are not espionage movies. They are action-adventure flicks, dealing with exhilarating chases and fights ,death-defying stunts and a bevy of beautiful women. Therefore the real problem a Bond movie can face is not a thin ( even nonsensical ) plot, or cardboard characters, but a plodding, non action pace. And Thunderball is slow, painfully slow. For the most part , it is an exotic intrigue which would be OK if there was any mystery to solve. But there isn't. Everyone is a step ahead of Bond. Just imagine how boring is to watch Death on the Nile once somebody has told you who the murderer is. When Bond is not spending his time flirting with the gorgeous Fiona Volpe or the dull Domino, he just does some diving to find out where the bombs are. He is indeed having a good holiday, but a 120 minute film simply cannot afford to spend 25 minutes with underwater sequences which add nothing to the plot. As for the technical flaws, they are particularly noticeable in the final scene when Bond confronts Largo on board the Disco Volante. Using fast motion back projection to give the impression the yacht is moving fast makes Thunderball feel like a B movie instead of the $9 million budget picture it is.I could go on with a lot of minor flaws, but it's up to you to watch this and decide. Thunderball is strictly for fans. "},{"Title":"A Real Mixed Bag Of Good & Bad","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A typical early James Bond movie, filled with beautiful women, a sexist and suave spy can who can do little wrong (Sean Connery as Bond), a few gadgets and a lot of action scenes. The gadgets, which are always fun, were fewer in number than usual, I am sorry to say. The action scenes, although interesting, had absolutely no credibility. Of course, that isn't anything new but they are particularly ludicrous here. Our hero eliminates almost everyone while no one hits him! Also, there are a number of scenes in which Bond escapes from impossible situations and they never show how he did them. All of a sudden, he's pictured somewhere else.In addition, with so many foreign accents, it was difficult to understand the dialog, at least on tape when I last viewed this. Perhaps the DVD has English subtitles, which would help immensely.Otherwise, the filmmakers keep this lively story moving fast most of the time and if you are a male who likes ogle pretty women, you have a lot to choose from here beginning with Claudine Auger. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Terence Young, produced by Kevin McClory, Harry Saltzman and Albert Broccoli and with a screenplay by Richard Maibaum and John Hopkins, this is the fourth film in the franchise 007. In this film, the franchise reaches the maturity after the consecration with Goldfinger. The participation of McClory seems strange but, in fact, it's the result of a legal conflict, prior to the production.In this film, the British secret agent is admitted to a nursing home when he finds out, by sheer luck, a conspiracy to rob a French jet with two nuclear bombs. Not having been able to prevent it, Bond is sent to the Bahamas in order to contact the sister of the late pilot of the missing plane and obtain more information. It turns out that the girl is also the lover of Emilio Largo, the responsible for the disappearance. Bond escapes all assassination attempts and find the missing plane, as well as the enemy's plans and his connection to the terrorist organization SPECTRE, the same that Bond had already been fighting since the previous films.In this film, Sean Connery got a perfect interpretation of his James Bond. Rude, a little hard with the opposite sex but always seductive, he marked for decades the idea of the public on how Bond should be. In addition to the idyllic scenery of the Caribbean, the film brings us some curious machines, continuing a tradition which was closely associated to the 007 imaginary. It is the case of the jet-bag used in the opening scenes, the armored-boat used by the villain in the final chase or the respiratory device used by Bond in some of the underwater scenes that made this movie famous. However, in my opinion, one of the reasons why this movie has reached excellence is the relevance of its central subject, a subject that, at that time, was very present in society the danger of a nuclear attack. We must have in mind that the missile crisis in Cuba happened a few years before the film was released and the whole society, both in the US and in Europe, lived under the imminent danger of a missile war.James Bond and the characters M, Q and Monneypenny were embodied by the same actors from the previous films. To these artists joined Claudine Auger (in the role of bond-turned, Domino), Luciana Paluzzi (in the role of assassin Fiona Volpe) and Adolfo Celi (in the role of villain, Largo). "},{"Title":"An explosive amount of fun","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The title Thunderball may refer to the threat of atomic annihilation, but I think the name of the fourth James Bond film refers to the explosive amount of fun one has while watching the film. Call me ebullient, but this is easily one of the best Bond films to have graced the silver screen, powered by its gratifying, absorbing and exciting nature.As an entry in the Bond canon, Thunderball gloriously exhibits all the features of a 007 film with unmistakable excellence. Starting with gadgets, everyone is familiar with Bond's brief but iconic jetpack escape in the film's opening. Although most of the gadgets introduced by Q are humorously dated by today's standards, this is a nanoscopic flaw, as we are also treated to the repartee between Bond and the classic characters of Q, M, Moneypenny and Felix Leiter. It would be criminal to avoid mention of Tom Jones' sublime title song, which introduces the stunning sounds of the brass and musical motifs that appear throughout the film. Casino Royale fans will easily pick up on the many references to Thunderball, such as the setting of the Bahamas, a visit to the casino, sexy beach scenes and much more.The film exhibits the classic fashion, architecture and visual style of the 60s, and its revolutionary devotion to underwater sequences still demands respect from the audience 50 years later. I disagree with the assertion that the underwater scenes are monotonous and too long; they are exquisitely shot, despite the inconsistencies in lighting and editing, and they overcame the miscellaneous difficulties of shooting underwater (think pre-digital cameras, currents, sharks and communication). If you disregard some of the future Bond films and the fatuous Austin Powers films, the premise of the world being held hostage by two NATO bombs feels original and genuinely threatening.It's no secret that I think Daniel Craig is the best Bond, but he marginally beats Sean Connery, who commands the film with an inimitable coolness, wit and handsomeness, even if he acts like a misogynist prick at times. There are many memorable one-liners, such as She's just dead and I think he got the point. In addition to the gorgeous Bond girls of the film, Connery is also supported by the formidable villain the eye- patched Sicilian Emilio Largo, who bears a striking resemblance to the Tintin villain Rastapopoulos. Despite its brief appearance, the Spectre office is a gorgeous Ken Adams set that is simply breathtaking. In addition to Thunderball's influence on other classic blockbusters, such as The Godfather, Jaws and Star Wars, its most memorable (and perhaps strongest) quality is the immense fun and excitement experienced by viewers. Rarely have I cheered for a film throughout its entire runtime, constantly reminding myself not only how brilliant it is, but how the best action movies are not restricted to the 21st century. "},{"Title":"Its like Bond has no fear... for sharks.","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Goldfinger was great. It had everything you wanted. And afterwards, came Thunderball...The music wasn't anything special this time. It was OK... nothing to exciting, except the chaos music. That was pretty cool.The story, was for that time original. If you watch the movie now, you'll get where millions of movies got their inspiration. This was probably the standard for the Give me money, or die scene. I liked the way Bond remained calm, and his cooperation with Leiter. That is something to notice...As for the actions... cleverly thought. I liked the fight in the basin, the encounters with the sharks, and the underwater battlefield. I mean, some people may find it boring, but I found it intriguing.The special effects were well done... except for the part in the boat at the end. It looked as if the boat was going faster than a plane... but that might be because it is not the newest movie ever created.I still liked the movie, and due my phobia for sharks, I remained stiff every time I saw one. "},{"Title":"I hope we didn't frighten the fish","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Having just started reading my first Ian Fleming novel (Goldfinger), I was in the mood for some 007. I decided to watch Terence Young's third and final contribution to the franchise &#x96; 'Thunderball (1965).' By now, the James Bond films had become a subgenre of their own among the elements audiences could expect were megalomaniacal super-criminals, exotic locations, beautiful women, clever gadgets, and no shortage of sexual innuendo. Given that this is my first Bond film in a while, it got me thinking what is the appeal? I think it's interesting that the franchise is considered the definitive spy series, when many of the films &#x96; even as early as 'Goldfinger (1964)' and 'Thunderball' &#x96; play more comfortably as satirical homages to the more straight-faced genre entries. I had thought that perhaps this was a cinematic invention, but, no, Fleming's original novels still boast characters with such ridiculous names as Pussy Galore, and instances of sexism and racism so blatant that he seems to be consciously mocking genre clichés.Like Hitchcock's 'North by Northwest (1959)' (a crucial precursor to the series), the Bond films are satirical of the thriller genre, but in a manner subtle enough not to detract emphasis from the characters and story (that is, of course, until the franchise became too breezy and self-referential for its own good). Importantly, the films arrived just as the grip of the Production Code was slackening, and Bond came to represent the heterosexual ideal &#x96; handsome, courageous until fire, and very successful with the opposite sex. Have I mentioned the beautiful women? Well, OK, write it down, and then underline it &#x96; in 'Thunderball,' they steal the show. There is an inescapable chauvinism in how Bond seduces his sexual partners. His treatment of nurse Patricia (Molly Peters), for example, goes well beyond sexual harassment. Strong, independent female characters are ground down by Bond's fiery charms, some almost bullied into sexual submissiveness. Despite his bigotry, or perhaps because of it, male viewers can't help but idolise Bond.The bulk of 'Thunderball' unfolds in the Bahamas, where 007 (Sean Connery) is sniffing out some British nuclear weapons hijacked by SMERSH's eyepatch-clad #2 man (Adolfo Celi). The film was produced on a greater budget than its predecessors, and it shows, with a good many of the action set-pieces (and even a particularly bewildering sexual encounter) unfolding entirely underwater. These sequences, no doubt, would have been extraordinarily difficult to orchestrate, but the idea itself is lacking. No amount of a skillful editing can hide the fact that underwater&#x85; everything&#x85; just&#x85; moves&#x85; so&#x85; slowly. These scenes, at least, are compensated for by a virtuoso sequence in which a SMERSH operative ingeniously hijacks an armed military aircraft (in a set-up that probably inspired the prologue of Woo's 'Mission Impossible II (2000)') and conceals it in the blackened depths of the ocean. With Sean Connery in top form, 'Thunderball' is worth a look, both as an entertaining spy adventure, and as a characteristic entry into the James Bond canon. "}{"Title":"Villains, babes, Tom Jones singing","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Villains, babes, Tom Jones singing in the opening credits. This movie has it all, not to mention that ever-suave 007 Bond, James Bond. The action and continuity never let up. The audience are always on the edge of their seats, waiting excitedly for what happens next.James Bond is the super-cool sleuth of that era, and there were plenty of spy knock-offs and James Bond imitators. There was even Get Smart, a TV secret agent show with comedic pratfalls and a bumbling Maxwell Smart title character. His assistant was Number 99, not exactly like Bond's brainless bimbos, but still pretty and fashionable in a ladylike sort of way.There was no super-spy like James Bond, and no Bond like Sean Connery. He was brilliant, and at an age in his 30s where he looked good in his expensive suits and dark hair style. He looked good in sunglasses. He always liked to have a babe or two on his arms.The era was beat-the-Russians in the space race, or the Cold War. There was lots of intrigue. Politically, it was a transitional time from the Eisenhower era to Kennedy to the goal of putting a man on the moon -- that did not happen until 1969. Another spy entertainment was Spy vs. Spy, a black and white TV cartoon that came from Mad Magazine. Still others were Boris and Natasha (spies) segments on Rocky and Bullwinkle TV show.Thunderball took place a lot in the water. I wonder if Adolfo Celi and Sean Connery did their own underwater stunts. I know that Connery was an athlete and bodybuilder in his early days.A great movie. "},{"Title":"Bond goes under cover...under the cover of water...a different spin","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In my continuing new found fascination with James Bond I watched Thunderball. I don't think it quite has the legendary status as some of other Connery's Bond films like Goldfinger and it wasn't quite up to par with some of the others I have seen either like the aforementioned Goldfinger or Dr. No BUT it definitely has some distinguishable qualities to it. First of all so much of this film involves underwater stunts and scenes underwater and not a lot of films do that when the entire idea of the film is not under water. It takes action to a new level below the sea and that is a very cool idea. The story is decent and understandable and easy to follow, we find out some more details about the organization Bond works for (like that there are other double 0 agents working), it has a memorable villain in Largo with his dastardly eye patch, and some really great action sequences. In fact Thunderball might have the most action thus far in the Bond films before it. However I still didn't think it had quite the same flare or feel than the previous films. Bond wasn't quite the ladies man that he usually is but he did seem a little tougher around the edges as well during his fight scenes. Thunderball also marks itself as being the most violent in the series thus far as well.Sean Connery returns to the role of none other than James Bond. Connery is still my favorite Bond so far. He just completely embodies the role and I will be sad to move on to another Bond when I get past his films. Connery is legendary in the role and I think he set the bar for all future Bonds. Claudine Auger is the latest Bond girl and she perhaps has the most significant role out of any of the Bond girls and yet I found her almost boring in the role. Her and Connery had zero chemistry and she was so dull in the role sadly. Adolfo Celi plays the latest Bond Villain and number 2 in the SPECTRE organization. He is a memorable villain although doesn't match Dr. No or Goldfinger in my mind. And he doesn't really have any notable henchman per se. Still he is a good adversary and does a good job at being bad. Bernard Lee returns as no nonsense M and Lois Maxwell returns briefly as Miss Moneypenny. The role of casual Bond partner, CIA Agent Felix Leiter is played decently by Rik Van Nutter. I wish they had one actor stick to the role because he changes a lot.If there is one solid reason to watch Thunderball it is the final battle at the end of the film in the last fifteen minutes. This scene might be first of all the best end battle of any film ever, and it is one of the coolest movie scene in history. The bad guys decked out in black (of course) including the head guy Largo are all under water in full scuba gear. They are ambushed by good guys who parachute from the sky into the sea in full Scuba gear and bright Orange and a battle...a war between them breaks out using harpoon guns, knives and fists. Bond gets in the mix and the result is the coolest under water fight I have ever seen that continues on for a good ten, fifteen minutes. A guy gets a rod in the eye, people are getting harpooned everywhere, people are drowning, bodies everywhere...it's just wicked cool. Everything builds up to this scene and it's really quite astounding. Terence Young directs the film returning after the less than stellar outing of From Russia With Love but he redeems himself with this decent Bond installment. I know that sometimes the Bond films move into a little bit of the cheesy dialog and action and some cheesy special effects from time to time but part of the problem with Thunderball is some of the action and scenes seemed especially cheesy. But then there is plenty of action and explosions, a little light on the story but it definitely is worthy of the Bond name. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"BOND#4 And He Strikes...","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" MASTER PLAN blackmail NATO for 100 million pounds after stealing two nuclear warheads. This was SPECTRE at its ultimate. No messing around anymore. It was also, in many ways, Bond at his ultimate Bond mania had reached its peak around this time, with this film building on the amazing popularity established by Goldfinger, and, at such a pinnacle, there was nowhere to go but down. We need to realize that, adjusted for today's dollars, these Bond films (Goldfinger and Thunderball) were as financially successful as the current Pirates of the Caribbean movies, truly the biggest films of the year back then. The teaser in this one, taking place in France, contains an energetic fight and the now-famous jet pack flier, an extension of Bond's growing preoccupation with gadgetry. Tom Jones sings over the credits, a male version of Bassey's Goldfinger song. Like in Goldfinger, Bond begins this adventure while off duty, at some health spa, but he manages to have a peripheral connection to SPECTRE's latest plot while there anyway (Bond seems to have a knack for being in the right place at the wrong time, or something). There's a particularly sensuous scene during this sequence with an on-site nurse/masseur, Bond's latest female conquest.This film retains the sense of absurdity always frittering away at the edges of a Bond story, probably to the delight of the audience. Take, for example, the early attempt to kill Bond at the spa, using one of the stretching machines to which he is tied to; now, would an exercise machine really have a lever setting which could kill the person on it, with no way for the person to free himself? I don't think there would be much sales of such a machine, except to such sadists as employed by SPECTRE. Speaking of this organization, this is where its framework was expanded to a more grand scale Blofeld is seen once again, only from the neck down, with his cat (following From Russia With Love), this time presiding over a complete group of top level dastards, numbering #2 on up (Largo, the chief villain of this story, is no.2). In a neat parallel, we later see the same set up on the side of the good guys, with Bond taking a seat among all the double-0 agents, his one-on-one meeting with M delayed due to this special group briefing. This lent a new scale to the Bond adventure; the filmmakers seem to be telling us that it's all bigger, grander - a Bond to surpass what came before and maybe what was to be. These are the better scenes, as is Bond's flirting with Moneypenny, who looks extra attractive in this one. We don't see Q until later, since he has to dispense his gadgets and commentary out in the field - a slight deviation, but it would be repeated in later films.Bond's mission takes him primarily to the Bahamas (M was going to send him to Canada, but Bond convinced him otherwise). This allows for some great, picturesque scenery and glorious photography - this may very well be the best-looking Bonder. It also entailed a lot of underwater photography which, while usually attractive, slows everything down; no one can escape the fact that any scenes taking place underwater take twice as long to get through in comparison to those on land - it's all in slow motion and there's just so much one can do with editing. I'm not referring to the climactic battle which, if at least seen in widescreen DVD or Laserdisc, on a big screen, can be exciting (the muddy TV broadcast versions are just no go). But, there are just too many underwater sequences throughout, including Bond poking around underneath a boat at night and even one in a swimming pool, with the sharks (the shark motif was recurring here, copied in later Bond films, a weirdly fantastic method of the villain). Largo can be dangerous in that crude old-style gangster manner, complete with an eye-patch to suggest modern pirates, but supreme agent Bond seems to know from the outset that he'll be dealt with in customary, simplistic-brutal fashion; there doesn't really seem to be a great threat. The henchman, Vargas, is little more than a cypher, not very imposing and with little to do. More interesting is the female villain, Volpe (a replacement for SPECTRE#3 Klebb, of From Russia With Love fame), but she doesn't have too much screen time. CIA liaison Leiter was modeled somewhat on actor Lord's version in Dr.No, but with less presence. Connery retained much of his edge in this one; if only he had greater foes to go up against. This was remade with a much older Connery as Never Say Never Again in '83; but, Bond would be back in You Only Live Twice. Bond9 Villain7 Femme Fatales8 Henchmen4 Leiter6 Fights8 Stunts/Chases8 Gadgets9 Auto8 Locations9 Pace7 overall7+ "},{"Title":"Bond flick with a fit looking Connery, slightly confusing plotting but average to good movie overall","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond is looking smart, fit and trim in this one. Connery at 35 running around is fun to watch. The girls are abundant, pretty and very willing as always, however I found them a bit similar looking and sometimes it was confusing who was who if one was dosing off after a big X-Mas dinner.Underwater sequences are the highlight of the movie and they are well made considering it was 1965. The tradition of raising standards of stunts/action sequences and spectacular locations is well maintained.The story however is a bit confusing to follow sometimes as it moves abruptly and quickly at times. Some of the underwater scenes are too dark to fathom but don't last too long to annoy.Bond looks like a secret agent in this one by his attire and manner. However the movie lacks some of the charm all over which makes it ... well a bit dull compared to the others due to long instances of no dialogue and not much action. Some might like that as it brings some seriousness to product. It takes itself a bit more seriously that other Bond movies.Still a well made Bond movie and mostly remembered by its aqua theme. "},{"Title":"The Bond Machine Rolled On....","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the huge world-wide success of Goldfinger, and more money in the bank for the production team, the development of this concept (who still was in it's childhood, but now a strong teenager soon to become a full grown man)was straight forward to new environments. And of course the around-the-world theme of James Bond that almost made a dry-out twenty years later, in terms of planning destinations for future 007-movies, all continents almost used, except the deepest arctic areas maybe. This overall great Bond movie has it all for being ranked as one of the classics; the action-packed opening scene, the memorable strong tune from one Tom Jones, the perfect look villain of Adolfo Celi. And the women, Oh! the women. I think most of the female actors in those days, who hanged around the largest movie company studios for gigs already knew by then, that a part in a 007 adventure meant immortality on the big screen. Claudine Auger and Luciana Paluzzi no exceptions. These two enchanting women brings color to this picture when it sometimes starts to lack in tempo. And YES, I have to mention it the too many under water shots, who had been discussed by Bond fans in almost fifty years. If the movie had been cut down a few minutes or so, I think it would enriched it. Bigger adventures were to come, much BIGGER..... "},{"Title":"Thunderball Review","Date":"20 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After seeing James Bond in action in three big, iconic missions, Thunderball blasts to the scene with the promise of more action, more gadgets, more ladies, bigger stakes, more exotic locations, and so much more! At this point, the Bond formula had been established firmly enough so that Thunderball only has to follow a template full of established tropes and clichés. Many folks will say that it makes this one of the duller movies. I personally always thought it was a blast though. Among the highlights, this film follows Bond on a colorful journey to Nassau, where he has to constantly out-think and outwit the opposition. There's a lot of deceptive mindgames at work, followed by some chasing and some fighting, before a massive all-out battle underwater. It's a long film, but it is consistently thrilling and it has a satisfying payoff. Best of all, the film remains iconic thanks to the classic elements at play Bond's classic charm, a classic villain we love to hate, and an overall sense of class.The premise is pretty simple, generally not much different than a lot of modern action movies revolving around stolen nuclear weapons (like Broken Arrow, The Rock, Mission Impossible, you name it). It follows Ian Flemming's novel practically word for word (which is unsurprising, since it was based on a screenplay to begin with). What makes it so fun is that it's twisty and complex, but not impossible to follow. Each new scene offers something that's either thrilling or alluring. The characters are as endearing as ever.Caught in epic widescreen photography, this film boasts plenty of bright and colorful scenery. Most of it looks great, especially with some steady and well-choreographed underwater photography. Some scenes, especially during the parade scene, are a bit rough around the edges. Editing can be nutty, as some dialogue has been cut, dubbed, and recut for various versions. Scenes usually transit well regardless. Acting is great Sean Connery is still the man, and I always enjoyed the performances of Adolfo Celi, the lovely Claudine Auger, and the lovely Licuana Paluzzi. Writing is okay - the plot unravels well, and the dialogue is usually good, but some of the jokes can be a little goofy. This production uses great-looking locales, and lots of fine-looking sets, props, and costumes. John Barry's music score is as good as ever, and Tom Jones' theme song is hip.To me, Thunderball is one of the most perfect Bond adventures. It has all the right signature elements we know and love, but with tons of thrills and action. It is a long adventure that might strain the patience of many viewers, but I think it's classy, sexy, exciting stuff.4.5/5 (Experience Perfect | Story Good | Film Very Good) "},{"Title":"Look Up! Look Down! Look Out!","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A Vulcan bomber carrying two nuclear warheads is hijacked by international crime syndicate SPECTRE. The jet is downed off the coast of The Bahamas where SPECTRE agents proceed to capture the warheads. Unless a ransom of £100 million in diamonds is paid the organisation will use the bombs to obliterate a city in either Great Britain or the United States. James Bond(Sean Connery)has only four days to recover the warheads, so he races to the Caribbean to find them and do battle with SPECTRE once more...Tipped to be the biggest Bond of all, this fourth instalment in the 007 franchise certainly lives up to expectations. Not only did Thunderball replicate the stratospheric success of the first three Bond movies, it multiplied that success, grossing millions more worldwide. It would be (unofficially) remade eighteen years later as Never Say Never Again, also starring an older Sean Connery as an (illegitimate) Bond. Thunderball was one of my favourite films as a kid and has actually aged surprisingly well watching it now. Some of the dialogue did make me cringe a little but the script offers the obligatory Bond-isms that always make one chuckle(Bond, after harpooning a SPECTRE henchman on a beach-I think he got the point). Sean Connery is evidently loving his role as our globe trotting action hero and this is where the appeal stems from. Each Bond movie is unique in that every film is remembered solely for a different factor or plot element. In the case of Thunderball, that factor is the tight underwater sequences. Professionally shot, the lengthy underwater melee between hoards of SPECTRE frogmen and dozens of U.S navy SEALS was a rousing segment of action. Thunderball benefits fully from masterful cinematography and I was thoroughly impressed with shots of the realistically mocked up Vulcan bomber ferociously tearing up the skies as well as it's subsequent crash into the ocean. There is also a lot of undercranking(shooting footage at a slower frame rate so that the action appears to be super fast when played back)throughout the film, especially during the action scenes. Some will argue that this dates the movie horribly, but in my opinion the utilisation of this technique makes the action scenes in older movies like this one all the more enjoyable.Thunderball offers capable acting talent as well as some of the finest looking Bond girls the series has ever seen. Tom Jones' title song was good but it has never been one of my favourites. John Barry's orchestral score on the other hand marks some of the composer's best work. The soundtrack is slowed down for the scenes underwater and then sped up for the scenes on dry land which magnifies the excitement. The electrifying action sequences were given added punch thanks to magnificent special effects work(Those explosions were amazing!). Said action scenes never fail to disappoint and were executed in spectacular Bond fashion. The movie begins with an excellently choreographed fistfight followed by a rousing jetpack ride. Then we have a brief but rollicking car chase featuring the iconic Aston Martin DB5 as well as an intense foot chase through a crowded carnival procession. The aforementioned underwater battle was taut, it's one of the most chilling action sequences ever seen in the franchise!. Thunderball climaxes with an edge-of-your-seat naval battle between the U.S navy and SPECTRE henchmen before ending, quite literally with a bang as there is a fantastic brawl on the bridge of an out of control hydrofoil! James Bond would get better with each film as the 60s progressed and Thunderball is one of the franchise' most fondly remembered efforts. A rip roaring actioner that provides a couple of hours of unapologetic escapism, Thunderball is a sublime entry in the Bond series. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Mid-ranking Bond but still a favourite","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Terence Young returned for Thunderball at the height of the 007 craze, but this fourth Bond marks the first signs of the polish of the Eon formula becoming glazed. Young blamed the underwater sequences which dictated their own &#x96; inevitably more languorous &#x96; pace, although the muffled thud of the harpoons as they puncture the bodies they slam into gives it a nasty edge.The more cluttered script in Thunderball may lack the clean narrative line of its immediate predecessor Goldfinger, but there is plenty to enjoy. If the baddies are not quite so grotesque, Adolfo Celi has a powerful feral malevolence and Luciana Palazzo a voluptuous sexuality heightened by her refusal to succumb to our hero's charms (composer John Barry even awards her a musical legit motif of her own). She's got much more sexual electricity than Honour Blackman in the previous film, or indeed of main heroine Claudette Auger in this one. Young generally handles sex better than other Bond directors. Although the clichéd shots of Connery and Auger embracing underwater don't much work, the final shot in which they whisked into the blue yonder by a USAF rescue-plane has a rather magical quality.But it's also the first film where the gadgets begin to intrude. The protracted hijack and ditching of the Vulcan bomber, and the climactic underwater battle, means Connery is either not on screen or is semi-recognisable in a wetsuit, reduced to merely an operator of the propeller-back-tank.Other scenes - such as the Shrublands health farm and M's office - are pretty mundanely handled by Young. The fleeting reappearance of the Aston Martin, shot from only one angle in the short chase with Lippe's car, suggets there wasn't enough covering footage for the editors to assemble into something better. Meanwhile, clumsy continuity and poor colour grading intrude (Young only just escapes a disastrous lapse with Connery pictured in long shot with Rik Van Nutter's Felix Leiter at the casino before the script has them meeting next day).But Ted Moore's photography makes good use of the Bahaman location, all hard azure sea and white beaches. His handling of the Junkanoo carnival chase (one of the best sequences in the series) is a riot of exciting vibrant colour. Apart from the main theme, Thunderball boasts some of John Barry's wittiest music, notably his pounding calypso score for the Junkanoo chase, repeated for the climatic fight on board the hydrofoil. Only designer Ken Adam is constrained by a screenplay that doesn't call for a single large elaborate set, although the MI6 conference room is rather elegant. The traction-device in the health clinic, although even more sexually allusive, lacks the outré frisson of the laser-beam in Goldfinger.And the climax certainly delivers. Even if the matte shots used in the fight in the hydrofoil's cabin &#x96; as it skims precariously between the reefs - are quite blatantly speeded-up the resulting action is as vicariously exciting as Connery's battle with Robert Shaw in From Russia with Love, a furiously cramped bout of kicks, scuffles and bone-breaking blows, with music and editing used to maximum effect. "},{"Title":"One of the weaker of Connery's Bonds","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Great title and I like Tom Jones booming theme tune. You can't really watch it however without thinking off Austin Powers, especially as we have Number 2 with his eyepatch and the first in a long line of missing nuclear weapons. It's amiable enough stuff as it goes for a Bond film but not exactly groundbreaking. Admittedly it had a steep mountain to climb after the success of Goldfinger which is widely held to be the best of Connery's. Impressive special effects with the Vulcan bomber too, especially considering this was the mid-sixties and it's nice to see Bond actually in these elaborate places when it was quite blatantly faked in Goldfinger. We also get to meet the rest of the double-Os for the first time. The bad points? As the critics observed at the time the underwater sequences just go on and on, Ian Fleming a keen scuba diver in real life and it certainly shows here, although the final battle with the SEALs/UDT navy divers is genuinely exciting. The all too common failing of the Bond films (and espionage films in general) is the miraculous coincidence, we have it here with Bond stumbling across the plot whilst at the health farm just as he did with Goldfinger. Bond's misogyny is also to the fore here, the nurse at the health farm is actually a pretty good match for Bond and stands up to him but in the end he essentially blackmails her into having sex with him (ALMOST forcing himself upon her). Needless to say after that she's putty in his hands. Still, she's more memorable than the Bond girl whose name I can't even remember plus another very weak Felix Leiter. So all told, pretty good but nothing exceptional. "},{"Title":"'Thunderball' takes Bond to a new level in entertainment","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's go big or go home for Ian Fleming's James Bond in Thunderball, his fourth film adventure in as many years. Producers Harry Saltzman and Albert R. Broccoli (though uncredited in this film due to a lawsuit) threw incredible money into this Bond film, more than the first three combined. That doesn't make Thunderball better, but it does make it the first most lavish Bond entry and an exciting one in ways new to the franchise.The Thunderball story leaves a little to be desired, but essentially, SPECTRE is back in action with No. 2, Emilio Largo (Adolfo Celi), leading the charge. His plan is to hijack a NATO plane armed with nuclear weapons and essentially hold the world at ransom. Bond must travel to Nassau, Bahamas in order to find the carefully hidden nukes.Thunderball ups the sum of gadgets and ladies, as you might expect from a massive budget. There are three women you might count as Bond girls his assistant Paula (Martine Beswick), the femme fatale Fiona (Luciana Paluzzi) and the endangered love interest, Domino (Claudine Auger) among others. Bond also sexually harasses them and arguably rapes one of them by today's definitions, but that's the '60s for you.Q (Desmond Llewelyn) stocks Bond up with underwater breathing devices, a jetpack an underwater jetpack and more. The script does a good job of sneaking in the times when Bond must use them, which makes the movie that much more exciting. These toys add to the entertainment value, even if at times it feels as though Bond is slipping out of the thriller genre and completely into this action-spy territory.Everything culminates in a lengthy underwater harpoon and knife battle royale between Largo's SPECTRE cronies and U.S. forces. For 1965, this must've been exhaustive to film. Truthfully, no matter how you feel about Thunderball in the grand scheme of Bond films, you have to count this scene among the most impressive sequences in franchise history.Many of the film's other parts move slowly or don't seem to add much; there are lots of characters to account for in this story. CIA agent Felix Leiter, played by yet another actor in Rik Van Nutter, serves only to get Bond out of jams. Bond jumps from woman to woman as well, which makes it hard to fall for Auger, the central Bond girl. She has her own motives in the story at least, but she's really just someone for Bond to make out with on a life raft in the end.Thunderball really ups the entertainment factor for the Bond franchise, moving these films toward the next echelon of spy movie. Terence Young, who returns after directing the first two films but skipping Goldfinger (how do you blame him for not wanting to make four films in four consecutive years?) shows he can handle the bigger budget and still make Bond gritty and real in spite of the story thrusting him into larger-than-life heroics.The middle portion of the film might be an unmemorable blur, but as an action film, Thunderball is shoulders above the previous entries.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit moviemusereviews.com "}{"Title":"Average but good Bond movie","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball (1965) is the fourth movie in the James Bond series. The director of the first two movies, Terence Young, returned to direct this one and it would be his last Bond film. Sean Connery returns once again as 007, Adolfo Celi was casted as the villain Largo, and the eye candy is provided by Claudine Auger as the good girl and Luciana Paluzzi as the bad girl.The international criminal organization SPECTRE is at it again. Their agent Emilio Largo has stolen two nuclear devices and the whole world is held hostage. While on a health clinic in England James Bond gets a lead on Largo and follows him to Nassau. There he meets Largo's mistress Domino whom Bond tries to get to help him. However, SPECTRE's top assassin Fiona Volpe is on to 007.Thunderball is not a bad movie, but it does have couple problems. It simply can't live up to the expectations left by the three previous films in the series. The movie tries very much to be another From Russia with Love, an intense spy thriller with action on the side, but simply can't get there. The same thing bothers actors. Connery still plays the part well but you can see it is becoming a routine. Adolfo Celi and Claudine Auger both do a competent job, but they simply don't live up to previous Bond villains and girls.The other thing that bothers the film is that it drags a bit towards the end. The first hour in the film goes well but after that the whole finding the nuclear devices takes longer than needed and the final underwater battle could have been shorter as well. The film simply gets a bit boring at times.As said though, Thunderball is not a bad movie and it has many enjoyable moments in it. The opening intro where Bond uses the famous, though silly looking, rocket jet-pack to escape, the SPECTRE briefing scene where mysterious faceless leader executes a traitor, Bond's unrelenting attempts to seduce a nurse in health clinic and the already mentioned underwater battle, though long very beautiful, are all worth the watch. The settings are beautiful and actors know what they're doing. Not to mention Tom freaking Jones sings the opening theme.To sum it up, Thunderball is a bit of a letdown after the first three brilliant Bond films but it doesn't belong with the very worst of the series either. An average and okay action film that is worth one viewing at least. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Underwater Adventure","Date":"24 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The success of Goldfinger ensured that the James Bond franchise had a solid footing in the entertainment industry. It was inevitable that in their next Bond outing, they would make it bigger, more action packed, and louder than Goldfinger. The result was Thunderball a high octane action packed movie with high stakes. Sadly, despite the potential of the movie and the action, it still could not measure up to the entertainment quality of Goldfinger. That does not mean to say that Thunderball was a droll. Far from it. It was still very entertaining in its own right.The film features the return of SPECTRE and Bond's old nemesis, Ernst Stravo Blofeld. SPECTRE has managed to hijack twin atomic bombs from NATO and is planning to use it against the civilian population unless the sum of 100 million pounds is paid.Again, Bond is called to save the world. This was Sean Connery's fourth outing as Bond which he does with considerable charm in the exotic scenery of Nassau. From the exciting pre credit sequence where he straps on a rocket bag to make his escape from a château after a vicious combat with a SPECTRE member, to another entanglement with another SPECTRE member in a health centre, from his being drawn into the operation to retrieve the bombs and his lethal cat and mouse game with the beautiful female assassin Fiona Volpe and her boss Largo which culminates in an epic underwater battle, Connery holds his own and proves without a doubt why most people still regard him as the best Bond ever.Largo, played by Italian Adolfo Celi with considerable charm is No 2 in the SPECTRE organization and is the one entrusted with the job of stealing those bombs. He is aided by his assassin the voluptuous Fiona Volpe (Luciana Paluzzi) who proves that she is more than a match for Bond. She is the first woman (since the Chinese lady of Dr. No) smart enough and strong enough not to succumb to Bond's charm after making love and shows that her alliance to SPECTRE is stronger than any seduction trick Bond may out of the hat.That is not to say that Bond does not have another chink in Largo's armour. The chink is in the form of Largo's mistress called Domino who has her own personal motive for wanting to help Bond. Despite her beauty and being on the good side, Volpe still made a much more interesting and arresting character. What can I say? Evil seduces and bad girls are always more magnetic than good girls. Remember the song of the Pussycat Dolls? Don't you wish your girlfriend was bad like me..? The other Bond regulars also featured, Bernard Lee(M), Lois Maxwell(Moneypenny) and Desmond Llelwyn(Q).An entertaining film. Definitely. "},{"Title":"Th(under-water) ball","Date":"4 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The IMDb average of 7 out of 10 seems just about right for this mid-60's Bond feature, being not quite in the top echelon of classic Bond, but better than most. Great title for a start, even if the title song's a bit limp - John Barry was to up his game on this score with the succeeding title song to You Only Live Twice and the great chase music to On Her Majesty's Secret Service.The film entertains more than it pulsates and is probably too long by 20 minutes or so. Connery however was by now spot-on with his characterisation and even with the toupee, looks as good as he could physically in the part. He gets ample opportunity to womanise, deliver tart one-liners and utilise Q's new paraphernalia (amazing how every item that gets introduced somehow finds a way to get used later in the plot!).Claudine Auger is fine as this movie's Bond girl, although she seems markedly younger than earlier prototypes (think Ursula Andress or Honor Blackman) while Adolfe Celi makes a good villain, Largo, who even though he makes ample use of his failed confederates as shark food, yet just seems to lack that little bit of extra sadism or devil that Goldfinger or Blofeld demonstrated so memorably.The direction is slick and pretty, although the film does get bogged down with its preponderance of underwater fights - very hard to make their natural sluggishness seem action-filled, although there is compensation in some defter touches elsewhere - I particularly liked the underwater signifying of the tryst between Bond and Auger's Domino, their passion demonstrated with a froth of bubbles escaping above them to the surface. Perhaps lacking the memorable set-pieces of say Goldfinger or Diamonds Are Forever, Thunderball is still good quality Bond and rarely show its age. "},{"Title":"My fourth and THE FOURTH of the JAMES BOND legacy","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a very exhilarating James Bond film in places, with all the underwater battle scenes, (and most of the land fight scenes) the plotting of Spectre and James Bond and of course the sharks. It was, for me, not the most exciting of the James Bonds, however, as it moved along quite slowly and all the exciting sequences were inserted among much calmer scenes. I enjoyed most of the exciting scenes, as well as the plot of the film, the locations, the good woman and the performance of Sean Connery as Bond himself. He was once again a very good actor in Thunderball and does well with swimming (although it is highly debatable concerning the amount of underwater scenes he would have done). The only problems I had with this film was the slow pace of the scenes between fights and cool bits (as mentioned above) and the evil woman, who just irritated me. It has quite a different atmosphere compared to the previous Bond films, especially as there is so much set underwater and around the sea (there may have been ocean scenes in Dr. No, but not nearly as much as this). The hiding of the submarine in Thunderball is a very interesting scene, as well as the water meeting of James Bond and the good woman.I recommend this Bond installment to people who like those films with some slow-moving scenes and very well-organized and scheming battle scenes. Enjoy Thunderball! -)7 and a half out of ten. "},{"Title":"Not as good as some of the others, but still fun","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The theme song is done by Tom Jones this time and the intro is underplayed next to Goldfinger, but is still done with panache.Connery seems too comfortable as Bond, and the other characters act as though he can do nothing wrong. Connery is surrounded by beautiful women, less gadgets and toys, and more action in the action scenes, this time around, and it just feels rehashed and overdone like a holiday ham. OH wait. That was Connery.This is the fourth installment of the Bond run, and Connery apparently identifies with the persona, I am sorry to say. His arrogance and over-posturing really does detract from the movie.SPECTRE is still at the forefront, and Bond gets to show off some new toys brought into the field by Q (Desmond Llewellyn). Connery seems to like the toys and the power they represent, but alas! this time, they are few in number, and seem uninspired in creation. But do note the jet pack at the opening of this movie. Also take note of Claudine Auger, who was Miss France, 1958. Wow! All in all? This is fun, but not as fun as most of the other Bond movies.It rates a 6.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Underwater Bond","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" How could they top a film like Goldfinger? Make Thunderball, a film which could not be more different.It is a another big budget film . Basically Blofeld is holding the world to ransom by stealing two nuclear missiles and Bond goes to the Bahamas to find them.Cue lots of underwater action which unfortunately slows the film down -- and yet with Terence Young as director and Peter Hunt as editor, the film constantly excites. The scenes are shot in Panavision-- Bond goes to a briefing with all the double O's present , he is chased by villains during the junkanoo and at the film's climax there is a spectacular underwater battle -- this film has size! Adolfo Celi is an adequate villain, Claudine Auger is pretty and fun as Domino and Lucianna Paluzzi is excellent as Fiona --giving Bond a very scary ride.John Barry's score is subtle and sexy. Sean Connery gives a great performance -- his comic asides are hilarious ( ....she's just dead ...Wait 'til you get to my teeth  and  I think he got the point  are classics!) "},{"Title":"Solid Film- Not Quite A Goldfinger","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sean Connery is in good form here (in fact this was remade As NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN but would say this is the stronger entry). The opening sequence with it's quick twists & turns give you enough excitement for a while. After the credits, the film falls into a lot of plot development. The only drawback with this film is some confusion at the end of the film with the underwater sequencing.Even the remake gets a little foggy with theirs, but this one is a complete mess with what is happening underwater at a couple of points. The technology is top notch & the action sequences are very good. The script is quite sharp, & all the regulars are here for this one. The Tom Jones theme is not one of the best ones. The women are interesting though not the most beautiful in the series. The technology in this is starting to look more dated now. "},{"Title":"one of the best bond movies","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball is the perfect bond movie with beautiful underwater locations and a good villain (Largo). I liked the part where all the Spectre agents are together and are listening to Blofeld. You see also all the 00 agents together in a beautiful designed room. The underwater fighting scenes at the end of the movie are brilliant and Fiona Volpe is a beautiful bond girl. I really liked the sharks in the swimming pool of Largo. This bond movie is one that you don't want to miss. A classic bond movie.This is also one of the most successful bond movies, also because there was a remake (unofficial James Bond Movie) called Never Say Never Again. Together with On her Majesty's Secret Service, The Spy Who Loved Me, For Your Eyes Only and Goldfinger one of the best in the series. "},{"Title":"Not the best Bond movie!","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with others that this movie is weak when compared to other Bond movies. However, the worst part of this movie is that, other than the title song, the music score is downright irritating, especially during the so-called suspense scenes! Even pleasant music (which this certainly was not) would grate on you if played over & over & over & over! "},{"Title":"Average Bond","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball is probably one of the average Bond films. It's not too bad, but it's nothing special. Basically, I think one of the major problems with this film is that it's too slow. Compared with From Russia With Love and Goldfinger, this really feels like a couple of steps down.*** spoiler alert ***I think the biggest problem is the speed of the boat at the end. The external shots look ok, but the obviously projected images inside the boat make it look like it's travelling at warp speed! I nearly fell out of the chair laughing at this.*** end spoilers ***However, it's still a very entertaining movie and it's also the first Bond in 2.351. For widescreen addicts like me, this is certainly a huge plus.I rate it 7/10 "}{"Title":"Makes it until the end.","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of the few Bond movies to follow the book very closely.  But that may be part of it's downfall.  Parts of the book that come off very well look pretty silly in the movie.  The most notable one is the underwater battle at the end.  It goes on way too long and the shots of the battle overhead make one ask why didn't they just strafe the area from a helicopter?  Then it gets really silly with the super boat.  But up until that point this is a good movie.  The whole scheme seems believable and pulled off very chillingly (never renegotiate with SPECTRE).  The scene with Blofeld is very well done and Adolfo Celi is perfectly cast as No. 2.  But for my money the best casting job was the lovely Luciana Paluzzi as the evil Fiona.  Of all the Bond girls, she tops my list as the best.  Her scenes with Bond were all memorable and her last one contains the best Bond quip of them all (you'll have to see it to find out).  But sadly, the last 20 to 30 minutes of the movie almost make one forget the greatness of the earlier part and thus the movie cannot be considered one of the better Bond films.   "},{"Title":"A Few Good Moments But Very Average Bond Movie","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  My favourite Bond actor was Roger Moore followed by Timothy Dalton and then Sean Connery/Pierce Brosnan. However, even if Moore would have been in this movie I still wouldn't have enjoyed it.The film had it's moments-the scenes in the health spa, the fight between Bond and the transvestite and Little Nellie. And Emilio Largo was quite a good villain. Claudine Auger as Domino was a good woman. And Rik Van Nutter was perhaps the best actor ever to play Felix Leiter (after David Hedison from Live And Let Die & Licence To Kill). The casting was not a problem in this movie.Also, there were all the one-liners which we enjoy. One to look out for is the one where Connery says, I think he got the point after a bad guy is stabbed.Overall though, the film had a rather average plot. Okay, an evil organisation holding the world to ransom is impressive. The plot was okay actually but it's execution wasn't. And one thing I do hate is films where bad guys battle underwater-the scenes in this film were too chaotic to enjoy and as for the finale between Bond and Largo, well it was disappointing.Unless you're a Bond completist, I do not recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Starts out good, becomes boring","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is my least favourite Bond film, even so, there are some good qualities in it. It has a great start in 007s fight with the other JB, and the health club scenes are good too, but i think i'm not alone here in saying the last half of the film is really really slow (i fell asleep last night trying to watch it) I suppose it's hard to make a follow-up when everyone has such high expectations (look at Star Wars Episode 1 for instance - Lucas has had 15+ years to prepare it, so imagine how good it will be) I think it's about as good a film as they could make after Goldfinger, they were really under too much pressure. A lot of people have made negative comments about Moore's films like A View To a kill or Octopussy, but at least they were entertaining. The underwater harpoon fight is confusing, and it keeps dragging on! Are the good guys in orange swimsuits and the bad guys in black or is it the other way around? Now that i think about it, I'm pretty sure the good guys were in black, which is atypical. It would've been better to have them with big US flag armbands, at least you'd know which side they were on! With the goggles and breathing mask you can't even work out who Bond or Largo are underwater!  "},{"Title":"Empty thunder!","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well may this have been the biggest Bond to date, the most epic in stature and with those sprawling underwater sequences but I gotta tell you, this one just plain bored me stupid. I rate it personally as the dullest of the series even the universally disliked VIEW TO A KILL left it for dead!NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN, the '83 re-make, though a flawed work and completed on a budget half that of THUNDERBALL, has in the final wash-up, more to commend it! Hard to pinpoint just what's wrong with it! I tend to think it is the protracted underwater scenes themselves that sink the movie - eventually one finds oneself wondering what to cook for dinner instead. Adolfo Celi as Lago was the weakest of Bond villains, being totally eclipsed by Klaus Marie Brandeur in the same role in NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN!Probably the biggest thing to come out of it was Tom Jones rendition of the title song that sold squillions of copies worldwide and helped undoubtedly to hype the film. Critically acclaimed and a box-office smash, it is interesting now just how many people nominate this as their least favorite Bond flick - I'm one of them! "},{"Title":"GOOD MOVIE, but a little LONG","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball typifies the early James Bond era with a lot of great use of color, great soundtrack from John Barry and some exciting fight sequences throughout.  (Possible Spoilers within text) It DOES, however, suffer from being a bit too long during the underwater fight sequences and has some major lapses in continuity in the same.  Sean Connery is still looking sharp as James Bond and the first half of this film is tight and suspenseful.  I could watch the first two thirds of this movie over and over.  I DO find it to become a bit repetitious in the end with a rather unconvincing climax.  I was fortunate enough to see this one in the theater and it DOES have some great moments, notably Bond's invasion at night of Largo's Island. Unlike a few others, I found Adolfo Celi to seem evil enough and have a perfect voice for a Bond enemy.  The eyepatch thing is perhaps a bit much, but overall it is a convincing performance.I would say that if you are a fan of the early ones, this ranks up there.  What it DOES suffer from is that the editing could have been done with a sharper blade.  There are probably 15 minutes worth of footage that could have been trimmed to make this a little better. Overall, it is still a very enjoyable movie, and better by far for sheer tension than many later ones of the 70's and early 80's.Rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Thunderbore?","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Slowest moving of all Bond films, including the Timothy Dalton ones. One reason is that a simple plot was made unnecessarily complicated. For example, the scenes when Bond is at Shrublands do not really serve to advance the story-line and seem more filler than similar opening plot developing sequences in From Russia with Love and Diamonds Are Forever, both of which were more interesting even though Bond wasn't there. It's also appropriate then to point out that those two movies, while possessing less action sequences than Thunderball are more thrilling and entertaining. Other problems are that there are too many gadgets, misplaced one-liners (more suitable to Diamonds Are Forever's pace) and underwater sequences. The character development outside of Bond is quite good Fiona Volpe is the best Bond villainess ever and Largo is a convincing and realistic (if somewhat boring) bad guy. And there are enough memorable Bond moments here to make it worthwhile. It's only that this is the type of film to watch on a lazy day when you're in a patient mood. I think this one was as huge box office hit it was only because it was the follow-up to Goldfinger, the best of all Bond films. "},{"Title":"Mmmmmm - okay...","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball is moderately entertaining, although it's so slow paced compared to the latest Bond movies today's youngsters will find it dull. All the usual elements are there, but toned down a bit. The climactic battle is just Bond, the bad guy and two thugs punching each other. The underwater battles are too complicated, and as many directors have pointed out, too slow. And, although people didn't know at the time, the sharks used don't attack people anyway. Still, it's better than Dr. No, From Russia With Love, On Her Majesty's Secret Service and the truly awful You Only Live Twice. Domino is a babe and Connery is pretty damn cool. See it, certainly, but don't buy it.  "},{"Title":"Lightning strikes just enough times","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond Review. Title Not sure what it means, but it sounds pretty cool if that counts.Pre-Titles We get a really exciting pre-titles sequence that sees Bond engage in a vicious fight with a SPECTRE agent who was disguised as a woman before fleeing via jetpack. It's great that some action is provided straight from the off and the fight itself is fast and fierce with Barry's pounding score as a backdrop. The jetpack is a bit silly, but it's still memorable and allows for a unique getaway.Theme Song Welsh crooner Tom Jones puts in a decent vocal performance, but its John Barry's excellent work that makes the song great. The main hook stays in your head and the punchy instrumentation fits perfectly into the action setting.Plot SPECTRE number 2 Emilio Largo implements a plan to steal two nuclear warheads and use them to hold NATO to ransom. Bond is sent to the Bahamas to follow Largo's trail and find where the warheads are hidden before it's too late. The plot has all the makings for an intense story, though it is told well enough it never takes full advantage of what could have been a gripping story. It takes far too long to get going and nothing is left for the audience to work out, it shows us exactly what is happening and that takes some of the edge off proceedings. Most of the film feels like James Bond on holiday and that isn't a bad thing, but it makes everything seem slow and a bit uninteresting.James Bond Sean Connery carries on his more charming and witty turn that we saw in Goldfinger. I'd say that this is his Bond at his most relaxed as he remains cool and composed even when confronted by danger, but he isn't afraid to use brute force either. I think Connery again covers every aspect well, is fun to watch and it's the last Bond film where he looks like he truly cares.Bond Girls Claudine Auger as Domino is something of a mixed performance. She looks the part, but she struggles to show true emotions and she doesn't really do much. The character isn't fleshed out very well and it's difficult to truly care about her as a result. Martine Beswick is underused as Bond's ally Paula and is a bit of a pointless addition. Villains Adolfo Celi is a contender for the most boring Bond villain of all time as Largo, simply giving someone as eyepatch doesn't make them interesting. Celi does have a good look, but he again suffers from poor writing. I can't recall a single line of dialogue he has and in most of his scenes he just stands around looking annoyed. Luciana Paluzzi is excellent however as femme- fatale Fiona Volpe. She has an understated intensity, great lines and is the most believable threat to Bond here.Support The funnily named Rik Van Nutter steps in as Leiter and does an okay job. He looks pretty cool and has a calming presence, but at this point Leiter is simply Bond's lackey and just takes orders. Bernard Lee is excellent again in his few scenes as a more anxious M.Action The action ranges from decent to horrendously boring. There are far too many underwater scenes, all of which are slow and bring to the pace to a grinding halt. Bond fighting of henchmen and sharks is pretty cool at first, but it gets boring quickly. The climax is an absolute mess and it's like they didn't know how to end the film so they threw as much on screen as possible. It is impossible to tell who is who, the effects are ropey even for the time and the confrontation with Largo is a massive let down.Score John Barry provides another excellent score. Many familiar rhythms make a welcomed return and his new compositions are all really good too. He makes some of the underwater scenes more enjoyable and, like Connery, he is firmly settled into his role by this point.Production Values Firstly the film does look fantastic. The Bahamas was the perfect location for such an exotic adventure and it is captured in all its sparkling glory here, everything from the golden beaches to the clear waters look amazing. Terence Young keeps the low-key look that he went for in the first two films, but adds a bit more colour and style to proceedings. It's nice that he continued to develop and he does create some really effective shots throughout. The editing is a big issue however. As I've stated the underwater scenes drag on for too long and given how slow they are it can get quite tedious. I also thing that too much time is taking up explaining every detail of the plot and that the section in the health spar does go on too long. There aren't any really impressive sets of note either given the location.Conclusion Thunderball has just enough engaging elements to keep things entertaining despite its many flaws. It is undoubtedly an extremely stylish film. It is also clear that Connery is as enjoyable as ever as Bond, the locations are wonderful and that there is an interesting story at the root of it all. But it does have glaring issues with Largo being extremely dull, Domino not being that interesting, mostly weak action sequences and the underwater scenes drag on forever. I think that if anything Thunderball was a case of everyone trying to go even bigger than they did on Goldfinger and it's not the right type of story for that even if it is good fun. "},{"Title":"One last hurrah before Bond became generic","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I haven't seen Thunderball for years though it was always a favourite Bond film of mine. When I was young I generally liked Bond movies for the action sequences but now I'm more likely to ask the question - who wouldn't want to be a secret agent stationed in Nassau? Even by my rather conservative tastes I have to admit that the Bahamas would be a pretty fine place to spend some time. Oh and save the world in the meantime. You see Bond gets to do all the fun touristy bits - scuba dive, make love to beautiful women, eat caviar, drink Don Peregnion '55 whilst saving thousands of lives at the same time and we love him for it! We don't start off in the Caribbean as we have an original pre-title sequence (bizarre in some ways but 100% Bond) and then a long first act at Shrublands, a health clinic where Bond is recuperating with the help of a pretty nurse, which just happens to be conveniently located near to an RAF base...... In this rather sanitized environment of all places Bond stumbles on something, but he's not entirely sure what, which is no surprise as this is about the most densely conceived plot of any Bond movie, implausible probably, but easily believable enough for a Bond movie thank you. It's also nice that the plot isn't over-explained too much as the movie flows, you may need to watch it more than once to get it all, which is fine. Connery clearly owned the role of Bond by this point, remember that Ian Fleming had initially been against him playing the character but by the time he died in 1964, he thought Connery was the consummate Bond. His concept of Bond as an upper class daredevil now seems quaint but Connery brought a convincing hard edge underneath the sophisticated manners and palette. Here he seems to be at the point of playing Bond like it's the most natural thing in the world without sleep-walking through the role as he would later. A Bond film needs more than the man himself though and preferably a good baddie. What's great here is that we actually have two. Emilio Largo oozes savagery - surely a shark loving, eye-patch wearing mastermind should choose a better disguise, but hey it's a Bond movie! - and Fiona Volpe might be the best female antagonist Bond has ever had (either her or Rosa Klebb, that would be a fight worth seeing). She is in some ways a female equivalent of Bond, cool, sexy and a very capable killer, she's just chosen the other side of the law to live on. And just as happy as Bond to use sex as she needs to. Ruthless and highly strung it's a mystery why she wasn't more of an inspiration for later female characters in the series, rather than the plastic dollies we ended up with. In all honesty she's more interesting that nominal 'Bond Girl' Domino, played by former Miss France Claudine Auger, who's perhaps a little bland but also beautiful and sympathetic. In quite a large supporting cast Bond's assistant Paula and Largo's curious henchman Vargas, who does not drink smoke or make love, are worth noting too. The film contains many of the series' most memorable set pieces, be it jet pack clad Bond, the tense Spectre meeting room complete with electric chairs, the impossibly grand, seemingly enormous MI6 conference room, the landing of a Tornado in the middle of the Sea, Bond's escape from Largo's shark tank and his cat and mouse games with Fiona, from a surprisingly tense 100 mph car ride through to the dance at the Kiss Kiss club during the Jamboree. Most memorable of all perhaps is the exquisite photography of the Bahamas, much of it shot underwater, quite a feat in 1965 as Q would have you know. Therein however is the film's main weakness and why it doesn't quite manage full marks. Whilst some of the underwater scenes are very good and in the case of Bond and Domino remarkably sexy, the ending fight sequence doesn't work perfectly, going on for too long and being rather ambiguous. Sharper editing and more clarity would have helped. Having worked so hard for the first two thirds of the film to create the most tense situation imaginable, the final act doesn't really deliver as you'd hope and is actually less suspenseful than many of the (much derided) ticking bomb climaxes of other Bonds. The increasing focus on high tech gadgetry at this point in the series, with each item by coincidence helping Bond escape from a particular situation pushes things a little as well though not as much as with later Bondage. So all in all it's not quite as flawless as the previous year's Goldfinger but Thunderball perhaps gets unfairly maligned as the point when the Bond series started going downhill. In fairness it represents one last hurrah before Bond became generic. "},{"Title":"Probably my favorite Bond movie.","Date":"29 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I've seen this Bond movie twice; Once when I was a young kid, and just a few months ago when I was 23. Needless to say, I appreciated it a great deal more when I was older.Connery is in his prime here. Suave, debonair, and handsome. If you are a Connery/Bond film fan, this is a good one. It doesn't get the same clout as Goldfinger or From Russia with Love, but it is my favorite by far.The film opens with Tom Jones' bond song, Thunderball. It makes Adele's Skyfall theme seem like a nursery rhyme in comparison. Easily the best open to a JB film EVER.The plot is fairly straight forward. Bond must stop the SPECTRE agency from detonating 2 stolen nuclear warheads and destroying the world. Bond does what he does best...screw hot women and solve the problem.Speaking of hot women, Domino, the Bond girl in Thunderball, is incredibly voluptuous. Curvy and seductive, she's easily in my top three most attractive Bond girls.The underwater fight choreography in this movie is excellent. Even today it probably holds up as one of the best underwater fight scenes in history. It is crisply directed and the camera doesn't move too much (causing nausea). I'm pretty sure Spielberg was influenced by and probably lifted ideas from  Thunderball when he shot Jaws. Safe to say the director and DP did not skimp at all when it came to the underwater photography.It has a tight script, clever one liners, plenty of Bond gadgetry, hot women, and good action. What's not to like? "}{"Title":"Hasn't worn that well","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Following the disappearance of a military aircraft containing two atom bombs, SPECTRE holds the western world to ransom, and it is up to James Bond to foil their plot. In the Bahamas.Sean Connery reprises Bond in the 4th entry in the series, which has a backstory which is probably more interesting than the plot of the film itself. Back in 1965 it was great. Now, with the 21st century more than a decade old, it looks a bit tired. The Bahamas are colourful, sunny and photogenic, but there are a number of things to find fault with.The back projection and travelling matte work is, once again, truly shoddy, but that has always been a problem with the older Bond films. Casting again includes people high up on the cast list (principal villain and principal Bond girl in this case) whose dialogue had to be dubbed - in Adolfo Celi's case, delivery of the dubbed dialogue is dreadful. The underwater battle, so exciting at the time, now seems badly executed, with a lot of repeated shots in it. Even Connery is not at his best.Fortunately, James Bond would be back. "},{"Title":"More like a Ballet than a Battle","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball was originally intended to be the first James Bond film, but in the event a legal dispute about the rights to the story led to a delay in making it. Dr No became the first film in the series, with Thunderball eventually being made as the fourth three years later. (This dispute was also the reason why Ian Fleming's novel was later filmed again as Never Say Never Again). The plot is a relatively simple one. The international terrorist organisation SPECTRE have stolen two atomic bombs from a British Vulcan bomber and are using them to hold the world to ransom, demanding £100 million as their price for not destroying a major city. Bond's task is to find and recover the bombs before SPECTRE can detonate them, a search which takes him to the Bahamas. Although the film involves SPECTRE, the main villain is not that organisation's leader Ernst Stavro Blofeld who was to feature in the next three Bond movies (in each case played by a different actor) but his Number Two Emilio Largo. Bond's main ally, apart from his American counterpart Felix Leiter, is Largo's mistress Dominique Derval, known as Domino. Domino's motive for changing sides (apart, of course, from Bond's irresistible charm) is her discovery that her lover was responsible for the death of her brother François, a French Air Force officer, who was murdered as part of the plot to steal the bombs. Bond's ability to turn the villain's female accomplices is a common plot point in the series; he had already made use of it in the previous film, Goldfinger (although there the relationship between Goldfinger and Pussy Galore was always about business rather than sex). Thunderball, however, also contains one of Bond's rare failures in this department when he tries, and fails, to convert Fiona Volpe, another glamorous Largo sidekick. In terms of Bond villains, the one-eyed Largo as played by Adolfo Celi falls somewhere between Gert Frobe's Goldfinger and Blofeld as played by Donald Pleasence and Charles Gray. (Telly Savalas's interpretation was rather different). Largo lacks Goldfinger's crude thuggishness, looking quite at home wearing his tuxedo in a casino. (Goldfinger shares Largo's love of card-games, but in such a setting would stand out like a sore thumb). On the other hand he also lacks the suavity and surface polish of Blofeld, and his attempts to hide his menace beneath a veneer of icy politeness are never quite as successful. Celi spoke English with a strong Italian accent, so his lines were dubbed by an English actor. The same was done for the former Miss France Claudine Auger who plays Dominique, but this does not prevent them from making their own memorable contributions to the series. Claudine was possibly the loveliest Bond Girl of the sixties. (That's as in even lovelier than Ursula Andress). She had a successful career as an actress in France and Italy, but her lack of fluency in the language meant she made few other English-language films. Martine Beswick, who had previously appeared in From Russia with Love, reappears here in a minor role, making her the first Bond Girl to appear in two films in different roles. (Maud Adams was later to repeat this feat in The Man with the Golden Gun and Octopussy). Despite a strong villain and a beautiful leading lady, Thunderball has never really been my favourite Bond; I would not rate it as highly as its immediate predecessor Goldfinger, or as its immediate successor You Only Live Twice, or as Dr No. Part of the reason is that Sean Connery is not really on top form here; possibly disillusionment with the role, which was to lead to him quitting it (at least temporarily) after You Only Live Twice, was already starting to set in. (Oddly enough, Connery was actually better in the later film). A more important reason, however, is that the action tends to drag at times. Despite the simplicity of the plot, the film has a longer running time than any of its three predecessors. Too much time is taken up with those interminable underwater scenes, which do not make for exciting action. The final underwater showdown between the force of SPECTRE and the good guys, all trying to shoot one another with spear guns, is among the oddest finales of any Bond film, more like a ballet than a battle. Thunderball is not a bad film, but it's not first-rate Bond. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Escapism continues...","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball, the fourth Bond film, can't quite live up to the previous 3 films, but still gives them a run for their money. It doesn't specifically have any iconic scenes, and whilst the villain is good, he's not great. This does, however, boast some great underwater scenes, a solid plot and perhaps the best Bond femme fatale in Lucianna Paluzzi's 'Fiona Volpe'.Following the theft of two atomic bombs (MOS type, as arch villain Blofeld coldly explains), James Bond springs into action in an attempt to stop the UK and US governments from paying £100million in diamonds to SPECTRE, and to stop SPECTRE agent Number '2', Emilio Largo, from detonating the atom bombs off Miami coast. Acting on a lead he discovered at a health farm, Bond is sent to the Bahamas, where he meets bad girl Fiona Volpe, and good girl Domino, who is the mistress of villain Emilio Largo. With the help of Felix Liter, and some sharks, Bond is able to get closer to Largo and the truth behind the theft of the atom bombs, and SPECTRE's plan for them. The final showdown between the two villains is pretty epic, and a rather sharp surprise is in stall for Largo before he gives up his ghost. In terms of underlying plot, Thunderball was and still is rather relevant. The idea of nuclear bombs in the hands of terrorists or a rogue regime is entirely believable, and that is where Thunderball's biggest strength lies. The film also benefits from strong set actions scenes that set a new standard for fights underwater (these were some of the first to be filmed underwater), and Thunderball does also benefit from a strong cast in the form of Adolfo Celi as Emilio Largo, a subtle but ruthless criminal, and also the rather dazzling redheaded villain Fiona Volpe (Lucianna Paluzzi). Sean Connery as Bond is as strong as ever, and I would say that he is at his best as Bond in this film, as the producers, writers and director clearly knew how to play to his strengths and his sense of timing. Thunderball's weakness is perhaps the time it takes to get moving at the beginning, and also the length of some scenes towards the end. Also, whilst Celi is brilliant as Largo, he's almost too subtle at times, so the villain never really stands out in the way that Robert Shaw's Grant did, or Dr No, or Goldfinger. Nevertheless, it's still a hugely worthy Bond film, and is a lot of fun all the way. I'm happy to give this an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Hailed as one of the best but  the last act stumbles","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond must go on a dangerous mission to The Bahamas to recover two nuclear warheads stolen by SPECTRE headed by Ernst Stavro Blofeld.Thunderball is classed as a phenomena. The underwater scenes are wonderfully filmed and choreographed. Ken Adams sets are fantastic notably Blofeld's hidden stark and sparse meeting room and the grand room where the 00s agents are briefed. There's gadgets, the return of the DB5, a jet pack, camera Geiger counter and underwater breathing apparatus. The stunts are exceptional, the opening with Bond versus a grieving 'widow'(famous stunt man Bob Simmons) despite being annoyingly sped up is enthralling and underwater battles note-worthy. The cast are first rate, Bernard Lee's M appears to get a little more screen time, Miss Moneypenny and Q return. Sean Connery is his hard, charming and humorous as James Bond alongside arguably two of the best Bond girls Luciana Paluzzi as antagonist Fiona Volpe and love interest Domino played by Claudine Auger. As a side note, Paluzzi character Volpe stands out not only for her beauty but she plays against type cast. She has some wonderful dialogue, at one point even sarcastically mocking Bond's sexual conquests. She is also more interesting and a debatably more charismatic than Domino and it's a pity she doesn't get more screen time. Blofeld's No. 2, eye patch sporting Emilio Largo is a worthy Bond villain. Adolfo Celi's Largo delivers some of the best moments courteous of his wordplay with Bond, playing on their double-dealings and motivations which builds tension between the characters.Although Thunderball is hailed as one of the best Bonds even with John Barry's Bond theme music the marine climax is drawn out and the lack of dialogue and characterisation slows the pace of the film down to a crawl. Even though the underwater scenes are an accomplishment operation Thunderball appears to run out of steam in the latter part leaving the pacing of the boat showdown high and dry.Like with most Bond films the last act stumbles slightly but this one especially due to the impersonal screen time with 007. That said, as well as the aforementioned there's plenty to love about Thunderball including the great locations, costumes and the title song belted out by Tom Jones over Maurice Binder's silhouettes. "},{"Title":"I thought I saw a SPECTRE at your shoulder!","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 'Thunderball' is the best of the Sean Connery Bond movies. The series began in 1962 with 'Dr.No', an earnest attempt to put Ian Fleming's suave spy on the big screen. 'From Russia With Love' took 007 into Hitchcock territory, but it was not until 'Goldfinger' that the Bond formula - lavish action set-pieces, cheeky humour, outrageous sexism, absurd gadgets - was perfected. Audiences wanted more, and the producers duly obliged. 'Thunderball' was 'the biggest Bond of all' in 1965, and, in many ways, it still is. The international crime syndicate SPECTRE ( Special Executive for Counter-Intelligence, Terrorism, Revenge & Extortion ) hijacks a Vulcan bomber during a training mission. Aboard are two atomic bombs. A taped message arrives at Whitehall demanding a king's ransom or else the bombs will be detonated. Bond flies to the Bahamas where 'Domino Derval' ( Claudine Auger ) - sister of one of the Vulcan crew - lives with her millionaire lover, 'Emilio Largo' ( Adolfo Celi ), a.k.a. SPECTRE agent no.2...The story began life as a screen treatment by Kevin McClory, Jack Whiitingham and Fleming, and was originally intended to be the first Bond movie. McClory's lack of a track record at the box office meant he could not get funding, and so it was abandoned. Fleming then wrote a book based on the treatment without consulting the others, and one sued. McClory won his case, got a credit on future editions ( along with Whittingham ), and the film rights were awarded to him. Not wishing to compete with Harry Saltzman and Albert R.Broccoli's series, he entered into partnership with them. Chroniclers of the Bond series tend to regard this as the point at which the series went into decline, but I disagree. 'Thunderball' was the first true Bond epic. I think the problem is that some people have seen it only on television, and it was designed for the cinema. The underwater scenes are beautiful and John Barry's music gives them a strangely sinister and poetic quality. There were numerous imitators around then, such as Dean Martin's 'Matt Helm' and James Coburn's 'Derek Flint', so 'Thunderball' pulled out all the stops to keep Bond ahead of the competition. It gets off to a ( literally ) flying start with a château fight between 007 and a SPECTRE agent in drag, culminating in our hero making a getaway using a rocket-pack. The Aston Martin is on view again, and Fiona Volpe ( Luciana Paluzzi )'s rocket-firing motorcycle is a beauty ( like its owner ). The underwater finale and the yacht cum hydrofoil impresses still. Terence Young, director of the first two Bonds, combines the toughness of 'Dr.No' with the tongue-in-cheek humour of 'Goldfinger'. What a pity though he left the series after this. Tom Jones belts out the John Barry and Don Black title song as though his life depended on it. The film crushed all competition in 1965, setting a standard for box office grosses unsurpassed until 1977's 'The Spy Who Loved Me'. Connery played Bond a further three times, but those films ( particularly 'You Only Live Twice' ) were disappointments. No more was heard of McClory until the mid-'70's when he announced plans to remake 'Thunderball' as 'Warhead'. I have seen the script ( it was published online ) and it is nowhere near the quality of Maibaum and Hopkins' version. In 1983, the rogue remake 'Never Say Never Again' appeared, and, while entertaining for the most part, could not hope to - and did not - match 'Thunderball'. "},{"Title":"Underrated Bond","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With the success of Goldfinger, producers Albert R. Broccoli and Harry Saltzman prepared to make their fourth James Bond film. Originally planning to film On Her Majesty's Secret Service, a unique legal situation regarding the novel Thunderball led to producer Kevin McClory approaching them with the idea of a partnership to turn that novel into a film. And thus Thunderball came to be made. With original Bond director Terrance Young at the helm and a production team growing more and more confident, Thunderball became not only a box office hit but perhaps even a better film then Goldfinger.Much of Thunderball's success is down to Sean Connery. Back to the rough and tumble Bond of the first two films, Connery is perfect from the opening scenes at a funeral right up until the climatic fight sequence more then two hours later. Connery excels at the fight sequences in the film from the incredible opening fight right up until the one at the film's end. Connery also proves to be quite the charmer thanks to his excellent chemistry with all of his female co-stars/characters from nurse Patricia Fearing to Domino. Connery even excels in giving Bond a sense of vulnerability at a few instances in the film as well. Overall, Thunderball might well be Connery's best performance as 007.On the villainous side is Adolfo Celi as Emilio Largo. He is everything a Bond villain should be suave, charming, evil and above all believable. Celi makes the role realistic by staying quiet for the most part, becoming angry only to punctuate a scene. Celi's physicality works well as does the superb dubbing of him by actor Robert Rietty. As a result, Largo is a compelling villain and a real menace throughout.Claudine Auger plays Domino in perhaps the best performance of the early Bond girls. Auger, a newcomer when Thunderball was made, nevertheless brings the somewhat complex Domino to life. Along the way, Auger holds her own against her co-stars and has considerable chemistry with them as well, especially Connery with whom she has an instant chemistry. Auger as Domino disproves the notion that 1960s Bond girls were merely window dressing easily.From the excellent main cast, we go into the film's just as excellent supporting cast. Of special mention is Luciana Paluzzi as Fiona Volpe, the fem fatale of Thunderball, who is not only incredibly attractive but also very dangerous and mysterious throughout her appearances. Rik Van Nutter becomes the third Felix Leiter and indeed he comes across as an excellent choice for the role. Not forgetting of course the regular supporting cast of the series including Bernard Lee as M, Lois Maxwell as Moneypenny and Desmond Llewelyn as Q who all give their usual best if not better.Thunderball's large budget (at least for the time it was made) is well used. Ken Adam once again returns as production designer and the result is some of his best work from the SPECTRE conference room to the various craft used by Largo and his henchmen during the underwater sequences. The film features excellent cinematography all around from the many underwater sequences that are splendidly, even beautiful at times, photographed by Ricou Browning and his team to the ever excellent work of Ted Moore above the waves. The Academy Award winning special effects of John Stears serves the film well from model work to explosions and the like The result is a fine looking film Thunderball is an action film and it excels at being one. The action ranges from the truly spectacular opening fight sequence that destroys every piece of furniture in the room to a chase through a parade to the climatic underwater battle and climatic fight sequence above the waves. Above the surface, the work of stunt coordinator Bob Simmons is excellent and never loses a chance to thrill the viewer. Below the waves can be a bit of a different story though as there seems to be only so much one can do in terms of underwater hand to hand combat before it becomes a bit repetitive. Thankfully the combination of Peter Hunt's editing, John Barry's music and Terrance Young's direction keep the excitement up even when that begins to happen. The result is a thrilling action film even nearly fifty years later.Composer John Barry takes his excellent work up a level for Thunderball. Barry's score does what any really good film score should do set the mood of any given scene. The score overall is one of Barry's most suspenseful from the build-up to the opening fight through the hijacking of the Vulcan bomber and beyond. Barry's suspenseful pieces masterfully turn into action pieces in an instant. The result is one of Barry's best Bond scores and one of the best ever Bond scores.Thunderball is served by an excellent script. From action sequence to witty lines, suspenseful plotting and interesting character's the script by Richard Maibaum and John Hopkins brings together everything that makes a good Bond film. The script, and the film itself, finds the right balance between the more realistic style of From Russia With Love with the gadgetry and over the top elements of Goldfinger. Thunderball unfolds quickly, though willing to take its time if need be, yet seems to be fairly realistic as it does so. In particular, the gadgets that Bond actually compliment the film rather then threaten to overwhelm it as happened in Goldfinger. The result, especially combined with the direction of Terrance Young, is excellent.Despite Goldfinger's reputation, Thunderball may well be the better film. From Connery's performance as Bond to a better villain, fine Bond girl and an excellent supporting cast it is perhaps a better acted film. Thanks to its production values, score, script and the direction of Terrance Young it has excellent production values as well. Overall Thunderball is perhaps a bit underrated and an excellent Bond film overall. "},{"Title":"See it as just a movie and it is flawed, or as a Bond film and it is, well, James Bond","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball (1965)Well, I've never been a James Bond fan so maybe take that into account when I say this is a fairly routine movie, awkwardly paced and oddly written. I will say I have read all of the Ian Fleming books as a kid, however, so maybe I was once rather a fan indeed, though an adolescent one. And I've seen all the early movies over time for various reasons. If you like the franchise, the brand known as Bond, James Bond, you might enjoy even the least interesting adaptation, because there are all the familiar trademarks in this fair to pretty good Bond film the suave spy man of action, the sex-object women (very 1965 style, heads up on that), the quasi-futuristic plots and devices, the impossibility of the situation, and the exotic locales.There is also a lot of underwater footage that is well done--clear, dramatic, and eventually (for the final scenes) almost comic in the reference to a police raid, with guys raising their hands to be arrested while wearing scuba gear. There are a couple atom bombs in the plot, and so Thunderball falls into that amazing one or two years of obsession by Hollywood (and the real world) with nuclear annihilation. In fact, one of the things the movie has going for it is it doesn't take itself too seriously. It's the people who think a Bond movie is a Jason Bourne movie who get off on the wrong track.Sean Connery is no small talent, and if his career has been hobbled by being 007, it has been lifted by it as well. And he in turn lifted it, the James Bond aura, permanently, so even the lesser Bonds over the years (I hear the debate among you) have something going for them because of these first versions, all featuring Connery.Frankly, I shouldn't have expected much and been happily surprised by what worked. Instead I expected a cheesy, glossy, seductive, and clever entertainment and it didn't quite rise to those modest goals. It's not a horrible film except in feminist terms (and it really is horrible in its depiction of women, no doubt about it). But it's not a great movie, and not quite the best of the Bond movies, either. I think Goldfinger and From Russia with Love are clearly better, or more archetypal, and even Dr. No has its benefit as the first. "},{"Title":"An exceptionally great Bond film","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the phenomenal success of Goldfinger and with Bond mania in full swing, the producers try to follow up the previous film's success with Thunderball. Fortunately, the film is a thunderous entry in the series and surpasses the previous film in almost every way.Thunderball is a thunderous, epic film. Here, in his fourth on-screen adventure, SPECTRE has stolen two atomic warheads and 007 is sent to recover the bombs and prevent the organization from using the warheads on a British or American city. Furthermore, the film is the first truly epic film in the series and sets a prototype for which all following large scale, epic films will model themselves after. Lastly, the film manages to strike a balance between the formula established by Goldfinger while remaining true to Fleming at the same time. And SPECTRE's nuclear weapons heist scheme is still relevant today with the terrorist climate that we are in.The film is full of energy; Connery gives his last truly great performance in the role before getting tired of the character in the next two films he starred in, John Barry's slick and exotic score and Tom Jones's fantastic title song, two wonderful girls in Luciana Paluzzi and Claudine Auger and the menacing villains in Blofeld and his eye-patched no. 2, Emilio Largo. Furthermore, the direction and the screenplay are all top-notch and while the editing in the film's climax could do with some work, the climax is one of the most exciting in the series.As a sort of side-topic, I find it interesting that this was originally set to be the first film but legal entanglements (Fleming turned the original story into a book without giving credit to Kevin McClory and Jack Whittingham) stopped this from happening so the producers went with Dr. No.Simply put, Thunderball is an exceptionally great Bond film and is one of Connery's finest. "},{"Title":"A disappointment, especially after Goldfinger","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The year after the success of Goldfinger, the third effort in the now very expansive James Bond movie series, the fourth one, Thunderball, came into theatres. Apparently, this follow-up was even more successful than the 1964 hit. In fact, it was apparently the most successful of all the Bond films Sean Connery starred in! I don't know about then, but right now, this one seems to be widely considered inferior to the Bond film that directly preceded it, and now that I've seen both of them, I have become part of that crowd.The evil organization, S.P.E.C.T.R.E., is once again up to no good! This time, they hijack a British Vulcan bomber and two atomic warheads! They demand one hundred million dollars from NATO, and threaten to let off the bombs on British and American land if they don't get their ransom money, which would obviously cause countless deaths of innocent people! So, Bond sets out on his next mission, to find the missing aircraft! This mission takes him to Nassau, in the Bahamas, where he meets S.P.E.C.T.R.E. agent Emilio Largo, and falls in love with a scuba-diver named Domino. While in Nassau, Bond finds himself in a number of dangerous situations, as usual on his missions, but this time, some of them take place underwater! Why did I find Thunderball far inferior to Goldfinger? Well, I think I should first point out that I found Tom Jones' theme song for this film rather forgettable, unlike Shirley Bassey's memorable Goldfinger theme. As with the previous film, there is a bit of humour here, which is good, but it doesn't save the film's problems. There is quite a bit of action in this movie, which makes for some exciting moments, such as Bond running through a parade from his captors as they chase him. However, I also found that a lot of the film bored me, such as certain overlong underwater scenes, or at least one of them early on. If you ask me, Dr. No and From Russia with Love have some pacing problems, but this one has more of them. Also, the villains here aren't quite as memorable as the ones in the 1964 classic, none of them can match Oddjob.This installment in the early Bond franchise is longer than its three predecessors, and one may find that it really shows! Not only is Thunderball far inferior to Goldfinger, it's also slightly inferior to the first two films in the franchise. This 1965 blockbuster does have some good action and humour in parts, which earns it a 6/10 in my book (more so for the action, since humour isn't a big part of the movie), but due to the shortcomings, I would be lying if I gave it a rating any higher than that. Just because this was the most successful of all the Bond movies starring Sean Connery doesn't make it the best, that's for sure, so I wouldn't assume that it's a masterpiece just because of its cinema attendance. It could have been worse, no doubt about that, but it still brought the franchise down after the 1964 classic that preceded it. "},{"Title":"Bond starting to slip slightly","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For the first time, the Bond films were starting to become formulaic, but there are still many things to enjoy about this fourth entry.Bond Connery was still fully invested in the role bringing all of the charm, rugged sex appeal and dry humor he perfected from the previous entries.The villains Adolfo Celi is merely adequate, failing to live up to the earlier promise of Red Grant or Goldfinger, but still better than the buffoonish Dr. No. Luciana Paluzzi partially makes up for the lag as the viper-ish Fiona Volpe. So strong is she as the bloodthirsty co-hort that the film suffers a bit when she is off-screen. Her lethal tango with Bond and Connery's concluding line are legendary to fans.The women Claudine Auger is sexy, but pretty much a cipher for the duration of the film.The film suffers from a convoluted plot and too much dependence on underwater sequences. Despite the need of some editing, the film is slick and fast-paced, although not in the league of its predecessors. Tom Jones contributes the underrated title song. "}{"Title":"Personally, it seems to lack in action","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball is known as one of the great 007 movies, but personally i dislike it due to it's lack of action. The story is based on missing nuclear bombs, taken by SPECTRE. The movie includes 25% of underwater scenes. The movie started off on a high for me as James Bond (Sean Connery) battled with a disguised villain. The fight was made into a nice little sequence which included the introduction on the amazing jet-pack and a cameo from the Aston Martin. The next we see Bond is shrublands which starts the slow pace. He checks in with MI6, travels to Nassau and then onto a casino, just to find the Bond girl, Domino. After another scene of dancing, there's a chase scene which only lasts a few minutes, and doesn't create much excitement. More diving, and then onto an underwater battle. The idea of two groups of divers battling underwater, may be positive, but it really didn't excite me. The diver slowly fighting out, looked as if they were dancing. Once 007 finally reaches the villain, the action starts to pick up. The fight between Bond and Emilio Largo is intense, but only lasts a minute or 2. It didn't match up to the fight between Bond and Red Grant.This is my own personal opinion, so not everyone feels this way about it. If you look the mystery of finding the villain and the weapons, you would enjoy this. If action is your thing, you might not be too fond of this. James Bond will return in 'You Only Live Twice'. "},{"Title":"one scene stands out...","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ...of many, of course.Many other reviewers have written about this film in various capacities, but let me offer my own take by highlighting one scene that made me laugh and yet was perfectly in keeping with Connery's take on the Bond character.In the card-playing scene with Largo, Bond manages to beat him at cards several times, whereas Largo states You seem unbeatable, Mr. Bond. What does Bond say? Nothing. He just puts on a smirk and waves his hand as if it's a given. Bloody brilliant. The scene stood out upon watching the film in the new special editions that came out recently. Having seen the movie many times before, it was just one scene that illuminated Connery's mastery of the character in this particular brilliant Bond flick. "},{"Title":"Spectacular James Bond film, slightly too contrived to live up to the standard of its predecessors.","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball is the fourth of the Bond films and was commercially the most successful of the Connery era. This film &#150; not Dr. No -was originally planned as the first film to feature the British spy, with a screen story worked on by Kevin McClory, Jack Whittingham and Ian Fleming. However, Fleming used elements of the screen story to create his novel Thunderball without giving what was felt to be due credit to his two collaborators, and the subsequent long and complicated legal dispute held back the production of this film. In spite of the tremendous public interest in the film, it is probably the weakest of the Bond films prior to Diamonds Are Forever. That's not to say Thunderball is a bad film, just that it doesn't quite hit the high standards set by the other films in the series made around that time.SPECTRE agent Emilio Largo (Adolfo Celi) steals two atomic bombs from a British Vulcan aircraft sabotaged in the Bahamas. The British Prime Minister soon thereafter receives a ransom note explaining that the bombs will be used to wipe out a British or an American city unless an extortionate pay-off is agreed. The Secret Service put James Bond (Sean Connery) on the assignment, sending him out to the Bahamas to find out who has the bombs and what their intended target is. Bond soon establishes that Largo is the mastermind behind the plot, but finds it much harder to actually locate the bombs. Aided by his American buddy Felix Leiter (Rik Van Nutter), Bond follows clues around the paradise islands hoping for a breakthrough in his mission. He eventually discovers that Largo has a beautiful mistress named Domino, and more interestingly finds out that her brother was murdered during the original theft of the bombs. He seduces Domino and tells her about her brother's murder, thereby getting her onto his side rather than Largo's. With her help, Bond soon learns that Miami is the intended target of the SPECTRE plot, and goes after Largo aboard his private yacht before his sinister scheme can be carried out&#133;.Thunderball has plenty of amusing action and some gorgeous locations. The women in the film are indeed very beautiful, and in some cases more resourceful and independent than earlier Bond girls. The film also gives us one of the better villains from the series in the shape of Emilio Largo, menacingly portrayed by Celi. Where it comes undone is that the story is terribly uninspired and the film is somewhat overlong (this was the first Bond film to go beyond the two hour mark, and was lengthier than any of its predecessors by a good quarter of an hour). To make matters worse, the reliance on gadgetry becomes more intrusive than it did in any of the earlier films. Connery is good as the hero, but the newness of the role has worn off and there isn't that same enthusiasm that could be seen in his performances in the first three. Thunderball is a slick and spectacular action film, for sure&#133;. but it just has a soulless, packaged feel to it that makes it less impressive than the other 007 films of that time. "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond movie","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" From what I've heard this is Sean Connery's favorite Bond movie, and so it is with me. The movie is outrageous in a James Bond way, such as seeing Specter executive getting punished on the spot in an electric chair and the chair submerges and dumps the corps and returns to its position to a yacht that splits up and becomes a hydrofoil. No one, but Bond lives in a world like this.The best thing about James Bond movies is that it's an transporting experience. As one critics said, James Bond's world is a parallel universe that's little bit more brilliant than ours. For the time we watch the movie we're in a different world. Thunderball is an epitome of James Bond world. It's brighter, extravagant and beautiful.I wish I was living in the '60s in Bahamas a la James Bond did for a week or two. "},{"Title":"Class act","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Many people do not regard THUNDERBALL as such a good film. I dispute that. I like the first two Bond films, but found GOLDFINGER as a little bit static (despite the good actors).I actually consider THUNDERBALL a better film. I enjoy the ladies, especially Luciana Paluzzi's Fiona Volpe character very much; the same is true of Martine Beswick's. Both ladies are a delight. Adolfo Celi has a certain class as Largo, too.And THUNDERBALL has a real panache. Filmed in 1965, around the same time as the Beatles' film HELP!, in the same location(!), it is fun to watch. Sean Connery looks outstanding, and his toupee looks the best here. It is also fun to see Q showing up in the field. Note also the Ford vehicles, especially Fiona's Mustang! Finally, the photography is excellent. Even the scenes in France convey the atmosphere I actually recall in 1965--toned down, grayish (which it was in Upstate New York). On the whole, one of my personal favourites! "},{"Title":"I'm in the minority; I didn't like Thunderball","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  But I don't hate it either! Connery in his prime is still Bond, the jet pack was a good gadget, and Largo, though no Goldfinger, still made for a quite good villain (The girls were comely as well). The problem for me were the long tedious underwater scenes. While I appreciate the skill it took to film them, I just didn't find them all that exhilarating. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Good, But far from the best.","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  If less is sometimes more, then the reverse must also be true, and this sums up the major problem with Thunderball. The movie starts out well, and the first half-hour or so is probably as good as Goldfinger in terms of storytelling and building interest. But the movie's many underwater scenes -- which at times slow the plot to a crawl -- prove to be a big liability.That's a shame, because there are a lot of things the movie does right. Take the spectacular locations in and around Jamaica. This movie has me craving a trip to the Caribbean every time I see it, and the excellent cinematography almost makes you feel like you're there.The movie also gives us the first of the big-scale plots in which nothing less than the fate of the world is at risk. SPECTRE gets hold of two nuclear bombs and proceeds to hold the world to ransom. Bond, of course, must save the day.All this is fairly involving, and Sean Connery again manages to bring a playful quality to the role, when he's not kicking some SPECTRE butt. I particularly enjoyed the sequence at the health clinic early in the movie, and the way Bond manages to get some tender loving care from an attractive nurse after an attempt on his life fails. And for sheer viciousness, the fight in the pre-credits sequence is hard to beat.Unfortunately, that energy is what's missing from the rest of the movie. Considering that the fate of the world is at stake, there is a strange lack of suspense. The movie seems to dawdle, in fact, as Bond searches for the bombs while pursuing a romance with Domino, who is the villain's mistress. The movie should be ticking away like a wound-up clock, but instead takes its time sloshing through countless underwater scenes, in which everyone is wearing scuba gear and it is difficult to tell who is on which side.The villain, Emilio Largo, is SPECTRE's #2 agent. As played by Adolfo Celi (whose voice was dubbed), Largo looks somewhat menacing, with his eyepatch, but is certainly not in the Goldfinger league. He lacks charm, and he and his men seem more like a band of petty thugs than sophisticated criminals out to threaten the world. The standout on the enemy front is Fiona Volpe, a gorgeous SPECTRE agent who is as deadly as she is beautiful. Here is a genuinely interesting character, but unfortunately she is not given that much to do.Claudine Auger, as Domino, is rather low-key, and seems to spend most of the movie in jeopardy. She's not one of the more memorable Bond beauties. In fact, I found Paula, Bond's Secret Service liaison in Jamaica, more attractive and interesting. On the other hand, Rik Van Nutter is one of the better Felix Leiters, and it's a shame he didn't continue in the role.The gadgets are also beginning to take center stage with this film, and this is unfortunate, because Thunderball would have been much more compelling had it focused on Bond racing against time to stop SPECTRE's fiendish plot. As it stands, the movie is somewhat less than the sum of its parts. A little less gadgetry and underwater action, and a little more suspense could have made all the difference.  "},{"Title":"Much better than the remake Never Say Never Again","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I just wanted to comment on how I thought Thunderball was much better organized than the remake, Never Say Never Again. How the atomic weapons were stolen was one of the best parts of Thunderball. It just seemed that there was more intensity in Thunderball. Part of this may have been due to an attempt to make a competing Bond film after legal battles with the original Bond producing company.  The underwater battles were actually well done in Thunderball. Usually I don't care too much for underwater footage but this film made it clear as to what was happening. "},{"Title":"Here Comes The Biggest Bond Of All","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the great success of Goldfinger in 1964, the Bond producers, Cubby (Albert R.) Broccoli and Harry Saltzman had to find a way to top the remarkable success of their 007 film Goldfinger. Kevin McClory owned the rights to the story line of Thunderball. He would team with Broccoli and Saltzman to work on Thunderball. To make it the ultimate underwater film, the producers decided to go with Panavision. The producers enlisted the aid of Ivan Tors Underwater Studios in Florida. This studio was famous for underwater television shows and feature films of the 1960's. Master underwater cameraman Lamar Boren A.S.C., who lensed many underwater TV shows & features like Flipper and Sea Hunt was hired to photograph the spectacular climax in reel #7 of the film the underwater fight between good frogman vs. bad frogman. Jordan Klein,(also with the Tors Florida Unit), was underwater engineer on Thunderball. His job was to install motors in the underwater props. Ricou Browning was hired as underwater director. British cinematographer, Ted Moore, B.S.C. was at the helm of the project as Director Of Photography. Veteran British director, Terence Young, (who directed the first two films, Dr. No and From Russia With Love), signed on as director of Thunderball. He took a leave of absence after the first two 007 projects and director Guy Hamilton took the helm for the third film, Goldfinger. Thunderball would be the last Bond film Terence Young would direct. As a child of ten in 1965, Thunderball really caught my attention. Up to the point of seeing Thunderball I had only seen flat films. I had never seen anything in scope. Thunderball would be the first 007 epic photographed in scope 2.351 aspect ratio, released originally in the dye transfer process I.B. Technicolor/Panavision. I can see why Thunderball won John Stears an Oscar for special effects in 1965. The film is truly amazing! On a budget of only five million, (small by today's standards) the film became a landmark vehicle. What amazes me is the great work of editor Peter Hunt in regard to Thunderball. Assembling the underwater fight, like a jigsaw puzzle, certainly was a feat of magic!!! He would later go on to direct, On Her Majesty's Secret Service, in 1969. Master cinematographer, Lamar Boren must get a lot of praise for all his work on Thunderball. Working with bulky three strip Technicolor cameras and slow film stock, was certainly a chore. Lighting the underwater fight was a very remarkable achievement. Also Lamar Boren and Ricou Browning had no headsets in 1965 for communication during the underwater sequences. They communicated totally with hand signals. A far cry from today's technology! Thunderball is a GREAT James Bond film. John Barry's wonderful mellow score enhances the total effect of Mr. Boren's underwater sequences. In my opinion John Barry is the only film composer that can score a Bond film properly!!! This film incorporates a lot of talented people like Terence Young, Lamar Boren, Jordan Klein, Ricou Browning, John Stears, Peter Hunt. The list is endless! Also Thunderball has a good villain Adolfo Celi (as Largo), beautiful Bond women like Luciana Paluzzi(as Fiona Volpe) and Claudine Auger (as Domino). Sean Connery is in top form at age 35. It is a great action/adventure film. Ted Moore's style of cinematography was brilliant and a lost art today. The many optical lab (picture) wipes in the film were unique and special! The only other Bond film to use these lab type scene dissolves was From Russia With Love It incorporated these types of optical wipes as well!!!This review is dedicated to underwater pioneer/cinematographer Mr. Lamar Boren A.S.C. who passed away in January of 1986! I think Mr. Boren was a genius when you look at the brilliant underwater battle. All the credit must go to Mr. Boren who was able to photograph it so well. I am still impressed with his sequences 42 year's later. The fact that this film hold's up so well after ALL these year's is a real tribute to his great cinematography!!! "},{"Title":"The series has drowned.","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The same mess as Goldfinger except absolutely, positively more lifeless. What is worse is that by this point it is apparent that Connery himself has totally lost the spark in his role and has gotten very tired of it. He originally wanted to quit after this one, and he should have. "}{"Title":"Hard to sit through","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This Bond film is a curiosity, because it's hard to sit through. Like mentioned in many other reviews, the underwater sequences are really slow and boring. The first half an hour or so is pretty good, but it cannot save the painfully overlong film.Thunderball would be a crucially better movie if they'd have tightened the script in all places. "},{"Title":"Thunderdud","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The fourth in the series has non-stop action as Bond tries to recover stolen nuclear warheads. The construction is very clumsy, with a number of loose ends and little sense of coherence to the action. The film is too long; many of the early scenes could easily have been trimmed to improve flow. There are also numerous underwater scenes that, while advanced for its time, become tedious due to poor editing, especially the muddled, climactic battle scene that seems to go on forever, sapping all excitement. Connery is smooth and there's the usually bevy of beautiful women, but this sloppy entry is definitely inferior to its predecessor, Goldfinger. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the best Bond movie I have yet seen. The story is very good, Connery is simply superb in the role (much better than Moore and Brosnan and all the others that have followed), the women are really sexy, the background music for the action scenes superb and the underwater scenes amazing for a film made in 1965.I have never understood the fuss about Goldfinger which is supposedly the best Bond movie. I have to disagree. This must count as the best movie.The Bond films had a particular significance during the Cold War. And that context made them extremely enjoyable (when made well). They shouldn't make Bond films now because the context is gone. And all we have now is just special effects rather than a classic Spy movie. "},{"Title":"Without question, the best Bond of the bunch","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This Bond has everything; beautiful Bond girls, great action sequences, a demonic plot to take over the world, sharks, a terrific villain, and absolutely the best gadgets (who can forget the classic opening jetpack sequence).  It also has great dialog which is hard to come by in Bond films. The more recent films (notably Die Another Day) are filled with vomit-inducing sexual repartee which is so obvious and witless that it is gut-wrenching.  Thunderball is hard-hitting; Bond is cool, suave, and without mercy (for the bad guys as well as the ladies).  The underwater stunts are excellent, and the movie is much better for it because it was filmed before CGI.  Although some CGI effects can be quite impressive (Jurassic Park), some just make you shake your head and mutter As if..... Most notably in this category is the laughably fake parasailing on the tidal wave bit from Die Another Day.Thunderball is also very intriguing, I can't even count the number of times I have seen it over the years.  And I enjoy it every time.  Without question, all other Bonds should model themselves after this one.  I hated it when MGM started to get into fantasy-land with such characters as the unkillable Jaws from Moonraker and Spy Who Loved Me.  I didn't mind the character himself (Richard Kiel is 7'2 and looks like a very intimidating hitman), it is just the moronic things they made him do, such as bite through a cable car's 3-inch thick steel cable with his teeth or bite a shark to death.  In the opening sequence he falls from a plane with no parachute and lands unhurt!  It was so infantile it wrecked those otherwise impressive Bonds.  I also intensely disliked the condescending smirk Roger Moore adopted for the character, it was distinctly anti-Bond.  All of the Moore Bonds are flawed for their brutally fake pretend-skiing routines when it is so obvious that Roger Moore is not actually skiing nor performing any of his other stunts.  I have heard some Moore defenders comment that the films were made before blue-screen techniques were perfected, but I am obliged to point out that Thunderball has none of that.  There are light moments, witty Bondian remarks, and terrific action sequences, and all of it is believable!Altogether a terrific thriller and the BEST BOND of the bunch. "},{"Title":"Not much going on here.","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball may have nice locations and pretty seaside scenery but there's a shocking lack in set pieces or excitement.The evil SPECTRE organisation nicks a warplane and lands it in the ocean. Within minutes they've spirited away the nuclear warheads and are demanding a ransom or they'll blow up a major city. Sounds like Broken Arrow huh? Well the British Government are none too happy about this so they send -007 after them. Bond has been 'relaxing' at some sort of health farm where the culprits just so happened to be doing evil deeds so he's already way ahead of the game.Off he goes to the Bahamas (how come super-villains never have lairs in Liverpool or Coventry?) to track the missing plane down and, with any luck, get the warheads back. But not before he scuba dives about a zillion times, goes to the casino and shags loads of women. Isn't he on a time limit here? His gadgets are not THAT fancy, the action not THAT impressive but maybe I'm guilty of double standards here. I've always thought that the latest Bond movies were guilty of being nothing but spectacle and loads of SFX. They don't feel real and are increasingly being pushed into sci-fi rather than super-spy. Sp if you've had enough of the xXx style Die Another Day, something Thunderball will balance it out.But there are better Bonds than this, though it does have some nice widescreen photography and the constant sunny seaside locations will make you want to go on holiday immediately. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Bond Film","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Now I realize the fact that I said Goldfinger was the best Bond movie but that doesn't have to mean its my favorite. This movie is my all-time favorite Bond movie. I liked this film because the plot was very entertaining and action packed. Connery once again enjoying himself as Bond in what he says was His favorite movie. This movie also gives off a lot of new material. Bond doesn't look invincible but he actually shows a weakness in this film but he uses his smarts and quick thinking to fill those holes. The head villain was another great cast and he wasn't a villain that just stood off to the side. I also like how the fight scenes in this movie were really original and the first of its type. Like I said before the plot was outstanding and the run length of the movie wasn't too long or too short. It was great watching Connery (still in his prime) play Bond. This was also the first movie where Connery has the rug on his face. Overall I really enjoyed this film and I find it under-rated on the IMDb polls as I think it deserves more than a 6.9. I know how good Goldfinger was and I think this movie measured up to what Goldfinger was like. "},{"Title":"Wet, wild...and weak!","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball will probably be remembered as the first time the series showed signs of weakness. People have criticised it as being boring, slow, and with too many gadgets. The latter could certainly be said. Thunderball is the most gadget-laden film in the Sean Connery era, a harsh contrast to the glory days of the Ian Fleming original, and the stupid policeman of Dr. No. That being said, the storyline is pretty good. SPECTRE plan to hold the world ransom with a pair of stolen nuclear warheads they have stashed away in the Caribbean. Our man Bond has to find them and stop the launch of the missiles before the worst happens. This helps the film a little in terms of relevance - the threat of nuclear war is still very real today as it was in the 1960s - but the vast quantity of underwater scenes do not. There are simply too many of them for a modern-day audience. We are used to seeing underwater film of this magnitude nowadays. It could be the terrifying images seen in Spielberg's breakthrough hit, Jaws, or the beautifully animated CGI of Finding Nemo. Not that a modern day audience will not appreciate and enjoy the film. Far from it. It delivers all the usual Bond ingredients shaken and not stirred. In terms of eye candy, Claudine Auger is both very beautiful and emotional as the tragic Domino, and as her 'evil twin', as it were, we have Luciana Paluzzi as Fiona Volpe, the first Bond girl to moan on the screen. Adolfo Celli plays Largo, the pirate-like agent of SPECTRE very well, but unfortunately the dubbing can be a little too obvious at times. He also does not pose much of a threat physically to Bond, and has the disadvantage of not having a silent but determined henchman at his side in the final battle - the snivelling Vargas is killed off 3/4 of the way through, making Bond state that he got the point rather too well. Some bad blue screening upsets the final fight a little bit, but it's refreshing to see that even Bond needs a helping hand sometimes. Though I'd be worried if I upset that one, mate. You don't know where she might fire that harpoon! Thunderball is, therefore, the first truly weak Bond film. But fortunately you can still enjoy it, and at least it's not as weak as Diamonds Are Forever, or worse...shudder...Moonraker! "},{"Title":"No Thunder and as for the.....","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Having watched this last night it's my new least favourite Bond film. There's far far too much action underwater which really slows it down, and I got totally confused with all the women, they all to seemed to look very similar. Things takes so long to happen I kept forgetting what the plot was. A lot of the scenes and locations were reminiscent of the previous three films. It had very little humour in it and very little action that wasn't underwater. I did find the last 15 minutes pretty good including that last underwater fight but it takes a long time to get there. If it was re-edited with at least 30 mins taken out there could be a half decent film there. Definitely the worst Connery entry and that includes 'Never Say Never Again' (3/10) "},{"Title":"Here they were starting to get gimmicky.","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After Dr. No, From Russia with Love and Goldfinger were more oriented towards their plots, Thunderball was more gimmicky and focused more on gadgetry. That's not to say that it wasn't enjoyable. Here, SPECTRE steals some nukes, and James Bond (Sean Connery) has to stop them. Of course, part of the plot is that Bond is surrounded by hot babes - many of whom he beds.Still, one gets the feeling that at this point, Sean Connery may have been feeling disenchanted with the role (he did in fact quit the role after a few more movies). Personally, I think that they should have stopped making the movies after he left; none of the other actors have equalled his quality. "},{"Title":"WELL, YOU CAN'T WIN THEM ALL...","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ...says 007, after he failed to convert a woman after making love to her (just remember Goldfinger). And yet, he was right. This one in the series is certainly not a winner. Why? Well, a new year and a new James Bond. In 1965, when Malcom X was murdered, Color TV and mini-skirts became part of our life, the fourth 007 was released. And it had quite a hard job. To beat Goldfinger, probably the best Bond till now. Did he succeed?At my opinion...No. Despite always charming Sean Connery and witty humor lines, beautiful & chesty Bond villain-girl (25 years old Italian Luciana Paluzzi) and exotic locations (The Bahamas), I just couldn't get rid a feeling, that this is probably one of the slowest 007 movie. Despite the fact that the first hour is great, with classy opening scene and a sequel in England (Shrublands health spa), but soon we are witness too a slow paced underwater scenes, where I nearly fell a sleep. Not to mention the boring end. Although it got some peaks, before mention witty lines by 007, blond  bombshell therapist (25 years old Mollie Peters) and a famous line What I did this evening was for king and country, you don't think it gave me any pleasure, do you?...ahhh, pure 007. But still, too long and slow paced underwater scenes prevents me to rate this one higher as6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Over-rated","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The fourth entry in the Bond canon was certainly the biggest at the time.  It was a full 20 minutes longer than its predecessor, Goldfinger.  It was also the return to the fold of original Bond director Terence Young.  But rather than backing away from some of the jokier elements of Guy Hamilton's Goldfinger and embracing again the (relative) realism of Young's own Dr No and From Russia With Love, Thunderball represents another small step on the downward slide that would result in simply horrible later entries like Diamonds are Forever and Live and Let Die. Sean Connery is confident and rugged as Bond, of course, so it's not as bad as it seems.  But the plot gets bogged down in all of the tedious underwater sequences.  And while the underwater battle scene at the climax of the film may be a film-making marvel, it's a dramatic failure.  The film ends with no satisfying feeling of victory or achievement, and there's practically no dialogue for the last, what, ten minutes!!!  If the special edition DVD is to be believed, this film cemented Bond's status as an international cinematic icon.  To me, it represents the exact moment where the producers decided that the gadgets, stunts, and special effects were far more important than the story or the plot.  Disappointment does not begin to cover it. "},{"Title":"Clumsy","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sean Connery reached the zenith of his Bond career in Goldfinger and it was all downhill after that.  The first difference I noticed about this movie was that this was the only Sean Connery film where the gun-barrel sequence was filmed in colour.  But unfortunately, the picture quality throughout the rest of the movie is poor, with much speckling.The opening sequence is very good, with Bond tussling with a SPECTRE agent in drag.  However, the credit sequence and title song are very disappointing.  The main problem with this film is that it does not flow smoothly.  Many of the fight sequences are filmed inelegantly.The plot concerning the theft of two NATO nuclear weapons is overly simplistic and insults the intelligence of the viewer.  Largo is a comical character rather than a menacing villain.  But Thunderball sees Blofeld at his most threatening, his face shielded from view.  In You Only Live Twice and Diamonds Are Forever we see Blofeld's face and this makes him seem less nefarious.Much of this film takes place underwater and this leads to it moving at a slow pace, especially during the last hour.  Sean Connery put in a good performance as 007 in this movie but he didn't have a lot to work with. After three succinct and relatively low-budget Bond films the producers decided that big was better.  How wrong they were.After Goldfinger the producers should have put the Bond series on hiatus for a couple of years, but instead they rushed to produce this lame effort. Putting Connery's Bond movies in order from best to worst -1- Goldfinger2- From Russia With Love3- Diamonds Are Forever4- You Only Live Twice5- Never Say Never Again6- Dr No7- Thunderball "},{"Title":"Nice underwater theme, but gets pretty boring","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This certainly has all the elements for a great Bond film but despite some memorable moments, it gets pretty boring and feels very long A lot of scenes are fairly pointless and it's really a plot by numbers at times. Bond finds this clue then onto the next scene and so on, with the film never really settling down. It'd probably have to rate as one of the noisiest early bonds too with lots of ridiculously loud scenesAs normal it's great in a retro way, with lots of interesting gadgets making for some great sound effects. The underwater propulsion vehicles sound particularly brilliant For underwater action though I prefer 'The Spy Who Loved Me'. 'Dr No' wins out on the beach theme with a superior Bond girl. 'Live and Let Die' is better for a Caribbean flavour etcOverall not one of my favourite Bonds, and not the franchises finest hour "},{"Title":"The 4th James Bond role for Connery, tracking down stolen nuclear weapons.","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This 007 movie was the 4th one that Sean Connery made as James Bond. Almost 50 years ago now, many of the special effects look very crude by today's standards, but for me it is a more enjoyable 007 movie than some of the more recent ones. Many of us fans, including me, think Connery is the best 007 and he is in fine form here.The basic story has Adolfo Celi as one-eyed Largo scheming to steal some nuclear weapons. He does this by hiring a man to undergo cosmetic surgery and speech training to look and sound like a military pilot, then swap places with him to sabotage the mission and crash the plane in shallow water in the Bahamas. The ultimate plan was to use weapons against Miami. Bond is dispatched to thwart the mission and regain control of the weapons. Of course there has to be a Bond Girl and it is Claudine Auger, a former Miss France, as Domino. In a sense she ends up helping Bond with the mission.The climax is a great underwater battle, the bad guys in all black and the good guys in red-orange so that we could keep track of them.007 movies aren't meant to be high art or very deep, and this one meets those criteria very well. It is just good, simple James Bond entertainment, using his variety of cool gadgets to help him out. "},{"Title":"Espionage under the sea","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" THUNDERBALL (1965) is James Bond's aquatic adventure. The fourth installment in the long-running series of spy thrillers, THUNDERBALL is the one with the jet pack, the eyepatch-wearing Number Two, the mechanized massage rack, the lookalike, the Mardi Gras parade, the dancefloor casualty, the yacht, the orange wetsuit, and the scuba battle.Sean Connery returns as 007 in a plot that involves global terrorist organization SPECTRE hijacking two nuclear bombs and holding the world for ransom. Most of the action takes place in beautiful tropical island locations, with much of the film set underwater. Whether it's scuba diving in the reef, unloading bombs from a submerged plane, fighting in a pool full of sharks, or grappling with enemy combatants in the deep, something's always going on underwater.The James Bond films always sought to bring audiences larger-than-life adventure that they wouldn't see anywhere else. The aquatic theme of THUNDERBALL puts a new twist on the spy action. The climactic battle between military forces and the villain's henchmen is unforgettable, because it takes place entirely under the sea. Orange scuba suits vs. black scuba suits, armed only with harpoons and knives.Besides the frogmen, the movie also offers viewers a brief glimpse of a real, fully operational jet pack (designed for short-range military use) and a look at an exciting Skyhook rescue.Adolfo Celi plays Emilio Largo, SPECTRE's Number Two. He wears an eyepatch (the inspiration for a similar character in Austin Powers movies) and is the main villain. He owns a swanky seaside estate (complete with shark pool) and a deluxe yacht, the Disco Volante.The Bond girls in THUNDERBALL are some of the best, led by Claudine Auger as the lovely Domino (Largo's niece) and Luciana Paluzzi as a redheaded femme fatale. The black-hearted Paluzzi leaves quite an impression. Martine Beswick plays Paula, James Bond's unfortunate female accomplice, and Molly Peters plays a masseuse.When I first made my way through the James Bond films, THUNDERBALL stuck out for me. I enjoyed it a lot then and I enjoy it now. It may not have some of the more iconic Bond moments or villains, but it's about as fun and exciting as they come. The under-the-sea theme gives the movie a unique personality. The series' signature wit and charm are evident. James Bond lives the life we wish we could live. The early Sean Connery Bonds were truly the Golden Age Bonds, and they are all top-notch. THUNDERBALL is one of my personal faves. "},{"Title":"Look Up! Look Down! Look Out! Here Comes The Biggest Bond Of All!","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond 007 is back and as usual, the fate of the world is at stake. The evil SPECTRE organization has stolen two atomic bombs from a jet bomber and will be deployed unless they are paid a heaping sum of one hundred million dollars. Bond heads to the Bahamas to find the bombs, defeat the bad guys, and of course make time to get the ladies. The story is actually kind of dark and more serious than some of the previous films with some interesting plot points that seem to reflect the Cold War paranoia of the time, even the overall tone and atmosphere of the film tends to be dark, which makes this another one of my favorites in the series. The violence is sometimes wrenching though seldom graphic and the sexual overtones are quite blatant, though I think we're used to that by now. Sean Connery portrays James Bond for the fourth time and has all the confidence and charm that makes him such a joy to watch in the previous installments, he may even be getting bored at this point with mostly having to swim, fight and be a womanizer, but he does a fantastic job anyways, his chemistry with the other characters always work perfectly. Also, we see that sometimes even he needs a little help from time to time and makes a few mistakes from time to time. This is a great entry in the series, but I guess there are a few minor flaws. First of all, it seems to move just a little slowly at times. One of the things people really complain about is all the gadgets, yes there are a lot of gadgets, but I don't mind. I love the opening where Bond makes an escape with a jet pack, now that's just classic.The other characters are just wonderful, Adolfo Celi is great in the role of Italian Emilio Largo, the main villain of the film. This guy is just brutal and cold hearted, never reluctant to kill one of his own henchmen, he is even willing to torture his mistress when he discovers her betrayal. He just looks and acts like such a stereotypical villain, a dark heavyset man with short white hair, a menacing voice, he even has an eye-patch to complete the villainous ensemble. The villainess of the film is the seductive Fiona Volpe played by Luciana Paluzzi. She's a great femme fatale if I ever saw one, during a brief chase scene she saves Bond from from one of her fellow villains, she also seems to enjoy seducing her victims before having them killed. The main Bond girl however is the lovely Domino Derval played by Claudine Auger. I have to admit that she really brings warmth and humanity to an otherwise harsh assortment of characters, she is Largo's mistress unaware that he is preparing to launch a possible nuclear Armageddon and he has had her brother killed in their plot to take over the world. Still, she is a strong character and her performance is very good. Felix Leiter also returns, this time portrayed by Rik Van Nutter. Fortunately we get appearances by series regulars Moneypenny, M and Q, who provides Bond with his many awesome gadgets.One of the things I love is that the action takes place in the Bahamas, I love when Bond's adventures take him to exotic tropical locations and it gives us the opportunity to enjoy some great underwater sequences. The action scenes are also a real treat to watch, including the spectacular underwater battle during the climax, which I still consider to be one of the best I've ever seen. The cinematography and special effects are definitely noteworthy for the time, everything is sleek and realistic and puts you in the right mood. The same thing goes for the music, John Barry returns for the fourth time providing us with the tunes of the title song and the traditional theme music, the music score itself ranges from dark and brooding to upbeat and exciting and even romantic. In regards to the title song, it's great Tom Jones singing to an outstanding music score accompanied by the silhouettes of girls swimming with psychedelic colors in the background, I've always enjoyed that particular title sequence, sleek, surreal and sexy. Maybe the one problem with the movie that people seem to notice is that it definitely goes for being a straight up action thriller, the plot of atomic bombs being stolen is simple enough, the constant use of gadgets and weapons while simple hand-to-hand combat takes a bit of a backseat. No surprise, seeing this was the most expensive Bond film yet and the producers being well aware of how big a moneymaker the series was. However there are very many who really enjoy this film and I'm one of them, it's still one of the most solid and enjoyable entries in the series and ultimately satisfying. "},{"Title":"veneered with glossy pop exoticism","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Main problem here is the overlong underwater sequences which nowadays make the film look more like a Cousteau documentary than a Bond episode. Despite their novelty at the time, they feel somewhat sluggish now and do slow the film's pace.Thunderball does, however, have its thrills and some of the best lines in the series, and Connery shows a harder edge which was missing from the previous installment Goldfinger. Additionally, the film is veneered with glossy pop exoticism (due to the story's setting in Bahamas) that makes one feel sorry for not having lived in the sixties. But as a whole, it doesn't really take off until its final third. "},{"Title":"Spectacular underwater scenes...","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- 1965, Thunderball. SPECTER, the worldwide crime syndicate steals a nuclear device and blackmails the world to get it back safely. Bond's mission is to get the device back and stop the crime.*Special Stars- Sir Sean Connery plays male lead as James Bond. Adolpho Celi plays the baddie. Several real international beauties playing romantic leads and baddies.*Theme- Crime is worldwide but needs constant vigilance and combating.*Based on- Ian Fleming's story.*Trivia/location/goofs- Spectacular Florida underwater scenes, fast action, foreign locations, exotic women, special gizmos, and the usual great Bond film elements. This film was remade years later with Connery. It was then called, 'Never say Never Again' when the current Bond movie character was held by Roger Moore. That year there were two competing James Bonds.*Emotion- An exciting and enjoyable film, well worth your time seeing. "},{"Title":"Woefully under-appreciated Bond movie","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball had the misfortune of being released just after three superb Bond entries(Dr No,FRWL and Goldfinger) and is generally regarded as the weakest of the first four. Whilst that is partly true, if Bond fans see it as a separate movie and with an objective mind there is a lot of fun to be had in this Bond entry.A criminal mastermind(Emile Largo) has hatched a plan to steal some nuclear warheads and hold the world to ransom. He intends to achieve that by making one of his men look identical to one of the pilots and kill the real pilot and put the fake one in his place. What Emile Largo doesn't count on is Bond recuperating in the same health spa as the real pilot. Bond notices some strange goings on but doesn't look much into it. Emile Largo's succeeds in stealing the nuclear warheads and Bond is sent on a mission to prevent his plan being successful. Thunderball boasts of a pretty good theme song(by Tom Jones) and some spectacular underwater sequences along with some great fight sequences. On top of that there is a great villain in the form of Emile Largo and a great sexy Bond girl(Domino). The only flaw Thunderball has is that it does take a while to get going, usually in a Bond movie there is an opening sequence, the theme song and normally it skips to Bond entering M's office. Thunderball focuses more on Largo's plan and therefore it takes at least half an hour to get going. After that however there is a lot of fun to be had. "},{"Title":"Was my father's favorite Bond film","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The fourth film in this infamous series of espionage features Sean Connery returning to the role that brought him international fame. Of course it would be insane to imagine anyone else in this role at this point in time for the fledgling series that would go on to be the longest running series in the history of cinema.The film begins with Bond still stuck in the ongoing war between himself and the conning SPECTRE organization and has acquired special attention from their mysterious faceless, cat-stroking mastermind who has now decided that James Bond, Agent 007, must be taken out of the picture before he further meddles with the affairs of SPECTRE. But who in their right mind would want to take on the British super-agent? SPECTRE's Number 2, Emilio Largo seems up to the task shortly after the death of Number 6 at the hands of 007 in the beginning of the film.Largo's plan centers on the hijacking of two nuclear warheads which would cause enough fuss to attract any super-spy to the area, and he intends on it. Of course, why bother with a fully equipped agent if you can take Bond out when he's still recovering after his previous mission? Well, it turns out that even in relaxation James Bond isn't entirely defenseless and manages to leave the Spa unharmed...of course he doesn't leave without some invaluable information regarding Largo's plan.Off to the Bahamas goes Bond, where he finally lets his womanizing go too far, nearly leading to his death, but once again he sweet talks, and dances his way out of danger (Literally!). Of course an Agent's job doesn't only center on sex and alcohol. It's actually serious business, as he discovers Largo's fortified estate (complete with a pool of sharks) and yacht are the center of this nuclear weapon plot. So you'd think this sounds easy enough for our dear agent 007, right? Wrong. You forget that Number between one and five in the SPECTRE organization is going to have a countless number of faceless henchmen ripe for the killing (So many hired hands...What do they pay all these scuba troopers?).The entire thing leads up to one of the most interesting, violent fight sequences in the entire Bond franchise as a giant underwater battle erupts between SPECTRE and a group of Scuba commandos (joined of course by Bond) as they attempt to prevent Largo from detonating the bombs off the coast of Miami. Excitement and bloodshed erupts and the title of Most Violent Connery Bond Film is one by the end.Sean Connery as usual proves that he IS James Bond and delivers his lines perfectly. At this point Connery obviously has the character down to near perfection. He can fight, shoot, smoke, gamble, drive nice cars, and seduce women and make it come across as convincing. This is definitive proof that he was born for this role and that the series wouldn't have gone very far without his leaving such a great impact upon his initial run as the character.Adolfo Auger also makes for a good villain. Cold, heartless, and delivers his lines with the vicious nature of a shark. He is a driven villain, seeming to only desire to further impress his superior in SPECTRE, yet he never stoops to the rank of simple henchmen. So he works for himself, but also to impress his leader, but at the same time it feels he tries to detach himself as far away from the central SPECTRE organization as possible. Maybe he intends to prove himself and break away and form his own organization? He obviously has the money and resources to do so (unless ALL of that comes from SPECTRE).This was my father's favorite Bond film growing up and I agree that it is a classic that is a worthwhile movie, though the one complaint I have is that it has several slow parts that seem to drag endlessly, but these are rare.Also, the remastered picture quality on the latest DVDs is great, and if you don't already own the 007 editions from earlier this decade I'd highly recommend the Ultimate Edition of Thunderball, because it has quite a few extra features for you Bond fans (but not so many that it entirely outweighs the 007 edition; so if you have that release there is no need to buy again). "}{"Title":"Excellent and highly popular 007 film","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The fourth entry in the official James Bond canon of Broccoli-Saltzman films, this large-scale adventure contains a heavy amount of underwater action. Connery plays the legendary British secret agent and is assigned to locate and recapture two missing atomic missiles, which have been appropriated by sinister fat cat millionaire Celi. Complicating things for both Connery and Celi is Celi's female houseguest Auger, who feels loyalty towards him, though she is unaware that he has killed her brother in order to make his plan come to fruition. Also in the mix is Celi's henchwoman Paluzzi, who uses her considerable wiles to aid in getting the jobs done. Connery, with the aid of American spy Nutter, eventually locates the missiles, but retrieving them will mean a virtual undersea war between scuba divers on opposite teams. Fans of Connery will enjoy this entry a lot as he tends to be featured in practically every scene. He also shows off his hirsute chest and legs more than in practically any other film outside of Zardoz since he is frequently seen in trunks, a towel or otherwise stripped down! This was reportedly his favorite experience of all the Bond films he made. Celi (whose voice was dubbed by another actor) is an effectively dangerous adversary. Auger (whose voice was also dubbed) is lovely and shows off her pageant-ready physique in several swimsuits. Paluzzi is afforded the fun role here as a beautiful, but quite heartless, villainess. Nutter is given little of note to do in a role that was recast practically every time it recurred in the series. Further feminine attractiveness is provided by Beswick, as a cohort of Connery's, and by Peters, as a curvy masseuse. This is one of the less globetrotting installments with most of the story taking place in one locale &#150; The Bahamas. However, the most is made of the location, augmented by the typically awesome Ken Adams sets. A large parade was staged as well, to add to the local color. Many Bond films feature underwater set pieces, but this one spends roughly a fourth of its running time beneath the waves. Some viewers complain of this slowing down the pace and bogging down the action, though the underwater photography and staging were first rate for the time. This film also contains some of the more imaginative gadgetry of the early years, though much of it is utilized during the action-filled prologue. One unfortunate aspect to some of the scenes is the use of under-cranking the camera in order to speed up the fight scenes and other moments (this is especially hilarious when Connery is strapped to a stretching machine and jerked around frantically.) Initially, a theme song called Mr. Kiss Kiss Bang Bang recorded by Dionne Warwick was to be used, but at the 11th hour the producers opted for a title song instead. Tom Jones recorded the hastily written song and it's a blast; one of the best ever. "},{"Title":"Connery's Bond comes to full maturity","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball is James Bond's 4th go-round in the movies and the most explosive of the Connery Films. More intense than Goldfinger, it sees SPECTRE at its most aggressive. The plot begins with the theft of 2 nuclear bombs. SPECTRE, through its agent #2 Emilio Largo (played by Adolfo Celi), holds the world for ransom, and it is up to Bond to figure out the who, when, and where of the attack. Largo is ably assisted by the best bad-Bond girl in the entire history of the films- Fiona Volpe (played by Luciana Paluzzi). She is both sexy and scary as Largo's top assassin. Unlike the later psycho-vixen in GoldenEye Xenia Onatopp. Volpe is a believable killer- not a overacted character meant for sexual innuendo jokes. Volpe is cool, confident, and a real killer. She easily steals most scenes she appears in. The featured Bond-girl is the character Domino (played by the gorgeous Claudine Auger). Domino is, to me, the most beautiful of the Bond Girls, even over Ursula Andress. Unfortunately, our femme-fatale is dubbed by the same actress who dubbed Andress's lines in Dr. No. Between similar plots and situations, the two characters (Honey Rider from Dr. No and Domino) come across the same, as if it was the same character in both films. Thunderball has no true weaknesses as a Bond film, except the vocal dubbings of many of the actors. Celi, Paluzzi, and others all have their voices overdubbed, and they do not always line up as well. A minor fault when watching. This movie is the Bond Formula at its strongest, being still young and not set in its ways. The plot is a bit hackneyed yet believable, even more so today. The thought of a couple of nuclear weapons being stolen and used as threats for ransom money is not that far-fetched today. Bond is still a detective here, but the fights and action sequences take precedence for the first time throughout a Bond film. There is enough balance to keep the film strong in terms of plot and realistic events with the super-agent storyline. A very good Bond film, and the most re-made and copied... from Matt Helm Films to Austin Powers. "},{"Title":"Another Good Bond From The Bond Sean Connery","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" At this point of Bond it was still a movie a year and this was the 4th in the series. By this point of course Bond had already reached Major Stardom status and the directors and actors needed new exciting adventures to partake in. He had already done so many exciting things in the good but a little boring Dr. No the absolutely stunning movie From Russia With Love and the classic and not as classic as number 2 Goldfinger and the audience was expecting for each Bond film to be bigger and better then the last. What they decided to make for a popular film was Thunderball.In this Bond film, Bond has many more gadgets then previous films, and who can forget the great escape he did in the short but exciting entry into the film and from there we see some of the best action in any Connery film before and after this. Anyway Sean gives another great performance in this movie and the end underwater fighting scene is dramatic and the action very well directed and acted by all of the crew alike. They really put their heart and soles into keeping this movie great.As for the Bond girl, she is another Bond girl that does n't actually does much and most of the time runs around in the bikini, but really that IS Sean Connery Bond, and even though he is a sexist we must all remember the different time Bond lives in.Overall, this Bond film is not up to the standards of previous films From Russia With Love and Goldfinger but I do prefer it over Dr. No. I rate this film 70%. "},{"Title":"So he strikes... like THUNDERBALL.","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My Take One of the more entertaining 007 adventures. Slightly dated, but a lot of fun all the same.THUNDERBALL is for modern summer action blockbusters what GOLDFINGER was to the modern spy classic, which may be the reasons why it suffered in comparison to its predecessors as in FROM Russia WITH LOVE and the highly regarded GOLDFINGER. But hold the comparisons, this is still one of the very best James Bond adventures, with a premise that still holds up pretty well. After being borrowed (not to say rehash) by other modern action films as in 1996's BROKEN ARROW, the plot about the robbing of two nuclear weapons by the always insidious delegates at SPECTRE and holding the the west for ransom. Sean Connery arms himself with his Walther PPK, his tux and dry martinis as the suave secret agent 007 who is ahead of his fellow MI6 agents on the trail of SPECTRE'S #2 agent Emilio Largo (Adolfo Celi) and his sultry mistress Dominio (Former Miss France Claudine Auger). By the time this fourth James Bond film hit screens, it already suffered the reusing of the famous Bond formula. But this one is not without its excellent qualities, namely action and a nice batch of gee-whiz gadgetry. Besides, it's got Connery in the lead role as the ever-flawless James Bond. What is there to be wrong with? The answer is nothing.Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Bond #4 Swimming with sharks","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Largo (Adolfo Celi) steals an airplane with 2 nuclear bombs. James Bond (Connery) goes to the Bahamas, not only because it pleases the local tourism office, but also because he might find Largo and the bombs there. Bond hopes that Domino (Claudine Auger) will help him to meet the villain. Parts of the film seem to be its own parody - Bond flies around with a rocket backpack, he chases chicks by the dozen, Largo keeps sharks in a swimming pool, and the scene when Number One eliminates a cheating member of his organization, leaving a smoking chair, is just as funny as in the Austin Powers spoof, even though it shouldn't be! Compare this elimination to the surprising killing of the Czech chess champion in From Russia With Love, and you know why the kind of Bond fans who prefer serious spy thrillers have mixed feelings about Thunderball. Still, the plan of the villain to steal the airplane seems more plausible than Goldfinger's Fort Knox attack, Domino has a stronger personality than her bikini wearing predecessor in Dr.No had, and those plenty of underwater scenes are admirable still today! "},{"Title":"Peak of the early Bond series","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I agree with the poster who said this film set the stage for Bond parodies. The title sequence was spoofed in Spy Hard and Largo's eyepacth and designation as Number Two was spoofed in the Austin Powers series.Anyway, this has the best supporting cast of any Bond film. Claudine Auger, Martine Beswick, and Luciana Paluzzi were all fine Bond Girl, Assistant, and Villianess roles, but the male supporting characters are well played. Rik Van Nutter is a young and active Felix Leiter and seems to get on quite well with Connery, but the best supporting role is that of Adolfo Celi as Largo. Unlike Goldfinger, who was a brute and a bully, Largo is charming and debonair, which magnifies his ruthlessness when it shows up.What keeps this from getting a perfect score is the stupid line involving Fiona's diatribe about coming over to the dark side after a nookie session. It's a harbinger of the awful scripts that would plague the Roger Moore films. "},{"Title":"Good follow up to Goldfinger","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Although I agree Goldfinger was a better film, Thunderball was a strong follow up in the James Bond series. In fact, I would put Thunderball in the top five James Bond movies. It definitely came out on during the Golden Age of Bond. Bond must stop a SPECTRE agent, Largo, from using two stolen nuclear bombs as extortion leverage against NATO. He infiltrates Largo's group by seducing his woman, Domino. This is what I liked about the early Bond adventures. At the core was simple politics, extortion, and possible terrorism. In essence, you have a believable, down-to-earth villain who does not wish to rule the world. He simply wants wealth. He also wants Domino but cannot have her. This is what makes Largo one of the better Bond villains (although Goldfinger was the best villain). For me personally, though, was the extended scenes shot underwater. As a Pices who loves to swim, and SCUBA Dive, I really got into the SCUBA scenes, as well as Bond evading the sharks in Largo's pool. Is it the best? No. Goldfinger has that title. But Thunderball is up there for good reasons. "},{"Title":"This film strikes like a Thunderball","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball is often cited as being something of a letdown after Goldfinger, and to some degree this is the case. Thunderball lacks as strong a female character, the villain isn't quite in Goldfinger's league and film's concluding quarter drags on a bit long. That being said, Thunderball is still a strong entry in the Bond canon and worth seeing.The plot of Thunderball finds global terrorist organization SPECTRE hijacking two nuclear warheads from NATO thanks to the placement of a double for one of the officers on board the plane carrying them, Major Francois Derval (Paul Stassino). The operation is being masterminded by SPECTRE agent Emile Largo (Adolfo Celi), who also happens to be the guardian of Derval's sister, Domino (Claudine Auger). After the warheads are captured, Bond puts two and two together regarding Derval and travels to Nassau, where Domino and Largo are currently located, with the belief that the warheads are not far away. He runs into Largo's associate, Fiona Volpe (Luciana Paluzzi), who proves to be a mix of sex and danger, and quickly realizes that Largo is behind the theft of the warheads.Thunderball is one of the first large-scale Bond films, filled with elaborate action sequences and some exotic locations. It also features a somewhat more involved plot than Goldfinger, but not exceptionally so. It was with Thunderball that the filmmakers really tried to wow the audience with spectacle, and for the most part it works. However, it was also in Thunderball that the Bond series began to expand its running time and open up a bit, and this would prove to be something of a mixed bag. Thunderball is entertaining, no doubt, but it is somewhat on the long side. It seemed that producers Albert Broccoli and Harry Saltzman had believed that to keep bringing in audiences they needed to expand the scope and length of the films, and that just wasn't so (Fleming's Bond novels were rarely more than 230 pages). Thunderball is hardly a snooze fest, it is full of what audiences are there to see a Bond film for, it just overstays it's welcome a little bit. One of the key culprits of this is the film's latter portion, including a long, drawn out underwater battle. After a few minutes, watching anonymous swimmers fight and shoot each other with harpoon guns becomes a bit monotonous, and kills some of the film's momentum.When identifying the success of a Bond film, at least two elements have to be considered the girl and the villain. On both counts, Thunderball isn't quite a successful as its immediate predecessor. Claudine Anger is certainly attractive enough, but her character is bit limp and nowhere near as entertaining as Honor Blackman's Pussy Galore was. She's by no means the weakest Bond girl, but not a great one either. Adolfo Celi had big shoes to fill after Gert Frobe, and can't quite live up to them. He is appropriately dastardly as Largo, but not quite in the same league as Goldfinger. Thunderball does succeed at giving Bond his first female henchman in the form of Fiona Volpe, and Luciana Paluzzi proves to be one of the more memorable elements in the film. Her Fiona is both sexy and downright nasty and proves a nice counterpoint to Goldfinger's Oddjob. Despite a return of the Aston Martin in the early scenes in the film, Thunderball was a little short on gadgetry, preferring to rely on its location and action to set it apart, and that works just fine. The underwater material is different and the location is very attractive, to be sure. Many of the action sequences are well staged as well, it is mostly the last quarter of the film that is a bit repetitive.Thunderball is a strong Bond film, without a doubt, and more or less Connery's last really good one. It just had the unfortunate luck of following on the heels of Goldfinger and From Russia With Love, and is just not quite in their league. "},{"Title":"A screenplay before being a novel","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball occupies a particular place in Ian Fleming's workit was first a movie screenplay which the writer reworked as a novel.Unlike Goldfinger,some characters are not present in the novel and some are very different.For instance Fleming's Domino is Italian (Domino Vitalli,in the movie she's French)and she's far from the near romantic young lead portrayed by ex-Miss France Claudine Auger .She drinks heavily and she drives her car the way Fiona does in the movie.Although by no means a villain ,she's a cross between Domino (from the movie) and Fiona.Fiona Volpe who is completely absent in the novel ,IMHO,is the best JB girl in the whole moviea female Bond herself ,she makes love to trap her enemies ,and unlike Pussy Galore or Tatiana,she will not hear the heavenly choirs and come back to the right way.Thunderball is certainly the most underrated of all Bond movies;Sean Connery had begun not to take this part seriously and some of his lines (after his dance with Fiona notably) are hilarious.Outside Claudine Auger,there are two other beauties (Luciana Paluzzi and Martine Beswick whose part is unfortunately too short),and the final battle is Homeric.This is the last film which roughly follows Fleming's story.Afterward,the writer had asked that the films would keep his title but would use original screenplays.The first attempt ,although written by highly talented Roald Dalh was a let- down.Thunderball was the only JB which was remade ,because there were two works ,the novel adapted for the screen in 1966,and the screenplay which they use for Never say never again at the beginning of the eighties and which ,like it or not ,was not that much an improvement on Terence Young's flick.Klaus Maria Brandauer,although a great thespian,did not outshine Adolfo Celi the first Largo. "},{"Title":"Underwater fight scene is a must see!!","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The underwater fight scene at the end makes this move worth watching over and over.... Well done and fun to watch. It sets this movie apart from other action movies. You'll never mistake this part of the movie with any other Bond movies.How many action movies have car chase? Too many. Now how many have an underwater fight scene with 2 armies fighting each other? Only one that I remember - Thunderball. You've never seen anything like this, and it's very enjoyable to watch.The movie as a whole was so good that they did a remake several years later...Never Say Never Again. "}{"Title":"Entertaining, but nitpickable as usual","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD Thunderball is in the tradition of most Bond films, fun but not too be taken seriously.  The women are sexy, the bad guys are their typical evil selves, and the locations are beautiful(The Bahamas). The basic story is interesting, hijacking nuclear bombs for ransom, but the movie is really a typical 007 comic TinkerTailor,Soldier,Spy'. The scene where Bond is dancing with the evil but chesty Fiona Volpe is an example. A bullet from a high powered revolver should have gone through her and into Bond, but of course it doesn't.  As Bond himself said in 'Goldfinger' to Pussy Galore on the private jet, the bullet from her gun would pass through him and the plane's fuselage like a blowtorch through butter!I guess the point is to just enjoy the wit and flare that Sean Connery brings to the early Bond films, and not expect it to be anything but an entertaining, far fetched typical Bond film.  That said, the ending where Bond and Domino are picked up by an airplane is positively moronic. Try to figure out what happens to them after that!   "},{"Title":"Bond below par...but only slightly.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The fourth film in the series starring Sean Connery as 007 James Bond. The usual devices we have come to expect from the Bond franchise are in place for this film. Gadgets, girls and villains are all set to entertain and for the most part as with all the other Bond films from this era they do. But in this case the entertainment quota for me wasn't quite as high as before.In this outing Bond is assigned to track down two atomic bombs that have been stolen by SPECTRE who now intend to hold the world to ransom with these devastating weapons. This takes him into conflict with Emilio Largo a high ranking agent of SPECTRE and the beautiful but deadly Fiona Volpe along the way. Connery's performance was good although you get the impression he wasn't quite putting in the effort at times but he manages to save the day with a number of good one liners. As a whole this film seems a little darker than it's predecessors and maybe this is why Bond seems a little less rounded than usual.Adolfo Celi plays the villain of the piece taking the role of Emilio Largo, once again a reasonable performance if lacking some of the finesse of other Bond villains. Claudine Auger is the Bond Girl in this film playing Domino, a slightly tragic figure who seems a little bit throwaway in terms of the story however she does fit the bill in terms of beauty which of course is a staple ingredient of all Bond films. There is some great scenery in this film and in terms of action some of the underwater cinematography still looks great by today's standards. There is even some development in terms of Bond's relationship with his CIA counterpart Felix Leiter, something which I don't think was ever fully realised in the Bond films afterwards.Although I don't think this is by any means one of the greatest Bond films it's still eminently watchable and contains all the hallmarks of a good 1960's action/adventure yarn. Still worth a look. "},{"Title":"Engaging Mixture Of Action And Character Interplay","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball is the third and final of the Terence Young-directed Bond films, and is also the longest. While it drags at points, the length of the film nonetheless adds to the interplay of the characters.The film marks the return of the criminal enterprise SPECTRE, opening with a tense business meeting giving a clue to the sheer size of the organization. The ruthlessness of Ernst Stavro Blofeld (still unseen other than via the gorgeous Persian cat he lovingly strokes) is shown when a case of embezzlement is detected and its perpetrator electrocuted. The main plot then unfolds, as SPECTRE operative Emilio Largo outlines his plan to hijack an RAF nuclear bomber and use its war-load to blackmail the world. The crime itself is witnessed by the audience, a la the formula of the later Columbo series, and as with Lt. Columbo the suspense comes not from figuring out what happened but witnessing if James Bond can piece together the right clues to himself figure it out.This allows for quite a bit of character interplay, a quality lost by critics who attack the film's length and the fact that SPECTRE's action is seen beforehand. One of the better scenes comes via the first meeting in the film between James Bond and Felix Leiter (here played by Rik Van Nutter, who looks like football coach Pete Carroll), which occurs amid James' smoking out of a hidden assassin. The assassin is chased off, and gets his when he has to report to Largo.Though some scenes seem irrelevant, Terence Young doesn't waste anything, and once one gets used to the film's length it will come across as among the best of the Bond series. "},{"Title":"THUNDERBALL under the shadow of GOLDFINGER","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Although Thunderball stands to be one of my favorite Bond flicks, I can certainly agree with some of the negative views that it has generated over the years of Bond reflection, as far as pace and technical blunders go. There can be no question that Thunderball has a number of shortcomings, but one must remember, that Thunderball had to compete with the euphoria of Goldfinger. Most Bond fans up to the point of Goldfinger had agreed, that Goldfinger had been the best to date and it was very obvious that any sequel to it was going to have to be very special in its direction and story line. Let us say that From Russia With Love had succeeded Goldfinger, if that were the case, is it likely that From Russia With Love would have been the hit that it was before Goldfinger? I doubt it.     "},{"Title":"Title song review","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The title song for this Bond is sung by Tom Jones, who bellows it out with great gusto. As is standard with me and Bond title songs, I did not like this one much. The lyrics have nothing to do with the film- He always runs while others walk? Anyway, the only redeeming feature of this music is when Jones yells, And he strikes... Like a thunderball! Which is very well done and interesting. The song is rather slow for my taste, and the lyrics are downright annoying. Jones himself is not bad- he is actually one of the better people to sing this. Plus, if you are sick of women singing the songs, listen to this one. Here are the lyrics, by the way. And see my other Bond music reviews at other Bond comments.He always runs while others walk, He acts while other men just talk, He looks at this world and wants it all, So he strikes like Thunderball.He knows the meaning of success, His needs are more so he gives less, They call him the winner who takes all, And he strikes like Thunderball.Any woman he wants he'll get He will break any heart without regret.His days of asking are all gone, His fight goes on and on and on, But he thinks that the fight is worth it all, So he strikes like Thunderball. "},{"Title":"good bond movie","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a really good bond film. It's one of the best ones until that extremely boring underwater scene. this movie has all the classic bond personalities like the dry martinis and the women and his suaveness. After the underwater scene, which can be entertaining at times, the ending is not bad at all. Overall I like this movie. A big portion of the likableness of this movie is that Sean Connery adds many more of those funny one liners James Bond is famous for. "},{"Title":"A Little Pokey at Times, but a Good Bond Film","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  THUNDERBALL   * * *     I've been catching up on the widescreen DVDs of the old Bond films and this one isn't up to Goldfinger and Her Majesty's Secret Service because it's a little draggy at times but it's redeemed by an action-packed last half-hour underwater battle. "},{"Title":"a bit of a snoozer...","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad Bond movie by any stretch, but it sure drags at times.As Mike and the bots on MST 3K said, underwater fight scenes are the drum solos of movies.  Very rarely interesting and always too long.  And the undercranking is sort of obnoxious.But this one is still quite entertaining when it gets over itself.  A middle of the road Bond  "},{"Title":"Never Again","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  My least favourite Sean Connery effort, not counting the 'unofficial' and truly lamentable Never Say Never Again.  No coincedence that that was a re-make of Thunderball - both are fatally slow.  There are a few classic Bond scenes, such as when Connery is trapped in a swimming pool with a knifeman and some sharks.  John Barry's music is cool as ever, and Claudine Auger was one of the sexiest Bond girls, but humour and fun are thin on the ground here and as for the painfully long underwater sequence where they cover the ditched aeroplane... never again! "},{"Title":"this could have had so much more!","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As a big James Bond Fan I can say that this is one of the most boring film under the Bond name! I was watching the film and I kept losing what the story line is about,the only appealing thing about this film was the scenes in which you see Blofeld kill No#12, for being insolent, and the underwater scenes. I can remember thinking that if all future Bond films are going to be like this I just won`t bother!This is the 4th appearance as James Bond and is probably the worst, well maybe Diamonds are Forever is equal.I give this a 3 out of 10. "}{"Title":"double-o-gadget","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball is highly entertaining. However it is a low point of the series. The character Bond has become the star of the movie, Connery is not as important as an actor as he is as the gadget-man. No wonder he wanted to quit after this one. I miss the human aspect in this movie and action, too. If you're not an expert, don't let you be fooled by this 007-movie; it actually got an award as the worst movie of the year. "},{"Title":"Sean Connery's worst Bond film","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For a film featuring the theft of two nuclear weapons (which is mentioned perhaps a little too infrequently!), this was surprisingly dull. It takes absolutely ages to get going and even when it does, it isn't very exciting. The film's far too long and pales in comparison to the first three. The underwater scenes are impressively shot but they get very old very fast and started to seem endless. The regulars are all as effective as ever but Adolfo Celi makes for a poor villain as Emilio Largo while Claudine Auger, who has surprisingly little screen time for the main Bond girl, is just dull as Domino Derval. Conversely, Luciana Paluzzi is absolutely enchanting as the classic femme fatale Fiona Volpe and is second only to Honor Blackman as my favourite Bond girl so far. Unlike Auger, she actually had chemistry with Sean Connery. She was the best thing about the film without a shadow of a doubt. I can't praise her enough. Out of the rest of the supporting cast, only Guy Doleman really sticks out as Count Lippe while both George Pravda and Earl Cameron are wasted in small roles. Even Bond producer Michael G. Wilson isn't too enamoured with the film since he once said, We always start out trying to make another From Russia with Love and end up with another Thunderball. I'll be interested to see how the remake Never Say Never Again compares. I just hope that it's better than this.Oh, well. It's only the fourth film. There's plenty more fish in the sea... "},{"Title":"Bond, James Bond!","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After a Nata Vulcan Bomber carrying two atomic bombs crashes in the Caribbean, SPECTRE informs the British Government that it had hijacked the plane's cargo and made a ransom of 100 million pounds, or else, a major England city or the U.S. would be made barren. MI6 turns to James Bond (Sean Connery) for help, and he heads to The Bahamas to recover two nuclear warheads stolen by SPECTRE agent Emilio Largo (Adolfo Celi).Armed with secret and bizarre gadgets and an armor of deadpan humor, one-liners and wits, Connery shines once again as the suave but reckoned Agent 007, battling villain after villain in the Disco Volante, the floating fortress. Mixed in with the chaotic fun is the villainous Fiona Volpe (Luciana Paluzzi) and the seductive Domino Derval (Claudine Auger).The action, thrills and splendid special effects of the 007 films continue with this movie, and the exciting and entertaining factor of this film really signaled that the Bond franchise continues to sore to new heights.Grade A "},{"Title":"The only thing this has going for it is the strong acting & beautiful cinematography. The rest is an overlong bore in my opinion","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's ironic. Never Say Never Again is essentially a remake of this film, and people hail it as one of the worst Bond films (Technically. It's not an official film of the Bond series. It's a standalone film.) The irony is that they are right. It is one of the worst Bond films, but it's actually BETTER than Thunderball. Thunderball does have some exciting action, but it's undermined by some painfully boring underwater sequences which really tested my patience. The cinematography is beautiful to look at, but even that gets boring when the underwater sequences are so dull with scuba scenes that failed to maintain my interest. The pacing is very leisurely at times, and the film suffers for it. Sean Connery is great as per usual, but not even he can perk up my interest in this. Claudine Auger is a classy Bond girl, no doubt about it. Adolfo Celi is one of the film's main strengths. I felt he was very cool as the villain. Final Thoughts It is worth a watch, but the underwater sequences are very hard to get through, at least they were for me. Never Say Never Again wasn't that great, but at least it didn't bore me so much like Thunderball did. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Another quality Bond!","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The fourth Bond film sees the criminal organisation SPECTRE trying to pull off its greatest coup&#x85; to steal two nuclear weapons and hold the west to ransom. To do this one of their agents is given plastic surgery so that he looks like a NATO officer who will fly aboard an RAF Vulcan bomber. The plot probably would have worked but for the fact that Bond just happened to be undergoing some enforced relaxation at the clinic the work was done at and saw the real officer dead. The only lead is his sister Domino; she is in the Bahamas so that is Bond's destination. Here he finds her living with Largo; Bond is sure that he is involved but proving it won't be easy.This Bond film is filled with all the thrills one would expect; underwater fights, explosions, a pool full of sharks, several beautiful women and some great one-liners. The numerous undersea scenes were great particularly impressive was the final confrontation between Largo's men and the US forces summoned by Bond's CIA friend Felix Lieter. Sean Connery was once again great as Bond and Adolfo Celi was good as the villain Largo and Claudine Auger did a decent job as Domino. "},{"Title":"Thunderball","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After eliminating the assassin(in drag!) who killed two of his colleagues, 007(ConnerY)must stop SPECTRE once again from global terror, this time evil agent #2, Emilio Largo(Adolfo Celi, with an eye patch and super yacht called the Disco Volante)is heading an extortion threat using two commandeered atomic missiles stolen from a NATO airplane, warning of an attack on either an England or US city if not paid certain millions. As any great Bond movie has, Bond outplays Largo in a game of Bonco at a casino, steals the villain's gorgeous trophy mistress(her brother was the airplane pilot killed and replaced by a paid impostor to be disposed of once Largo gained the missiles and no longer needed his services), evades numerous attempts on his life, and has the beautiful ladies' hearts swooning. In THUNDERBALL, there plenty of gadgets such as a jet propelled one manned flying vehicle, a watch with a Geiger counter just in case there's an attempt to poison him with something radioactive, a camera which can take pictures underwater, a pocket sized breather if Bond loses his oxygen tank, and a pill which to swallow with a homing device to track him if he gets lost and needs to be found by his allies. Largo even owns his own estate called Palmyra in Nassau, complete with a pool of sharks(which get to feed off of one unlucky fellow who fails in his mission to kill Bond; Largo is not one who tolerates failure very well). Beautiful women(Claudine Auger, Luciana Paluzzi, Martine Beswick, Molly Peters), underwater fights with harpoons, exotic locations, a great Bond villain and a finale involving a speeding boat with 007 having to fend off Largo's men before it crashes into rocks..THUNDERBALL has all the required ingredients. Maybe a bit longer than it needs to be, nevertheless, THUNDERBALL still delivers for the target audience. Interesting enough, Bond must be saved by three different women, on three different occasions, particularly at the end when it seems Largo has 007 right where he wants him. Not only does THUNDERBALL have a great villain in Celi, but the voluptuous red-head Paluzzi is a fetching villainous in her own right. Probably the most funniest attempt on Bond's life would have to be in this film when a SPECTRE agent turns the speed up on a back stretching machine in a health spa where 007 was vacationing. "},{"Title":"Thunderball (1965) - Not as Thunderous as You May Expect","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The James Bond series enjoyed a home run with three brilliant films - Dr. No, From Russia with Love, and Goldfinger - but then came Thunderball and all good things came to an end.To be sure, Terence Young was clever enough to insure that Thunderball had all of the aesthetic elements that made the previous Bond films great. Sean Connery reprises his role as James Bond and, although the script does not give him much to do, he still exudes a certain magnetism. Furthermore, the Bond girls exemplify quality control at its finest. Domino (Claudine Auger), Fiona (played by the very sexy Luciana Paluzzi), and Martine Beswick (Paula) are very attractive women, though only Luciana Paluzzi is memorable as the bad Bond girl who thinks nothing about killing James Bond after having sex with him. Yet two crucial elements were missing from this film. To begin with, Adolf Celi (as the arch-nemesis Largo) came across more as a Renaissance man surrounded by books than a frightening villain who could potentially kill James Bond. Secondly, there are significant problems with the plot. The beginning of this film is fantastic, especially that scene where SPECTRE (his face hidden) exacts retribution against one of his underlings for embezzling funds. Yet after this great opening, Thunderball quickly becomes boring. James Bond's lengthy visit to a health spa (could they have sent James Bond to a more interesting place than a health spa?) is the dullest sequence of this movie. Then after arriving in Florida (where Largo is), James Bond seemed for the first time never to be in serious danger. In the first three Bonds, Spectre put a lot of work into trying to kill James Bond - a device that has always succeeded in spicing up the plot. But in Thunderball, the Spectre villains seem to have given up. If throwing grenades into the ocean is the best that Bond's enemies can come up with, then they are not trying hard enough. These problems with the plot were compounded further by underwater sequences and a mundane (not to mention formulaic) underwater fight between an army of British agents, armed with shooting harpoons, and another army of Largo's men, also armed with shooting harpoons. "},{"Title":"The name's Bland, James Bland.","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Terrance Young is back in the director's chair for Sean Connery's fourth outing as James Bond. You wouldn't believe it if you didn't know it though, as Young seems to have decided that more is more and so lets things get even more outlandish than they were in Goldfinger as Bond is sent on a mission to discover who has stolen a nuclear missile.S.P.E.C.T.R.E. are back and again we get a faceless Blofeld pulling the strings. The main villain of the film however is S.P.E.C.T.R.E.'s no. 2 Emilio Largo, played by Aldofo Celi. He is a relatively uninteresting villain but Celi's performance is satisfactory. Connery is again good as Bond and the character feels more like he did in Dr. No and From Russia With Love after feeling somewhat diluted in Goldfinger. This is the last time Connery would even appear interested in playing 007, so lap it up. Claudine Auger as Bond's squeeze Domino gets the job done and looks very nice indeed. Felix Leiter appears, again, and is played by a different actor than before, again. Rik Van Nutter contends with Norman Burton from Diamonds Are Forever as having the worst performance as the C.I.A. operative. He is completely useless and Bond even talks down to him and shuts him up. I don't know what it is with this character but the filmmakers just seem to want to make him look like a buffoon for the most part.Much of Thunderball's time is spent underwater as people dive and this is where the film really falters. The entire 20 minute action sequence leading up to the films' finale is nearly unwatchable as there is too much going on, too many henchman swimming around thus rendering it impossible to tell who is who and who is doing what and it is too damn dark to try and make any sense of it anyway. Young really seems to have lost his touch when it comes to action, although there is quite a good scene earlier in the film when Bond is thrown into a swimming pool full of sharks. All of the Bond films up until this point had utilised the idea of speeding up the film after the fact to make things (cars, fights etc) appear to be moving faster than they really are. It is an old fashioned editing technique which is sometimes distracting but I often find it charming for some bizarre reason I cannot explain. This technique is used far too much in Thunderball however, especially in the climax as Bond and Emilio scrap on the bridge of a boat. It really takes you out of the scene and to be honest, I laughed. It looks crap, enough said.It's not all bad though and Young's direction, while not as good as it had been previously, coupled with Connery's presence is enough to keep things moving along nicely during the first two acts. Despite having a rather boring finale and not much of a villain Thunderball still manages to settle somewhere midtable in my overall Bond rankings. Tom Jones' title song is one of my favourites, maybe that has something to do with it. Make no mistake though; this is 007 at his most mediocre. "},{"Title":"Thunder Ball-I Wasn't Thunder Struck By It **1/2","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The women in this James Bond film that came 1 year after the memorable Goldfinger, really don't bring that much to the film. There is no Pussy Galore.The end is filled with an underwater chase scene. To be honest with you, you don't know half the time who the good guys or bad guys are. The ending appears more like a rush act.Unlike Goldfinger, with the exception of one or two lines, Sean Connery is not given the opportunity to deliver the lines that he did so well the year before.Adolfo Celi, the villain here, lacks the sinister charisma of Gert Frobe of Goldfinger fame. "},{"Title":"Boringball","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Connery's fourth outing as James Bond is one of his weakest and arguably one of the weakest in the whole Bond series.Connery clearly hadn't as much fun making Thunderball as making Goldfinger and it shows.Thunderball is quite boring and way too long. It is nice to see S.P.E.C.T.R.E. and Blofeld again (still mysteriously), but the storyline isn't very convincing and so are most of the actors.The scenes underwater are boring to watch, and unfortunately there are many scenes under water.Thunderball was remade in 1983 as Never Say Never Again, but even the remake wasn't much of an improvement. "}{"Title":"Bloated and nowhere near as fresh as the first three","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Out of the 60's Bond films Thunderball is easily my least favorite. It's the most lacking in entertainment value, contains Connery's worst performance as Bond outside of Diamonds are Forever (he's still alright, though), an uninspired score from genius composer John Barry, features a middling, mostly uninteresting plot and villains that will never rank among the more memorable among 007's screen adventures, and is incredibly bloated and somewhat stale, culminating in a climatic action scene that amounts to little more than a waste of all the effort that must have gone into filming the underwater scenes.Thunderball isn't without positives however. It is 60's Bond, after all, so you can expect some fun one-liners delivered well by Connery and a bunch of strikingly beautiful women which the script always finds contrived reasons to barely clothe. Claudine Auger is, as far as my tastes go, probably the most beautiful Bond girl, or at least one of the most striking, and she's not a half-bad actress either, and is given more to do than many other Bond girls. You can also expect some wild action scenes to enjoy, although Thunderball is again the least of the 60's Bond films in that regard.The film is well-made on a technical level, I suppose, but even these aspects seem less impressive than the earlier films, especially coming after Guy Hamilton's incredibly stylish take on Goldfinger. The several scenes filmed underwater must have been incredibly hard to pull off, but sadly the end result isn't quite as fun as it sounds on paper, a statement which covers most of Thunderball unfortunately. Thunderball is an overlong, bloated, aggressively mediocre entry in the Bond series and unquestionably the worst of the 60's Bond films. I'm really quite amazed that it has so many fans, while many superior entries have lesser reputations. Still, it is more or less a solid entry in the series and much better than several others. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Flawed but still fun","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A big step down from the previous two in the series. Connery is great, as always, but the story is mishandled and the supporting characters are mostly weak. It also suffers from some of the worst editing I've ever seen in a major motion picture. Some scenes are completely out of order, characters appear and disappear, and huge leaps of logic are made in the plot. Other than the bad Bond girl, there isn't a single intriguing character - other than Bond himself, of course - and the villain isn't especially threatening. Still, the action scenes are terrific, especially the underwater scenes, even though this was the beginning of gadget overload in the series (ex. the jet pack). It's a deeply flawed film but still fun to watch. "},{"Title":"A worthy addition to the Bond series (SPOILERS)","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" By 1965, James Bond was a pop icon. Goldfinger had been a huge success for producers Albert R. Broccoli and Harry Saltzman, and the anticipation for Thunderball, James Bond's fourth film, was through the roof. There were more James Bond-related brands than ever before, maybe more than any other movie product today. With inflation adjusted, Thunderball remains the highest grossing Bond film ever, with almost a billion dollars in ticket sales.Obviously, the filmmakers must've done something right for the film to have been as big a hit as it was. When compared to the previous outing, Thunderball is something of an upgrade-- it has better locations, better direction, and much better Bond Girls. While Goldfinger defined the Bond formula, Thunderball uses it better, while still delivering a darker tone and a close adaptation of Ian Fleming's 1961 novel.The film opens with an exciting and involving pre-title sequence that shows Bond (Sean Connery) narrowly escaping death when he once again butts heads with an agent of SPECTRE (they seem to turn up everywhere!). Very little of it makes any sense, but it does set the tone for the rest of the movie serious, but not without humour. We're then treated to one of the better title songs and a colorful title sequence, after which we get an amusing scene of SPECTRE plotting it's boldest plan yet the theft of two nuclear bombs and demanding a huge ransom, or they would detonate the nukes somewhere in the world.Bond stumbles onto the plot and meets one of main operatives while he just so happens to be staying at a health clinic, recovering from wounds suffered at the beginning. This section is actually pretty slow, and is devoted more to setting up the rest of the plot and characters than explosions and gun fights. That being said, it's all still very enjoyable and provides Connery the room needed to show off some great Bond moments, like when he steals a grape from a bad guy's room. Sir Sean is again having fun among the big sets, showing a more relaxed side to Bond, without seeming too indestructible, like in Goldfinger.The main villain this time is Emilio Largo, played with suitable authority by Adolfo Celi. While he's a departure from the version of the novel, he's one of the better villains in the series, even though he doesn't stack up to Bond's adversaries in the previous three films. Faring worse is Largo's main henchman, Vargas, who gets a bigger than necessary introduction, but eventually just fades into the background and becomes completely forgettable. Ironically, his death is more memorable than he is, and he doesn't even compare to Red Grant or Odd Job.Making up for Vargas and even Largo is Luciana Paluzzi's Fiona Volpe, who's one of the best villains in the entire Bond canon. She's intelligent, cunning, and cold, providing a perfect match for Connery's 007, while also being extremely attractive in every frame. On the side of good, Claudine Auger, who plays Largo's naive mistress Domino, is stunning to look at, and even though she isn't as strong-willed as Fiona, she isn't completely wasted and helps the plot move forward.Returning also is Felix Leiter, this time played by Rik Van Nutter. While not the best or most memorable Felix, he's a trustworthy ally for Bond and helps with key moments of the film. The best thing about the movie is its setting in Nassau, which was shot on location. When Bond arrives there on a hunch, the scenery lends a unique feeling of exoticness to the film, and it's better handled here than in future Bond adventures that shot in and around the same place.It's the hallmark of Thunderball, the underwater sequences, that slow it down the most. While the choreography and cinematography is impressive, they don't excite as much as they were supposed to and seem to go on forever, like early in the running time when the Vulcan bomber is investigated by Largo's frogmen. John Barry's music is once again perfect for these scenes and many others, but one gets the feeling they should have been trimmed, along with the Angelo/Count Lippe/Francois Derval sub plot.Thunderball's climax is, appropriately, an underwater skirmish, and is one of the other scenes that could've been shortened, as entertaining as it is. Apart from this and a few fights scattered throughout, there aren't any show stopping action scenes, while there are numerous technical aspects, like dubbing and editing, that look too distracting and jarring. But the movie is still classic Bond and holds up well after 40 years. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Massive Adventure Marks Peak of 007 Popularity...","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  With THUNDERBALL, the worldwide James Bond craze reached levels of insanity never achieved by any other film series. With theaters staying open 24 hours a day to packed houses, Sean Connery's face on the cover of every major American and European magazine, literally hundreds of promotional tie-ins with other products, and dozens of 'copycat' film and television series cashing in on the 007 formula, the sheer magnitude of James Bond's popularity was astonishing. And, despite overlong underwater sequences, and a growing reliance on gadgets over plot, the film still gave fans what they wanted; adventure on a massive scale, breathtaking women, and Sean Connery, 35, more 'cool' and dangerous than ever.Producers Albert Broccoli and Harry Saltzman had intended THUNDERBALL as the first James Bond film, but when filmmaker Kevin McClory took author Ian Fleming to court (Fleming's novel had been based on an unproduced screenplay written by Fleming, McClory, and Jack Whittingham), the producers opted for DR. NO, instead. With the case settled in 1964, THUNDERBALL was chosen as the follow-up to GOLDFINGER, with McClory, as part of the settlement, given a 'Producer' credit, along with limited 'permission' to create his own Bond film (which, after nearly 20 years of legal battles with MGM/UA, would result in NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN, a 'remake' of THUNDERBALL, again starring Sean Connery). GOLDFINGER director Guy Hamilton, pleading exhaustion, bowed out of the film, but the series' first director, Terence Young, who had 'created' the James Bond 'look', was available, bringing his own distinctive style to the mix.The plot involves SPECTRE's crashing a NATO bomber, and stealing two nuclear missiles, with which they blackmail the world. James Bond, recuperating at a 'health farm' after the events of the pre-credits sequence (where he fights the 'widow' of an enemy agent, revealed to be the agent, himself), is already an unwitting adversary in SPECTRE's plot (as the 'double' of the NATO pilot is recovering from plastic surgery at the same clinic, prior to piloting the bomber, and incurs 007's 'displeasure'). Soon Bond is in the Bahamas, facing villain   Emilio Largo (Italian actor Adolfo Celi), his sexy 'hit' woman, Fiona Volpe (sexy Italian Luciana Paluzzi), and the actual NATO pilot's sister, Largo's mistress, Domino (breathtaking ex-Miss France Claudine Auger). While humiliating Largo at cards and skeet shooting, Bond reveals to Domino that Largo and Volpe had murdered her brother, thus enlisting her aid. Despite numerous attempts to kill 007 (including a shark sequence where Connery actually came 'face-to-face' with a man-eater, accidentally...Not an experience I'd care to repeat, Connery quipped), he unravels the SPECTRE plot, resulting in a long, climactic undersea battle, and final brawl aboard Largo's out-of-control yacht.Despite Sean Connery's claim that THUNDERBALL was his favorite Bond film, he was clearly 'burning out' during the production. The hundreds of reporters on location gave him little privacy, while the physical demands of the role drained his energy. Despite making MARNIE (for Alfred Hitchcock), WOMAN OF STRAW, and THE HILL, he felt that no one took his 'non-Bond' performances seriously, and that Albert Broccoli had not treated him fairly in splitting the huge profits of DR. NO and FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE, creating an animosity that would last for years. He refused to attend any of the many premieres of THUNDERBALL, and would soon announce that the next Bond film would be his last.The James Bond franchise had achieved the pinnacle of success...It now had nowhere to go, but down...  "},{"Title":"Bond at his best","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Although the most commercially successful in terms of admissions,Thunderball is nowadays considered to be one of the weakest Bonds. I can't see why. For my money,it betters the somewhat over-rated Goldfinger.The opening section is overlong and somewhat long-winded,a fault that persisted in the fairly poor remake Never Say Never Again,but once Bond gets to the Bahamas the film really is tops. Connery gives his best performance as Bond,effortlessly cool with a rough edge. The locations are beautiful,the film really makes you want to visit them. The action,even if mostly underwater,is exciting,including Bond escaping from a shark pool,and climaxing in a spectacular underwater battle which is still awesome in it's sheer scale and a thrilling fight on an out of control boat. Then there's the wonderful death of Luciana Paluzzi while she is dancing with Bond. She remains the best Bonn bad girl girl. Adolpho Celi is a great slimy villain even when dubbed. John Barry's score is fabulous especially in the underwater battle. Classic theme song.The film does seem a little slow compared to some of the other Bond films but this allows room for the kind of witty dialogue and amusing but tense situations that have now all but disappeared from the series, such as when Bond first meets Largo in a casino. Except from a rather excessive amount of continuity errors, the film is pure Bond in every way, classy, stylish and enormous fun. "},{"Title":"Classic Bond film","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who enjoyed the other early James Bond movies (Dr. No, Goldfinger, You Only Live Twice) should see this one.  It's done in the classic style, with all the elements of a good Bond movie.Sean Connery is in top form.  The female cast is excellent (and can even act).  The villain is typical ruthless, amoral, but also very intelligent and courageous.  He also has some manners.  Of course, he works for SPECTRE, the sinister international terror organization.  The stunts are great, the weapons and gadgets are super, and the settings make you want to go there.Of special note to military/aviation buffs this one features footage of the British Royal Air Force Vulcan bomber, which saw many years' service during the Cold War.  After a while, the Bond movies became rather old and stale.  But the original 007 flicks with Sean Connery are classics.  And they're still entertaining. "},{"Title":"Decent follow-up to Goldfinger","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball seemed to be a little distant from the rest of the Bond films. It may be it was produced by Kevin McClory, show biz's biggest baby. Maybe it was because Ian Fleming had never visited the set of this film. Maybe it was the fact it had to live up to Goldfinger. Or maybe it is because of it's lousy re-make, Never Say Never Again. Whatever the reason, it is distant from the rest of the official 007 films. The plot is good, no doubt there.SPECTRE is back after a one-film absence. The still faceless Blofeld, his cat now fully-grown, has called in his top agent, Largo, for his latest mission; sink a plane and recover the two nuclear warheads on it, and hold the U.S. and England major cities for ransom at 100 million pounds. 007 is called in, and Sean Connery still has it. Felix Lieter is good in this film, but his hair is too gray. All the women are just worthless parts. I like the Jamacian setting, M, Moneypenny, and Q (although Q seems overly irritated with 007 here). The film's isolation, however, makes it hard for me to describe and gets it a 6 out of 10 rating. The song is one of the best, but not as good as From Russia With Love's. I like the Goldfinger song, but not the singer.A decent follow-up to the first major Bond film, Thunderball needed no stupid Baby McClory re-make. "},{"Title":"Last Of The First","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  From Dr. No to Goldfinger there has been a steady development in the definition of what makes a good Bond movie as well as in sheer quality. This one's the first not surpassing the one before it, but it's still a deserved classic, sharing second rank with From Russia With Love amongst the original Connerys, but for very different reasons.  It's a direct follow-up to Goldfinger in just about every aspect going - only that it's shifted mostly under water. Drawbacks It hasn't got a similarly impressive main villain as Gert Froebe in Adolpho Celi. A memorable muscle-paladin like Odd-Job as well as a 'tough girl' like Ms Galore are missing completely. The movie's too much in love with its, surely expensive, underwater action and draws it much too long towards a comparatively lack-luster climax.Merits The script is well paced, crisp and all-in-all the last of the constantly well written ones during the Connery phase. (only Thunderball's remake Never Say Never constitutes the exception, since it's even better than the original and has to be rated differently.) Thunderball is the last of Connery's 100% Bond performances, before he began to loose interest in the part for about 18 years. Visually it's not only stunning for its time, but it also matches most of what's to come during the 70's. A true blueprint for the future and closest to the Moore Bonds, which doesn't constitute an improvement, but a different style to the more gritty early Connery Bonds. No match for what's to come when Pierce Brosnan took over as 'the other best Bond', though.Schogger13   "},{"Title":"Not my favorite Connery bond but still even a magical experience","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Have you ever wondered what's wrong with the modern James Bond films we are having today? Let me tell you. In the 1960's James Bond was truly an unique character, there was nothing at least slightly comparable to it. Nowadays, we have seen it all. Today Bond film can only be an action movie among others and that takes a huge bite away from the pleasure of it. Last night I watched the DVD of Thunderball. Even though I have seen this movie for an innumerable times this was actually the very first time I saw the fullscreen version of this classic Bond movie.It made an annoyingly familiar film look much more interesting after all these years. Still, Thunderball has never been my favorite of Sean Connery's Bond films. I don't know why, maybe it's the lack of various different locations. On the other hand the underwater sequences were really spectacular in the mid-60's (Thunderball even won Academy award for the best effects) but from today's point of view those moments look a bit out of date, even though widescreen format makes them look (surprisingly) much more powerful too. And of course it goes without saying that after Goldfinger started up the incredible James Bond phenomenon it was obvious that Thunderball would become a massive success too.I know they used to advertise this fourth 007-adventure as the biggest Bond of them all but that was the habit in those days. This film can't possibly match its predecessors, at least not Dr. No or Goldfinger. Knowing that phenomenally charismatic Sean Connery plays the leading role makes this of course a fantastic and nearly magical experience. The biggest of all mysteries how can someone be so damn cool? I do appreciate some of the other Bond actors too but whenever I see Connery's Bond it just makes the other ones look like stupid. I guess the biggest problem of George Lazenby wasn't that he was so bloody bad but the fact that Sean Connery was so bloody good. So insuperable, so unconquerable. If you want a proof, watch Thunderball. "},{"Title":"A fine movie","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball is a fine movie that had the misfortune of being in Goldfinger's shadow.  The result is a mixture of styles which settles somewhere in between the two major Bond styles with some serious spy work mixed into a somewhat grandiose plot.  That plot centers around the theft of two nuclear missiles by SPECTRE and Bond's attempt to retrieve them.  The theft of two nuclear missiles is not grandiose in itself but the means to get them, such as the plastic surgery of the pilot and the landing of the ship in the water (complete with underwater landing lights) are pretty hard to believe.  Thunderball is a very laid back Bond and allows the magic of the Bahamas to set a relaxed mood.  Largo is a decent villain who's ego is his biggest attribute and Lucianna Paluzzi as Fiona Volpe is my favorite Bond villainess in the series.  She's smart, ruthless and professional.  Sean Connery again gives his glib, tough performance as Bond and Claudine Auger makes a stunning if cold Bond heroine.  She and the hot blooded Volpe give the movie a nice contrast.  The action is dull in spots and much has been made of the underwater fight scenes being a detriment to the movie.  The defense is that not much else could have been done in such a setting.  Somewhat of a letdown after Goldfiner (which was inevitable) but a good movie.7.2/10 "}{"Title":"The best installment of the series.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball is definitely the best Bond film of the entire series, followed closely by the excellent Goldfinger. The influence that this movie had on Never Say Never Again is very clear in both form and content, and as good as that film is, Thunderball is far superior. You get the traditional plot of a super villain stealing atomic weapons and holding the world hostage for a tremendous ransom, but at least it was done in a creative way. While the plane crash that resulted in the hijacked nuclear weapons was not very convincingly done, the whole situation with the clone killing his co-pilots and crash landing the plane in the water, etc, was pretty damn creative.The way that the whole operation took place underwater was good, even though the muted underwater climax of the film was not as effective as it should have been, but at least it was better than the underwater climax of Never Say Never Again. On a more general note, though, it is the fascinating andintricate story that makes Thunderball such a good installment in the Bond series, as well as excellently created tension throughout the film. Sure, there were a few weaknesses here and there, such as the fact that the hijacked nuclear weapons had the moronic phrase `Handle like eggs' stenciled on the side, as well as the below average traditional one-liners during the movie. Some of the one-liners were good, but then there were stupid ones like `I think he got the point,' and `See you later, irrigator.'With the limited technology available in 1965, the special effects and the action were especially effective, as was the quality scene with Q introducing the newest series of Bond's new high tech toys. There is also the unusual quality (at least in a Bond film) of using a cinematic technique in order to achieve a particular response. Normally, the Bond movies are straightforward action films that require little to no film knowledge in order to understand or fully appreciate them, but in this film, there were things like the excellent use of shadows late in the film that were used to create very effective tension. Also, there was some extremely fast paced editing done several times in the film that was in the same style as during the infamous murder scene in Psycho, although not nearly at that level of skill and precision.As is almost always the case with most Bond films, the opening theme song was pretty bad, although not nearly as awful as those that bombard the ears before other movies like The Man With The Golden Gun and Goldfinger. But despite its many weaknesses, Thunderball still stands high above most other Bond films. There is a great chase scene that takes place in a parade, and it's a good thing too, because it follows an escape that is just dumb. Bond is in a car with all the bad guys, and as some guy leans into the car trying to sell a bottle of wine, Bond breaks it and uses the villain girl's lighter to ignite it, at which point it explodes into a fireball like GASOLINE. No drinkable alcohol in the world would burn like that, and of those that burn at all, they only give off the slightest flame. But luckily, the chase scenes alone can more than make up for garbage like this. Besides the parade scene I already mentioned, there is also a surprisingly believable escape from a shark infested pool, which was thankfully able to avoid the old cliché of Bond being left alone to die an unlikely death after having just been given some crucial piece of information by the villain. In this film, he's trapped under a metal pool cover not only and left to drown, but the villain also releases sharks into the pool.Thunderball not only has the best tension filled chase scenes of the entire series, but it also stars one of the best Bond girls, Claudine Auger as Domino, who ranks up there with other excellent Bond girls like Kim Basinger from Never Say Never Again and, of course, Ursula Andress as the charmingly named Honey Ryder from Dr. No. The underwater battle at the end of the film was ironically one of the best action scenes in the entire movie, although it's strange that the editing in the rest of the movie was so good, whereas here, it is badly messed up. There are countless editing flaws during this still good sequence, the most obvious of which is probably the fact that at one point, Bond gets his bright blue face mask pulled off, so he grabs a black one off of a dead enemy and puts it on (you can't do that underwater, by the way), and in the shots that follow he is wearing the black one, then the blue one, then the black one again, and then back to the blue one! This wouldn't have been so obvious if his mask hadn't been so bright blue, but luckily it didn't take much away from the scene as a whole.(spoilers) Unfortunately, the ending of Thunderball is far inferior to the rest of the film, and not only because it has yet another ending that takes place with Bond and the Bond girl in a boat at sea. It's fine that a plane flew by a dropped an inflatable raft in the water for them, but when it flew by again and grabbed the line hooked to a balloon floating above the little raft and yanked the two of them out of the boat, all credibility was lost. There's just no way that could happen, and then they have the dilemma of landing, because Bond and the girl can't be reeled into the plane by that hook. But despite crap like this, Thunderball is about as good as Bond gets. "},{"Title":"An excellent contribution to the series","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball is an excellent film in all respects, but that is not to say it does not have its weaknesses. The opening scene is excellent, the fight scene between Jacques Boitier and James bond is typical of the fights sequences in the earlier James Bond movies, very quick and accompanied by an excellent music score by John Barry. Largo, played most successfully by Adolfo Celi, is one of the film's strong points. In my opinion, he remains one of the more memorable bond villains, complete with his eye patch. He has a certain amount of menace and he and James bond share witticisms. Largo, like most of the bond villains, he has the dignity to wine and dine with James bond while planning a death for him. The voluptuous, red haired Fiona volpe is one of the more interesting and memorable bond villainesses. Count Lippe, a henchman working for SPECTRE is unconvincing (he randomly fires a few pot shots at 007's Aston Martin DB5, most unbecoming for a villain!), not surprisingly, he dies at the hand of Fiona Volpe. (in the spectacular demolition scene, stuntman Bob Simmons was almost killed). When people say the underwater scenes are too long, I agree, the length of them tend to slow down the pace of the film. Commenting on what other people have said about the film being too long, I have to disagree, it is just over 2 hours long, in fact this is the average length of the bond movies, I reckon it is the underwater scenes that make the film seem longer than it is. The gadget laden and action packed thunderball in a way set the trend for the future bond films, by the end of the Sean connery era, James bond no longer relied on his wits but instead started pushing buttons and pulling levers to avert world disaster James bond did not have as much character as he use to. Nevertheless, despite what many James bond purists say that it is not the best bond movie, and they are right, it isn't, but it certainly ranks among the highest, certainly the top five. James bond certainly develops his character in this one and his performance is truly a jem. To give you an idea of my taste, here is my top 5 007 movies 1.) You only live Twice, 2.) Moonraker, 3.) From Russia With Love, 4.) Thunderball, 5.) Octopussy.Thunderball is certainly a film worth staying in for to watch! "},{"Title":"*The* Bond movie","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the quintessential Bond film. Connery was as comfortable in the role as he could be, but hadn't started to look too obviously old for the part (unfair, as he's younger than Roger Moore). Perhaps it was the lack of obvious icons - no Fort Knox, no Pussy Galore, no scar-faced Blofeld - but it was Bond himself who stood out. The dialogue was sharp, and funny, and it was in this film that Bond's long struggle with Spectre came into sharp focus.Can't be more specific than that. It just seems to be the prototype for all the Connery Bonds (and some might say, all the *good* Bonds). Everything else is a variation on the central theme. "},{"Title":"The best of the Connery Bonds","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball is an exciting ride from start to finish, with stunning cinematography, superb, epic action scenes, and some great one-liners(Although it has one of the stupidest lines in the series...James, have you fainted?) SPECTRE holds the world at ransom with nuclear missiles and it's up to 007 to stop them...following up on mysterious events that happened at a health club, Bond heads to the Bahamas in search of clues-and finds more than he bargained for. Although the character of Domino Derval is not one of the brightest Bond girls, she's still very interesting. Also, Fiona Volpe is interesting as the first truely evil Bond girl, the anti-Pussy Galore. Finally, we have Largo, who while not as in-depth as Goldfinger still is quite menacing(The actor who played Largo would later mess around with a Bond clone in the awful DangerDiabolik). This movie is one of the more controversial films, due to a court battle over who really wrote the story-a battle which resulted in a failed attempt to start a new Bond franchise with the horrible Never Say Never Again-a shallow remake of this film. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It was always going to be hard to follow the classic &#145;Goldfinger' with a better Bond film, and even though &#145;Thunderball' grossed more than its predecessor, it stands today as overlong and lacking action. &#145;Never Say Never Again', the 1980's remake again with Sean, is 100 times better and much more enjoyable and entertaining. &#145;Thunderball' does have some fantastic underwater scenes featuring beautiful scenery, but, as many reviews here say, the underwater sequences go on way too long. The start of the film is very confusing also &#150; you really have to listen extra carefully to follow it. In its favor, &#145;Thunderball' is probably one of the more sexy Bond adventures with some of the best girls of the series &#150; I liked the scene when one lies in the bath naked and asks Bond to give her something to put on, and he just gives her a pair of sandals! However, besides that, I found the movie very forgettable &#150; my only memories being how much the film was hard to sit through right to the end.If you want a good James Bond film for a fun night in, choose either the brilliant classic &#145;Goldfinger', which proceeded &#145;Thunderball', or the action packed &#145;You only live Twice', which came after it. Or you could rent any of the Roger Moore films, none of them are boring. I find that you have to be an established James Bond fan to fully enjoy many of the Connery ones, while anyone can enjoy the Moore ones, fans or non-fans.&#145;Thunderball' is a good film for the Bond enthusiast, after all it is classic Bond (i.e. 1960s, Sean Connery), and by no means do I regard it as a failure to the series &#150; its just that I personally found it quite boring when compared to the others.3/10 &#150; for fans only.  "},{"Title":"Best Connery Bond","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The fourth 007 movie in the series featuring the guy who did it best of all, Edinburgh's Favourite Son-Sean Connery.A film inwhich Mr. Connery confirms his utmost ease of characterisation of Bond with charming finesse and wit. This one has a good bit of everything from plot to gadgets, and we also see the second outing of two Bond film essentials-the Aston Martin and Head of SPECTRE, although not known at the time, Ernst Stavro Blofeld. You will probably find that 'Thunderball' features the best bevvy of beauties in the form of Claudine Auger, Luciana Paluzzi, Martine Beswick and our very own, Molly Peters.A great pre-opening credits sequence which ends in a brutal fight is a must-see and a good kick-starter into the titles and dramatic theme tune performed immaculately by the voice of Tom Jones. This is arguably the best of the sixties bond theme songs...Adolfo Celi plays SPECTRE No.2 villian, Emilio Largo, and does a great job of holding the UK to ransom and almost over-powering 007 in the final nail-biting scenes aboard the 'Disco Volante'. The underwater scenes are something of a must-see also, even though a lot of critics find them too long to view in such film circumstances, but that is another unique element of this Bond extravaganza.I think this is Sean Connery's best James Bond film and was the subject of an amicable remake years later in the form of 'Never Say Never Again', welcoming the original Bond actor back to the fold for a final unofficial appearance as 007.  "},{"Title":"Another great Bond adventure","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  THUNDERBALL represents the fourth film in the Bond franchise, and although it shows to be the builder of a platform on which all other Bonds would rest, it also shows Connery getting slightly itchy (not to mention wet!) feet to do something else. However, it is the film-makers huge vision, as well as the return of director Terence Young that make THUNDERBALL an undoubted classic in the Bond franchise.Although in this day and age of such fast moving cinema the underwater sequences might seem a little drawn out, one has to remember that it was all so new to cinema in 1965. It was even the first time that someone came into a room and threw their hat on the hatstand! "},{"Title":"Bond At Its Best.","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball is my personal favourite James Bond movie, not least because it is chock full of knockout hot babes. French actress Claudine Auger (Domino) was, in my opinion, the most beautiful lady to ever grace any Bond movie & Luciana Paluzzi (Fiona) was definitely the most glamorous villainess. Add to these two lovely ladies Martine Beswick & Molly Peters and, for us lads at least, this movie is a veritable feast for the eyes. However, even without these four glamorous ladies, it would still be a very entertaining movie. Italian actor Adopho Celi, wearing a black eye-patch, looked a really sinister villain & there are more than enough of the usual Bond gimmicks & gadgets to make it all very watchable. Did I mention Claudine Auger?. Oh! Sorry, I already did but what a staggeringly beautiful face to behold!. "},{"Title":"The Underwater 007 adventure.....and a  S L O W build up!","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball is a James Bond extravaganza that goes overboard in plot and pace unlike Dr. No and From Russia With Love. The film is enjoyable entertainment from start to finish but there are boring bits in between the action sequences which are far bigger and impressive for its time.The reason Thunderball gets an 8 Vote from me is because of the final fight sequence on board the Disco Vilonte. Very poor back screen projection makes the cruiser look like its flying through the Caribbean rather than on it, and it looks production hurried in this sequence too. Where on the other hand the underwater battle between S.P.E.C.T.R.E. agents and Sea Commandos is possibly the best sequence in the entire film.Sean Connery sleepwalks through the film, having surpassed himself in the previous three films, he still looks great in the role, more gaunt looking than he was in Goldfinger and with a hint of grey around the Toupee he wears its easy to see this was when he was starting to get tired of the role. But only he could look good with that wig. He IS James Bond! Great villains too. "},{"Title":"Fourth 007 picture","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball is the fourth James Bond picture, and the weakest to star series best Sean Connery. That doesn't make Thunderball a bad movie though. I just like the other Connery Bond movies much better. This one is a bit overlong and moves a little slower. Still, it has Connery, and his presence makes it work. Plus, it has good villains, beautiful women, and exceptional gadgets. So on the basis of those elements, Thunderball works. But the out-of-control boat sequence that concludes the picture is laughable (thanks largely in part to some out-of-control camera work).*** (out of four)  "}{"Title":"L007K UP, LOO7K DOWN, L007K OUT; This Bond Movie comes down to earth with a dull Bang.","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball for me is a dreary Bond film. It is almost as if Goldfinger was a massive party were everything went right and you over indulged, and Thunderball is the morning after hangover. For me, it strays to close into the same slow moving teritory as Dr No 1962 and From Russia With Love 1963. This could be due to the fact that the fun loving fast moving Director Guy Hamilton Goldfinger was replaced by Terence Young, who directed the first two segments to the Bond Cinematic Exploits. Perhaps it is a turning point. Sean Connery is the real saving grace. His performance echoe's his own performance in the aforementioned Goldfinger, but the whole feel of the film is caught in a time warp.Granted, everything that should be in a Bond movie is here. There is the fantastic action set pieces, such as Bond in the pre credits sequence, pulling on the Jet Pack and flying off Pure Comic Book. There is a memorable and catchy song sung by Tom Jones, wich isn't as good as the previous Title song by Shirley Bassey, but no less well performed. The Main Titles by Maurice Binder look garrish though, resplendant in greens and blues, but with beautiful sillouhettes to catch. John Barry's music is another high point of the film, his themes again being beautiful and moving. In truth Thunderball has many excellent moments, so why in my opinion doens't it work?It is because it is too slow. Terence Young may have shaped the whole look of the Bond films for years to come, but with scenes were the action should be rousing he fails. He is good with character interplay such as Bond with Largo Connery and Adolpho Celi, but scenes wich should be tension filled, such as Bond in the Shark infested Swimming Pool just dont hit the mark. However, Sean Connery proves again what a great Bond he is, and his presence can save many scenes any many more films.Adolpho Celi is quite good as Largo, but you cant get the memory of Gert Frobe as Goldfinger out your mind. Perhaps that is another problem, Goldfinger is too fresh in memory for any other film to ahve much of an impact. Claudine Auger and Luciana Paluzzi make lovely looking female leads. And Q's gadgets are again very usefull and wondefull additions to the movie, my favourite being the under water camera. The script too could be really, really exciting, with Largo and SPECTRE holding the world to ransom with Nuclear Hardware one wishes Guy Hamilton had been given this to direct But the direction and acting is too slow, and this makes it uninteresting.A missed oportunity if there ever was one. "},{"Title":"Connery's Weakest Bond Vehicle","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Where Thunderball fails as a film - and fail it does - is in it's narrative structure. The plot concerns the re-emergence of Spectre, as they hold the U.N. to ransom with two nuclear devices. Bond's first task, taking up around an hour of the film, is to find out how they smuggled the bombs in the first place. This who - or how- dunnit would be fine, except the whole bomb-smuggling sequence is shown on screen early in the film. So that, rather than Bond being one step ahead of the audience, we are one step ahead of him, and spend half it's duration waiting for 007 to catch up with what we know already. The longest Connery movie, the addition is obvious, as the sexual content is played up, which, like the impressively-staged underwater sequences, cannot help but feel gratuitous. Overly padded, these sequences frequently detract from the main plot thread, and are largely irrelevant. One way in which the film does succeed is in breaking the formula - Q and his gadgets, Moneypenny, etc. all appearing half-way through, and, in Q's case, unexpectedly. However, such scenes, and the odd nice line, cannot detract from a Bond movie which fails to sustain the attention for it's overlong duration. "},{"Title":"The first decent Bond film...","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have always seen Dr. No, From Russia With Love and Goldfinger as the definitive Bond movies, and I suspect that many people will agree with me. Of course, a fourth outing of the British agent James Bond would not be as good as the three first. And it wasn't. Goldfinger marked the point where Bond movies would try to top the previous in any way possible! Not only would it hurt the movie, but it would't be very positively viewed by the fans. Thunderball was the first Bond movie trying to top the previous. And it just didn't work. Thunderball isn't a bad Bond film... it's just not that good! It doesn't has the same stylish feel as the others, and it isn't anyway near as entertaining or intense! It's also kind of forgettable! It went to become the second (and possibly last) Bond film to win an Oscar. It won for best effects, best visual effects.Surprisingly, Terence Young directed Thunderball. While he directed Dr. No and From Russia With Love flawlessly, it's like he doesn't know what to do with this movie. Is he going to make another serious Bond film which resembles a spy thriller, or a silly but still entertaining Bond flick as Goldfinger was! SPECTRE has stolen two atomic nuclear warheads, and are threatening to blow a city in USA or England up, unless ransom money are paid. As always it's Bond's job to prevent it all, find the warheads and disarm them. Not a bad plot. But the movie is just so bland! It lacks the suspense and intensity that made the the other three so great. But the movie isn't that bad! It's got some memorable action, some very beautiful women, good humor, etc. I suppose that it's because it precedes such good films as the previous. Had it been a later entry in the series it might have seemed better! But the movie could have been told better, and it could have been much more entertaining instead of much more bland!Sean Connery is James Bond for the fourth time, and he's good as usual. But I do think that he sometimes looks bored, and this is the first film where he begins to show his age. But Connery is Connery and he is awesome! But I do think he could have been better and more sophisticated in this film! Claudine Auger is the Bond girl, Domino Derval! She's incredibly sexy, but she is kinda boring at times, and her acing isn't that good. But she's OK. She is relevant to the story, and you can't say that about many Bond girls! Adolfo Celi plays the films villain, Emilio Largo! He's SPECTRE nr. 2 and that's kinda cool! But he's just a middle aged man with an eye patch. When you compare him to the other Bond villains he's kind of a let down. Whatever, his performance is solid and he's an OK villain. But just OK. We don't really have an indestructible henchman, but we do have the femme fatale in the form of Fiona Volpe, portrayed by Luciana Paluzzi! She is one of the sexiest Bond girls in the entire series and she's a good actress! Her character isn't given much depth, but she's very cool! Desmond Llewelyn is awesome as Q, and Bernard Lee and Lois Maxwell reprises their roles as M and Moneypenny, respectively. We also have the second appearance by Ernst Stavro Blofeld at a SPECTRE convention! He's still epic and awesome, and his scenes are one of the only scenes in this movie to be truly memorable!Thunderball is kinda' bland, boring and forgettable compared to the three previous Bond flicks, but you do get the ingredients to a decent Bond film! I watch it sometimes and I think history has been kind to it. I like it more every time I watch it! The movie feels like Bond is on a vacation, and not stopping over the top villains. It doesn't quite work. But it is a decent Bond film, and hardcore Bond fans (such as myself) will find it watchable and enjoyable to a certain degree! Casual viewers my find it a bit boring, though. All in all Thunderball is a decent Bond flick, but not one of the best!7/10 "},{"Title":"Great to watch, but a definite step down for the franchise","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" THUNDERBALL was the fourth film in the James Bond series and unfortunately, it was a step down from the previous three--probably due to an overuse of gadgets and some poor supporting performances (particularly from the rather wooden Bond girls).The first third of the film was actually the most interesting to me but certainly was low on action. Bond was at a sanitarium recovering from his last mission. I thought this was a great touch--seeing him covered in scars so that you could see he wasn't superman! Here, he accidentally stumbles onto a horrible plot--one of the more exciting ideas from the Bond films. It seems that Number 2 (a BAD choice of names, I know) is hatching a plan to steal atomic weapons so he can blackmail the world!! Once Bond leaves for the Caribbean, the film becomes a little less interesting, though I must admit the entire sequence involving the airplane landing there was pretty high on the cool factor. What wasn't cool were the silly women he met--one malevolent lady who, as usual, Bond beds and a sweet one who, as usual, Bond beds! Both had very little personality and frankly were dull in almost every way (you can probably guess how they weren't).Not a bad film at all, but certainly not among the best Bond movies.By the way, due to a strange little copyright problem, this film was remade by an entirely different film company about two decades later and the film, once again, starred Sean Connery. It was very aptly named, NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN--and frankly, it's a lousy knock-off of THUNDERBALL and is inferior in most every way. "},{"Title":"His fight goes on and on and on","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" You don't review James Bond movies, you evaluate them, rate them according to how well they meet expectations. There are certain things one has come to expect, even demand of a Bond film and each individual effort either delivers or it doesn't. So, here are ten elements that make a Bond film a Bond film and how THUNDERBALL rates on a scale of 1 to 10 Title THUNDERBALL Could they have come up with a more generic title? Maybe it is supposed to contain some slight sexual innuendo, though even that is stretching it. In a series where the titles tend to be a play on words or catch phrases, THUNDERBALL stands out for its banality. 1 point.Pre-Credit Teaser James goes to a funeral and punches out the widow. As an intro, the bit doesn't have a single thing to do with the following story, but it is funny and gives Bond an opportunity to show off one of his more famous gadgets, the flying jet pack. As it turns out, the opening proves to be the best part of the movie. 8 points.Opening Credits Designer Maurice Binder gives us surrealistic images and silhouettes of young women swimming around in elegant patterns. No great meaning, but it would become the standard for the title sequences of Bonds to come. 6 points.Theme Song Apparently several theme songs were written for this film and for some reason this was deemed the best. Makes you wonder what the others sounded like. The music is okay, I suppose, but the words are just plain nonsensical, revealing nothing about the movie itself. It's not even clear if the song is about Bond or about the film's villain He knows the meaning of success / His needs are more so he gives less. Huh? Tom Jones belts the song out with gusto, but there's nothing to really work with. 2 points Bond, James Bond Could it be that Connery is getting bored with the character already? After the opening teaser, he sort of walks through the rest of the film. It's a not a bad performance, but you get the feeling that he knows that the material is mediocre and is busy thinking about his next non-Bond project. 6 points.Bond Babes Claudine Auger is pretty as Domino, the villain's mistress. There's not much more to say. 5 points.Bond Villain As Emilio Largo (a.k.a., Number 2 at SPECTRE), Adolfo Celi wears an eye patch, which is about the full extent of his characterization. Celi can't be totally blamed for this, since the film allows him few opportunities to create a character, or for that matter, to even have any dialogue. As a key player in a plot to set off nuclear devices, you would think the writers could think of something of interest for him to say or do. No such luck. 3 points.Bond Baddies As assassin and seductress Fiona Volpe, Luciana Paluzzi could have stolen the film. She is certainly attractive enough and cold-blooded enough. But, again, the screenplay doesn't give her a lot of leeway for creating a colorful character or for flaunting her evil in an entertaining fashion. Barbara Carrera as Fatima Blush, her counterpart in the 1983 remake NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN would do so much more with the part. Even so, she gets a respectable 7 points.Plot After the one-two-three success of the previous Bond films, it is surprising just how routine number four seems. Blofeld and company steal a couple of nuclear bombs and hold the world for ransom. Perhaps this is the first spy film to concoct that particular gimmicky plot, but that doesn't make it any less cliché and just plain silly. 2 points.Production values Much of the story takes place underwater, where a hijacked NATO fighter plane is submerged. Thus, so much of the action is in slow motion and performed by stunt people wearing diving masks. Boring! Despite a countdown to a possible nuclear holocaust, the film lacks any sense of urgency and drama. 4 points.Bonus Points THUNDERBALL is so undistinguished, it is tempting to subtract points just out of spite. But let's give it 1 point, just for the banter between Bond and Desmond Llewellyn's Q. Summary In the end, the film doesn't seem like one of the Bond series; it's more like one of the many imitations that flooded the theaters at the time. A lot of behind the scene haggling over film rights delayed production and apparently compromised the resulting effort. Nobody seem to put much heart into the project.Bond-o-meter Rating 45 points out of 100. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Yet Weakest Connery Bond at That Point.","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball (1965) Dir Terence Young / Cast Sean Connery, Claudine Auger, Adolfo Celi, Luciana Paluzzi, Rik Van Nutter A thunderous edition to the popular 007 films. After an attempt on his life that plays more for action than plot, James Bond is off to foil another world domination scheme involving two nuclear bombs. Although Bond succeeds cleverly he is still reduced to near death where other factors must save him where he cannot. Others may view this as making Bond more human as oppose to over the top action hero. Directed by Terence Young, a veteran in the series after having previously directed Dr. No and From Russia With Love. Sean Connery is still charming as Bond with his ability to seduce women and disarm dangerous situations. Claudine Auger plays Bond girl Domino whom is the villain's mistress. Bond targets her for information but she wrestles with a conflict regarding her moral placement. Adolfo Celi plays villain Largo who maintains ahead of Bond at brutal pace but will be brought down to fatality. Luciana Paluzzi plays Fiona, a female Bond villain with a murderous side but she is not able to disarm Bond with her charm. Rik Van Nutter plays another agent who turns up to assist Bond when heroics are at their wits end. With exotic locations, explosive production, and enticing gadgets this film will suffice loyal fans of the franchise. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"More action and even has the hottest Bond girl","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This fourth outing by Sean Connery is still a formidable Bond film in the franchise. It doesn't have the most memorable or the most iconic moments compared the the previous ones but it does get the job done. The whole villain having a shark tank or swimming pool for people that crosses his path thing did stand out though. And also the scene with the electrocution chair for one of the members in SPECTRE. This film is entertaining in a lot of areas, while incorporating quite a bit of action sequences into the equation. I wouldn't be shocked if James Cameron directed this installment because the main set pieces and where most of the action and investigation takes place is under water. There is even a battle sequence at the end with bunch of harpoons that is done quite well despite the cinematography being quite choppy and all over the place. I will admit it's pretty much outdated when it comes to today's standards. I also think quite a bit of movies and video games that came after this borrowed certain elements when it comes to going on missions underwater and such. It even has the hottest and most attractive Bond girl in the franchise, Domino played by Claudine Auger.7.4/10 "},{"Title":"Classic Bond thriller","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball, the fourth Bond entry, has more puns and gadgets yet a darker vibe than earlier efforts. The scope of the movie and the budget are obviously bigger as well. Overall TB is nicely filmed and makes great use Nassau, where most of the movie takes place. The music is good as well, giving an added dark thriller vibe. The plot is excellent, involving blackmail, nuclear warheads etc, and fits excellently in a Bond film. A problem for some might be the movie is moving a tad slow (one of the reasons is that a big amount of the screen time is spent under water), and there are also depraving signs of its age at times. Like the earlier Bond films, there are many noticeable mistakes. Thunderball contains an usual amount of these, such as clumsy editing, continuity errors, visible dubbing, voices appearing without mouths opening and very poor fast forwarding.The underwater army battle was a very good idea and was executed well. What follows, the final fight between Bond and Largo (which in itself is good) on the Disco Volante (seemingly traveling at a speed of Mach 5) is laughingly bad however, thanks to ridiculous fast forwarding, which for sure must have already looked bad fifty years ago and looks at least ten times worse now. The cast is solid overallAs James Bond, Sean Connery gives a very relaxed and confident performance.Adolfo Celi is intimidating as the classic, eye patched Bond villain Largo, who is evil enough to have a shark pool at his home. Adding to that, the two main Bond women in the film are among the hottest in the series.The only lacking performance comes from Rik Van Nutter as Felix Leiter. While he looks fitting for the role, his line delivery unfortunately falls flat several times.Overall good, enjoyable and very solid. I can't help to think that it must have been extremely impressive in 1965, both filming wise and Action wise, and it still stands relatively strong today. While it isn't one of the best Bond films quality wise, its classic Bond feel, entertainment factor and plot make Thunderball one of my favorite Bond movies. A great way to spend a Friday or Saturday evening. "},{"Title":"The last great Connery Bond","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" One of the best 1960s Bonds for its rich sets, witty quips that are actually witty, and exotic Caribbean filming locations. The movie's women, both the goodies and the baddies, are surprisingly strong and multifaceted for a Bond film. The underwater scenes that make up about a quarter of the movie's relatively long run-time are occasionally impressive but more often cause the mind to wander. Far better than Connery's next Bond outing, You Only Live Twice, but not as good as his best, From Russia With Love. Here for the final time Blofeld is still a shadowy figure identifiable only by his modulated voice, and that helps give the film a sinister and dangerous atmosphere that some of the more campy Bond movies lack. "},{"Title":"Great start, lame middle, good ending... a typical Bond movie","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball is a perfect example of everything that a Bond movie should be and upon viewing this film it is clear how all twenty or so films have been so successful.The film mixes action with comedy and romance to portray the life of someone who is in essence an assassin. However the film for me brought nothing new to the Bond films as some of the other have done.Now you may say to me that it did bring something new to the Bond genre because it was only the fourth film and I have seen many of the others before this, but I have recently begun watching them in order and of the four this is by the far the poorest. The action does not live up that in Dr. No, it is not as witty as From Russia With Love and Sean Connery's performance is nowhere near the standard he reached in Goldfinger. Even the girl in this one does not reach the same standard of beauty.When I turned on this film, like most Bond films I was enticed by the scene before the titles that sets up the film and once again the Titles themselves were impressive and the song sung by Tom Jones is as good a theme as any. However after the initial excitement the film seemed to turn into a drag out of underwater scene followed by underwater scene, now I know that at the time this underwater action was cutting edge but I still find it a bit extreme and can see why people refer to Thunderball not by it's title but as 'The Underwater Bond'. After this tedious middle it does pick up when Bond escapes through the carnival and the final underwater fight scene and the part on the boat are also impressive, it's just a shame it couldn't reach a consistent level.So overall the film is typical for a Bond nothing particularly special but if you are a fan of the James Bond action, romance, witticism in your films you will enjoy it but maybe not love it.An average film so 5/10 ) "}{"Title":"Bond slips just a bit","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sadly, it only took until the 4th Bond movie for the series to start to slip a bit. Maybe the fourth film in four years was trying the patience of the director to film dedicated spy stories.Most of the movie stays somewhat true to the novel, and indeed gives the spy flavor that Bond stories deserve in order to really be Bond stories.Unfortunately, the underwater battle between 'scuba diver armies' at the end is an unneeded attempt to put a real action spark into the film. The sequence is ridiculous, and marks the true start of the really stupid good vs. evil army battles that would mark the climax of a disheartening number of Bond movies over the next 15 years or so.Still, this is a Bond movie, and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"THUNDERBALL (Terence Young, 1965) ***","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" To begin with, I hadn't watched this one in probably 15 years or thereabouts and, so far, I only own the first seven entries in the popular James Bond series on DVD somehow, I hadn't gone through it or the YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE (1967) edition back when I first purchased them, so I took the opportunity to do so now on the heels of the newest and, sadly, disappointing 007 adventure &#150; QUORUM OF SULLENNESS&#133;er&#133;QUANTUM OF SOLACE (2008). It's still considered the most commercially successful outing in the franchise (the one where Bondmania reached its zenith) &#150; and, while perhaps not among the very best of the lot (for reasons I'll get to later), it's highly representative of the phenomenally popular series.Sean Connery's somewhere near peak form here, the obligatory Bond girls (chief among them Claudine Auger and Luciana Paluzzi) gorgeous &#150; like Olga Kurylenko from QUANTUM, the former's character is given an extra edge by making the girl ultimately decide to aid Bond in order to exact revenge on her own jealous yet cold-blooded 'guardian' &#150; and the villain (Adolfo Celi) appropriately imposing as well as sinister (sporting an eye-patch and keeping sharks in his private pool!); incidentally, it was nice to see again Celi and Paluzzi playing their signature roles after encountering the two Italians in so much native product over the years. While the narrative itself meanders somewhat throughout the hefty 130-minute duration (requiring extensive underwater footage), the plot involving SPECTRE's appropriation of atom bombs for extortion purposes is both topical (in view of the recent Cuban missile crisis and the ongoing Cold War) and suspenseful.The action &#150; injected by the now-trademark witty repartee (including an in-joke regarding a pre-stardom Connery film, ANOTHER TIME, ANOTHER PLACE 1958) and sexual innuendoes (never more blatant, perhaps, than in the rack-gone-wild incident), which have unaccountably and regrettably gone missing from the latest incarnation of the super-agent &#150; is big and brutal; for anyone who claims Daniel Craig's ruthless persona was a departure for the series, one need only take another look at Connery's seminal and iconic tenure in the role (especially the pre-credits fist-fight with a 'widow')! As always, Bernard Lee's belligerent M and Lois Maxwell's bemused Miss Moneypenny make an appearance &#150; though the role of C.I.A. operative Felix Leiter is rather anonymously filled by Rik Van Nutter &#150; as, of course, do Desmond Llewellyn's gadgets that said, the most memorable of these (the flying kit) is actually relegated to the prologue! Ditto, for the lush/exotic backdrops here, we don't just have the usual resort to casinoes, beaches and boats but a colorful Mardi Gras event and, as I implied earlier, a full-blown and superbly-staged underwater death match between heroes and villains (the film-makers' peerless prowess in this department was subsequently rewarded with a Best Visual Effects Oscar).Incidentally, along with Casino Royale, this is the one Ian Fleming novel which was owned by other hands (or, in its case, jointly) until some time ago the former was filmed no less than three times, while THUNDERBALL itself (overseen by co-story author Kevin McClory, with regular producers Harry Saltzman and Albert R. Cubby Broccoli maintaining a merely executive position) eventually resurfaced as the jokily-titled NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN (1983) &#150; for which Connery, who had abdicated the role 'for good' 12 years earlier, would be persuaded to make a 'series' comeback! "},{"Title":"The best of Connery","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I think that Thunderball was Sean Connery's best bond film. It had very big shoes to fill after its predecessor, Goldfinger. This is the film I think of when someone mentions James Bond. This is a true spy film with all of the sneaking around by James around Lago's house at night, the underwater investigating, and James's narrow escape at the local Mardi Gras.I cannot believe that Kevin McClory was dissatisfied with this film and went on to make Never Say Never Again. In my opinion, Thunderball is much better than that movie.I liked all of Terence Young's bond movies, but Thunderball is truly the best. I highly recommend this movie if there are any Bond fans out there who have not seen the film. "},{"Title":"Look Up! Look Down! Look Out! Here Comes The Biggest Bond Of All!","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the TOP Bond movies of all time.Sean Connery is at his peak of fame as 007 and his character of Bond works in an excellent way. His portrait of the suave sophisticated super spy is tough, ironical, glamorous and a bit cynical; physically he's in great shape. This is the definitive image of Bond -which entered the movie history.Thunderball is the fourth 007 movie. Many things have changed since the small budgeted Dr.No. Here we a have a larger than life adventure, full of gadgets and jokes.When SPECTRE steals some nuclear weapons Bond has to investigate everywhere -also under the sea- to avoid World War 3. He does it, as usual, facing a spiteful villain -Adolfo Celi- and a femme fatale -Luciana Paluzzi-. The prize for his effort is Domino -Claudine Auger-.The film is still exciting... 40 years after its release we always wonder how underwater scenes are so accurate. The film is a mix of revolutionary technology, British humor, sex and gorgeous women. In 1965 it was unbelievable to see such films. Thunderball in the Sixties was like Matrix in 2000, maybe with a stronger impact than the latter on audiences, popular culture and fashion.Thunderball marks the peak of Bondmania in the Sixties and the beginning of the gadget era for 007 -although for someone the decline of the serious James Bond begins here... "},{"Title":"Great Final Scene probably the best in the Bond Series.","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball is a 1965 spy film. It is the fourth film in the James Bond series, and the fourth to star Sean Connery as MI6 secret agent James Bond, 007.The film follows Bond's mission (Code name Thunderball) to find two NATO nuclear bombs stolen by SPECTRE, who hold the world to ransom for £100 million in diamonds, in exchange for not destroying an unspecified major city in either England or the United States of America (later revealed to be Miami).The search leads Bond to the Bahamas, where he encounters Emilio Largo, the card-playing, one-eyed SPECTRE Number Two. Helped by the CIA and Largo's mistress, Bond's search culminates in underwater battle with Largo's frogmen. Though some enthusiasts consider Goldfinger (1964) the best 007 film, Thunderball is the most-watched, with almost 140 million paid tickets and Goldfinger the second-most watched 007 film, with some 130 million tickets sold. "},{"Title":"The coffin has your initials, J.B.","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" While not nearly as bad as Diamonds Are Forever and superior over You Only Live Twice, Thunderball does capture that 1960's James Bond feel that you just can't replicate. The opening scene is pure James Bond complete with jet pack and a belting song by Tom Jones, the only male singer up to that date. In many instances this film has all the classic Bond touches but this is the first time we really get to see a beautiful Bond villainess with shocking red hair and an evil snarl. The parade in downtown Nasau will be repeated in one form or another in many Bond films but it's the sudden killing of Fiona that stands out. The downside to the film is the overly long opening to set up the movie premise, I timed over 30 minutes until the plane has been camouflaged and the nukes escorted out of the plane. The battle under the sea is just as long. Even the cool water gliders complete with harpoons only provide mild excitement that quickly fades away. Largo as a villain pales in comparison to Dr. No or Goldfinger. While entertaining, and there are a good amount of positives to this movie, I would still rank this number four out of the six Connery films. "},{"Title":"Sean Connery's Favorite Bond Film","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Apparently a lot of people don't like this movie? Well after seeing Thunderball last night, I have to disagree. It's as good as From Russia With Love or Dr No. Perhaps even a little better.Without rehashing the plot, I'll just say - I *really* enjoyed the underwater scenes. It's refreshing to see battles taking place with scuba gear and arrows, instead of the overdone guns-firing routine we see day-after-day on TV cop shows. The underwater scuba gear, subs, and arrows add something new & different to enjoy. Plus, the overlying music does a great job of adding to tension.And of course, the Bond women - not just one, but a set of three - a blonde, a brunette, and a redhead - all looking stunningly beautiful in their bikinis (or nothing at all).Still not convinced? Well as I put in the title, Sean Connery considers this his personal favorite. If Mr. Connery recommends it, it's worth at least one viewing in my opinion. Go watch it now. ;-) troy "},{"Title":"I hope we didn't scare the fishes.","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If there was a perfect setting for a Bond movie, the Bahamas was it. We get to see beautiful women strut around in very little, the ladies got to see Sean Connery strut around in very little, and the seaside locations opened up vast possibilities when it comes to action scenes that are thrilling and seem fresh, even though they are basically the same chase sequences we've seen in the previous three Bond films. They say Thunderball is Connery's favorite of the Bond films he starred in, and it may because Bond carries most of the action throughout the film. Unlike Goldfinger, where Bond is captured and does most of his work through dialog, Thunderball features a Bond swimming, running, jumping, shooting, running some more, and swimming in a shark infested pool. Thunderball also features Largo (Adolfo Celi), SPECTRE's #2 man (notice the eye patch Largo wears and the one Robert Wagner wears in Austin Powers, coincidence?????), and Largo is almost as enjoyable as a villain as Goldfinger was, almost as suave as Bond, a cunning villain who soaks up the scenes he's in. The crowning achievement of Thunderball are the tricky underwater action sequences where most of Largo's plan takes place. As I said about Goldfinger, the plot doesn't matter, just sitting back and watch Bond do what he does in the manner that he does it is why we watch. Tom Jones is the principal singer for the movie's soundtrack, adding an added sexual energy to the movie. Must be something about the tropical setting, but this movie is dripping with sexual tension, with the biggest laugh of the movie coming from Bond's response to a woman in bathtub asking for something to wear. The man certainly can think on his feet. "},{"Title":"BEST BOND FILM EVER","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie, but I am aware it has its detractors, even among Bond fans, who often prefer Goldfinger.  Goldfinger was great, but I think Sick Boy in Trainspotting summed up Pussy Galore well. (I can't do it justice here, just see Trainspotting)  Goldfinger's final fate was also more ludicrous than anything people complain about in Thunderball.  In Thunderball, Largo may not be one of the best Bond Villains, but he is a good tough guy and a rare dose of grittiness in the elegant world of James Bond.  Domino is without a doubt my favorite Bond Girl, sexy, voluptuous, and strong.  She is also one of the few women with whom Bond seemed to form an actual emotional connection.More than anything else, though, I absolutely loved the underwater battle sequence.  As it started, with the para-troopers arriving, I felt this great rush of energy.  That is what I look for in a Bond film, or any film for that matter, not some intellectual exercise.  Yes, it was the old Calvary arriving to save the day, but Bond films have always excelled at re-inventing cliches.  As far as I'm concerned, Thunderball's finale is up there with the D-Day scene in Saving Private Ryan or the helicopter scene in Apocalypse Now as one of the greatest battle scenes ever.It also features one of the great dry Bond lines- You're glad?  You have to see the movie for it to make sense, but in the context of the scene, and with Connery's delivery, it was very funny.I hate to admit it, but I even liked the Tom Jones song. "},{"Title":"Connery's second last masterpiece","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's brilliant!!! It's Connery's second last masterpiece(You Only Live Twice would be his last) and it it is without a doubt one of the five best Bond films of all time. It was made at a time when James Bond was at his peak. Don't miss it!! "}{"Title":"A darn good Bond film. . .","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  'Thunderball' has everything a good Bond film needs. Great girls,great gadgets and great villains. It's visually spectacular, with agreat underwater battle scene, and the action and suspense isfirst rate.  Connery is terrific. . . See it. It rocks. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Not Connery's Best, But Still Up There","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  An elite squad of terrorists siezes two nuclear weapons and threatens to hold the world at ransom, If their demands are not met, they will detonate the bombs, one by one...It's a provocative concept (Bin Laden and company could only dream of it), and it forms the plot of Thunderball, the fourth Bond film.I'm surprised to see the number of negative comments this film has received, when it's plainly one of the best Bond films. Some of these (It's sooo boring!!) can be dismissed as the bitchy whining of kids whose attention spans have been decimated by one too many hours at the playstation, while others deserve refutation.Lots of people have brayed--with the regularity of sheep--about how supposedly slow and dull the underwater sequences are. Like lots of received wisdom, this is dubious. If you're watching Thunderball on an ordinary pan-and-scan video, then the underwater sequences probably are stodgy and hard to follow. If you're watching the film on DVD (The ONLY way you should watch it), those aqua-fights become some of the movie's highlights, held together by Peter Hunt's collision-happy, smash-bang editing.Thunderball is hardly the worst of Connery's Bonds (Anyone who downgrades it in favor of Diamonds On Forever is playing a sick joke), but it's a lesser film than the movies preceding it--From Russia With Love and Goldfinger.The latter film is probably responsible for Thunderball's defects. After the mega-success of Goldfinger, the producers felt obligated to out-do themselves and produce the biggest Bond of all. The film resultingly tips into formula. It promises More Girls! More Gadgets! More Explosions! and More Thrills! and it provides all those--at a price. Thunderball is what happens when you try combining a lean, taut thriller--which is what Ian Fleming's original novel was--with an all out action extravaganza. There indeed are more girls, gadgets, and gats, but they slow down the story.Additionally, Richard Maibaum and John Hopkins, who wrote the screenplay, needlessly complicated the original storyline of Fleming's novel with unneccesary side-plots (the plastic surgery business), extraneous characters, and flashy but unneeded action.As a result, much of human element--so very present in Fleming's novel--has been lost amidst the blockbuster trimmings. Domino--the fierce, hotblooded and spunky woman of Fleming's novel--is now cold and distant; Largo--originally conceived as a sort of evil mirror image of Bond--has been miscast and turned into a dull mafia reject; and Bond---well, he's not given very much to do. His gadgets seem to do most of his work for him. He's less witty and has fewer scenes of human interaction with the story's principals. Thunderball must have been an immensely complicated picture to film, and most of it still holds up. Terence Young's direction is stylishly old-fashioned (lots of long shots, few close-ups) yet searingly intense in scenes of violence. He deserves credit for producing an action blockbuster that still has a coherent plotline--which is more than you can say for almost action film made today...including Pierce Brosnan's Bonds. It's just a pity that the screenplay wastes so much time with unneccesary material.My advice is to find and read Fleming's top-notch novel, and then see this picture. Thunderball is full of pleasurable spectacle, but lower on humanity. This inverse ratio would lead to truly bad films (Diamonds Are Forever, Moonraker, Tomorrow Never Dies), though it was briefly corrected by On Her Majesty's Secret Service---the last great Bond film, and the crowning masterpiece of the series.  "},{"Title":"One of the best James Bond movies","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had one of the best bond girl/villain (Fiona Volpe).  I don't think she gets enough credit.  The exchange between her and Bond in the hotel room is one of the best exchanges in any Bond Movie and I have seen them all from Dr No to Die Another day. The first half of the movie was pretty good but the second half dragged out at times.  I think the underwater fight scene was too long but all in all a very good movie.  I think this was the last time Sean actually gave 100% in his outing as James Bond.  I did not like You Only Live Twice as Much.  The location was beautiful and even the Bond girl Domino was not too bad.  "},{"Title":"Hot chicks...but where was Adam West???","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  You've seen the film...this is the worst of the Connery Bonds...(BUT...is still better than anything pre Pierce)Love the women! Love them!But the action ...especially the scuba fight...was straight out of the old Batman...Adam West could have done it...and Bert Ward is proud.This film loses you at the end. Could have been better.6.5 / 10Worth a second watch. "},{"Title":"One of Connery's best","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this on Thanksgiving day (during the TNN marathon), and I'll say that I'm thankful I watched this. Thunderball, which was the most successful James Bond movie in terms of ticket sales, is an exciting ride. Two NATO bombs have been stolen, and MI6's agents only have a week to find them before they are set off. Bond investigates the operations of Emilio Largo (Adolfo Celi), who is agent number 2 of the criminal organization S.P.E.C.T.R.E. Largo was a pretty good villain and is a classic. Bond's girl this time is the beautiful Domino Derval, who, in my opinion, fits better into a bathing suit more than any other Bond girl. Thunderball's settings are also cool as well, and Connery reaches another all time high in his career as Bond (I especially loved his Do you mind if my partner sits this one out? She's just dead. line.) Another great part is, of course, the underwater fight. But I think it would have been cooler if Domino had been in that battle. Rik Van Nutter's portrayal of Felix Leiter is also good as well (The other contender for best Leiter is David Hedison). It's probably not as good as Goldfinger or From Russia With Love, but it's still a well made film that's one of the better ones in the series. Overall Thunderball's a pretty cool film that's worth checking out. My rating 3 and a half out of 5.    "},{"Title":"and then there was Terence","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  the best director of James films (in my personal opinion) strikes back with a box office masterpiece which undoubtenly was the best of the bunch. Oh of course it was Terence Young, the director who caused a phenomenom in the mid 60's with his ability to conjure up a film more successfull and more interesting than Lewis Gilberts (The spy who loved me,Moonraker) predecessor.Thunderball had all the hallmarks of a classic with its exotic locations, stunning scenery and electrifying charisma, intellect and style which would make Leslie Phillips look like less flattering Pinky (Pinky and the Brain) The basic plot of the plot of the movie involves James Bond (Sean Connery) involved in a sadistic plan by vain Ernst Stavro Blofeld to threaten to detonate two major bombs in a powerful city in the U.S.A or England unless a hefty ransom fee was given. James bond rather reluctantly hearing the Home Secretary thinking of handing over the money, thinks otherwise resulting in a catastrophic show down till the death. Emile Largo bonds arch enemy (oh sorry Blofeld) magnificently portrayed by Adolfo Celi plays the part with witty charm and skill making Largo a memorable adversary in Bondian Standards. Bonds girls were a fantastic Claudine Auger as the niave and strong Domino Derval and Lucianno Paluzzi as the sensual criminal Fiona Volpe the dedicated SPECTRE agent who has the reputation of bedding her victims before desposing of them as Bond finds out.......This 1965 production of Thunderball spawned a less than succesfull spin off in 1983. Sean Connery nearing pension age and 18 years to the wiser actually sported a rather expensive toupee in Never say Never again as he was bald at the time. His co-stars were Kim basinger as Domino Derval, Klaus maria Braunder as Maximillian Largo (a slight variation of his previous name) And Barberra Carrerra as scheming Fatima Blush)All in all Thunderball remains the best bond film in my terms and i give it an excellent 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"She's just dead!","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great film, it ages well, for a 37 year old film!  I like, Connery, and he plays the dirtier of all the Bonds watch the fight, at the beginning.  The budget, its huge, when you see Dr No and from Russia with Love, this budget has to be 3 time bigger! Spoiler!!!  The casting great, I love Largo.  What a story, ramson for nukes.  People crap on this film as long, but it did not drag.  I love the underwater fight, and how the boat splits in half.  A must see for all Bond fans. "},{"Title":"Nice backdrop, women","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Beautiful Caribbean backdrops, chiefly in Nassau, over and under the water, contribute to making this one of the best Bonds.  There was enough good stuff here to largely sustain the Goldfinger momentum without being too tiresome.  Bond is witty and all conquering, as usual, and the villain, Largo, sustains so many humiliations that one almost feels for him.  Well, OK, one aspect in which Bond was not all-conquering was with Fiona Volpe (Lucianna Paluzzi), as she stated herself--altho he conquered in the most important senses.  Not converted to angel choirs in this movie, Fiona is my all-time favorite, sexiest Bond woman.  There is perhaps the best Bond male fantasy scene in a spa with Patricia Flemming (Molly Peters).  In fact, with Paula (Martine Beswick) and principal Bond woman Domino (Claudine Auger), this flick has the best Bond women, in my book. Some of the progression in the second half of the film is somewhat hard to follow.  All in all, very enjoyable, highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"Forget Goldfinger, this IS the best Bond film.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Quite simply the best Bond film ever. Goldfinger may have had the memerable villians, but in this one, everything is memerable. From the opening sequence with the rocket pack, to Spectres high tech meeting room(which was later copied in Austin Powers) and the stolen nuclear weapon plot, which was repeated in several Bond films to come. Connery was at his best in this film(even though at this point, he was beginning to tire of the long shooting schedules), the gadgets were in great surplus, but werent yet oversadowing the character of Bond, and the action sequences were superbly staged and shot.The film does however get bogged down during the theft of the vulcan, and later in the climatic battle between Largo's men and the navy. Still, these shortcomings dont ruin the film from being the best Connery film.Just so you know my tastes in Bond films, heres my top five 1. Thunderball 2. From Russia With Love 3. On Her Majestys Secret Service 4. Licence To Kill 5. The World is Not Enough. "},{"Title":"A True Bond Epic","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball really started of the bond films with the classic reputation. It is a true epic, a major box office record breaker and today still holds the reputation of being the bond movie which has the most number of paid entrance fees. It contains the memorable Largo played perfectly by adolf celi. It also includes the voluptuous red haired fiona volpe who still remains this day as one of the more memorable vialinesses. "}{"Title":"One of the Best Bond Films Ever!!!!!!!!","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Needless to say that I am a VERY BIG Bond fan. Thunderball in my opinion is probably the best Bond film to date. It's really hard to say that it was because of the women, because ALL of the women in ALL of the Bond films are very hot. I think it was more along the lines of the acting. Unlike ALOT of todays action flicks where special effects and stunts are relied on to make a movie good, this one does not. It does have it's normal gadgets,,, but then if it didn't,,,, it wouldn't be a true Bond flick.  "},{"Title":"A huge, huge hit that is one of the best","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball emphazized on the hi-tech elements that appeared inGoldfinger and set the style of incredible stunts and amazing gadgetry for the Bond films that was to follow and does to this very day. However, amongst the heavy hardware and death-defeying thrills that many have grown to and critics have grew away from, Thunderball possesses the kind of realism, suspense and characterization that made the early Bond thrillers the classics that they are. And although not everyone ranks it highly, Thunderball is for many one of the best Bond films. I myself agree with that many although it sadly proves to be the last of the great, unrivalled Connery/Bond movies. The Bond movies with Connery which followed after Thunderball depended on action and gadgetry, not on the actor's incredible potrayl of the character.  Fair enough, some may argue that this film depends on action and gadgetry, but Connery's James Bond is still very much alive, thinking active and interesting, something which he would sadly not be in the subsequent Connery films.  That's why i tend to rank the hugely successfull Thunderball as one of the best Bond films ever made. "},{"Title":"The film that made Bond great","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball is a solid addition to the 007 series, with great fights, fantastic locales, the finest bevy of Bond-women bar none, and Sean Connery giving his most relaxed and assured performance in the series. Goldfinger may be the movie which made Bond a social phenomenon, but it was Thunderball that gave it real legs and assured Jimbo would outlive his '60s milieu.I can't give the picture more than a 7, however. On its own merits, apart from what it did for Bond, Thunderball not a great movie, or even an especially good one. The opening half-hour, as many have said, is very confusing and not a little dull. There are logic holes throughout, none fatal but increasingly annoying with later viewings. The underwater sequences are overlong and not particularly interesting to watch despite the wonderful score and the beautiful underwater scenery. I like Adolfo Celi as the lead villain, and Luciana Paluzzi was as good as bad Bond girls ever got, but I never felt Bond was truly menaced in this one, apart from the great Junkeroo sequence, which is really the highlight of the entire film.Yet I still find myself watching this film and enjoying it again and again. Yes those questions still pop up, like How come Largo has about a dozen henchmen swimming with him and the bombs, yet we see 007 kill more than 20 of them? And If Bond really attached himself to a floating line that was suddenly scooped up by a B-17, wouldn't it rip his torso in two? You start to realize after a while, as the Austin Powers people did long ago, that catching such things, and realizing they slipped by you before, is part of the fun of watching movies like Thunderball. From the '60s on, fun is what a good James Bond movie has been all about. "},{"Title":"POWERHOUSE OF A MOVIE.","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This terrific powerhouse of a movie shows Sean Connery at the peak of his skills as 007.Although not in the same league as YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE which reigns until this day as the king of action movies,THUNDERBALL has all the ingredients one could possibly want from a Bond movie and then some.It gets off to a cracking start with one of the best fight scenes in the entire series which leads into the fantastic title song blasted out by Tom Jones which is as loud,spectacular and exciting as the film itself.Many have criticized the excess of underwater action but except for the rather too lengthy scene when the warheads are stolen all the underwater stuff is 10 times more exciting and fast moving than similar scenes in FOR YOUR EYES ONLY for example.Connery is lethal throughout this 2 hour extravaganza;whether he is slugging or shooting henchmen by the dozen or leading the beautiful Luciana Paluzzi into a veritable dance of death Sean the man is as cool as ice here and Adolfo Celi is no slouch either as the evil Largo.The makers of this movie succeeded in their task as spectacularly as the makers of the lousy remake NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN failed in theirs despite working from the same source material.The title song says of Bond that he always runs when others walk;this is equally true of this movie when compared to other 60's spy movies.THUNDERBALL is the business! "},{"Title":"THE BEST BOND FILM EVER","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball is the best of all of the Bond Films. No other has more action or as great a story as Thunderball. First Bond film to have Bond Girl entirely a villian at heart, Fiona. Claudine Auger is one of the sexy Bond girls of all. Adolfo Celi plays Largo, another villain of SPECTRE, who oddly would return to play Blofeld in Diamonds Are Forever (1971) and be cast as Charles Gray. Also the THUNDERBALL theme song is one of the best as well, it was originally Mr. Kiss Kiss Bang Bang, you can hear instrumental parts of it in the film.  "},{"Title":"Bond at his best.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This has to rank along side From Russia With Love as the best of the early Bond movies for me. Connery has the character he disliked so much at it's zenith, the plot is gripping & the action spectacular. Even the music has to be about the best of the series, the lyrics of the title song delivered by Shirley Bassy in a brash & over stated style that she does so well.Later Bond movies paled in comparison, especially the Rodger Moore series. Only recently has Bond begun to find his feet again, even if he does travel by German cars instead of the excellent Aston Martin he used to have.But that's beside the point. These films will never be equalled, because the era they came from has gone. Bond could be as un-PC as he liked & that gave a little spice to the character that is a little lacking these days. There was also the implacable enemy of The Soviet Union & Communism to play with and supply a string of enemies, leaving countless opportunities open for plot-line innovation.And lets face it, Bond will always be Sean Connery, like it or not. The shadow of his Bond will cast a long shadow over any future interpretations.For the plane spotters out there the sight of a Vulcan bomber being ditched in the sea (even if the special effects used for the scene let the rest of the film down) is always a sad event. But the underwater shots taken after are superb & clearly showed the way that the action in Bond movies was headed.A good one for Sunday afternoons & still capable of holding audience attention after all these years whenever it's shown. "},{"Title":"The best James Bond scene & quote ever","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The only thing that saved this movie from getting a 6 and jumping it to a 7 was the scene where James Bond shoots a baddie with a dart gun and utters I think he got the point. The rest of the movie is all right. It's typical James Bond - action, gadgets, women in bikinis, and classic quotes, but the plot has much to be desired. "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable Bond, but no classic.","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The fourth Bond film, while no Goldfinger, is nonetheless an enjoyable movie.  Any Bond film with Connery has at least one redeeming quality, but Thunderball has other elements that make it worth watching.The story, about Spectre stealing nuclear missiles and Bond attempting to retrieve them is a little preposterous, yet it's more restrained than later Bond entries.  The location filming in the Bahamas is beautiful, as is the underwater photography. Domino is definitely one of the better Bond girls and 007's romancing of her is highly entertaining. Indeed, there are many things to like about Thunderball, including Tom Jones' title song.  However, there are some flaws.  For one, it drags on too long.  The underwater scenes seem to last forever at times and you get the feeling that the plot could have been sped up a bit.  Also, Largo is hardly a memorable villain worthy of Bond as an opponent.  Although Largo does participate in the proud tradition of Bond villains by having a pool filled with man-eating sharks, he's dull and not as menacing as Goldfinger and has no memorable henchman. At least this film doesn't make the mistake of You Only Live Twice by showing us Blofeld.  He's much more menacing when seen as a hand stroking his cat and pushing buttons. If you like action, see Thunderball, just don't expect a classic Bond film. "},{"Title":"Cementing and International Sensation","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" How do you follow-up an International sensation? That was the problem facing the James Bond team as they started up the 4th James Bond thriller THUNDERBALL. By bringing back original Bond director, Terrance Young, they answered the question solidly - bring them more of the same.THUNDERBALL has all of the elements that your look for in a Bond film - action, girls, suspense, girls, gadgets, girls, more action, more girls, villains and, yes, girls. By this installment, the production team had it down. Thunderball does not disappoint from the opening action sequence to the closing underwater action sequence (and every point in between), THUNDERBALL delivers on what you want in a James Bond film. It truly cemented James Bond as an International phenomenon.8 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to the Bank (of Marquis). "},{"Title":"Another great movie in the series","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 4th April and 4th bond movie.Thunderball (1965)This was yet another great movie, this my second Favourite so far, not better then then Goldfinger (1964) but it wasn't far from it at all. I really enjoyed this movie, it's really grabs in you and never lets you got, it was one longest James bond movies so far but wow, time flew by. I loved how the movie started, great open scenes and great fight scenes at the start of the movies, The best fight scenes in any of the bonds yet! I loved the plot the movie, thought it was really good, it wasn't not as action as packed as the last movie however this movie flowed really well. The underwater scenes were great to watch, really enjoyed those/This scenes were calm but very intruding from start to the very end.The acting was great from the whole cast again,Another great movie in the series I going to give this movie 8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Water water everywhere, but barely a drop to drink; nor, indeed, is there much in the way of substance to get into.","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Terence Young's crack at a Bond film, in Thunderball, is just having too much fun on its own to double check as to whether we're still enjoying the party. Most notably for me, this is the first Bond film to formally drop the ball &#x96; something which was being threatened with each passing minute from around the hour mark of Goldfinger and has here burst forth into a torrent of overly used second unit material; poor atmospherics; bad pacing and generally weak levels of antagonism. I suppose it had to happen eventually, but there doesn't seem to be much energy to this entry; much urgency &#x96; people are spending too much time under the Bahaman sun and it's stifling them. Where the frame should be dripping with this tension born out of an impending deadline, there is a stoic and clammy feel to things; a degree of repetition. You might say that when the stakes go higher, the interest wanes where the assumption is it should intensify. Watching Bond investigate the death of a fellow overseas operative or being caught up in a plot to do with a Soviet encoder may not have the same enigmatic 'ring' that trying to stop World War Three does, but it's a damn sight more interesting.Then there is the water. Water plays a large part in Thunderball. This is not the Bond film for the aquaphobes among us - has indeed anyone mentioned that there is a lot of water in this film? Sequence after sequence, scene after scene set beneath the waves wherein people swim; glance; investigate and, on occasion, both fight and murder those in close proximity to them. From the moment the camera is drenched with the liquid that spews forth from the rear of James Bond's automobile during his successful evasion from some baddies during the opening, we are practically inundated with our beloved Hydrogen-squared-over-Oxygen for the rest of the picture. As it was with those aforementioned crooks during the film's pre-titles sequence, the happening is, with hindsight, a sort of slap in the face for the audience all unto itself an announcing that there will be an awful lot of this on your screen for the next two hours, so buckle up and get used to it.We begin, following the opening salvo, in Paris and with a cross dissolve involving blue and red fountains of water streams filling in with the white/grey of a Parisian street as we open in France to the French colours. Neat. There enters the frame the villain of the piece, Emile Largo (Celi), who parks his car; waltzes nonchalantly across the road and into a building occupied by people being barracked at by the French authorities over varying issues. Above such meagre matters, Largo continues on down the corridors before he reaches a board room preordained by SPECTRE, the recurrent terrorist cell charged with facilitating all the grief thus far in the franchise and seemingly providing Bond with a living.The blunt fact of the matter is that Largo is a poor villain; a podgy, one eyed thug who isn't even so much a villain as much as he is an overly-qualified henchman to the SPECTRE organisation in the first place. At this crucial time in the film, as we're introduced to whom it is Bond will be up against, it is a betrayal within SPECTRE which reminds us of their cutting, brutal efficiency where Largo can merely stand around and provide a brief lecture on an up-coming plan. Largo is, in fact, so poor that I indeed had to remind myself of whom HIS henchman was. If we're going down this route of gadgets; girls; locations; villains and their backup as a means to really get involved in a Bond film, then why is Largo himself no more than a droll rent-a-thug who possesses a nondescript back up lackey in Vargas? A better villain is Fiona Volpe (Paluzzi), a quite stunning visual specimen whose sexual appeal; aggression and involvement, epitomised when they are clay pigeon shooting and she puts him in his place with a series of lines of dialogue, has her stand out more.The plan this time involves some neat back-story revolving around a top fighter jet pilot; his kidnapped sister Domino (Auger) and the transportation of some nuclear devices, devices of which eventually fall into Largo's hands as he and SPECTRE hold the West to ransom. Fortunately, Bond has a lead on account of his time spent at a health clinic and it isn't long until he's in Nassau looking to crack the case. Unfortunately, however, is the manner in which the whole thing comes across as quite flat. There is little sense of two sides warring with one another that there was in Jamaica or Istanbul as before, while the locale of Nassau with its bikini-clad women and photogenic nature undercuts the severity of the situation just as setting a neo-noir in somewhere such as Monte Carlo or Las Vegas often undermines the harsh, unremitting atmosphere of said genre with a frothier, warmer, bouncier tone. It's easy to admire the craft of it, but the second unit material is often overwhelming - so much so that by the time the huge fight between good and evil arrives at the very end, we're so worn out by the preceding hundred minutes that it's all too much of a muchness. There's too much of an in-betweener feel about Thunderball, like it was hurried or rushed; like the producers focused too much on what made the backgrounds of the preceding films so likable without any attention paid to the fore. "},{"Title":"Watched Thunderball again and gave it an extra star","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball was the fourth Bond in the franchise and expectations were very high after the massive success of Goldfinger( Thunderball actually grossed over a billion dollars at today's prices). Certainly the plot was promising SPECTRE steal two nuclear missiles and threaten to blow up two major cities in England and America if a ransom of £ 100 million is not paid. Also the reappearance of the Aston Martin from Goldfinger early on, a villain in drag( shades of Diamonds Are Forever, but very daring for 1965) and SPECTRE's secret headquarters made the first half hour very entertaining. Yet when the action switches to the Bahamas, where SPECTRE Number 2 Emilio Largo( played very convincingly by Adolfo Celi) is hiding the missiles, the film can be a little slow, as a fair part of it is filmed in the dark. I watched the underwater fight scenes and for all it's a little unclear who SPECTRE and the good guys are at first( SPECTRE wear black, Bond's allies wear orange, this is a very well choreographed and filmed fight scene that won an Oscar. As for the Bond villain, Emilio Largo, played by Adolfo Celi, he is prepared to slug it out with Bond in the end, which most villains tended to shy away from, and is only defeated when his ex partner, Domino, shoots him in the back. Along with Doctor No and the first two incarnations of Ernst Blofeld, Largo is one of my favourite Bond villains now as he is a callous killer with an eyepatch, but also one of the few who is prepared to fight Bond hand to hand.Thunderball isn't quite up there with Goldfinger and maybe expectations were too high, but I've watched it again and awarded it an extra star due to Adolfo Celi's character and the fight scene on the Disco Volante. As expected, Connery is in peak physical condition throughout and still delivers some awful but funny one liners, he got the point being one of the best when he kills Vargas with a harpoon gun. Claudine Auger is very good as Bond girl Domino too. "},{"Title":"Pretty good but kind of boring.","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In this 4th entry to the James Bond series, SPECTRE's #2 agent Emilio Largo steals two nuclear missiles with the intention of using them to hold NATO for ransom. James Bond is sent to investigate, and as he gets deeper into the mystery, he ends up falling in love with Largo's mistress, Domino. Bond ends up fighting on land and under water to defeat Largo, and if he doesn't, the world could be in trouble. This is the most boring of the Sean Connery Bond films, but it's still okay.The first three James Bond films have an adequate amount of action and thrills in them while still keeping a good story with mystery and suspense. This James Bond movie does the same, but the story for the movie seems to drag on and on, and when it finally gets around to the action, the action drags on a bit too. The underwater fight is kind of cool at first, because you've never seen it happen before, but when it goes past the 10 minute mark, it starts to get old. I will say that this Bond movie features the best kill line out of all of them. Can my friend sit this one out? She's just dead. The scenery in this movie is pretty good, at least I think so because I love water movies, but James Bond spending all his time underwater didn't translate as well for me. This is a well made James Bond film, that's for sure, but it just seems to drag on more than others.According to Connery, this movie features his favourite performance as James Bond. I thought he was as perfect as ever in the role. Adolfo Celi makes for a pretty good bad guy, and Claudine Auger is a great Bond girl.Overall, this Bond movie is as good as the first three. The only problem is that it drags on a little.7/10 "},{"Title":"The best  James Bond movie and the prettiest Bond girls","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is definitely the best 007 James Bond movie ever, with the best actor who interpreted the agent Sean Connery, you have to see for the year 1965 the special effects were very good, and the girls, well what can i say?.I have always like the James Bond movies because of the action scenes and because of the girls, and in this movie the girls are prettiest than ever, with redhead beauties Claudine Auger and Luciana Paluzzi, and brunette gorgeous Maxine Bershwich, this movie have drop dead gorgeous beauties, which i like as a female beauty lover.What else can i say, it is important to see this movie not only because of the girls, but because it was like what we have before the action movies we have today, and there we can see how these movies were before. "},{"Title":"best cinematography to date","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  another year, another bond movie. as the 4th bond installment, this one easily has the best cinematography to date the photography is clearer, more vibrant, and the widescreen is gorgeous.as the movie unfolds -- and up to the half way point -- i am thinking, this is probably the best bond movie yet. but that was before the overly lengthy underwater sequences practically put me to sleep. by the last half hour of the movie, i am just wanting it to be over already. pacing, pacing, pacing. they just havent figured it out yet.one of the things i really dislike about this film is all the *speeded up* shots, where the film playback is over-crancked to simulate faster action. it is noticeable throughout the movie, and gets really ridiculous at the end when the yacht is careening back and forth between the rocks. and speaking of B movie effects, the strings on the jet near the film's opening are quite easy to pick out.by the way, how many bond movies end with our heros out in the middle of the ocean somewhere in a rubber raft or a little boat? no wonder one of the original _austin powers 1_ endings has the characters mysteriously transported to a rubber raft vanessa how did we get here? austin all my movies end this way, baby.on the subject of austin powers allusions, i had not realized until _thunderball_ that SPECTRE #2's eye patch is directly transposed to the robert wagner equivalent in the austin powers franchise. and on the subject of SPECTRE, i find this evil organization to be a very entertaining concept. i wish they had not done away with it in the later bond films. i guess maybe the idea is too hokey for modern times. then again, today we have Al-Queda, so maybe its not that implausible after all. "},{"Title":"Comment edited after re-watching this as part of a Bond film festival","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" SPECTRE has hijacked a plane with two two nuclear bombs on board and threaten to detonate one of the in a major world city unless a huge ransom ($100.000.000) is paid within seven days. If the ransom is not payed and the first bomb is detonated, SPECTRE will inform the media of the threat of another nuclear bomb, and demand an even larger ransom. MI6 believes that the bombs are being held somewhere in the Caribbean, and Bond, with help from Felix Leiter, is sent to find them.Good adaptation of Ian Fleming's (and Kevin McClory's and Jack Wittingham's) book, the screenplay follows the book fairly closely. I have to admit that I was not that impressed with the book the first time I read it, but after reading it again, and seeing Thunderball in a theatre during a Bond film festival recently, I've come to enjoy the book and the film version even more. It has the last really good turn from Connery as Bond, Adolpho Celi is a great villain, Rick Von Nutter is a great Felix Leiter, and the leading ladies are both attractive, even if one of them is a bit superfluous. A bit of editing could have been done during the climax, and omit the silly, gimmicky, happy ending, but this is still a great Bond movie, and definitely worth seeing in a theatre if possible. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"The last good Sean Connery Bond","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was Sean Connery's fourth James Bond film, and it's pretty good, or maybe that's just my heart's soft spot beating louder than usual since this was the first Bond film I ever saw (it was a gift from Grandpa). Was it Sean's best? Probably not. The best one for Connery will always be a draw between From Russia With Love and Goldfinger, but this one's better than the dry but watchable Dr. No (but what do you expect with some first feature films?) After this one there was the very poorly made You Only Live Twice after which Sean tried to abandon the role, which he didn't really succeed in doing until after the Thunderball remake Never Say Never Again. To be honest with you, Sean should have bowed out after this one, or maybe this one should have been On Her Majesty's Secret Service which would feature the underrated but capable George Lazenby.Well, the plot is that SPECTRE is out to conquer the world and plans to do so by launching nuclear weapons from the Bahamas. The film is a bit overlong and not quite as flashy as Goldfinger but it's got some good fight scenes and some very beautiful Bond girls - my favorite from this one being blonde haired, brown eyed Molly Peters as Patricia Fearing, the nurse that Bond has his way with in the steam room while he's on holiday (she was also one of the first to bear her backside for the screen; there's a scene with Sean massaging Molly and she's wearing nothing but a towel wrapped about her derriere).On a scale of 1 to 10, I give this one a 7 and a half. Not the best but good enough. Sean Connery should have dropped out after this one. Maybe then we could have been spared the debacle that followed with You Only Live Twice, OHMSS and Diamonds Are Forever.  "},{"Title":"Thunderbollocks","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Bond goes to a health farm and in addition to a massage gets involved in a plot by SPECTRE (they never give up do they?), who have stolen some nukes and intend to destroy the world, etc etc... This was remade in 1983 as 'Never Say Never Again' presumably because this script was the only one the rival filmamkers had any rights to and subsequently there was even talk of it being remade AGAIN in 2000. Never say never my a**e.  It's certainly not for quality control as this is not the strongest Bond story, mainly because it over relies on setpieces and gadgetary, but fall short on plot or strong characters. Largo is such a dull villian (you can tell hes evil becuase he has a eye patch)that he must be trying to bore Bond to death, a trick which nearly works on the audience.Its got sharks, its got sparks and as the ozzies would say, narks in some places but this is to the bond series what Tom jone's theme is to Bond themes. Not great in other words. "},{"Title":"Fourth film and going strong!","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I wouldn't dare say that this is the best James Bond film in the series, but there are definitely some good things to be seen in this film.  You can tell that due to the success of the previous three films, a lot more attention was given to the action, story, characters, cast, props, and just about everything.These days the idea of a criminal-super-power holding the world ransom with atomic weapons is not a very original idea, although back in the 1960's, when this was made, this was probably a rather unique and original idea.  I thought the story was very good and quite entertaining.Sean Connery returns to his role of James Bond, pulling off another fantastic job.  Bernard Lee, Desmond Llewelyn and Lois Maxwell also return to their roles, pulling off excellent performances as well.  The real gems in the movie are the very attractive Claudine Auger (as Domino), and the quite villainous Adolfo Celi (as Emilio Largo/Number 2).  Rik Van Nutter comes in to fill the shoes of Felix Leiter, I'm not sure he's the best candidate for the role, but he did just fine.  The rest of the supporting cast was quite good as well.The only complaint I have about the film is the length.  While not being a terribly long film overall, there are a number of scenes that could easily have been left out or shortened.  The first 30 minutes or so of the film are really great, but from then on it seems to drag a little bit.All in all, I thought this was a very good fourth installment to the series.  I'm not sure it's necessary, but I would probably recommend seeing the previous three films before checking this one out.  Although, it's not absolutely necessary.  In any case, I hope that you enjoy the film as I did.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Ian Fleming's 007 with NATO watching goes up against SPECTRE again.","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Can a Bond flick be typical? James Bond(Sean Connery)finds himself in the beautiful Bahamas to squelch SPECTRE's threat to detonate two stolen atom bombs part of a major extortion scheme. Oscar winning special effects. Plenty of explosions, chases, bikinis; even a furniture fight and Miss Moneypenny(Lois Maxwell)even gets a little slap on her well rounded bottom from our man Bond. Also in the cast are the beautiful Claudine Auger, Adolfo Celi, Martine Beswick, Rik Van Nutter and Guy Doleman. Fun entertainment and a great way to escape a  hum drum routine. And what a powerful theme song wailed by Tom Jones. 007 always comes through. "}{"Title":"Good but Connery's worst","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good Bond movie with an excellent underwater action sequence but this is perhaps the worst of the Connery Bond pictures, without counting Never Say Never Again of course.We're all familiar with the law suits so lets not get into that. Anyway, this film is set primarily in the Bahamas and it signals the return of the original Bond director Terence Young. The film once again pits Bond against S.P.E.C.T.R.E. who plans to hold the world hostage with two hijacked atomic bombs.This is the second and so far the last Bond picture to win an Oscar. It won for Best Visual Effects. The first was Goldfinger which this movie tries to out do but to this day Goldfinger still remains the best Bond picture.  "},{"Title":"Saved by Sean Connery's performance","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Without the excellent performance by Sean Connery, this movie would have been a pain to watch. It's way too overlong and sometimes (the first quarter especially) very confusing. The cinematography is superb though. Claudine Auger, Miss France 1958, is beautiful as Domino.Out of 100, I gave it 73. "},{"Title":"Why Does Everybody think this one is so good?","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Face it Bond fans, this one stinks.I mean,compared to the other Connery Bonds there is only one halfway decent scene.Of course, this is the underwater war scene.This movie is long and slow paced and definitely way out of style.Plus the directing for this movie is awful.Whatever anybody tells you,this show is pitiful. "},{"Title":"A big boring lump","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The fourth movie in the Bond series is a tedious plodder that starts excitingly enough but squanders that promising beginning by focussing on an increasingly boring story featuring virtually nothing of interest. Sean Connery returns as Bond, James Bond, this time zipping off to the Bahamas to foil a Spectre plot involving them holding the world to ransom by stealing a couple of atomic bombs and threatening to blow up Miami unless they're paid several hundred million bucks. The formula has worn pretty thin this time round (and there's a loooooooong way to go yet), the villains are an indistinct bunch and the plot is so rambling and unengaging that it's easy to forget what's gone before and get confused later on. That early jet-pack escape does lull you into a false sense of security, but by the time we reach an interminable underwater sequence, any interest has long since departed. "},{"Title":"Without Thunder or Balls","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" They must've known there would be another two dozen Bond movies because by Part IV, or Thunderball, they're taking their sweet time.While better than the first two, Dr. No and From Russia with Love, but nowhere near the exciting adventure of Goldfinger, this chapter was simply, just there. Nothing great, nothing terrible. Although it's the longest of the so-far Bond features, the script felt like just one chapter of a novel and it would be one you'd want to get through quickly.Thunderball, or the codename operation to reclaim two nukes, has the least complex plot to date (of 1965) and yet it's stretched out amongst too many minutes and females. The eeevil SPECTRE's back with the cat-petting, no face #1, and quite straightforwardly, they want more money. For today's standards, the enormously easy theft of two nukes would be a joke, but I'm guessing back in the mid-1960s, kids still hid under tables to avoid the aftershock of a nuclear blast.Enter in what has to be the most inept spy since Inspector Clouseau &#x96; I mean, what spy drops his gun and alerts the baddies of his whereabouts&#x85;really? &#x96; Bond, kinda, sorta figures out what's going on with the nukes. But, this was just to lead us to an overlong underwater fight segment where Bond uses a 4-minute air supply Q-gadget for roughly 15-minutes.This really is a throw-away chapter and, again, not terrible &#x96; I didn't find myself bored as in Bond's first two adventures, but I didn't relish in any great scene and only laughed at one of his lines (after the dance) and one of his scenes think shoes and a bathtub. That, I admit, was good.Too bad the rest of the film didn't equate that amount of fun. Well, here's to You Only Live Twice&#x85;(This is my Bondathon series leading up to 2012's James Bond Part XXIII Skyfall. I will be including the odd one out Never Say Never Again just to get the whole experience. That said, I am skipping both the 50-minute Made-for-TV film and the original spoof, 1967's Casino Royale because...I still have some dignity.) "},{"Title":"Funderball","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Is Thunderfinger a better film than Goldball? That question has perplexed me and others for decades and I'm still not 100% sure which is best. They're both classic Sean Connery James Bond's, with mid-60's outlandishness, inventiveness and innocence shining through holey, nonsensical and entertaining plots, and both have stood the test of time and generations of critical carping.Bond is having a rum time at a health spa &#x96; apparently he's too healthy for the female masseur &#x96; when a chain of events unfold leading to the unlikely hijack by SPECTRE of a NATO jet plane complete with 2 nuclear bombs on board. Their safe return will be on receipt of a GBP100 million ransom, but the chase is on to find them before the West has to cough up. There's plenty of action, movement, glamour, sex, all shot through with Connery's unerring witticisms, and nobody did it better. Favourite bits the fun and games in the spa &#x96; a nice bit of interesting knockabout comedy; Bond temporarily stuck in the shark pool with a big chum; diving down to have a look at the interior of the downed plane &#x96; that spooked me when I was young; so many half-naked woman objects (with and without marks on their left thighs) &#x96; that spooks me now I'm old!But because the ground-breaking(?) underwater battle was rather drawn out, OK, almost interminable, I think Goldfinger still is the better film overall &#x96; both excellent, and both excellent bookend companions to each other. It was the 4th of Connery's 6 Bond outings - it was all downhill after this, not only for Connery but for the Bond franchise; I never saw Never Say Never Again because I did say that after seeing Moonraker. "},{"Title":"A rather turgid underwater adventure for 007...Connery looks great, but plot is lacking","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Number #4 installment in the James Bond franchise, following on the heels of 1964's high-flying Goldfinger, concerns 007's search for two NATO atomic bombs, sending him to the picturesque Bahamas where he faces off with SPECTRE agent Emilio Largo and his deep-sea army. Thinly-derived spy stuff, most of it taking place underwater. Hard to fathom now, but Thunderball was so phenomenally popular, it was (and perhaps still is) the most financially successful film in the 007 canon. One can faintly assume audiences were still coasting on the good will built up by Goldfinger when this entry arrived...the poster artwork with star Sean Connery in a wetsuit probably didn't hurt either! The movie certainly gets off to a rousing start, but does a curiously quick fade--and fails to linger in the memory. Remade (with Connery) in 1983 as Never Say Never Again. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Bond takes a dive","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the huge success of Goldfinger, the producers of the Bond series wanted the follow-up to be bigger and even better, and Thunderball thus became the most epic Bond film yet made. However, although it made more money at the Box Office than its three predecessors, it is nowhere near as good as any of them. Indeed, Thunderball is arguably the weakest of all Sean Connery's Bond films, along with the tacky Diamonds are Forever.One of the film's central problems is that it tries too hard to outdo Goldfinger. The lengthy underwater sequences look grand enough, but precisely because they are underwater it becomes difficult to follow the action, and confusion and boredom set in. Given the epic scale of the film, the editing is surprisingly shoddy, and most of the cast appear to have been dubbed. It is a shame that this was director Terence Young's last Bond film, because he had done a great job with Dr No and especially From Russia with Love. Thunderball, however, is just not up to the same technical standards, and it sadly meant that Young left the franchise with a whimper.The cast is also a disappointment in this film. Connery himself is fine as OO7, but his performance is less intense than in earlier Bonds, and it seems as if he was already tiring of playing the role. Sadly, he gets little in the way of good support from other cast members. Adolfo Celi turns in a rather dull performance as the main villain, Emilio Largo, and although Claudine Auger looks good in a diving suit, she does not make Domino one of the more memorable Bond girls. The plot fails to hold the attention either, which is a pity because the basic scenario - SPECTRE steals two nuclear missiles and holds the world to ransom - had the potential to be much more exciting. This film, however, is much too pedestrian to generate the excitement required.Thunderball looks big and epic, but it is really something of an empty shell, drowning in its own underwater world. There are some memorable scenes, and Tom Jones' title song is enjoyable, but ultimately it is one of the least satisfying entries in the series. Ironically I preferred Never Say Never Again, the much-lambasted remake. "},{"Title":"A very good movie!","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  SPECTRE have stolen 2 nuclear bombs, and it is up to James Bond to find out what happened to the bombs, and to prevent SPECTRE from launching them. Thunderball is a fine movie, with many interesting gadgets.However, there is a really big acion sequence which takes place under water, which is really lazy shot, and above all confusing. Overall a good movie, but not the best in the series. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Drags on too long..Throwing Hand Grenades into the Water?","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I know the directors must have thought all of the underwater shoots looked really cool and hip back in the day when this movie was made, but they just drag out far too long and to be honest were boring and way overdone, especially the fight scenes. And throwing hand grenades off the boat into the water to try and kill James Bond? Really? SPECTRE has to be the most inept group of wanna be terrorists in the history of mankind. I really didn't find the Bahamas all that interesting of a backdrop either. Why not Cuba? By the end I was rooting for the sharks to eat everyone so the movie would HAVE to end. I only struggled to finish watching this uninteresting mess so I would never be tempted to try to do so again. Definitely one of my least favorite of what is generally a fun series. "}{"Title":"Probably the worst acting in a 007 film","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Most people on this site think this is a great Bond film. I found it slow moving, fight scenes underwater that went on, and on, and on way too long. The worst thing of this film is the acting. Connery is great, but everyone else is flat and deadpan like they were just reading the lines with nothing else. I think after the success of Goldfinger they rushed this one. Just as the underwater scenes, the ending fight between Bond and the villain is drawn out way too long. To say nothing of the way they speeded up the action by speeding up how many film cells per second is very bad. I love the Bond character and most of the other films, but, I'm sorry, in my opinion this was the worst Bond film. "},{"Title":"Part 4 is better then the first 3","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the fourth James Bound movie. It better then any of the ones that came before it. There are better James Bond movies like You only live twice or Diamonds are forever or Live and let die. But still this a great movie. Great acting. Great story line. The man with the golden gun is better. The spy who loved me is better. M.o.o.n.r.a.k.e.r is better. For your eye only is better. O.c.t.o.p.u.s.s.y is better. A view to a kill is better. Living daylight is better. License to kill is better. Golden eye is better. Tomorrow never dies is better. The world is not enough is better. Die another day is better. But still it is a great movie. See it. Sean Connery is good actor. See this movie Sean Connery playing James Bond you can never go wrong. "},{"Title":"Women by the wayside . . .","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" . . . seems to be the general theme of THUNDERBALL, perhaps the most misogynistic of the early James Bond films. From the get-go, James and the THUNDERBALL crew conspire together to off the ladies at every opportunity. It's like a Boko Haram dream come true. Exposition indicates that Agent 007 has made multiple FAILED attempts upon the life of Jacques Bouvar, a.k.a. S.P.E.C.T.R.E. Agent #6. It's only when Jackie Six dresses in drag that Bond can slay her with a fireplace poker. Cut to the Bahamas, where S.P.E.C.T.R.E. captures James' assistant\ready mistress Paula Kaplan. While 007 fools with the island's power grid, Paula must meet her demise by chomping down on a cyanide tablet before she can be power tooled. Or take Fiona, Bond's convenient human shield on the dance floor. As Bond says to the nearest male stranger, Do you mind if my friend (Fiona) sits this (dance) out? She's just dead right now. Even second-billed Bond Girl Claudine Auger (Domino) narrowly escapes a torture session at the hands of the man who beds her before and after having her favorite brother killed. Yet there's James, in the crazy final scene of THUNDERBALL, yanking Domino sky high for no earthly reason other than his motto, Sleep with me first, then sleep with the fishes. "},{"Title":"How do we follow this up....?","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Goldfinger is, in many circles, considered the penultimate 007 adventure. Thunderball, follows it up near perfect.One of the longest films, it paces itself fairly well. The characters are more in depth than what we had seen in Goldfinger, and slightly more sinister. The gadgets are present, but not too cumbersome. Connery again gets to flex some acting muscle off his individual co-stars, and puts a bit more into the effort, even though he was tiring of the role by this point.Though good on story and high on action, Thunderball just misses epic, however hits hard for a popcorn movie. "},{"Title":"The quintessential Bond movie in some aspects....but still flawed","Date":"26 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In some ways, Thunderball is one of the best Bond films ever made the title song, the entire music score and the photography are first-rate, the dialogue has a lot of wit (Don't worry, I'll call the chef!), Connery gives perhaps his most confident and charismatic performance as 007, the good girl Claudine Auger is, like the other French Bond girls Carole Bouquet and Sophie Marceau, gorgeous, and the evil girl Luciana Paluzzi is delicious (But I may not be in the mood later, a man tells her. You wanna bet?, she replies). On the other hand, Adolfo Celi is not one of the most memorable Bond villains - he can be cruel and he can be suave, but that's about it. His henchmen are no Oddjobs either (in fact, Luciana is the most interesting villainous presence in the movie, along with Blofeld, whose voice we hear but whose face we do not see). But the biggest problem with Thunderball are its long, tedious and chaotic underwater scenes. The film on the whole lacks the tight, economic structure of Goldfinger - it was the first Bond movie to run over 2 hours, beginning a trend that was followed by almost all of the series entries that came after it, usually not to their benefit. (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Aren't you in the wrong room, Mr. Bond?","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sean Connery battles SPECTRE again; this time the bad guy is Largo (Adolfo Celi). I just hate it when a homeboy gets it. Oh, well, Celi plays a cardinal in the morning in Monsignor, so I hope he lives through that. Although, he may not survive the temptation of the lovely Geneviève Bujold.Bond eye candy provided by Miss France Claudine Auger as Domino, and Luciana Paluzzi as Fiona. Music by Tom Jones.Most of the action takes place underwater, so we spend most of the time in the Bahamas, with some filming just up the road from me in Silver Springs. "},{"Title":"a good james bond movie","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I think Thunderball is a good movie, this movie was made in 1965, the fourth james bond movie in the series. Starring of course the one and only Sean Connery, i think he is a fantastic actor and i have loved his work what movie he has starred in such as the medicine man, entrapment, the james bond movies (dr no, from Russia with love, goldfinger, thunderball, you only live twice, diamonds are forever, never say never again, dragon heart) he has been a very good actor and has done fantastic movies. I think he is the best james bond ever than the other james bond actor because he was the first and i don't think someone else can beat the originals. I give this movie 10 out of 10. The singer who sung thunderball is Tom Jones who is also a great singer.  "},{"Title":"The fourth 007 is a good one!","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good Bond film. It has action and the water fights are spectacular! Sean Connery does it again! Luciana Paluzzi looked great! If you like James Bond and spy, and action films then check the fourth James Bond film out! "},{"Title":"A psychedelic masterpiece!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Next to the (inofficial) agent movie parody Casino Royal, the fourth James Bond movie Thunderball is the most psychedelic and romantic part of the series. Though some people miss the pacing and the style of Goldfinger here, it's still an outstanding movie of the sixties. The settings are restricted to Nassau/Bahamas, but show some of the most colorful and exotic places like a carnival parade and a groovy South Sea cocktail lounge. The best of all scenes are Rico Browning's brilliant shot underwater sequences under villain Largo's luxury yacht Disco Volante, showing breath-taking submarine moods, well-arranged action drama, underwater chases and a great sound track consisting of Tom Jones' cool title theme and psychedelic orchestral loops by John Barry. This is still one of my favorite Bond movies and a good example of a lush, stylish and cool sixties secret agent movie!  "},{"Title":"Good Bond outing.","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Agent 007 must stop SPECTRE from using two nuclear bombs.Entertaining flick lacks in parts but the underwater scenes are neat.The voluptuous Luciana Paluzzi is deadly attractive.Rating***1/2 (out of five)  "}{"Title":"Almost better than Goldfinger","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball is almost better than Goldfinger, mainly because the story is much grander and more of a actual plot. But Goldfinger has all the characters a Bond reel should have, which makes it slightly better.But still I enjoy immensely the stealing of the nukes and SPECTRE's usual theme of world destruction. How come no one ever asks why? "},{"Title":"The Best of the Best of the Bonds","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldfinger is arguably the best of the James Bond films starring Sean Connery, who remains the definitive 007. From Russia With Love is truest to the flavor of the Ian Fleming novels. But all in all, the most enduringly satisfying of the Connery-Bond films has to be Thunderball.It remains the ultimate distillation of what would become the Bond formula, never more perfectly balanced - the gravity of the plot, the worthiness of his adversary (Largo), the beauty of the women, the lush locations and John Barry's equally lush score, the gadgets, the stunts...The underwater sequences alone put this film in a class by itself, a filmmaking feat not likely to be attempted again.But most of all, it is Sean Connery at the top of his form as Bond that makes Thunderball work so well. It's not just his martini-dry delivery (I think he got the point.). Connery's sheer physical presence, his ability to convey a sense of real danger as well as style as Bond is the glue that holds it all together. In a tuxedo, a business suit or a bathing suit, no one has ever looked better. "},{"Title":"There's a SPECTRE on your shoulder...","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In Thunderball, SPECTRE returns after an absence in Goldfinger and (in a  great set) announces to the moviegoing public that it is an organization  that will ingrain itself into Bond folklore forever.  Mechanical chairs  that kill their user, high-tech underwater weaponry, amazing gadgets and  stunning women make this a truly memorable picture.  Although some viewers  may find the lack of action undesirable, it is made up for through an  excellent dialogue and some very quotable scenes, including the famous Not  from where I'm standing scene, I kept the gun under the pillow, and  Wait till you get to my teeth!  Emilio Largo is a truly amazing villain,  as he is one of the first SPECTRE agents who truly takes action rather than  shouts orders from a desk.  I'm sure most fans would be willing to ignore  the famous Black Mask/Blue Mask goof  and simply be entertained by a  barrage of spear guns, sharks, nuclear weapons, and a jetpack.   "},{"Title":"Bond takes his first stumble","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Okay, I'll admit it... as much of a die-hard Bond fan that I am, I have never liked Thunderball. Dr No was an amazing start, From Russia With Love improved on it and Goldfinger was possibly the best Bond of the Connery era. Then came Thunderball which, in my opinion, is the worst (yes, even behind Diamonds are Forever).It's just too slow and too long. Although, when I check the running time, it's not that much longer than other Bond movies (past and present). It just feels much longer. Some of the 'action' scenes are painfully slow - largely because 'underwater' features heavily in the film's plot (about Spectra trying to blackmail the world governments using nuclear weapons). What you get is 'action' scenes set underwater, therefore they're - by definition - slow moving and it's hard to tell who's who with all the scuba gear. They just go on forever and should have been cut (in my humble opinion).I would leave it there by saying that Thunderball is my least favourite Connery Bond film, however, upon reading the other reviews, I find that I'm actually in the minority. Most people seem to love it. Maybe I'm missing something, so, if you're a Bond fan, I guess you have to watch it for yourself and see. Personally, I'm skipping this one and going straight to Never Say Never Again. "},{"Title":"A Bond film that seems underrated","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sean Connery returns for the fourth time as James Bond 007 in his finest acting performance yet. Yeah, I know it's just my opinion, but I find this to be his most charismatic, smooth performance of his six/seven films. Add to that one of the series' better villains, Emilio Largo, deliciously played by Alfredo Celi, a threatening supporting villain, Fiona, and some fine underwater camera work, and also a greater plot than you might imagine. There are a few criticisms as well, I must admit. The Felix Leiter character seems unnecessary, the Bond girl is a bit forgettable, and the end fight seems too long, as does the runtime. But once you put it all together, it's one of the better Bond films, especially when you compare it to Connery's next film. "},{"Title":"A mediocre James Bond Movie","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" There is just nothing about this film that jumps out, neither iconic sound track, amazing storyline or characters, its just a run of the mill Bond Movie with all the usual sequences in it, Bond girls, fancy cars and SPECTRE. This outing Bond must recover 2 stolen atomic warheads in the Bahamas.Directed once again Terence Young, released just after Christmas to cash on holiday sales. It was the highest earning Bond movie in a 15 year period from 1962-1977. But I think that was just due to its release date. Christmas.Connery's script was better with lots of comical 1 liners. There weren't as many henchmen or gadgets in this particular film, but I like the gadgets so maybe a little disappointed. I am also a little bit minded to think that the underwater scenes dragged out a little. It also continues the trend of over dubbing the characters with voice over actors. There is one scene in particular with an out of control boat it just looks out of place almost cheap and nasty even corny.Emilio Largo is played by Adolfo Celi (although voiced by Robert Rietty) Dominique Derval is played by Claudine Auger. Nikki van der Zyl voices Dominique as she does with most Bond girls. "},{"Title":"Bond at his peak","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the phenomenal success of Goldfinger, James Bond became a pop cultural phenomenon and expectations were held high for the next Bond film. Producers Albert R. Cubby Broccoli and Harry Saltzman decided to go bigger and better with Bond and thus Thunderball was created.The story by now is very generic SPECTRE steals two nuclear warheads from a jet and holds the world ransom. Bond is sent to the exotic Bahamas to investigate the sister of one of the pilots of the stolen jet and comes across Number Two of SPECTRE Emilio Largo played by Adolfo Celi and dubbed by Robert Rietty.Thunderball is well known for its underwater action sequences which were quite revolutionary at the time and still look great. But some scenes especially the ones near the end go on for far too long and are very clunky and dark making it hard to see who's fighting who underwater.The acting is good. Sean Connery once again steals the show as James Bond and is more confident in the role. The Bond girls are as beautiful as ever. Claudine Auger is alright as Domino but Luciana Paluzzi steals the show as one of the best femme fatals of the series SPECTRE agent Fiona Volpe. Adolfo Celi is good as Largo but not as good as the previous villains in the last three movies.Terence Young returns as director for the last time in the series and while the direction is solid it doesn't compare to his best Bond film From Russia With Love. I think this is probably because they were trying to replicate what made Goldfinger such a success with audiences. They managed to succeed with this one because Thunderball managed to out gross Goldfinger and had James Bond all the rage.Despite some flaws Thunderball is an entertaining Bond episode. "},{"Title":"Way better then the overrated Goldfinger.","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Goldfinger is the most popular and beloved Bond. In a way I understand this, but I find it to be one of the weaker films in the entire franchise. The movie lacks the suspense the previous two films had and it lacks the fun and spectacle later entries would show us. Its a dull film all throughout the runtime.Thunderball is 5 steps above and beyond. It has a great and interesting plot with the big explosive action. Its really the first epic Bond film. Connery nails Bond yet again and gives us his best performance as the character. The Bond girls are both gorgeous and are much more memorable than Pussy Galore (Only famous for the name because she is next to worthless in Goldfinger) and Largo makes a great villain. The cinematography is gorgeous and has some of the best locations in the whole series. Terrance Young milked the tropical setting for all it was worth. Some claim Thunderballs underwater scenes boring. Im baffled by this statement. For a film nearing 50 years old I have yet to see a movie capture underwater photography better. The epic end battle is still exciting to this day and puts most big budget CGI event films to shame.Great performances, a good plot that thankfully doesn't cross the line into camp, gorgeous locations and classy directing make Thunderball one of the very best Bond films.9/10 "},{"Title":"The Quintessential Bond Film","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Many fans of the James Bond films will say Goldfinger is the quintessential Bond film, but Thunderball is the one Bond film that would explain to anyone who hadn't encountered the genre what a Bond movie is all about. And Thunderball outshines Goldfinger in the vital categories by which a Bond film is measured The women Bond interacts with (Claudine Auger, Luciana Paluzzi, Martine Beswick, Rose Alba) are more beautiful and plentiful, and their wardrobes are more sexy. The dialog is better, with more good quips and wry humor than Goldfinger. The villains are more memorable (see the Austin Powers movies if you can't figure this out). The location was more exotic (watching the Bahamas as a backdrop beats the heck out of the same old U.S.A. most movies take place in.) And the Q-type gadgets were numerous but took nothing away from Bond's bravado.This movie bears some similarities on the surface to Dr. No, the first official Bond movie -- the Thunderball story supposedly was selected for the first Bond film at one point -- but Thunderball has considerably more polish to it than Dr. No did. One can forgive the shortcomings of Dr. No, which had a more modest budget at a time when no one could accurately forecast the appeal of a Bond film. But Thunderball was the apex of what a Bond movie could be. The plot of Thunderball also got about as realistic and serious as Bond movies ever did, before the genre plunged into self-satirizing from the 1970s on.That stated, the movie is not flawless. (No Bond movie is, for that matter.) I had to have some reason to give it nine stars and not tenContinuity problem In an underwater fight near the end of the movie, Bond loses his blue dive mask. He grabs a black dive mask from a nearby villain, puts it on and clears it, and...surprise! Next time we see Bond's face, his mask is blue. I suppose we can rationalize that, as movie viewers, we just didn't see a moment where Bond used the black mask to locate and recover his blue one. Maybe Bond is concerned that he'll be mistaken for a bad guy if he keeps the black mask?Stretching reality Bond and Domino are airlifted from a raft at the film's end by a moving airplane that hooks the balloon and tether from the raft. I hope there is a lot of elastic in that line (talk about sudden acceleration), and I would like to know how they'll be reeled in when the tether was captured at the plane's nose. I can only imagine that the plane has some sort of track under the nose that can carry the cable back to a receiving area in the plane's belly.Stretching reality again Bond struggles with thugs underwater, beneath the Disco Volante. Then, as he swims away from the scene, grenades are dropped overboard. We can only imagine that several minutes of Bond's progress towards shore are edited out here, as the concussion of a grenade underwater would kill Bond at a close proximity, stun him from further away, and still deafen him permanently from a still further distance. Grenades under water are hazardous over a greater distance than they are above water.Now, to address other common issues people have with the movieThe frequently reported missing bombs and scientist There are no missing bombs. The para-trooping scuba force would have recovered one of the bombs by gradually overpowering the Spectre scuba divers. This isn't highlighted during the film, but is a logical assumption. The second bomb may have been among the remains of the Disco Volante, and would not have exploded in its full mushroom-cloud potential unless properly detonated. The Disco Volante's demise might constitute the first dirty bomb explosion, possibly scattering radioactive material on the small island that the ship hit. This might spell bad news for the missing scientist, who one can assume swam to shore on one of the small islands or atolls nearby, rather than spoiling Bond's final intimate moments with Domino by joining them in the raft. If the second bomb was not loaded on board the Disco Volante, it should turn up in the underwater cave that was used to store the bombs earlier in the movie.Why does Bond get away at the Junkanoo? Here, Fiona Volpe dies because Bond, while dancing with her, turns her toward the gun at the last second. (Bond's a lucky guy, once again...but what a waste of a sexy body!) The gunshot sound is masked supposedly by the deafening bongo beats from the band. The mystery for many is why the bad guys scurry away afterward, when they could simply take another shot at Bond. Considering that their cover (the loud bongo beats) is over, and no one has yet noticed the fatality, the Spectre thugs have the option to depart unnoticed, or to make a scene. They immediately take advantage of the chance to depart. Bond could have called attention to them and to Fiona's death, and whether or not Bond took any gunfire from the thugs, the police would then be alerted. Had the Spectre thugs not decided to get a head start home, they might not have been able to escape town, and at the very least, they might have had to shoot it out with police. That kind of a screw-up, even if the thugs made it back to Palmyra, would probably invite some quality time with Largo's sharks. It was far easier for the group to return quietly and report that Fiona was the one who screwed up, and that Bond killed her. Bond simply exercised a similar option to keep quiet, not wanting to spend the night answering questions in a Nassau police station. "},{"Title":"Starting to go over the top; but, still fun!","Date":"27 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Up to this point, the Bond series has built upon the success of the previous movie. Dr. No started things off, introducing our hero and his world. From Russia with Love added deadlier enemies, more complex plots, and memorable allies. Goldfinger gave us the independent supervillain and the wonderful gadgets. Thunderball mixes it all into a cocktail that would be sipped again and again.Thunderball brings SPECTRE to the forefront, in direct conflict with Bond. We first get a glimpse of their inner workings at a board meeting of criminals, complete with the harsh discipline they employ. Then, we watch as they launch Operation Grand Slam. This is an organization with vast resources and deadly agents. Perfect opposition for Bond.Meanwhile, Bond has gotten more toys, from his returning Aston Martin to his jetpack (the coolest spy accessory ever). By this point, Q has nothing but open contempt for how Bond treats his toys, adding a wonderful touch to the briefing scenes. There are plenty of lovelies for Bond to woo, from his nurse at a health spa, to Domino, and a deadly SPECTRE agent.We don't get quite as much scope this time, as we are mostly centered in England and Nassau, though the Bahamian setting is lovely. What we do get is some amazing photography beneath the ocean, as we watch SPECTRE claim their nuclear prize from a hijacked Vulcan bomber and transport it to its final destination. We also get the ultimate in scuba battles. This is a very effects-intensive film and it would be rewarded with a deserving Oscar.This film is the turning point for the series, as we go from mystery and intrigue into spectacle and mayhem. There is still an intricate plot, bit it starts to take a backseat to the action. We do have a memorable cast, including Adolpho Celli as the cold blooded, but charming SPECTRE number 2, Emilio Largo. Largo is a man of great appetites and great horrors. He takes the cold nature of Dr. No and adds the arrogance of Goldfinger, though he mostly holds the mania in check. The ladies are lovely as ever and deadly, in the case of Fiona Volpe.Thunderball is the measuring stick for the more action-oriented Bonds, though it still has the intrigue of the earlier efforts. All of the elements are working here, creating a fantasy world of jet-setting supervillains and spies, scuba clad commandos, and jetpack escapes. From here, Bond moves from the implausible to the fantastic and never really returns, for more than a moment. It's a great film to discover when you are young, but still a delight when you are older. "}{"Title":"One of the weaker Bond movies. Still good entertainment to watch of course!","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I consider this movie to be one of the weaker one's out of the long series of Bond movies. Yes, sure it still has an entertainment value but it lacks some of the fundamental things that made most of the other Bond movies so good and fun to watch.Perhaps the thing that I find to be most disappointing about this movie is the action. Most of the Bond movies always have some cool fist fights and a big spectacular finale. The biggest fight sequence and finale in this movie are set underwater. I could be me, but I don't find underwater fights to be spectacular or terribly exciting to watch. Also the ending is completely ridiculous, mainly because it's so incredibly fake and ridiculous looking. Also the fact that James Bond doesn't kill the main villain in this one but another person does, just doesn't feel right and not suiting for the style of the series. The movie seriously lacks some memorable impressive sequence and therefor Thunderball is one of the more forgettable Bond movies.Another disappointing aspect are the Bond girls. Bond-girls have never been known for their acting skills but Claudine Auger really is a bad, charismatic-less actress, that just doesn't known how to make a lasting impression on the silver screen. Also Rik Van Nutter is a horrible Felix Leiter in this movie.The plot and the way it is told also isn't terribly exciting and might be a bit too confusing for the more casual viewer at times. So it could be just the story which makes this movie to be in my opinion, one of the weaker Bond movies but I think it's a combination of all those elements I mentioned before.Luckily Sean Connery still is in good form though in this movie. He is in his element as James Bond and he delivers some good one-liners. Also Bond-regulars Desmond Llewelyn, Bernard Lee and Lois Maxwell are luckily present in the movie, to still give the movie that typical 'Bond-feeling'.The movie still is decent entertainment to watch but it's nothing memorable really, with the exception of the Tom Jones theme song maybe.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Good,just not great.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sean Connery is his usual charming,James Bond self in this installment of the series,but I am afraid even he could not save it from the somewhat mostly dry story,and in my opinion,poor editing,though they probably did the best they could considering the time period in which it was made.A couple of high points worthy of note are some great gadgetry (I love the splitting boat),and the rather exciting finale which features a well done underwater fight scene.Thunderball is not a great film,but it's good enough not to disappoint the avid,die hard James Bond fan,particularly those who prefer Sean Connery's bond to all the others. "},{"Title":"Worst of all official Sean Connery's Bond movies","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie is... well... kinda boring to be honest. The main problem here is the confusing underwater scenes that take about quarter to half of the movie. No one knows what's going on there, you can't see anyone's face and it drags on for too long. The action on the land isn't particularly exciting either. The villain is great. Played by Adolfo Celi, his name is Largo, who turns out to be number 2 member of SPECTRE. Domino (Claudine Auger) is one of the best Bond girls. But she doesn't save this movie for me. The plot is silly, almost to the Austin Powers level of silly. It's just a confusing, dull mess with some redeeming qualities. The main theme is great, one of the best. I strike Thunderball with a 5/10. "},{"Title":"James Bond has Finally come of age","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The one question that I ask when I come to these early James Bond films is whether one could actually create such a character in today's climate and get away with it. The reason I say this is that James Bond is such a womaniser. We see him eying of beautiful women as they pass, slapping them on the butt, and even tricking them into having sex with him. In fact, in this film, one of the antagonists mentions James Bond's habit of sleeping with a woman and having them switch sides (which is no doubt a reference to Pussy Galore in Goldfinger, who did just that).James Bond has seriously come of age by this film, and Sean Connery has easily fallen into his character. In fact by this time we notice that the one liner's that Connery slyly speaks seem to not only come natural, but rival even the classic one liner's of Arnold Swartzenegger. In fact I would even suggest that Arnie is simply trying to be one up on Connery but failing abysmally.SPECTRE is back and they have stolen two atomic bombs and are planning on holding the NATO powers hostage. They plan to blow up a random city is ten million pounds in diamonds are not paid at a certain time, which also means that Bond is on a race against time to find the bombs and stop the bad guys. Here we have Bond back as the detective, but he has gone further than in Doctor No because we also have the big fight between lots of people at the end (which first appeared in Goldfinger). He also has his Aston Martin at the start as well (no doubt having been fixed after he smashed it up in Switzerland in Goldfinger).Interestingly we also not only have the exotic locations but also the luxurious hotels and the expensive tastes. This apparently was something true of the actual spy world during the Cold War. In fact both Russian and American (as well as British) spies were allegedly living extravagant lifestyles all in the name of national security. In fact, I suspect a lot of them wanted the Cold War to go on forever so that they could continue living it up on tax payer money. I reckon that has got to beat living in dirty foxholes in the middle east. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After the classic GOLDFINGER it`s somewhat disappointing to see THUNDERBALL a film that`s easily the weakest of the 60s Bond films starring Sean Connery. The problem I have with it is the same problem I have with many of the later Bond films - It`s overlong and badly paced with much of the story held up as the audience are shown how easy it is to steal a couple of atomic bombs from a NATO aircraft . It`s a ridiculous plot of course like all James Bond films but the production team seem to feel if they go into enough details this will make the threat to the world somehow more credible . Well sorry but it doesn`t .It is good in places . As always Connery is great as Bond but it`s a pity he spends so much time under water since this drowns out his physical presence , oh and spot the number of times his Edinburgh brogue comes to the fore . It`s also a very sadistic film which is something modern day Bond producers seem to have forgotten about . Please note that the reason the James Bond franchise was so ground breaking in the 1960s was because he was such a violent anti hero . Nowadays the title character seems to be based on the late Bob Hope rather than Sean Connery .Completely useless trivia fact  I share something in common with Sean Connery - We were both born in Edinburgh but neither of us have lived there for many years . I now live in Rothesay on the island of Bute . The Royal Navy frigate used in the climax of THUNDERBALL is H.M.S Rothesay . Uncanny   "},{"Title":"Bloated with a pedestrian pace, but worth seeing for the special effects and underwater sequences","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm afraid I don't consider this among the best of the Bonds, but I certainly don't it one of the worst. If anything it is a solid if rather middling instalment. My main problems come with the bloated plot which tries to squeeze too many plot twists and high-tech software, pedestrian pacing and while Claudine Auger has a good presence and is sexy for me Domino is one of the least memorable Bond girls. However, it looks great, has a great score and theme song, the script has its suave moments, the direction is decent, the special effects are amazing as are the clever underwater sequences. Sean Connery is more the man the action here than he is in his other outings where he's more suave and charismatic but he is still great, while Adolfo Celi is a worthy opponent. In conclusion, good if not great. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Absoutely Sad","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thunderball falls into the category of Independence Day, Home Alone, and Return of the Jedi as high grossing crap. This movie is hands down one of the worst movies to ever be a box-office blockbuster. Many fans and viewers think Sean Connery is most zestiest and suave in this movie, and that this one of the best Bond films ever made. I do not agreed with this being one of the best Bond films ever mad. The movie before this one isn`t either because both movies had plot-holes and story development and most Bond movies used the same plot over and over with meglomaniac trying to harm the world in some sort of way and Bond always saving the day, but that wouldn`t change until the early days of Roger Moore and most of the Bond movies from the 80`s. Still, the novel wasn`t all that great either and what sad the remake of Thunderball is almost better than this installment.  "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Bond Movie","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Leonard Maltin is right.  This one bogs down, especially underwater, yet it remains my choice as the ultimate Bond movie.  It was, in many respects, the first epic entry in the series, not only because of its phenomenal success at the box-office (when inflation is taken into account, it remains, as the tagline states, The Biggest Bond of All), but for its complicated plot and tremendous underwater action scenes (that make the ones in the remake, Never Say Never Again, look like something done in a bathtub).  The dialogue is some of the wittiest in the series (Some men don't like to be driven, Fiona tells Bond while she gives him a lift in her car.  Some men don't like to be taken for a ride, Bond retorts), and even the character of Felix Leiter seems, for once, to exist for something more than to be impressed with 007's way with the women.  And, for the record, the poster (the original one-sheet, not the door panels represented here) is the best of pack.  "},{"Title":"Great Underwater Scenes","Date":"27 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Thunderball (1965) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Fourth film in the series has SPECTRE and bad guy Emilio Largo (Adolfo Celi) stealing two atomic weapons and planning on killing thousands of people with them so Bond (Sean Connery) must try and locate the warheads. I guess in some ways there just wasn't a way this thing could live up to the previous entry GOLDFINGER but I give the producers credit because they at least tried. This was a very frustrating movie to watch because on one hand it has some of the greatest action scenes from any movie and yet we've also got countless bad scenes that add up to nothing. This film could have been called By Land or By Water as it would be a fitting title but it would also explain the good and bad here. The bad stuff is pretty much everything on land. When the movie started it just had a been there, done that feeling to it that really seemed to sink things and in many ways it just felt like we've seen this type of film countless times before and much better. Even the womanizing scenes really didn't have much spark as they simply couldn't compare to previous films. I think another major problem is the supporting cast as poor Bond is pretty much on his own here. I didn't find any of the women to be overly appealing and I found the chemistry really lacking with Connery. As for Connery, he's certainly at the top of his game and gives another energetic performance but that's to be expected. I found Celi to be pretty good in the role of the villain but he's certainly not as flashy as those in the previous films and I think the bad guys around here are pretty weak as well. I'd also add that at 129-minutes the film goes on way too long. With all of that said, what makes the film worth watching are the amazing underwater sequences. I was really surprised to see how well done all of these scenes are and I'd say that each one of them were wonderfully directed and contained some great action and nice tension. The sharks in the pool were a nice tough and the scene where Connery finds himself trapped with them was terrific. The highlight is without question the final sequence underwater when we get a fifteen-minute, action packed ride that contains some great fights and some even better and very violent death scenes. Of course, when we get back on the boat things dry up again but this sequence is certainly a major point in the series so far. "},{"Title":"Galore","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Yes, it set a new standard for violence in mainstream fluff, and stunts also. And who can  forget the shock at the time of both a nude gold girl and an aggressive girl named Pussy  Galore. It also raised the bar for interesting lethal sidekicks. So it is of historical interest. But by today's standards, everything that was then fresh with is now stale. If you must  see a Bond edition, pick the last one.Ted's evaluation1 of 3 you can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}{"Title":"Atypical Bond flick","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  THUNDERBALL (1965) *** Waterlogged in underwater espionage has James out to stop SPECTRE again with some gorgeous Nassau locations and some deft oceanic choreography.  Title song sung by Tom Jones. "},{"Title":"Thunderball","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The film series had officially become one of the biggest by this fourth instalment, until 2012 when the record was well and truly broken by Skyfall, this was formerly the most profitable of all the films, based on the book by Ian Fleming. Basically James Bond 007 (Sir Sean Connery) kills SPECTRE (Special Executive for Counter-intelligence, Terrorism, Revenge and Extortion) operative, Number 6 agent Colonel Jacques Bouvar (Bob Simmons), following this he is sent to a clinic to improve his health. French NATO pilot François Derval (Paul Stassino) was due to board an Avro Vulcan loaded with two atomic bombs for a training mission, he is murdered by SPECTRE henchman Angelo Palazzi (also Stassino) who has been surgically altered to match his appearance, the plane is sabotaged, crashing and sinking into the water near the Bahamas, the atomic bombs are stolen from the seabed, while Angelo is killed for trying to extort more money offered to him. SPECTRE are demand £100 million in white flawless uncut diamonds from NATO in exchange for the return of the bombs, or they will destroy a major city in the United Kingdom or the United States, all double-0 agents are informed of the threat, Bond recognises a photograph of Derval and is assigned to get any information from his sister, Dominique Domino (Claudine Auger), in Nassau. Bond saves the life of Domino and they have lunch together, he later goes to a party where he meets Emilio Largo, SPECTRE agent Number 2 (Adolfo Celi), Domino is his mistress, and wins a gambling game against him, Bond and Largo recognise each other as adversaries, and play a cat-and- mouse game to gain advantage over each other. Bond meets with acquaintance, CIA agent Felix Leiter (Rik Van Nutter) and issued a collection of gadgets from Q (Desmond Llewelyn), including an underwater infrared camera, a distress beacon, underwater breathing apparatus, a flare gun and a Geiger counter. Bond attempts to get close to Largo's boat and investigate his estate, Bond's assistant Paula Caplan (Martine Beswick) commits suicide with cyanide before she can be questioned, Bond returns to his hotel and seduces undercover SPECTRE agent Fiona Volpe (Luciana Paluzzi), she attempts to kill him alongside henchmen, but she ends up shot dead by her own bodyguard. Bond and Leiter search for the Vulcan, finding it underwater, Bond tells Domino about Largo killing her brother, he needs her help, giving her his Geiger counter to use when she locates the bombs, but she is discovered and captured, but Bond uncovers the plan by Largo to destroy Miami Beach. Bond joins the United States Navy SEALS in an underwater battle against the man henchmen, who after a while surrender, Largo escapes with one of the bombs on his ship, the Disco Volante, Bond is aboard and fights with Largo, but he is killed with a harpoon by Domino, they jump before the ship crashes into the rocks, destroying the ship, Bond and Domino are rescued by a sky hook-equipped U.S. Navy aeroplane. Also starring Bernard Lee as M, Guy Doleman as Count Lippe, Anthony Dawson as the unseen Ernst Stavro Blofeld, Molly Peters as Patricia Fearing, Lois Maxwell as Miss Moneypenny, Roland Culver as Foreign Secretary and Philip Locke as Vargas. Connery still cuts it as the suave and cool super spy, he certainly gets more physical stuff to do, Celi is good as the eye- patch wearing villain, Auger is definitely the least memorable Bond girl of all, you could argue that a majority of the film is set underwater, but there are plenty of action packed scenes out the water as well, overall it is a worthwhile spy adventure. It won the Oscar for Best Special Visual Effects. James Bond was number 3 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, Sir Sean Connery was number 8 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 3 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, the film was number 18 on James Bond's Greatest Hits for the title song by Sir Tom Jones, and it was number 18 on The Ultimate Film. Good! "},{"Title":"007 does it again - flops, that is","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was perhaps the worst of all the Bond films I have seen, and I have seen some turkeys. In this one he goes after SPECTER again. When will he finally shut down this gang of toughs? This time they are going to blow up something important with an atomic bomb if somebody doesn't make a big pay-off. Yawn!! So off goes 007 to save the day. Yawn!! A huge underwater fight takes place, which I admit was exciting, but the rest of the film was a drag. The fight in the runaway boat was totally contrived looking, and none of the combatants bled a drop. A lousy book turned into a lousy film. Turn in your badge 007, your race has been run.  "},{"Title":"worst movie of 2006","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" i found this movie horrible and i know a thing or two about good movies such as... commando,cobra,rinestone,over the top,Kazaam,home alone 4(masterpiece) the last action hero out of all the greatest movies I've ever seen in my life(see above) i think this is the bottom on my list if even on my list do not watch this movie watch rinestone or stop or my mom will shoot,or even better get the new My Chemical Romance album or go jump of a 1000 story building it is way better then this trash!even better spend your money on like 38923982398 copy's of jingle all the way! i will never watch this movie ever again i would rather eat at Abey's "}]