[{"Title":"Visually stunning, provocative drama.","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"71 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Powerful drama centering around elderly NYC slum-area pawnbroker (Rod Steiger in Oscar nominated performance), tormented by his painful memories of Nazi concentration camp nightmare. Embittered, he brushes off all friendly people in his life, insisting that nothing matters and emotions are wasted. Apparently playing the system for years, allowing king-pin thugs to use his store as a money laundering front, while collecting his cut, the no-nonsense pawnbroker is suddenly plagued by flashbacks, showing how his young wife and son are killed, and at once wanting to stop the evil workings of his hoodloom infested slum neighborhood. When the young apprentice he hired lays his own life on the line to protect him from being shot during a robbery, the pawnbroker shows his first human emotions since the horrific day he lost his family.The flawless direction, masterful black & white cinematography, haunting Jazz score, along with innovative handling of the themes (racism, prostitution, social reforms, etc.), make this nothing less than a masterpiece. There is a sequence with prolonged nudity, considered daring during the Hayes Code years, even if it appears tame by today's standards. The scenes are not gratuitous, but essential to the plot. Still these scenes may make this film unsuitable for pre-teens. Like Shindler's List, this is a film many may find painful to watch. By 1965 standards, the mere attempt of giving insight into the evils of the Holocaust was a strong move. The resulting product withstood the test of time and will endure. Named as his personal favorite work, The Pawnbroker gives us Rod Steiger's finest performance! Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Never has internal pain been so vividly portrayed.","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"50 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is in my 50 best movies of all time list.Rod Steiger,a gifted actor, is at his very best here portraying Sol Nazerman, a pawnbroker who is completely shut down emotionally.Through flashbacks, some fast, mostly slow, we see both the joy and subsequent horror of Sol's life in Nazi Germany, when his wife and children are swept into the camps and killed. Sol's deepest pain is that he survived and he carries it visibly. Nothing touches him. He is removed from humanity, living a life outside anyone else's.This is never more exemplified than at his shop, where he is behind bars, often in shadow, while humanity moves outside, sometimes pleading with him, sometimes just wishing to make an emotional contact to no avail.Brilliant black and white photography. Quincy Jones' music underscores this, it is jazzy 60s type of music, loud and vibrant, totally contrasting with the dark, dead world of Sol.The supporting cast are terrific and the outdoor location shooting in New York is riveting. The movement of street life against the heaviness of Sol's plodding.I still find it hard to believe that Rod lost the Oscar to Lee Marvin in the forgettable Cat Ballou (!!) that year.This has to be seen by any serious lovers of movies. The last scene, done in one continuous take is heartbreaking, Sol finally getting in touch with the pain he has buried so deeply. Gut wrenching stuff. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Heavy Duty Lumet New York Drama.","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"43 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rod Steiger considered this his best performance and he might be right. He is, for him, subdued for most of the film, although towards the end he punctuates his performance with silent screams. He's pretty good as the survivor of Auschwitz, consumed by survivor guilt, and denying himself any pleasures except the money taken in his pawn shop.Various figures come and go in his life, although he shows no particular interest in any of them, and aversion towards many. The characters are rather sketchily done, as they might be in a play. There is the ambitious assistant, the whore, the gangster, the lonely man who wants to talk about Herbert Spencer, Reni Santoni as a quivering junkie, the pregnant young girl who wants to sell her engagement ring. (Not a wedding ring, mind you, this is an illegitimate pregnancy and in 1964 you were still in trouble if you had no husband and no opportunity for an abortion.) That diamond is glass, he tells the stricken girl brusquely. Steiger's Sol Nazerman is a pretty cold fish.His relationship with his Latino assistant is key to Steiger's evolution. Steiger teaches him that nothing matters but money, so Ortiz very sensibly decides to help the local gangsters hold up Nazerman's shop. But the assistant, instead, teaches Nazerman something. Killed in the robbery, he teaches Nazerman to feel pain, which Nazerman then reaffirms by impaling his palm on one of those spikey receipt holders, a kind of stigma to go along with his concentration camp tattoos.The movie was pretty much a shocker on its release. Partly because the audience got to see some naked breasts. Amusing now, isn't it? It was also knocked because of the way Latinos and blacks were treated. I don't know why. It would be surprising if the owner of a pawn shop on 116th street didn't have a lot of customers who were people of color -- good and bad.The jazz score is loud and at times almost overwhelming. The photography makes 1964 New York grimy, smoggy, and dangerous.If you haven't seen it, catch it if you have the chance. You're not likely to forget it in a hurry. "},{"Title":"Is Diane Arbus somewhere around here?","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"39 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Pawnbroker (1964) Directed by Sidney Lumet, scored by Quincy Jones, and starring Rod Steiger. This is one of the most powerful character studies in all of film history. It's up there with Lawrence of Arabia and Taxi Driver. Shot in some of the most beautiful, gritty, black and white photography, set in Harlem, often using the real environment and passersby, this work has the feel of anti-Hollywood, which is completely appropriate for the story of a Jew tortured by the memories of the Holocaust, and the environment of pawn brokering. There's not a single moment of comedy, and many moments that feel like Diane Arbus could be seen lingering nearby. Steiger's ability to express withheld expression &#150; anger and pain trying to burst from his impenetrable shell - is awe inspiring. When I first saw this film in the 60's, I knew I wanted to see everything this man did. "},{"Title":"Steiger gives greatest performance of all time","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"37 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rod Steiger gives the greatest lead-actor performance I have ever seen in the title role of the Pawnbroker. Lumet's direction strikes no false note and neither does the incredibly well-researched and painfully honest script. It's hard to believe how virtually forgotten this true masterpiece of a survivor's private hell. It shows very vividly that even those of us lucky enough to survive the camps need to be ever more rare of spirit to survive without significant trauma scars. Steiger extracts every piece of emotion from his character with a performance that exceeds all that came before it and has never been surpassed. Every aspiring actor needs to view Steiger's performance to realize how magnificent it truly is. "},{"Title":"Dead Man Walking","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" **SPOILERS** Owning a pawnshop in Manhattan's Spanish Harlem Sol Nazerman, Rod Stiger,tries to cut himself off from any human feelings that he still has left by buying and selling the hopes and dreams, for a few dollars on the buy side and five to ten times as much on the sell side, of the people of the neighborhood that he does business with.Sol's hopes and dreams were destroyed some twenty five years ago in German occupied Poland. It's there where he lost his entire family in the Nazi concentration camps. As the 25th anniversary of that nightmare approaches Sol starts to get flooded with shocking flashbacks of what happened to him his wife and two children back then and goes as far as trying to stop the clock,or calender, to keep that dreadful anniversary from coming. Sol's past WWII nightmare in Poland becomes a real and new nightmare now in the New York City of 1964 that meshes together and in the end shocks him back to the reality of being a person with feelings for others as well as himself. Sol's helper at the pawnshop Jesus Ortiz, Jamie Sanchez, sees a man give Sol an envelop with some $5,000.00 in cash that Sol puts away in his safe. Ortiz thinking that thats the kind of money to be made running a pawnshop wants Sol to tell him all he knows about the business so that he could go into the pawn business himself. What Ortiz didn't realize was that the man who gave Sol the money was Saverese, Warren Finnerty, a bag man for the top crime boss in Harlem Rodriguez ,Brock Peters, who's using Sol's pawnshop to launder his dirty and ill gotten gains. This set the stage for Ortiz to get involved in a robbery of Sol's store with three of his friends in the neighborhood Tangee Buck & Robinson, Raymond St.Jacques John McCurry & Charles Dierkop. In the end the robbery would result in Ortiz's death and Sol's regaining his humanity by getting his feelings for his fellow man, and woman, as well as himself back but at a shocking and heart crunching cost.Undoubtedly Rod Stigers best movie performance as concentration camp survivor Sol Nazerman who after trying to suppress his feelings for years has them burst open like a long inactive volcano at the end of the movie. The movie The Pawnbroker covers the days that lead up to Sol's finding out that keeping deep inside all the hurt and suffering from the past will only make him and those around him only more depressed and not allow those wounds of past years to heal. Sol's sees later in the movie how his actions hurt people that tried to be friendly and help him like his new neighbor Marilyn Brichfield, Geraldine Fitzgerald, who tried to strike up a friendship with him. Marilyn was a lonely middle-aged women who lost her husband at an early age. Sol's most hurtful act was that what he did to his second wife Tessie ,Marketa Kimberell, who's also a concentration camp survivor. After Tessie called him at the pawnshop with the news that her father Mendel, Baruch Lumet, just passed away Sol coldly told her to bury him and hung up. Sol's relations with Rodiguez was also a bit odd. How could he have not known that Rodriguez owned the whorehouse down the block from his pawnshop when he confronted him at his penthouse about the dirty dealings that he was doing in the neighborhood? Since we know that Sol himself was involved with them by laundering Rodiguez's dirty money and taking a cut for himself all these years? The Pawnbroker is a dark haunting and surrealistic film that hits all the right buttons in it's story about the human condition thats so skillfully played by it's leading actor Rod Stiger. A story of the loneliness and emptiness of the human heart which can only go on for so long until, like in the movie, it either breaks down or bursts open and explodes from the pressure thats been built up in it over the years. "},{"Title":"A very impressive and dramatic movie","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A very impressive and dramatic movie. I remember when I saw the first time this movie as a young teenager, I was deeply impressed by it, and after many years it still one of the movie that are important to me. The thing that hit me in the movie is the wire between the violence in the streets of the city and the violence in the Nazist concentration camp. It's the story without any hope of a survivor, a dead man walking, living an impossible life in the violent modern society. It has been the first movie that I saw about other movies about the Holocaust and still Ithink it's one of the more impressive about this argument. I saw many movies about the Holocaust, ma no one treats as this, the difficult life of survivors who lost their family. "},{"Title":"Disturbing but a great Steiger performance...","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Pawnbroker is a very disturbing film. The title character, Sol Nazerman,played by Rod Steiger, is an aging Holocaust concentration camp survivorrunning a pawnshop in New York. A young hispanic man who works in thepawnshop looks up to Steiger's character, hoping to learn from the older man's years of experience and expertise in both financial and other business matters.Steiger's character is emotionally closed throughout the entire length of the film. Jarrring flashbacks to the time when Nazerman was happy with his wife and two small children become increasingly menacing and tragic as the Nazidomination and cruelty become more dominant. Steiger's character survives his family. The guilt attached to that survival haunts Nazerman as he numblyproceeds throughout the present-day portions of the film.This movie takes a huge risk even in it's premise because the title character is never really likable. You certainly have empathy for what Nazerman hasexperienced in his life, but the harsh and dismissive way in which he treats both people close to him and the tragic figures who frequent his pawnshop leave you little choice but to have mixed feelings about this man.Rod Steiger is excellent. It's incredible to think that less than three years later after playing this character, an elderly Jewish concentration camp survivor,Steiger won an Oscar for his portraying southern bigoted police chief BillGillespie in Norman Jewison's In the Heat of the Night.Sidney Lumet's direction is excellent. The photography is a starkly shot black and white with a grainy almost documentary-type feel to it. The score by Quincy Jones is somewhat uneven, with inappropriate upbeat instrumentation intruding in to somber scenes.All in all, a very good film, but definitely excruciatingly somber in tone.  "},{"Title":"Transcends the usual victim's story","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie gets under your skin. The story, the acting, the black and white fotography and Quincy Jones' soundtrack make this a very memorable experience.Occasionally we are made to believe that victims of atrocious crimes are good people. While it is true that they have suffered greatly and those who never did owe them sympathy, it is just not logical to conclude that victims have acquired goodness solely by being victims surviving their ordeal. The Pawnbroker deals with the fate of such a survivor. It does it in a way that is unique The victim becomes a real, three dimensional person - a great performance by Rod Steiger - and the victim has a normal everyday life after that grinds on and on.You feel sorry for pawnbroker Sol Nazerman, because you know that he has been through hell, that his family was annihilated, that he was humiliated beyond endurance in the most sadistic way. At the same time you have to admit that Sol Nazerman is not a very pleasant character. Is it the result of his terrible experiences that he is that way? The movie says as much, but does it really matter? Nazerman functions as an independent, tax paying citizen, and he is trapped within himself. He is slowly despairing behind the bars of his pawnshop counter. He is full of bitterness and self hate and meets material and emotional requests from others with sharp sarcasm.What makes the story and the film really great is the way it shows Nazerman's inability to communicate within his surroundings. In the depiction of Nazerman as a misfit the movie goes beyond the specific historical and geographical circumstances &#150; and in giving the social misfit a face and a voice lies the brilliance of all of Rod Steiger&#145;s best performances.POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEADThe pawnbroker has a helper who is the person closest to him. Jesus, a cheerful, somewhat naive youth from the neighbourhood, is very eager to learn business from Nazerman. He is full of hope and convinced that by finding out his boss's secrets he could get on the way to prosperity. Nazerman at times shows a glimpse of love or even fatherly feelings for Jesus. For me the climax of the film is when Jesus asks his boss casually about his people. Nazerman starts telling Jesus in a brilliantly phrased, sermon-like summary of the four thousand years of Jewish suffering. The miserable pawnbroker gets heated up, his voice and his anger rise. Jesus writhes uncomfortably. When it's over Jesus gulps and says You are some guy &#150; and the episode is over. It shows with much clarity - and this really impressed me very much - that Nazerman was not aware that he expressed himself in a way that a kid with the background of Jesus could not possibly understand what he meant to tell him. This unawareness of the pawnbroker will at the end of the movie cost Jesus&#145; life. Nazerman then comes to his senses and squarely blames himself for the tragedy. The end of the movie is really too cruel to bear.  "},{"Title":"An absolutely stunning film...","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although the supporting cast is uniformly excellent (Brock Peters especially so), they are really only believable props to what is, essentially, a one-man performance by Rod Steiger.And what a performance it is!  Steiger grabs your emotions, and maintains a hold long after the final credits roll.  He sucks all the oxygen out of the room, and you're not able to draw a deep breath until it's over.For some reason, this movie seems to have faded from public awareness, and isn't all that easy to find.  I first saw it in 1965, and then again about 30 years later; it packed the same emotional wallop the second time around.Both Steiger and director Sidney Lumet have done plenty of excellent work since The Pawnbroker, but this remains the highwater mark for both.It is, unquestionably, one of the most powerful films ever made, and that's a might tough act to follow. "}{"Title":"psychological classic","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A classic. One of the few if not only who portrays not the atrocity at the surface, but the trauma afterward. No evil SSers in their black uniforms of death. It might have been more entertaining and simple to understand. Instead the movie captures the evil in the victim. There are the walking dead. Those who survived. For them living was nothing but survival. The setting is NYC of the 60s. This movie will outlive most movies. It is a true classic in the psychological genre. The only minor flaw is the clownesque character of Jesus. Rod Steiger puts down an excelling performance as the character of the pawnbroker. A very esthetic filming in black and white. "},{"Title":"Classic, one of my all-time favorites","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's strange to say that this very grim movie is one of my all-time favorites. The Pawnbroker might make you suicidal in it's deep cynicism of the human condition, but I think there is a positive side to the film. The main character, a deeply-wounded Holocaust survivor, initial has no feelings for anyone or anything--he's just going through the motions of life. But by the end of the film he learns that people are not all bad--and maybe that's the most shocking revelation of them all!Certainly Rod Steiger's greatest role. Do see it. "},{"Title":"A Very Powerful Film","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a story of Sol Nazerman who is a survivor from the Jewish concentration camps and now runs a Pawn Shop in the ghetto of New York.The various people who come in to pawn whatever they can for what seems to be pocket change.  Sol has lost all emotion as seen through flash backs toward people and family, it seems as though Sol is just going through the motion of living.  This is the most powerful performance by Rod Steiger as I have ever seen.When Sol's helper arranges for the Pawn Shop to be robbed and and Sol doesn't cooperate and the robbers try to shoot Sol, Sanchez his helper steps in the way and was shot instead. When this happens all the pain and emotion come back to Sol in a heart wrenching ending.This is a must see movie "},{"Title":"An Exercise in Hidden Pain","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rod Steiger has seldom been better than as Sol the Holocaust survivor running a pawnshop in Harlem.Much of the movie is how he tries to keep his emotions hidden despite almost constant memories and flashbacks of the Holocaust. The editing of these flashback scenes is really powerful and lingers in the memory long after the movie has finished. Rod Steiger in this movie comes over as a simmering pot of pain who colud boil over at any minute. You would love to take his pain away yet you wait for him to explode in some kind of rage. The black & white photography gives a grainy realism to the film  while Quincy Jones'music is bombastic big band jazz that sounds typical of 1960's films but sounds weird in the setting of this tale. Star rating-   9/10 One point--- Sol says all he wants is peace and quiet. Now he was never going to get that running a moneylending business in the middle of Harlem!  "},{"Title":"A fan of film noir motion picture that realistically chronicle social relationship between different kinds of people.","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A superb film, vividly the harsh realities of New York Ghetto life in the 1960s. Lumet's mixture of different ethnic and racial groups and and kinds of friction that develops when these groups confront one another is quite realistic. The script, of course, is superior, and inasmuch as it is more commentary on social situations --- I would not expect quick, brusque activity. The music score by Quincy Jones is a perfect match of the New York ambiance. Moreover, that the film is in B/W only complements the gritty, intense relationships between the characters. Steiger, as always, is superb in the role, and St. Jacques makes a very convincing West Indian thug. This is a film to be studied by serious filmmakers. "},{"Title":"As emotionally powerful as REQUIEM FOR A DREAM","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is over 20 years old but is as emotionally powerful as Daron Aronofsky's REQUIEM FOR DREAM. Stylistically they do have some elements in common. I would not be surprised if this film influenced Aronofsky. THE PAWNBROKER was a little ahead of it's time for it's representation of the effects of repression and suppression of traumatic events on the human mind. The holocaust flashbacks are certainly not the most graphic ever conceived but still extremely disturbing. They are brief and not at all gory but they all strike the right chord. Lumet's visual language is incredible. The main character's detachment from horror is skillfully projected onto the city and the shop. It's terrible that Rod Steiger lost the Oscar to Lee Marvin for CAT BALLOU. This really is one of the greatest performances of all time. "},{"Title":"The Pawnbroker","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This awesome film is driven by a powerhouse performance by  Steiger as a victim of his past reminiscences with the Holocaust. How Lee Marvin won that 1965 Oscar from Steiger is an ongoing mystery to me! Lumet's direction of the camera is brilliant. Everything fits together perfectly. The lighting, color and music are all blended to create an eerie world for us.  "},{"Title":"Bitterness, Loneliness and Disbelief in Mankind","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In a poor neighborhood of New York, the bitter and lonely Jewish pawnbroker Sol Nazerman (Rod Steiger) is a survivor from Auschwitz that has no emotions or feelings. Sol lost his dearest family and friends in the war and the faith on God and the belief in mankind. Now he only cares for money and is haunted by daydreams, actually flashbacks from the period of the concentration camp. Sol's assistant is the ambitious Latin Jesus Ortiz (Jaime Sanchez), a former urchin that has regenerated and now wants to learn with Sol how to run a business of his own. When Sol realizes that the obscure laundry business he has with the powerful gangster Rodriguez (Brock Peters) comes also from brothels, Sol recalls the fate of his beloved wife in the concentration camp and has a nervous breakdown. His attitude leads Jesus Ortiz to a tragedy and Sol finds a way to cry. The Pawnbroker is a powerful and realistic story of bitterness, loneliness and disbelief in mankind of a man victim of the Holocaust. Rod Steiger has certainly the best performance of his career in the complex role of a skeptical and bitter Jewish. His assistant is an ambiguous character that contrasts with the pawnbroker with his optimistic and happy behavior. In the end, the pawnbroker feels the need to cry and impales his hand with a spike, also in a reference of Jesus Christ. My vote is eight. Title (Brazil) O Homem do Prego (The Man of the Spike &#x96; literally; however, it is a pun that also means The Pawnbroker) "},{"Title":"Undressed Memory","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I recently saw again a couple Lumet projects that I admired, so turned to this.I think there is something to be said for artists who invent and then convince everyone afterward that what they have just experienced is the way the world is put together.Some filmmakers do this consistently. Or they do it once, and then just live in the world they've created. Others are amazingly clever at some point, and equally banal at others. Polanski comes to mind.When this was new, it was groundbreaking, truly an achievement. It worked.Lumet's approach is actor-centric, not something I particularly value. But it is perfect for an exploration of a man world growing from an individual. Lumet also likes to use space, but he doesn't know the containment properties of space, only the dividers, so we have the shop will all sorts of walls and fences. The lover's apartment as well.What was new was this was the first movie &#151; mainstream US movie &#151; to use nudity. Its underwhelming today thank heaven, but rather shocking in its day, especially because the woman is black, and a seller of sex.In the project, it triggers the most extended flashback sequence, one that involved our hero's deepest disaster. Overlapping flashbacks had been used, most famously in Manchurian Candidate, which resembles this in some ways. But it hadn't been so fragmented, so apparently integrated into the fabric of the man. We see a desperate whore; he sees his humiliated wife. We see street thugs beating up a drunk; he sees the holocaust.This cinematic device is now so common as to not be remarkable. Sex (in the form of exposed breasts) and Nazis both had more cinematic power then than now.Is it greater art if we digest it, even if the work itself becomes ordinary in the process? Seeing this will do to you what happens with the character we see. It will undress your memory, your cinematic memory. If you saw this when you were both young, it will give you a flashback, you living both now and then.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Reconnecting With The World","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Pawnbroker is maybe the best of Sidney Lumet's New York based films. It tells the story of Sol Nazerman, former professor from Germany, Holocaust survivor, now making a living as a pawnbroker in Harlem. Rod Steiger got an Oscar nomination for Best Actor. If he had lost to Sir Laurence Olivier for Othello I might understand, but losing to Lee Marvin for Cat Ballou? All three are performances on different planes of acting.This is one of those films like Cyrano De Bergerac which rise and fall on the ability of the person performing the title character. With a minimum of dialog and a performance mostly of anguished expressions, Rod Steiger conveys the story of a man who's really seen the worst of what life has to offer and expects very little from humanity. And in Harlem no one rises among the dregs of society that usually come peddling the last of their dreams to him.This film was done in 1964 and that was also the year of the Harlem riots, sparked by an NYPD officer killing a black teenager. My guess is that Sol Nazerman's pawn shop, white owned that it was never saw a scrap of damage. That's because one of the reasons he stays in business is because of a little money laundering on the side for Harlem racketeer Brock Peters. Unfortunately Steiger's assistant Jaime Sanchez sees a huge amount of cash being deposited in the safe after office hours. He's an ambitious young man and not really deciding which side of the fence to fall on. It's more his indecision that leads to tragedy later on.The highlight of the film for me is Steiger's equivalent of a 'hath a Jew not eyes' speech when he explains to Sanchez just why the Jewish people have the 'mercantile heritage' as he puts it. Too often it's forgotten that in all the places for thousands of years where Jews couldn't own land, this was what was left to them. On a side note that's one of the reasons for the State of Israel developing its own collective agricultural institution, the Kibbutz. It was to get Jews deliberate in touch with the land, to grow things on it and develop an attachment to it.Some of the other cast members of note are Geraldine Fitzgerald as a neighborhood settlement house social worker who tries to penetrate Steiger's catatonic personality and a really wonderful bit by Reni Santoni as a junkie trying to pawn a radio and jonesing to beat the band.Still the film is Rod Steiger's show, one of the few times he carried a film by himself and he does it magnificently. "}{"Title":"Edgy but imperfect","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rod Steiger doesn't so much give a perfect actor's performance in The Pawnbroker as he does give an actor's seminar on film. He spits his lines and twists his face and is mired in bitter, embattled rage. We get few other dimensions (and even at the film's close, I felt little about the character's progression because Steiger is still stuck in class). As a Concentration Camp survivor immigrated to NYC, Steiger cannot do anything simple his pain is grandiose, unsubtle. Everything is there for us to read, but shouldn't a movie like this allow us to do some of the work? The look of the picture is edgy (pushing the 1964 envelope with a gritty scenario), but the rest is flattened out, made too easy. The flashbacks are well-done (especially a haunting shot involving rings on the prisoners' fingers), but the music is too jazzy (particularly at the end), the dialogue too direct and forceful, and eventually the film is off-putting. ** from **** "},{"Title":"A death camp survivor in New York","Date":"15 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A powerful but grim movie about a Harlem pawnbroker terrorized by memories of the Nazi death camps, this is an excellent drama enhanced by a brilliant cast, on-location shooting in New York and at the end, a surprisingly strong note of compassion. As the movie opens, we see Rod Steiger unwinding on a lawn chair in post-war Long Island, with its tidy homes and lawns. His sister in law tries to talk him into a trip to Europe but the morose Steiger has no use for a trip that would only remind him of the stench of death. He has flashbacks to the horrors he endured. These scenes continue to mar his life as we see men and women being brutalized and witness their barbed wired surroundings as prisoners of Nazi Germany. Steiger, as the death camp survivor, delivers a superb performance as the man haunted by the memories of his wife and children whose lives were cut short while he was spared, only to live with the bitterness that made his own life so sad. The customers at his pawn shop in Harlem get the cold, calculating treatment from this broken man as they try to cope with their own meagre means of subsistence. Geraldine Fitzgerald plays the role of a social worker who tries to befriend him and meets with the same cold shoulder. I have seen this actress in other movies but was never so impressed with her, as in this movie. Towards the end, Steiger turns to her for company and understanding, as he deals with the thugs he allows to use his shop for their own nefarious deeds in exchange for money. A young Puerto Rican assistant tries to learn the trade from his boss. Steiger takes the time to coach him and seems to get some satisfaction from this relationship. Only much later does he realize how much the assistant cared for him. The customers are mild, gentle people trying to eke out whatever they can get from this hard, bitter man. The film-making conveys great realism. We see Steiger walk through Times Square with the marquee for Leslie Caron in the L-Shaped Room, one of the movies of the time. We hear the rumble of the elevated train as it makes its way through the neighborhood. The character actors in supporting roles are excellent and add to the overall impact of this drama.This movie is not about the Holocaust as such, but the viewer can see the impact of the horrors on one man and how it affected his life and those around him. The emotional trauma did not allow him to respond to the acts of kindness that he received. Finally, he had to deal with one heroic deed that was completely unexpected. How he carried on, we cannot know but we can see that his world did not completely reject him, although he tried to reject it. We can understand that he is a victim of a great atrocity.This movie was directed by the recently-deceased Sidney Lumet, who even Martin Scorsese said was the quintessential New York director. This movie takes a universal theme and gives it a great backdrop. This is one of the finest, realist films I have ever seen. A highly personal encounter with a great tragedy. "},{"Title":"No man is an island, entire of itself.","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the story of Sol Nazerman. He survived the Holocaust but lost his wife and two children, and his will to live. The movie is unrelenting in its study of the effects that this man's past has on him some twenty years after the war. A viewer should be prepared for an intense experience--as appropriate, the movie is filmed in stark black and white and there is no comic relief.Surprisingly this is one of the first mainstream U.S. movies to deal with issues surrounding the Holocaust, I guess such horrific events take a long time to digest and the immediate response is most naturally to try to forget. I remember Judgement at Nuremberg (1961) as being the fist time I saw graphic images from the Holoaust, like piles of naked bodies being bulldozed into a pit. But this film does not dwell on the Holocaust per se, but rather focuses on the aftereffects on one man.In the opening scene we see the young Sol and his family happily enjoying a picnic in the countryside just before the Nazis show up. The film is inter-cut with brief flashbacks of images from Sol's memory sparked by current happenings, like Jews being stripped of their rings after Sol has dealt with a customer in his pawnshop who wants to pawn a ring, or memories of Jews transported like cattle in trains when he is on the subway. And Sol has not wound up in the most uplifting of work environments, managing a run-down pawn shop in Harlem where every customer comes in with a tale of woe. Sol has suffered so much pain that his response is to shut his emotions down and to try to cut himself off from people. As he says, I have escaped from the emotions. I am safe within myself. It was a good touch for him to be most frequently filmed behind the wire cages of his shop, symbolizing how walled off he had become. People do try to make contact with him, but he rudely rejects them. He has become such a bitter cynic that it was somewhat puzzling to me why anyone would want to be around him at all. As the movie progresses we start to see small cracks in Sol's self-imposed isolation. He shows up at the apartment of a woman social worker who has tried to befriend him and is anguished when he realizes that his shop is but a front for a gay crime boss (Brock Peters in a fine performance) who is running all manner of nefarious businesses. But it is the dramatic scene at the end when Sol understands that he cannot really cut himself off from society. An unintended consequence of his behavior results in a tragedy and he quite literally winds up with blood on his hands. To come away from this movie without being totally depressed you have to hope that Sol, while being permanently scarred by his past, is on his way to reengaging with the world. This is one of Steiger's best performances and, if there was any previous doubt, it proves that he was one of our best actors. He was in his late 30s when this was filmed and was able, through appearance and body movement, to create a totally believable persona of a broken down middle-aged man. The supporting cast is good as well, but it is Stieger who carries the film. I am in the camp that thinks the assertive jazz score was inappropriate and was overly intrusive (maybe director Lumet had been unduly impressed with Breathless). The screenplay is hardly much more than a script for a stage play and it could have been performed effectively with no music whatsoever.One message to take away is to try to be understanding the next time you meet a sour old man and realize that there might be some good reasons why he is what he is. Maybe, as Sol says, he has seen that there is a world different than yours, much different than the people in it are of a another species. "},{"Title":"I have escaped from the emotions. I am safe within myself.","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1964 was an incredible year for Sidney Lumet. Not only did he release 'Fail-Safe (1964),' one of the most gripping and haunting thrillers of the Cold War era, but he also directed Rod Steiger in 'The Pawnbroker (1964),' a gritty and powerful drama centred around an emotionless Holocaust survivor. Especially after watching the highly-theatrical '12 Angry Men (1957),' this film proves especially surprising, as, aesthetically, it represents a completely new era of Hollywood film-making. Predating the gritty, inner-city realism of 'Midnight Cowboy (1969)' and 'The French Connection (1971)' by half a decade, 'The Pawnbroker' sits at the crest of an American New Wave. Boris Kaufman's kinetic black-and-white cinematography is fresh and invigorating, presenting the squalid streets of Harlem in all their bleak and sinister glory.The Holocaust was still tentative subject matter during the early 1960s, and very few films had dealt directly with the persecution and extermination of the Jews at the hands of Nazi Germany. Likewise, while many pictures had followed the attempts of returned war veterans to assimilate back into normal society, rarely had anybody attempted to explore Holocaust survivors in a similar manner. Sol Nazerman (Rod Steiger) arrived in the United States a broken man, having lost his family in the concentration camps. The heartbreaking experience has left Sol with a cold resentment towards both himself and society, and, with a stubborn conviction that will ultimately hurt those close to him, he has unreservedly distanced himself from all emotion.Rather than offering Sol relief, the decadence and corruption of modern New York only fuels his pessimism towards life. Having bitterly accepted the centuries-old stereotype that he is a usurer, a man with secret resources, a witch, a pawnbroker, a sheenie, a mockery and a kike, Sol manages a small pawnshop, systematically robbing decrepit and grotesque individuals of their hope and livelihood with all the compassion of the Nazis who murdered his family. The shop itself is merely a front for the illegal underground dealings of Rodriguez (Brock Peters, displaying an exceedingly commanding presence); it's probably with a deliberate irony that it is an African American, delegated in the past to the bottom rung of society's ladder, who holds considerable authority over Steiger's tired, beaten Jew.Jaime Sánchez gives another of the film's excellent performances, playing Jesus Ortiz, a Latino youth who has decided to shun crime in favour of eventually owning an honest business. However, Sol callously rejects Jesus' attempts at redemption, crushing his energetic spirit and inevitably turning him back to a life of crime. Geraldine Fitzgerald is also very good as Marilyn Birchfield, a lonely widow who tries, without success, to form a friendship with Sol, not knowing that he has consciously barred himself from all meaningful human relationships. In his distressing attempts to end the pain of suffering, Sol has become a prisoner within himself; at the film's end, he pierces himself in the hand, a final masochistic act of desperation, just so he call feel&#133; something, anything.'The Pawnbroker' has a wonderful music soundtrack, which was performed by Quincy Jones. The upbeat and energetic jazz tunes are almost mocking in way in which they clash with the subject material, so completely unsuited to such a sombre story, and yet somehow more honest than a more traditional music composition could ever have been. It is almost as though the hustle-and-bustle of Manhattan, completely ignorant and indifferent to the troubles of one old man on a single street corner, has effectively swallowed up Sol and his painful memories. It's a telling metaphor for a society that too-often neglects the darkest chapter in recent human history. "},{"Title":"This move has been under rated for years.","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie should be included in those lists of the 100 best movies ever made. It belongs right along with Schindler's List in its portrayal of the Holocaust. Rod Steiger makes you feel the pain of his loss and the guilt of being a survivor.The time is the 60's and not only is the movie a stark portrayal of the Holocaust, it also is a stark portrayal of the ghettos of the US 1960s. Rod Steiger is not a likable character until you learn of his history. He has felt so much pain in his life that he has lost his ability to feel, and you see him badly treating his fellow human beings. Rod Steiger has so immersed himself in the character, that he loses his own identity in this film. "},{"Title":"Some Very Good Acting Makes The Film Compelling","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The career of Rod Steiger can be used as a warning that quantity is inferior to quality . He might have appeared in ON THE WATERFRONT , DR ZHIVAGO , and THE SERGEANT but he also appeared in some awful crap like THE AMITYVILLE HORROR , THE KINDRED , MODERN VAMPIRES and THE LAST PRODUCER . In fact the only other actor I can think of who has a similar shocking inconsistency of roles is Robert DeNiro , and neither actor can use money as an excuse for appearing in so many turkeys since their worst roles happened at the end of their careers I would rate THE PAWNBROKER as Steiger's best all time performance . He might have won the Oscar for best actor for IN THE HEAT OF THE NIGHT but we see the zenith of his career in this film . Steiger is Sol Nazerman , holocaust survivor now running a pawnbroker shop in New York City amongst a lot of seedy untrustworthy characters . Jews are history's great survivors but because of the rest of humanity's inhumanity towards the Jew it seems to have left scars on their psyche - Very suspicious by nature and with a not very friendly mannerism Steiger captures this survivors persona perfectly . There's little to add to this . Method acting at its most perfect If there's a problem with the film it's that it doesn't seem very cinematic . It could be the original novel by Edward Lewis Wallant , or it could be the way the novel is adapted to screen , or it could be to do with director Sidney Lumet . Looking at Lumet's resume I'm struck at how much of the director's work is based on stage plays  12 ANGRY MEN , THE HILL , THE OFFENCE , this movie isn't but it certainly feels like it was culled from the theatre with its limited set of ( Interior ) locations and the use of close up shots of characters faces . It's not much of a problem since it emphasises the performances and I can't repeat enough how good Rod Steiger is , but the directing isn't as superb as Lumet's earlier 12 ANGRY MEN "},{"Title":"Share the dignity","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The 1960s were many things &#x96; liberated, innovative, revolutionary, hip, bold, racy&#x85; but they were seldom sensitive, much less mature. And yet, being a time of greater honesty of expression, they were also a period in which humanity could perhaps begin to deal frankly with the most harrowing events of the century. But was the new generation of filmmakers up to the job? In some ways, yes they were. I am using the term filmmakers in its broadest sense, meaning everyone who contributes to the making of a motion picture. Lead actor Rod Steiger delivers a performance of incredible weight. It could be thought of as easy, portraying Sol Nazerman's emotional flatness, but in fact what Steiger is doing is portraying suppressed emotions, and he does so with exceptional control. Even when his character is at his most blank, Steiger is still presenting him as feeling on some level. This is testament to the commitment and realism of the Strasberg generation. But much as I admire Steiger, I would have preferred to see a man who actually petitioned hard for the role but never got it &#x96; Groucho Marx. At 74 Marx may have been a little old (although Steiger is theoretically too young), but I think he would have brought a certain level of feeling to the part, drawing from his life experience and the fact that comedians often have a contradictory knack for poignant dignity. This is something that a thorough professional like Steiger could not have achieved.The source novel by Edward Lewis Wallant appears to be an occasionally intelligent, respectful and even moving exploration of the effects of colossal emotional trauma. However it distractingly deals too much with the politics of the New York underbelly, and if there is some attempt to parallel the horrors of the holocaust with the deprivation of Harlem, this is an insulting piece of reductionism. From here on it is one poor judgment after another. The direction of Sidney Lumet, typically inventive but still a little unsteady at this point, veers off the rails completely here, with some unpleasantly bizarre and showy techniques. For example, when Brock Peters shows off his stolen-goods lawnmower, we can tell he is an intimidating character and that this is a confrontational moment &#x96; so why labour the point by putting the camera on the floor? Artsy self-indulgence is bad enough at the best of times, but it is monumentally inappropriate for a picture like this.And this is not all. The rambling Quincy Jones score relates not at all to the tone of the material (you couldn't even really say it is the sound of Harlem), and is surely only there because all independent avant-garde productions of the sixties had to have a free jazz score. And then there are the supporting roles &#x96; Jaime Sanchez's hammy Hispanic act would be fine in, say, West Side Story, but it's not for a serious picture. It's all such a shame because bits of The Pawnbroker are quite startlingly deep. There are certain things however that if done at all need to be done just right. I do not doubt that The Pawnbroker was all conceived with best of intentions, but those 60s hipsters were simply not equipped for the task. "},{"Title":"A bleak abrasive portrait of New York City.","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You can watch Sidney Lumet's half-dozen most acclaimed movies and still have a huge handful of hidden gems to discover. I've taken it upon myself to investigate his filmography to see if there's any great films in their midst, and if The Pawnbroker remains my favourite of them all I'll stay satisfied. Lumet has evidently had a close relationship with New York and this is his bleakest portrait of it so far seen through the eyes of his most tragic character. A Jewish pawnbroker, Sol, suffering from PTSD who's constantly under the weight of money issues from every angle. A true anti-hero here, he doesn't even offer a hand to a young pregnant woman in need. His view is nihilistic, but due to his spiritual death at concentration camps where his soul was sucked dry. Now he's resigned to the prison of his pawn shop.Despite his death of spirit and desire for peace and quiet, all walks of life enter his shop, sometimes contrasted together, and they're often vibrantly desperate. Everyone is under the boot of someone here, Sol and his customers and Sol and the people he owes money to. The film keeps hold of its novelistic approach from the source material, perhaps to its detriment as it feels bloated with extraneous characters that could have been shredded. Its best for its stark 'New Wave'-esque photography with dramatic zooms and push ins and harsh black and white lighting. Some of its images feel like they burst off the screen. It utilises very abrasive editing that borrows concepts from Resnais' Hiroshima Mon Amour where memories appear on screen in short bursts. It's not as well handled, often feeling clumsy in its pacing, but the effect is often powerful.Paired with the bombastic score, it's often an overwhelming blend of visuals and sound that the characters feel disorientated by too. Rod Steiger holds the film on his shoulders like a bull. Often sensitive, often reserved, but when he rants in a monologue, his words hit hard. He's especially astounding in the film's closing moments. Not all the performances meet his match, some are too high strung. It is a blessing and a curse that Lumet films run a little long as the film takes too long to set itself up. It would be a favourite worthy film if I connected to haunted past narratives a little more. I feel like what it's trying to say is fascinating, and although it has the drive it needed a tiny bit more focus and balance. Perhaps The Pawnbroker is a relic of its time in post-war mourning, but it's still an admirable and arresting film. Only a handful of minor shortcomings hold it back from the level of his more obvious greats. I eagerly await more Lumet.8/10 "},{"Title":"A gripping character study","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ''The Pawnbroker'' is a gripping and somewhat controversial for its time film about a Jewish genocide survivor struggling to adapt in society while facing his personal traumas. Directed by Sidney Lumet, the film is an outstanding character study with a magnificent performance from its lead.Lumet's direction has been often criticized for incorporating a rapid flashback editing influenced from the French New Wave. This is true, as the film's editing proves to be very annoying with its sudden and unexpected cuts which somehow block the characters from developing their performances further as well distracting the audience from the film's force. Most scenes are cut short, or at least shorter than they should have been which limits the audience from immersing themselves into the characters' situations. It could be said that the experimental editing doesn't work out and chokes the film rather than letting the story progress. Despite the messy editing, Lumet directs the film meticulously and manages to bring to life a truly heartbreaking story with great realism and suspense.Morton S. Fine and David Friedkin, who worked on the adaptation, do a very good job on capturing the original novel's essence, paying close attention to each character's development, meaning that all characters are very well written instead of being just ''creatures'' as Nazerman (Steiger) sees them.Concerning the technical aspects, the film works very well with its minimalistic sets and decoration, giving the audience a firm representation of reality. As mentioned above, the editing is messy but the film's black and white cinematography (praise goes to Boris Kaufman) contributes essentially to the film by revealing the main protagonist's inner psychology (Nazerman is still imprisoned by his traumas which is implied by the shadows of the bars which fall on his face at the pawn shop). Quincy Jones' score, in short, is distracting and unfitting. He uses a jazzy score which seems out of place and kills the film's suspense. While the film itself succeeds in seizing the audience's attention, Jones' score does the exact opposite. It's not a bad musical score but certainly a strange and unfitting one for the film which turns out as a very bad selection.Leaving the best for last, Steiger delivers one of the finest performances in cinematic history. Watching the film ,it's truly hard to believe that Steiger is actually acting since he is overwhelmingly believable and honest in everything he does from his facial expressions to the way we walks, Steiger is spellbinding, making us feel the pain he has been bearing. From the first moment he appears on screen, he truly makes us believe that this character has been through a lot of difficulties and by the end of the film we've seen how much Steiger has transformed into this man who has lost everything and how far he has gone as an actor. It's one of those performances which make you shiver when you see him suffer because it's performed in such a realistic and sincere way. Simply a towering performance by Steiger in a career-turning role.''The Pawnbroker'' is considered to be a rather significant film in American history, being the first to deal with the Jewish genocide from the viewpoint of a survivor. It serves as a deep examination of a character's psychology and tackles a very devastating and sensitive subject. But above all, it is Steiger's supreme performance which makes this film unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Life in the bleak urban battleground","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Might be Rod Steiger's most morose and bleakest role. As an Auschwitz survivor whose family were raped and tortured there, he feels a veritable menagerie of despair because of the guilt he feels for his inability to extricate them from the camp and for the guilt he feels because he somehow managed to make it out. His job as the titled pawnbroker does nothing but fuel more fire to his dire situation in life as he is cast among the severest cases of poverty in his store's Harlem neighborhood. Added to that, he has to front his store for a despicable vice lord (Brock Peters) so that he can at least make a modicum of income.Sounds and is grim but is, to me, the quintessential ground breaker of the ultra-realistic urban life dramas that were to unfold in the latter 60's and early 70's. Rod plays his part to perfection as a lifeless, embittered old man who has seen too much in one lifetime. The aforementioned Brock Peters along with Ray St. Jacques, Jaime Sanchez (his apprentice) and others flavor this dramatic pot even more so with their poignant portrayals of their respective characters, each of whom has fallen victim to the scourges of his ghetto habitat.I shall not offer up where and how the redemptive transformation occurs in our principal, except to say watch the entire movie and see for yourself how it all unfolds. Truly, a time-tested masterpiece! "}{"Title":"The Horror of the Slum","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Jewish pawnbroker (Rod Steiger), victim of Nazi persecution, loses all faith in his fellow man until he realizes too late the tragedy of his actions.What goes on at the corner of Park Avenue and East 116th Street? Your friendly neighborhood pawn shop doing business, or a hub for criminal elements? Ivan Butler says the film presents the beastliness and squalor of life in a big city, with even the life-saving ambulance featuring a battered chassis. Butler's praise knows no bounds when he says, Rod Steiger's performance ranks among the half dozen greatest in the cinema, and the film is filled with unforgettable moments. There is an interesting social commentary here, though what exactly it says may be unclear. A Jewish man, who has survived the Holocaust, now provides a service for the poor, who he calls scum. Is it right for him to look down on people when he was once looked down on? And is his service helping the people or only further forcing them into poverty? In some sense, he has become the new oppressor, controlling the lives of his neighbors by deciding how much the important pieces of their lives are worth, and collecting their rings much as the Nazis had once collected the rings of his fellow prisoners.While probably not intentional, one could make the case that this film is an allegory for the state of Israel. The members there, once oppressed, now keep their neighbors down. That strikes me as being far more political than this story was reaching for, though.Interestingly, this was Morgan Freeman's first movie (as an uncredited man on the street). And strangely, you will notice that the music first heard as background on the radio in the scene between Ortiz and his girlfriend was later revived by Quincy Jones to become the title theme music to the Austin Powers films. "},{"Title":"I do not believe in God, or art, or science, or newspapers, or politics, or philosophy.","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This has to be the most depressing film I have ever seen. I seriously stopped in the middle because I was getting so bummed out.Rod Steiger as Sol Nazerman, the pawnbroker of the title is brilliant in the role. I doubt if there is anyone else who could have brought froth the depths of despair that Nazerman was experiencing. He lost everything, not just a family, but his who reason for living, and, as he says, there was nothing he could do about it. He was utterly helpless as his world crumbled.He was a man without compassion or felling. His only comfort was money, and that really did him no good. It did not help him when he was reliving the flashbacks from the Holocaust. All he wanted to do was die, but apparently did not have the will to do it himself, so he set himself up for killing.Steiger wasn't the only person that made this film worth watching. There was Brock Peters as a gangster, Thelma Oliver as the girlfriend of his assistant (Jaime Sánchez), and Sánchez himself.The gritty and dark setting was perfect for the film. Sidney Lumet was excellent as the director. "},{"Title":"One mans loss of faith in the human race becomes a tragic mistake","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Pawnbroker is directed by Sidney Lumet, has a screenplay by William Friedkin and Morton S. Fine and stars Rod Steiger, Geraldine Fitzgerald, Brock Peters and Jamie Sanchez.The Pawnbroker's emotional impact cries out loudly demanding to be felt,seen and heard.It features Lumet's usual brand of blistering and gripping dialogue,as well as a breathtaking central performance by Rod Steiger.Released in 1964 this is one of the first mainstream films to deal with the Holocaust.It doesn't dwell on the physical horrors of the camps,instead it's a hard hitting look at the emotional horror and devastation inflicted upon the survivors of those terrible crimes.In particular it focuses on how such horrors can cause the individual sufferer to dispense with emotion and block out the memories of the event in question. This of course can in turn cause even greater damage.New York in the 60's finds Concentration Camp survivor Sol Nazerman(Rod Steiger)running a successful pawnshop business ably assisted by young hotshot Jesus Ortiz(Jaime Sanchez).Sol has no emotion to invest in any of his customers(many of whom have no one else to talk to and just come to his shop for any kind of human emotional connection)or friends.It is coming up to the 25th anniversary of his wife's death and he is besieged by terrible memories of that time as if they were happening again fresh and new.Due to the horrors he saw which includes the death of his entire family he has blocked out the memories as best he can and has no faith left in the human race.This blinds him to the goodness and hope that happens daily around him.It's up to youth worker Marilyn Birchfield(Geraldine Fitzgerald)to try and awaken his buried emotions and help him reconnect with the world.She strikes up a tender friendship with him and partly succeeds in making him take another look at his situation.However it really takes the tragic death of someone close to him to fully make him see what he has wasted and lost all these years.That is Sol's real tragedy he has squandered the precious gift of life and joy.However it makes the viewer think what would we do in his situation?Is coming back to normal life really that easy after experiencing such pain?no of course it's not, that just makes us empathise with his plight even more. One of the most disturbing,clever and memorable moments in the film is when Sol is on a subway train and a memory of being on a crowded transportation train heading to a camp comes to him and past and present blend into one big moment of horror and terror and he suffers a panic attack.Rod gives one of the best performances of his career and through his truthful performance we share Sol's pain,terror and panic and like Marilyn desperately want to help him try and function easier in life.There's fine support from Geraldine Fitzgerald as the kindhearted Marilyn, Brock Peters is excellent as a local gangster and Thelma Oliver makes an strong impression as Ortiz's girlfriend/prostitute.Emotionally devastating and shocking,The Pawnbroker is an underrated film dealing with themes of prejudice,sadness and horror which in some parts of the world still happens today(will some of us never learn from the horrors of World War Two?).Impressive,meaningful and deeply affecting The Pawnbroker is one to watch. "},{"Title":"You think your depressed.","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Harlem pawnbroker Sol Nazerman wants to be left alone. A death camp survivor whose wife and children did not get out he has withdrawn from the world as much as possible in order to cope. The down and out people that frequent his shop get little more than his standard offer. There is no small talk, haggling or eye contact. Take it or leave it. Jesus, his ambitious assistant is treated with the same attitude except when Sol decides to impart some brutal life lessons on what it is to be a merchant. Grim as his existence is Nazerman seems content to let his life slip away without the pain of feeling anything. This all changes when it's revealed he's running a front for a Harlem crime boss to launder cash. Forced to confront his involvement in criminal activity and constantly reminded of his concentration camp past Nazerman descends even deeper into his own private hell.From start to finish The Pawnbroker is one tragic journey. Save for the optimistic Jesus the film is populated with characters in various forms of desperation. Rod Stieger as Nazerman is at times almost too painful to watch as he slips in and out of catatonia between the callous and cold diatribes he serves up to those attempting to reach out to him. Jaime Sanchez as Jesus is a bit too strident and Geraldine Fitzgerald's out of her depth social worker too clueless but Brock Peter's stylish thug is a potent dose of reality and highly effective.Director Sidney Lumet's direction lapses into heavy handedness (slo mo, overlong flashbacks) on occasion bogging the film down while at other times nouvelle vague technique produces some powerfully edited scenes. Boris Kauffman's smoky cinematography successfully establishes mood and place stealing shots on Harlem streets and imprisoning Nazerman within the maze of cages in his shop and Quincy Jones quirky score partners nicely with the action and setting.The Pawnbroker can be a difficult film to get through since the suffering remains unrelenting and Lumet's pacing is erratic most of the way but Stieger's towering performance makes it well worth the ordeal. "},{"Title":"Lumet loves lattices","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Pawnbroker stars Rod Steiger as a Holocaust survivor who becomes a pawnbroker in Spanish Harlem in the early-60's. This places the action 20 years out from WWII, roughly the same time that has passed since the first Desert Storm -- not a long time. It must have been even more powerful to see this harrowing film in the 1960's than it is today.Steiger has a sheer presence that makes minor quibbles, like his hard-to-place accent, inconsequential. The weight of experience is so heavy upon the main character, Mr. Nazerman, that he can only respond to people in the most perfunctory manner. All social niceties have left him. Thus when the pimp who is laundering money through Nazerman's pawnshop mockingly calls him Professor, Nazerman simply hangs up the phone. Or when a junkie, trying to sell a gimcrack radio, berates him as a filthy blood-sucking kike, he barely glances up as he replies Still at the same address?. Seeing this disregard for social convention is a guilty pleasure, like watching Michael Imperioli of The Soproanos pull out a gun in order to get faster service in a donut shop. It brings you over to Nazerman's side, a dangerous place to be, because when the emotions do come out, they will be titanic.Lumet uses grids and latticework as a symbol of confinement throughout the film the metal protective metal grid inside the pawnshop, often casting shadows on the characters, the fancy cross-hatched room divider in the pimp Rodriguez' pad, the railing on the patio of the social worker's apartment, the barbed wire in the flashbacks to the concentration camp. And who can blame Nazerman for staying within the lines? Ultimately though, Nazerman discovers that his business is being financed through prostitution, he flashes back to images of his wife (girlfriend?) in Nazi Joy Division sexual slavery, and he has a breakdown. The final scene is of Steiger plunging his hand through the sharp ticket-holder spine, then wandering the streets of Spanish Harlem, staring at his stigmata, shortly after his assistant has been killed in a botched robbery attempt.The power of Steiger's performance isn't in the shaking and grimacing though, it's in his non-reactivity. Being non-reactive is a high-status trait, and we find it intriguing that Nazerman, essentially a schlemiel who is at the behest of petty crooks, can carry himself with such authority. Perhaps we fellow schlemiels can model ourselves after him in some way.Yet there is an underlying tension of knowing that, in order to achieve this equanimity, he must essentially kill the parts of himself that are human, and this cannot last for long. How tempting it would be for an actor of lesser stature to give up on this theme, to instead portray the character as angry or simmering, and to try to force meaning into the dialog that Steiger wisely treats as throwaway. Steiger rejects poignancy and is a master of self-control. Thus when he breaks down it is all the more terrible.Minor notes and other gulity pleasures Interiors are shot with that old klieg-light style that makes every character look like an escaped prisoner pinned against a prison drainpipe. The apartment furnishings inside Brock Peter's apartment are authentic Saarinen pedestal items (Saarinen claimed he wanted to provide a solution for clearing up the slums of legs in US homes) and Eames chairs. Peter's manservant looks like a photographic negative of himself, instead of a black man in white clothing it's a white man with silver hair in black clothing, an early Andersen Cooper type. "},{"Title":"A notable film, but not a perfect one.","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have mixed feelings about this film. On the one hand, I admire the way the director, Sidney Lumet, and the editor, Ralph Rosenblum are willing to take chances and challenge us through an unorthodox editing style that reflects the main character's state of mind more than it serves to move the plot along. It should come to no surprise after seeing this film that Lumet came from a theater tradition where he worked for many years as an stage actor and director. His best films are character-driven, and Lumet has a unique ability to get the very best performances out of his actors. The Pawnbroker is as much Lumet's film as it is Rod Steiger's. This is the best performance of a very distinguished career.That being said, the pacing is slow and some of the plot elements aren't made very clear (such as the money laundering scheme). With the exception of Sol and Jesus's relationship, the rest of the relationships in the film are handled a little sloppily. Despite the incredible and convincing performances, it is sometimes difficult to know exactly what each character expects from one another. There really isn't a goal that drives the plot forward, but that's not necessarily a weakness of the film. Lastly, this is a bleak film; one of the saddest and most hopeless I have ever seen. I would have liked to see a glimmer of light at the end of the tunnel, but perhaps there can be no happy ending for people like Sol Nazerman. "},{"Title":"Anguish, despair and human frailty have never been portrayed with such grim reality.","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sidney Lumet's nihilistic view of the human condition offers little hope for the future of mankind. Sol Nazerman's (Rod Steiger) bitterness and guilt for having survived the holocaust, while all his loved ones died... totally consumes every hour of his existence. Nazerman is in fact, the living dead. A man devoid of compassion for his pawnshop customers -- people like himself, who have been beaten down by life. Steiger was only about 40 when this film came out... his character appears to be an old 55.The supporting cast, particularly Brock Peters, Geraldine Fitzgerald, Jaime Sanchez and Raymond St. Jacques are excellent. The fact that Steiger did NOT win a best actor award for this role... is perhaps the greatest injustice in the academy's history. Ironically, Steiger's win two years later for his one-dimensional portrait of a southern sheriff in In the Heat of the Night robbed Paul Newman of the best actor award for HIS career-best performance in Cool Hand Luke. Newman had to wait nearly 20 years to finally cop a win for The Color of Money. "},{"Title":"539th Review Superb Ambiguous and Complex Study of a Holocaust Survivor","Date":"9 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With over 200 narrative films now made about the Holocaust, few have dealt with what it means to live with the guilt of survival as The Pawnbroker does. The Pawnbroker is not only a brilliant portrayal, it is also simply one of the great films, and one that anyone interested in film should view.Rod Steiger's Nazerman is a man who has worked out how to bargain for crumbs of security in every aspect of his life. He is as emotionally blank as it's possible to be in order to deal with his repression of his memories. It is a superb portrayal by Rod Steiger - we want to sympathize with Nazerman, but are, and should be, pushed away by his lack of emotions - yet, we do understand how this is the only possible response. The whole cast give superb performances - the film has a rhythm in its speeches that draws us in, something Lumet and Billy Wilder share - Friedkin's and Fone's words are the complex score to the images - and the Quincy Jones score is a hard bebop accompaniment that augments. As the film develops we jump cut from a very grimy New York to some of the most powerful images of the camps known on film - they are not overtly horrific - but each image impacts - and impacts powerfully. Finally, inevitably, the floodgates break...Forty years after its making, The Pawnbroker remains a film that has the ability to affect the viewer deeply - it is simply a superb film and one that deserves its excellent reputation. "},{"Title":"A character actor tour-deforce.","Date":"26 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Sidney Lumet masterpiece. Perfectly rendered Quincy Jones musical score, and a gritty, haunting tale of loss and redemption. Outstanding performances from esteemed actors Brock Peters, Raymond St.Jaques, and Juano Hernendez. Perhaps, one of Rod Steigers most contained and perfectly wrought characterizations. The bleakness of his performance, and the tension that builds as life crumbles his fragile barricades, is almost unbearable in it's sustained intensity. Everything comes together in this film. Cinematography, music, seamless acting and a powerful storyline, that leaves Sol Nazermans epiphany like an arrow through the heart. "},{"Title":"Halfway to Sanity","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sol Nazerman, brilliantly played by Rod Steiger, runs a pawn shop in East Harlem. Though he survived the Holocaust, Sol still suffers horrible flashbacks and painful headaches.In an effort to protect himself from this trauma, Sol shuts down his emotions and cuts himself off from society. He no longer wishes to feel. Humans are scum, people bring nothing but pain, and those who attempt to empathise offer nothing but superficial pity.Though flawed, The Pawnbroker is interesting in at least eight respects. Firstly, director Sydney Lumet goes to great lengths to mirror the desperation of Harlem residents with that of Jews imprisoned at Nazi concentration camps. Both the European and the American experience are seen to be relentlessly bleak. But we later learn that Nazerman has deliberately subjected himself to this grimy landscape, choosing to live in Harlem because living in this hell conforms to his own warped view of humanity. It helps maintain, fuel and justify his hate.The second interesting thing is Rod Stieger's performance itself. Though numerous minor characters try to reach out and empathise with his pain, the supremely withdrawn Sol Nazerman always replies with indifference, Stieger turning his character's body into a seething cauldron of apathy. But it is wrong to assume that Nazerman is now nothing more than an emotionless shell. No, this is a man who feels profoundly. A man who continually aches and hurts, and so can only survive by cutting himself off.Lumet highlights this by having Nazerman constantly obscured by the safety cage that separates him from his customers. He's constantly standing behind walls and partitions, Lumet's use of light and shadow suggesting that this is a man who has chosen to imprison himself, locking himself away from the outside world.Thirdly, the film is about Jewish or survivors guilt. Nazerman lost his wife and son to the Nazis, but it is his own impotency, his inability to save his family, which he hates. This self loathing has left Sol with an overwhelming desire to die. It is not simply that he cannot live without those he loves, but that he cannot live with the guilt of his ineffectually.Fourthly, Lumet contrasts the misery of the war years with the increasing banality of the post-war experience. Though Nazerman views Harlem as a cesspit, when he travels to Long Island he sees how sterile, dead and conformist the civilized world has become. Residents live in skyscrapers, isolated, post-war man living a hollow life devoid of passion.In contrast, Harlem is a bustling hive of activity. It is alive precisely because its inhabitants are poor, on the edge and victimized. It is this violence, this tension, which gives them their humanity. One female character points this out. She says she has found pain in the modern experience. Nazerman, however, in a brilliant monologue, mocks her and reduces her to tears. There may be pain in her world, there may be what Sartre called a toxic suffocation, but it is nothing compared to the brutality of the Nazis, and nothing compared to the dreary rot beneath the music, the parties, the liveliness, of Harlem. In other words, Harlem may feel more alive than Long Island, but you wouldn't want to experience its truth.Fifthly, the film's use of flashbacks was hugely influential. Lumet inserts both subliminal images and long flashback sequences in which Nazerman remembers life in the camps. Though such flashbacks were novel at the time, they now seem gimmicky and heavy-handed. A decade earlier, Alain Resnais used flashbacks in a much more subtle way.Sixthy, the film's use of nudity and black actors was radical in its time. This was the first US film, in which nudity was shown, to have been granted a Production Code Seal. Likewise, Lumet's cast of black and Latino characters give The Pawnbroker an authenticity that most American films of the era lacked. Such realism was influenced by the French and British New Waves, Lumet going out of his way to place raw actors and ethnic minorities in key roles. Like the flashbacks, this all now feels hokey, but such cinematic baby steps are always important.Seventhly, the film contains a nice theme about Jews and money. The Harlem residents all look up at Nazerman for being a successful businessman. How does he do it, they wonder? In one brilliant monologue, Nazerman explains. When you have nothing, no possessions, no land, you are forced to find clever ways to save and earn money. Your survival depends on it. But Nazerman has become so cynical that money is now the only thing that means anything to him. I'm a Jew, he yells, and Jews only care about money! And so Nazerman is becoming what he hates most. The Nazi's dehumanised and took wealth and property away from others. Nazerman likewise robotically takes objects from the Harlem residents he despises. We later learn that Nazerman's shop is nothing more than a money-laundering front for a local crime boss. The implications of this are hilariously non-PC.Finally, the film is concerned about whether one can truly ever experience or faithfully represent the Holocaust. Representation can take one of three forms - manipulation, memory or emancipation - but Lumet and Nazerman are sceptical of all three. The film thus has an unusual tension it refuses to reduce the Holocaust to spectacle but also resists dwelling on it as memory.8/10 - A flawed masterpiece, Lumet's flashbacks and music now dated. While he made excellent use of space in 12 Angry Men, The Pawnbroker sees Lumet with a very static camera which fails to probe Nazerman's shop. Though brilliant, Steiger's performance itself eventually becomes one note and repetitive. See Marcel Ophuls' Hotel Terminus and David Mamet's Homicide. "}{"Title":"The biggest Oscar rip-off of all time!","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is only reason I can come up with why Lee Marvin in Cat Ballou was given the best actor Oscar over Rod Stieger Back-lash from the Academy voters who hated the Jewish Hollywood Moguls and refused to give honor to any film that depicted the horror of the Nazi slaughter of 6 million Jews . If I wanted to be an actor, Rod Stieger's performance in this film is where I would start. He does what very few actors can do Understand his part so well that he is able to bring out every single emotion that his character has to be feeling from 25 ago when he saw first hand the killing of his wife and children and having to keep it inside with no outlet to express it. I would make this film standard for any World History class taught in High School. As we say, never forget and this film will make sure of that. "},{"Title":"Haunting and riveting; Steiger's performance is stunning","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After viewing this film I found myself later still riveted to the story of Steiger's impassioned performance as Sol Nazerman ... going over the various scenes in my head again and again. Most of the online reviews for this film either seem to serve as a vehicle for showing off the reviewer's vast film knowledge by obscure references to other lesser-known films, or discuss the plot in such detail that they give away all the surprise elements in this film - for despite it's gritty, low-key pace there are quite a few surprising and shocking revelations that will come your way in getting to know what has made and what fuels Sol Nazerman. I would not have enjoyed the movie half as much with most of the plot revealed to me prior to viewing.One of the most glaring things left out of every single review I read about The Pawnbroker was the term Film Noir. While the actual subject matter of The Pawnbroker may not fit what one would describe as classic film noir (crime, romance, detective themes, etc.) This movie fits the genre in every other way the dark, gritty and starkly contrasting black and white seedy depiction of New York's Spanish Harlem; dreary interior scenes of Nazerman's dusty, relic-filled pawnshop; dramatic close-ups of Steiger's character as he attempts to go through the movements of his day to day existence; and the creative and unique use of intense yet very brief flashbacks that show us what has made him the seemingly strange and very bitter man he is at the time of the filming. While The Pawnbroker's setting is in a crime-ridden neighborhood filled with pimps and criminals, they pale by comparison to Steiger's character's true demons.The film has merit on so many different levels Steiger's nearly silent suffering protagonist, who says more with his body language and facial expressions than one might believe any actor could muster; an intense 60s jazz soundtrack by the renowned Quincy Jones; Sidney Lumet's masterful direction; Boris Kaufman's brilliant black and white cinematography; and was one of the first American films to directly address a central character's Holocaust memories.The Pawnbroker is nothing like Schindler's List, though the similarity in subject matter may be there, the resemblance also ends there, as well. The Pawnbroker is an intensely personal, one-on-one glimpse into Sol Wasserman's private life and psyche. The torments he suffers are shown to us through his eyes only, through his memories and not by anything on a larger scale. That larger scale comes in to play in the viewer's mind after the film ends - and is not neatly tied up with a large budget production ribbon that does the thinking for you. This film is a must-see for all true film lovers who appreciate the work of art that all the principals involved successfully created. "},{"Title":"Bleak Black Study in Darkness","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rod Steiger is under the lens in this classic study of a man zombified by life events. Adjusting to losing family, country and way of life proves impossible even after 25 years. He grudgingly supports his brother's family to expiate the gnawing acid guilt of survival. The black and white stark cinematography, weather and drudgery of pawnbroking work combine to infuse a suffocating dead- end atmosphere. The bleak city neighborhood and down at luck faces of the crowded inhabitants are a continuation of the concentration camp. The walk- in wounded seeping into the shop with hard-life stories, are dealt summarily by the walking dead Scrooge shop-owner. Despite this they still try again - they have not been beaten by the system. Yet. We build up some hope that his over enthusiastic Latino assistant stands a chance of scratching the surface but we get suddenly disappointed when his modest dreams get cruelly rebuffed. A lonely woman reaches out but is repeatedly and very coldly spurned. His second wife suffers and hopes but is left clutching at empty air. The pimp (an excellent Brock Peters) reads him too well. He expertly carries on where the Nazi's left off. There is no let up for him. He is condemned to suffer all his life in a concentration camp. How much of it is self- imposed? He asks for a release in death, and even that is denied him. The death of his assistant takes time to jolt feelings of excruciating agony from him. He does open his mouth but no sounds come out. We are not sure what the emotion actually is however. The shocking realization that he had cruelly let down a person that had looked up to him - and that person has just given up his life for him. He suddenly and desperately wants to start feeling something, anything again. Even pain is better than nothingness. Another explanation is that he wants to kill himself, but only manages to hurt himself. It feels too little, too late. Open to interpretations like all the best endings. Definitely not a feel good film "},{"Title":"A great drama about the emotional turmoil of the Holocaust","Date":"19 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of Lumet's movies that I didn't get to see until now and what a fool I was. This is one fantastic drama about what the horrors of the Holocaust can cause on a man and making history by being one of the first American films to tackle such a subject. Along with fantastic direction and superb performances, this is one film worth of Lumet's iconic career.Good Rod Steiger is fantastic in the movie. A cold and cynical man due to the horrors he experiences, he can display characteristics that make him unlikable, but turn it around into a heart-wrenching performance. The supporting cast provides good performance, but Steiger rises above all around. The film is directed with tact with some great shots and most of the time giving it a play feel as it takes place a lot of time in the pawn shop. Definite French New Wave influence with the flashbacks, but they deliver some true emotional punch.Overall, it is a groundbreaking film due to its subject and depictions of the Holocaust (and the first approved depiction of breasts on film) along with being a great film. "},{"Title":"It's all Mr. Stieger.","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Pawnbroker stands as an example of Rod Steiger's best work on film. He plays Sol Nazerman, a holocaust survivor who now works in a pawnshop in Harlem where he pushes himself through his daily routine and seems completely devoid of all color and life and personality. As the movie opens we see a younger, happier man who was a professor in Germany with a beautiful wife who loved him and children who adored him. But it isn't long before the Nazi death machine comes steamrolling in and takes his family away. We see very little of Sol's experiences in the camps, only fleeting glances, flashes of memory and suggestions of what he has experienced.We meet him years later working in his Harlem pawnshop, offering a cold and impersonal manner as customers bring in their trinkets to pawn, Two dollars he says to nearly everyone without making eye contact. He has no interest in other human beings, no interest in those who are lonely and come by his shop to pawn their goods or just for a friendly chat. His stature is of a man drained of all humanity, drained of all personality. His hair is white, his skin is pale and his approach to his fellow man comes in the form of cold, impersonal detachment. He is a living ghost, drained of, all the things that make life worth living. When the movie is over, we understand very little about his experience except that we have only scratched the surface of the horror he has experienced.This is one of the best films ever made about the connective power of memory. There are moments when Sol will see something and a flash of a memory will occur. He sees a man being beaten by a fence and he remembers a fellow prisoner in the camp who was killed when trying to escape. A woman attempts to pawn her wedding ring and he remembers the women of the camp with their hands up as the camp commandant takes their rings. A prostitute comes by and strips down in order to offer him sex and he remembers horribly what became of his wife. As he walks home, we see an incredible series of images that are similar to the camps, the fences, stacks of shoes in a store front, all daily reminders of his past as he keeps his eyes to the ground.Sol's only remaining relative is his sister Bertha (Nancy Pollock). She is married to a man who detests her Jewish son but loves her American daughter. At the same time, he cares for Tessie, the widow of his best friend and her father Mendel who is on his deathbed. All of these people are supported by the money from the pawnshop. Distancing himself from the world is not as easy as he had hoped. The people who come in and out of his pawnshop are of little significance to Sol, but he deals with them, sometimes absently, sometimes with a buried frustration. He deals with old people who are lonely and looking for someone their own age to chat with. He deals with a junkie who comes in twitching and nervous as he tries to pawn a radio. He deals with charity cases who come by asking for donations. He cannot escape being a victim, as he deals with a street gang led by a slick huckster who brings items that are most likely stolen. Plus he is the victim of the local mobster (Brock Peters) who uses his place as a front. But out of this cold indifference, there are those who try to pierce his unfeeling skin.First is Jesus (Jaime Sánchez), a Latino street kid who promises his mother that he is finished with his life of petty crime and finds Sol through a newspaper ad. His demeanor likely represents the joy, rapture and optimism that Sol once exhibited. He is young, exuberant and sees a future as an entrepreneur. He becomes an eager student of Nazerman, wanting to learn from his elder but finding that the old man has no interest in him or his desire to learn. Asking the old man about his beliefs, he receives a cold and indifferent answer Money. The other soul who tries to reach him is the sweet Marilyn Birchfield (Geraldine Fitzgerald) who commits the sin of asking him to lunch. This turns out to be the humanitarian gesture that he cannot refuse, though he doesn't go with good graces. In the park, she talks to him and attempts to break through his cold indifference but he isn't interested in her care.What Sol represents, I think, are the years of pent up rage, brought on by the years spent in the concentration camp enduring the inability to deal emotionally with what happened. He chooses to dehumanize himself so that the pain won't consume him. He is wracked with guilt that he survived while millions perished, including those closest to him. He maintains his life, spending eight hours a day in his shop behind a cage, spaced away from the world that constantly intrudes upon him. There is an extraordinary moment when he receives a phone call that Mendel has died and he coldly informs Tessie, Bury him, when someone dies you bury them. Contrast that with another death that occurs at the film's end, one that breaks Sol's cold demeanor. He blames himself, not just for this but for so much blood on his hands. This is where we arrive at Steiger's famous Silent Scream in which he wants to cry out but cannot. There's something dead in Sol that will never be revived. I am so glad the movie doesn't end with a conventional happy ending, it ends on a note that reminds us that his pain will go on but just for a moment because the emotional confinement has been broken. "},{"Title":"Man as predator","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When TCM host Robert Osbourne introduces this film as a dark drama, he is seriously understating the case.This stark tale told in black-and-white, evocatively set in early-60s Harlem, introduces a character who is tormented by devastating memories and losses from the Holocaust.As a pawnbroker, Sol Nazerman (Rod Steiger) embodies the same role his Nazi overseers once did -- he's approached by supplicants who live or die (though only economically) at his pleasure. Just like the Nazis who bashed in his head and violated his wife, Nazerman couldn't care less how other people feel, no matter how desperate their circumstances. It's as if, after what he has endured, no one else's pain has any significance.You take a dream and give a dollar, says Ortez, a young street thug trying to reform, whom one-time professor Nazerman ambivalently teaches the pawn trade.Nazerman is tortured by survivor's guilt. Who was more courageous -- the suicidal friend, who ran up against a barbed-wire fence at Auschwitz, or he -- who managed to keep on living after losing the people he loved? When Nazerman seeks a little respite in the bed of his dead friend's wife, her father chides him as a coward. And when the old man finally expires, Nazerman has no word of comfort for his consort. (To hell with your crying!) When local do-gooder Marilyn Birchfield tries to offer Nazerman a sympathetic ear, he dismissively stereotypes her. All I ask is for peace and quiet! he says. People like you will not let me! Please, stay out of my life! Despite Nazerman's commute from the Long Island suburbs, he has traded one world he can't control for another. The litter-strewn environs of his pawnshop are rife with danger, threat, and coercion. Admist the squalor, Nazerman doesn't discriminate -- he sees everyone as scum, rejects. You's a hard man, says one customer. God pity you. Nazerman is tortured by memories and it is only in these moments that he can show a little tenderness, giving someone a few dollars more than she asks at the pawn counter.As the anniversary of some grim event of his past rolls around, Naderman wishes to mark the date. I didn't die, he tells Miss Birchfield. Everything that I loved was taken away from me and I did not die. There was nothing I could do. So bitter is Nazerman's self-recrimination that he cannot take the hand extended by Miss Birchfield, the one person on earth who wants to listen and understand.When he rejects Ortez, who so appreciates him as a mentor -- You're nothing to me! -- it's as if he plants the seeds of his own destruction. Maybe Nazerman can take the route of the suicidal friend and force the system to end his life once and for all. Yet the whole thing backfires and it's Ortez who sacrifices for Nazerman. Is the old man's look of agony a sign of sympathy for Ortez or just more agony over having been betrayed? In the end we see Nazerman in the Jesus-like role when he makes a crucifying gesture. Man crucifies himself when he does not share or speak. So much around him cannot be controlled but he makes things worse when he pulls away from others and becomes embittered. End note This powerful film is based on a novel by Edward Lewis Wallant, who, I read on Wikipedia, died at age 36 of an aneurism. Wallant had lived in New Haven, CT, and often taken the train in to New York to visit jazz clubs, perhaps inspiring the great score in this film by Quincy Jones. Wallant had been drawing comparisons to other great Jewish writers like Roth and Bellow and had won a Guggenheim Fellowship earlier in the year he died. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rod Steiger delivers the performance of a lifetime in this sad movie. the story is about a man who lives in New York runs a laundry mat,, and starts having flashbacks of the War when he was in the Concentration Camps. the story has some flashbacks, and they are very poignant. the old man takes on a younger partner in the Laundromat,, but later on Sol finds out that the money used to run the business also comes from a brothel.. there's not a lot of action in this,, but it doesn't need to have action,, this movie is based on pure raw emotion,, hatred, greed, and all of the things incorporated in a great drama. it's sad to see the detioration of Sol as the movie winds along. this is a very powerful and shocking movie, not to be watched by the lighthearted, i'm German so i will definitely watch this again. "},{"Title":"violence never leaves","Date":"24 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sidney Lumet is probably best known for movies like Dog Day Afternoon and Network, but another really good film that he directed is The Pawnbroker. This one stars Rod Steiger as concentration camp survivor Sol Nazerman, now running a pawnshop in East Harlem. The horror that Sol witnessed has left him embittered. Moreover, he has not escaped violence the streets of New York see no shortage of gang warfare. A major focus is how, despite his alienation from the world, Sol tries to explain the ramifications of what happened to the young Puerto Rican who idolizes him.It's fairly well known that Groucho Marx wanted the role of Sol. I don't know exactly how the movie would have come out had he played the role -- although it might have been a little harder to take seriously -- but Steiger is perfect as the man still trying to put his life back together. A very good one. I recommend it.Watch for a young Morgan Freeman as the man on the street. "},{"Title":"The tragic lives of Sol Nazerman in a magnificent performance by Rod Steiger","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The first time I heard of The Pawnbroker was when it was mentioned in a great documentary called Hollywood and the Holocaust, showing how Hollywood dealt with theme of the Jewish holocaust in the 2nd World War, and one of the most important films about the period is this film directed by Sidney Lumet. The testimonies of personalities (including lead actor Rod Steiger) was very captivating and something urged me to watch it right away. Here's a psychological and moving drama about a Holocaust survivor whose life haven't changed for best, instead, he remembers the ghosts from the past in a chaotic and criminal New York that resonates part of his tragic life in a concentration camp during the war. In a magnificent and heart-breaking performance, Rod Steiger plays Sol Nazerman, a Jewish pawnbroker who lost his belief in mankind after losing his whole family in a concentration camp and seeing the horrors of war. The only thing he beliefs is in money because that's the only thing that lasts and the only thing that makes the world and people go round, he says that to the young and ambitious Jesus (Jaime Sanchez), who works for him in his pawnshop trading a little sum of money for people who wants to exchange old things for the money, and they'll always think that he can give more cash to them than the very few he gives to them.Sol is a solitary, bitter and rigid man who pushes people away from his life, he doesn't need people's sympathy, it doesn't help people feel sorry for him. Geraldine Fitzgerald plays a friendly woman interested in this man's life after trying to make him interested in helping a community center of the city. He's not interested in her or in anyone; he only lives for the money waiting for death to come and put him out of his misery, he can't kill himself, and he keeps tormented with his past that seems to be happening again in the crowded and violent streets of New York. Through amazing and brief flashbacks we follow Sol and his horrific experiences during war, along with a similar situation during his recent life that evokes that, for instance, when he sees a black man getting attacked by a group of people, he stops, watches the scene and right away he remembers a man trying to escape through a fence in the camp, then being shot by a Nazi officer. And he keeps remembering, suffering, and not dying, always keeping his pain to himself.The movie doesn't keep always on Sol, it also follows Jesus, the happy man who works for Sol, learning valuable life lessons of how to take care of the shop, and the importance of money in everyone's lives. These two opposite forces have some clashes, little arguments but they seem to go well with each other without realizing what bothers one another. Oscar wants to be successful as Sol, but he's too confident and positive on the same things that are twisted and miserable to Sol, he's too innocent about the world's hardness, barely realizing that he'll be connected with a group of thieves that wants to steal Sol's money, and he might be the one who'll help them with the plan.Steiger makes of Sol a contradictory character in who we want to feel sorry for his loss and his tragic life but at the same time, he's not that likable, he's brute and introspective at times, mumbling a few words, and he can't make a person feel completely bad about himself, or herself, not caring about their problems at all. Yet, you feel that he has been through a lot of things, and it is too difficult not to relate with him. He makes us remember of ourselves, in times we are desperately just like him and we want to throw everything away, give up on things, and other times we might believe that death is the only answer. In the case of Sol, he should be more thankful for the life he has, and try to do and be more than just suffer; he has a family (in another state where he spends his vacations) that likes him, he has support from people and want to talk to him about anything. Will he be able to forget his past and live a better life? Maybe, maybe not but until then life repeat itself and Sol can only aspire to die or get killed.The Pawnbroker has not only great performances and a terrific screenplay but many great things too, like the dramatic music of Quincy Jones, using a little bit of jazz; and a meaningful art direction, not only during the war, but also (and especially) the pawnshop of Sol, with lots of grids, a resemblance with the concentration camps that it's almost impossible to see a thing. It's the new prison of Sol and he doesn't realize that, if earlier he lived to see only misery and death, now we can only see the money. The only thing that is equal between both is that he can only see people behind these grids and barbed wires, the dramatic and sad division of human being.It is a sad story that has one small happy moment right in the first scene after this, you must be very spirituous to watch this film. But I urge you to watch it, because it is one of the rare films on the subject made in the 1960's and to at least see how great Rod Steiger is, with his ability to play a psychological character that is not that easy to comprehend, a difficult role and Steiger's favorite of all of this roles (sadly he was robbed at the Oscars). It's a powerful, memorable and relevant work and one of the best directed by Sidney Lumet. "},{"Title":"Soundtrack Fits","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is not a Holocaust movie. This is a movie about the Holocaust survivor, the one who is physiologically very much alive, but has socially has died years ago.Sol Nazerman is our hero, and he is played by Rod Steiger in what may be his best performance. Steiger's played a good ol' boy Southern police chief, an angry and lecherous Russian in the middle of the Bolshevik Revolution, an English prison psychiatrist, muscle for the mafia, and, in this one, a German-Jewish Holocaust survivor. Steiger is simply one of the most versatile and component movie actors there ever was.Quincy Jones does the score to this movie. Some, not many, feel the score is inappropriate for a movie about such serious matters. But I like the soundtrack. It fit the time period, the jazzy 60s. It contrasted Sol's inner pain with the joy and frivolity of normal life. Life didn't stop because he did. And this is such a vexing thing to Sol, psychologically. If he can't have joy, those having it are not worth his time.Edward Lewis Wallant wrote the source material - the novel The Pawnbroker and would have been a very celebrated and sought after author today, but he died young, in his 30s from a heart attack, not even living to see his book put to film.This is one of the best examples of Posttraumatic stress disorder adapted to film, which many Holocaust survivors suffered from, a so-called survivor's guilt. "}{"Title":"Definitely worth seeing","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pauline Kael hated this movie. She called it bad and terrible. Leonard Maltin gave it 4 stars, called it important and The New York Times also raved calling it remarkable and brilliant. My opinion lies somewhere between. I don't think the movie really works. It's confusing, although I think the confusion is meant to be sort of impressionistic. There are some embarrassing moments and it is sometimes a tad arty. Ideas are suggested and not always clarified. Nevertheless, it's worth seeing. I live in Manhattan, where most of the movie was shot. I think anyone who lives in Manhattan will be entertained (the subway scene, the sequence filmed at Lincoln Square, a shot of Avery Fisher Hall, Nina Simone and Flip Wilson's names on the marquee at the Apollo) but it also makes New York and its environs seem like a depressing, claustrophobic hell. (I wish it still seemed that way to the tourists and yuppies that flock here.) The main reason for seeing the movie, aside from the urban atmosphere, is the actors. Steiger is sometimes too intense, bordering on self-parody. But it's still a fascinating performance. All the other actors are equally fine. Kael and Crowther in The New York Times went out of their way to praise an actor they both called old Juano Hernandez. He is heart-breaking.The nudity must have been shocking at the time. There is an implication of evil homosexuality in the Brock Peters character. I must check Vito Russo's book The Celluloid Closet to see if he picked up on it.Recommended! "},{"Title":"one of the key post-holocaust films, and one of Sidney Lumet's very best films","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sol Nazerman (Rod Steiger), has become numb, or at the least into a repetitive, bitter funk. He works day after day in a pawn shop in Harlem, giving values of minimal worth to the objects that people sometimes can't bare to give. He has an assistant, Jesus Ortiz (Jaime Sanchez), whom he tolerates but can barely stand, who tries to keep everything in good spirits, but has some ideas growing on the side. Sol is also a man perpetually haunted with ghosts, of the dead, of those he witnessed in the holocaust kill or be killed. Meanwhile, he falls behind paying his dues to low-life hoodlums wanting a take on his business. Something is not only boiling up inside of Sol, but something around him as well. There is pain, cynicism, and tragedy in the film, but it is not quite as bleak as one might think (and if it is, it's rewarding the cinematic means).Sidney Lumet, in telling the story to the film, experiments with parts of the narrative, of the flashbacks that Sol has (sometimes these come in little second or two-second flashes for the audience, only a couple of times as complete scenes), and for its time, and even for today, it is not held by a very conventional narrative or protagonist. Sol is one troubled man, unable to rid himself of the past, not just with the concentration camps but also with his family (or at least people he's closer with). He is always at an emotional distance, and even when he makes love to a woman in one scene, as a contrast with a fun, lusty romp with Jesus and his girl, it is passionless, almost mechanical. There is a perfectly molded sense of doom hovering over the film, however it doesn't make it terminally bleak. Like the best tragedies in modern film, it pushes the envelope of the tragedies in the classic cinema, while still asking the audience to bring in something as well (Lumet, being a man of the theater, does this well with most of his films, particularly those of the 70's and 12 Angry Men).Aside from Lumet's near-documentary approach to the film (I loved the shots taken on the streets of New York/Harlem, with a somber jazz score from Quincy Jones setting the mood), there is the Oscar nominated (and Berlin Film Festival winning) turn from Rod Steiger. Steiger, one of the most successful character actors of the second half of the twentieth century, usually had movies where he was always doing the best he could even if the film itself was sub-par. Here he gets to shine in one of, if arguably his most, profound starring role. He injects into Sol the right actions, emotions, motivations in each scene, going from indifference, to bitterness, to frustration, and in the end to a shocking realization (if not catharsis, which I don't think it is). If the subject matter or the style of the film wasn't worth recommending the film, I still would on account of Steiger and of the supporting players, who are also very good. It is a complex, sad performance, and he becomes him less than really portraying him. This is an under-seen (though perhaps not under-rated) classic. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Performance and Story","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Pawnbroker, starring Rod Steiger and directed by Sidney Lumet was truly an outstanding and disturbing film. Continuing Mr. Lumet's series of films that focus on parts of New York, it captured Spanish Harlem in Black and White and illustrated the difficult circumstances there while contrasting them with remembrances from Steiger's character, an aging Jewish pawnbroker, during the Holocaust. Controversial at the time was a scene where a young girl bares her breasts in an attempt to get money from the pawnbroker and she is juxtaposed with similar, but horrifying scenes of his wife at the hands of the Nazis. Steiger deserved to win the best actor Oscar for which he was nominated in this great film. "},{"Title":"The Pawnbroker A powerful film","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sol Nazerman is asked what the numbers tattoo on his am means. Do you belong to a special Club? How can I join? You have to walk on water! Nazerman replies. The pawnbroker is one of those engrossing films that moves along somewhat slowly but for me as the viewer I couldn't get away from it. It sucked me in and wouldn't let go until the final scene is run and the credits rolled by. This is a very powerful film about a Nazi death camp survivor who has immigrated to New York after his camp was liberated and his life was saved. Now with the 25th anniversary of his incarceration approaching Nazerman is having flash backs of the horrors the death camps and of the deaths of his family at the hands of the Nazi's. Images he thought he had erased from his mind forever. But even more horrible than seeing his own wife children die along with countless thousands is the fact the he did not die.Now, 25 years later he is running a pawnshop in New York's Spanish Harlem, which is also a money-laundering front for the local crime boss. Along with the flash backs he also coming to realize that in New York life is nearly as cheap as it was in the death camps. The blacks and Hispanics are persecuted much like the Jews were in Nazi Germany. The crime bosses own people and abuse and terrorize the people they own like the Gestapo. I felt that The Pawnbroker was a very powerful film I can't imagine the power it must have had 41 years ago.The acting performance of Rod Steiger was brilliant. The emotion that he displayed on the screen gave me a real taste of what life was like for Sol Nazweman. Rod Stieger has got to be one the most underrated actors of Hollywood. When acting greats are mentioned, Bogart, Tracey, Gable, Stewart, Fonda, Hepburn, Betty Davis, just to name a few Rod Stieger's name rarely comes up. Just think of all of the great performances this man has done. Dr. Zivago, The Heat of the night, On the Water Front, his portrait of Napoleon in Water Loo, even his role on Oklahoma was all stellar. Now that he is gone I hope is legend will grow like the greats that have gone before him.Being a Star Trek fan I was surprised to see Brock Peters in the role of Rodriguez the local crime boss. Brock Peters played Admiral Cartwright in two of the Star Trek feature films. I did not know that career went that far back and covered so many films. The musical score is terrific as well as the cinematography. It gave the audience a taste of the dark side of New York in the 1960's. Sidney Lumet must have had cameras in vans or tucks as they shot sidewalk scenes on city streets. This gave the picture a realistic look and feel. The Pawnbroker is a must see! "},{"Title":"A Tribute to Rod Steiger","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was the first Rod Steiger movie I ever saw. It was fantastic. You really get to see immense talent of this amazing actor. He will be sorely missed, but lucky for us, some of his finest work will live on for us to watch. "},{"Title":"Stark, austere and eerily chilling; Steiger gives a truly perfect performance","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While highly rated by many, this film has not achieved the widespread acclaim it deserves.  It is a fine, insightful character study of a Holocaust survivor, working as a Pawnbroker in Harlem. Rod Steiger is truly remarkable in his performance here; I'd never seen any of his films before, and his acting here was superb. Every mannerism, nuance and development is wonderfully worked by Steiger, with the way he changes from unfeeling and passive to self-aware and frightened. The performance has influenced many I'm sure; for example, Bill Murray in Rushmore for me, gives a similar evocation of alienation and quiet, subtle depression.  Lumet's use of split-second editing is superb in conveying to the viewer almost subliminally, but tangibly, the sudden, haunting encroachments of Nazerman's memories into his current life. Particularly, I found the opening scenes a good prelude, with first an idyllic, loving scene of Nazerman and his family, and then the first, intruiging scene of Nazerman in the modern day. The scene where the prostitute desperately tries to arouse Nazerman is truly breathtaking - the use of brief, but telling flashbacks to his past works and informs the drama. Similarly the scene on the train is haunting and powerful. It should be remarked that the scenes of Nazerman doing business in his shop are fascinatingly varied and intriguing, with Juano Hernandez particularly affecting - even with seemingly insignificant customers, the dialogue is very interesting.  The ambiguities surrounding Nazerman's mistress - played by Marketa Kimbrel and her family, glimpsed briefly in the film's second scene - are well wrought - she disappears completely after about the first half-hour. The film, in this sense, could be called a little obtuse, but I think it works.  While some have said it is excessively melodramatic, perhaps due to the unrelenting seriousness of tone, and the bombastic score by Quincy Jones, I feel that the score is in keeping with the various moods of the film, maybe heightens them also. On top of that, it is *good* music, no doubt there. Nazerman's relationships with Brock Peters' character and Jesus Ortiz are soldidly explored, with the delusion and emptiness of Nazerman ever more evident as he teaches Ortiz and is then bound somewhat, by his business associations, just when he is beginning to adopt some principles and emotions - i.e. that sinister meeting he has with Peters' Rodgriguez character. A travesty couldn't ever be more blatant than if, IIRC, Steiger and Kaufman (cinematography) didn't win oscars for their work here. Certainly, a superb, thought-provoking film, with much film-making prowess to arrest the ear and eye, but it's the emotional force and eerie atmosphere that really move one to melancholy. rating- *****/*****  "},{"Title":"Memories and daily life torment a Holocaust survivor.","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Out of all of Sydney Lumet's strong body of work, this is my favorite.  An incredible performance by Rod Steiger as a Holocaust survivor tortured by both his past and his present.  The supporting performances are equally memorable (Geraldine Fitzgerald, Brock Peters, Raymond St. Jacques, Reni Santoni.)  Quincy Jones' score might not be what you expect, but finds the right tone, both in the flashbacks (a lyrical orchestral theme) and in modern (1965) Harlem (cool jazz and Latin sounds), the tension in both matching Sol Nazerman's state of mind.  Shot appropriately in black and white. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Great performance, mediocre film","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rod Steiger gives the best performance of his career, even better than his Oscar winning performance in 'In The Heat Of The Night'. He plays an elderly Harlem pawnshop owner that mostly thru the use of flashbacks, we find out survived a concentration camp, but lost everyone he cared about. Going thru those horrors have made him bitter, angry, distant. His experiences do not give him empathy for the suffering of others, such as his customers. Instead he despises them. When he finally lets loose nearly 30 years of built up emotion, Steiger goes from fear, to compassion, to anger, to guilt and to rage so quickly and so seamlessly he should have won the Oscar for finale alone. Sidney Lumet directs brilliantly, from extended scenes in the pawnshop, to the gritty streets of New York, to the flashbacks of the incredible horrors of the holocaust. But aside from Steiger and Lumet, the rest of the film is a mess. Quincy Jones jazz score with upbeat tempo at downbeat times seems out of place, and in fact quite jarring at times. The rest of the cast give performances too over the top to mesh well with Steiger or the material, especially Jaime Sanchez as the pawnshop assistant. Geraldine Fitzgerald's character really provides nothing to the story. She exists just to show us just how out of touch with the rest of the human race the pawnbroker is. But we already get plenty of that from his interactions with his family, customers and assistant. The screenplay was good as a singular character study of this man, but some of the dialog was horrible. Apparently in 1965 New York everyone and anyone who spoke to an elderly man called him 'uncle'. And they keep saying it. Everyone who comes into the pawnshop or runs into him on the street calls him uncle. Nobody calls him man, dude, old timer, sir, mister. It gives you the feeling that the dialog was written by somebody trying to sound hip and up with the times but without any idea of how to do it, someone unfamiliar with the street slang of the day. But in the end I still recommend seeing it, especially if you are a fan of a great performance. "},{"Title":"Pawnbroker-No Brokered Deal on this Film Gem ****","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The late Sidney Lumet really hit a home run in this film which depicts a survivor of a Nazi concentration camp vividly reliving his nightmare memories in flashback. The latter is so competently cultivated by the master director Lumet.Rod Steiger gave a superb, riveting performance as a holocaust survivor who is now trapped in a very difficult neighborhood and sees for himself what modern day prejudice there is now. It is not to be believed that Steiger and fellow nominee Oskar Werner, (Ship of Fools,) lost the best actor award that year in the Academy Awards. Shocking that both lost and that the victor was none other than Lee Marvin for Cat Ballou. What were the Academy voters thinking?With the superb supporting cast of Brock Peters, as the modern day scapegoat to the ills of society and Geraldine Fitzgerald, as an understanding social worker, this extremely powerful film shall always serve as a reminder in the never ending struggle for civil rights and human decency. "},{"Title":"Good Film, Great Performance","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We open upon an emotionally detached Sol Nazerman, an aging Jewish former professor who survived the concentration camps but lost his wife, children and seemingly his humanity.Sol now operates a pawnshop in Harlem views the people that frequent his shop with disdain not because of race he say's but because they are scum. Despite this, people still try to connect with. The middle aged widow (Geraldine Fitzgerald) raising funds for the youth center, Jesus Ortiz his young shop assistant and an elderly man who wants to talk with someone about books and ideas. Even the local crime boss (Brock Peters) who uses the pawnshop to launder money wants to connect with Sol.Rod Steiger despite his appearance in the movie was incredibly only 39 at the time the film was made. For his role Steiger would be nominated for his second Academy Award, his first had been for Supporting Actor in On the Waterfront. Three years later he would win the Oscar for the film In the Heat of the Night a role which was again very different from either of his two previous nominations.While this is amongst Steiger's best work I do not believe this was amongst Director Sidney Lumet's (12Angry Men, Dog Day Afternoon) best. There are certainly some very powerful scenes particularly inside the pawnshop, and of course there is Steiger's wonderful performance, but some other aspects fall short. In particular there are some scenes that don't seem necessary to the central plot and while initially the flashbacks are powerful there effect decreases through overuse.Some of the limitations in the film might also be the result of the script, while the central story and central character are fascinating some of the other aspects and characters seem to be more hastily sketched and even clichéd.The film also features a wonderful dynamic score by music legend Quincy Jones. This score would be something of a breakthrough and Jones first of 33 major Hollywood scores. "}{"Title":"Lost a lot of its punch but worth seeing","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Holocaust survivor Sol Nazerman (Rod Steiger) runs a rundown pawn shop in NYC. He has cut off all feelings for anyone else based on what happened to him in a concentration camp. But slowly things begin to unravel in his personal life...and he has to confront the demons he's been blocking out for years.This was great for its time--I believe it was probably the first drama to deal with how the Holocaust affected the survivors. But, since this was released, there have been better movies made on the same subject. Also this was independently financed and released so few people saw it and it fell off the radar quickly. It doesn't show up on TV much either due to some brief (but needed) nudity. It also comes across as far too slow and too long. The things that were shocking in it once (the nudity and a gay black gang leader with a white lover) are far from disturbing today. Still this is worth seeing.The direction by Sidney Lumet is great--shot in black and white which really helps the film and its grim subject matter. There are good supporting performances by Brock Peters and Jaime Sanchez. Geraldine Fitzgerald pops up too but she's not as good. But the main reason to see this is Steiger. His performance is just superb--he was justly nominated for a Best Actor Oscar (he didn't win). You see him cutting off other people and, when he starts to fall apart, it's heartbreaking.So--on one hand I didn't really like this. It was too long and I was bored through some of it. On the other hand the gritty direction and Steiger's performance kept me watching. I give it an 8.Warning I heard some commercial TV prints cut out the nudity (which IS needed). Try to see this uncut--TCM shows it that way. "},{"Title":"Compelling Movie","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Holocaust was a tragedy of immeasurable proportions. Its impact was felt not only in Europe, where the crimes were initially perpetrated, but around the world. Indeed, the world has never been the same. But what happened to those who survived? How did they cope with the loses they suffered? Could they ever re-integrate into society, ever again become functional human beings? This movie explores these issues through the character of Sol Nazerman, a concentration camp survivor now living in New York City. Nazerman is a pawnbroker (hence the title of the movie), yet he is more than a business man, he is an observer of life, a man so overwhelmed with rage, and anger and grief, that he is reduced to being a mere cynic who has lost his sense of compassion. To Nazerman, the entire world is one big concentration camp. For Sol Nazerman, powerfully portrayed by Rod Steiger, life is painful and like Job he is suffering for reasons that he cannot surmise. Yes, Nazerman is a marked man, but why? The movie does not answer that question, cannot answer that question. But the movie does provide a in-depth study of man who is suffering and for whom one cannot help but feel deep sympathy. And this is why this movie is so important and so great because it brings home the stark and undeniable fact that the Holocaust DID happen and that such an indescribably despicable event cannot be permitted ever to happen again. "},{"Title":"A Truly Great Film","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Pawnbroker deserves to have a place high on the list of the best movies of all time. It is by a large margin the best movie about the Holocaust of any that I've seen, including the much-acclaimed Schindler's List. The story of what happened in Hitler's Germany is told here by exploring the emotional devastation suffered by a single survivor (Rod Steiger). Fleeting scenes/memories of what happened to his young wife have the force of hammer blows on flesh. One does not have to have visited the crematoria at Auschwitz to understand the horror (though, of course, in quite a different dimension). The Pawnbroker of the title stands for those who survived physically but were unable to recoup emotionally and the fate of The Pawnbroker's wife is a terrible reminder of those who did not survive. My wife and I left this film (many years ago)in far greater pain than we felt after seeing any other representation of the Holocaust, including the visits we have made to museums in Washington, D.C., and Jerusalem. Only Auschwitz itself had a comparable effect on us. "},{"Title":"Depressingly brilliant. Steiger should have won Oscar.","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As a young man I saw the movie with two dear neighbors, both of whom were Jewish. We left the theater in stunned silence. My friend's wife turned to me, and with no absence of malice asked, Phil, are you German?  I am of Danish extraction I offered with empathy, and we don't like them either. The film transcended entertainment, as it was so profoundly painful. Steiger should have won, as Newman should have as Frank Galvin in the Verdict. Lee Marvin's horse deserved the Oscar more than it's recipient, but perhaps we've grown a bit,  when Liam Neisem's performance won the honors in another depressing piece of historical horror.  "},{"Title":"Character study, not CGI study.","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The best way to describe this movie is to say that it is from another era, to say the least. When movie goers focused on what was happening in the story and how the characters interacted with each other within the story. If you let it take you it can be violently intense. Very few movies today remind us of how dark the world can be. Shcindlers list comes alarmingly close. Judgement at Nurenberg, too. But The Pawnbroker comes a little closer from a different perspective. Right from the mind of one character. The scars he still has 20 years later. How it still effects his everyday life and relationships.It also makes him very vulnerable. He is so disconnected from reality that he is taken advantage of. Filmed in stark black and white, with gritty realism it is a must see. It speaks about us, not monsters or super hero's. P.S. Maybe monsters. "},{"Title":"Steiger makes the movie","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director Sydney Lumet has made some of my favorite movies and really had an especially good 20 year run from 12 Angry Men to Dog Day Afternoon including Fail Safe, Serpico, Network and The Pawnbroker. Rod Steiger's performance makes this movie. He's supported by Geraldine Fitzgerald but the rest of the cast is largely unknowns and forgettable. It does have a gritty film noir look to it but that is largely because this is a relatively low budget film. This film is slow depends too much on flashback sequences which give it a choppy disorganized look and interrupts the flow of Steiger's performance. The music score by Quincy Jones along with the design to this film gives it more of a late 1950's look and feel than the mid 1960's. I've always liked Rod Steiger so I like him here and I have seen this several times on TV. This is not a bad movie by any means but it's not a great one either. I would give it a 7.0 on a scale of 10. "},{"Title":"Flawed masterpiece?","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Pawnbroker is, in my opinion, essential viewing despite its flaws. Steiger's performance is utterly compelling - it is the heart and soul of the movie. Lumet's direction strikes me as clunky - there are several scenes which seem purposeless (for example, a shot of Brock Peters schmoozing two girls just before the climactic sequence)and the flashbacks are superfluous. The opening sequence seems corny, with its romanticized slo-mo shots of Happy Family in Countryside. Similarly, do we really need concentration camp recreations to tell us what happened to the pawnbroker and his family? It's all there in Steiger's face and body language. Sorry, Quincy Jones, but the score is lame and does nothing to enhance the movie. If only Elia Kazan had directed it. Nonetheless, it remains one of the best films about the Holocaust. "},{"Title":"Money as God makes for an empty life","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Excellent drama centering around the workings of a money laundering outlet posing as a pawn shop. The pawnbroker is a heartless, money loving sort who insists that the only thing worth having is more and more filthy lucre no matter the cost. As a parade of pathetic thieves and losers flow through his establishment daily he has no more feeling for them than a bug on the wall; they are simply another source of revenue. He does get a 'religion' of sorts when he discovers the point of origin of much of the money he is laundering because of his experiences during World War 2. Not that this turn in his thoughts leads him to become a less obnoxious person. I liked the shop the story takes place in; smacked of the genuine article. I wasn't aware that nudity was this overt in film as early as '64. "},{"Title":"Too dark to be appreciated by Hollywood.","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A stunning study of emotional alienation.  Watch for the performance by Juano Hernandez playing an intelligent man so starved for companionship and intellectual connection that he desperately pawns items just to engage the pawnbroker, however briefly, in human communication.  "},{"Title":"Ugly, Ugly and Ugly but also.....DEPRESSING","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you truly want to see something awful, ugly and be depressed in the end....Watch this! The subject matter could have made an interesting film, yet the characters, the setting, the music all contribute to nothing but wallowing in squalor! The plot has already been described here. Missing was the contrasting element to these pathetic characters and their equally dreary existence. It was all one tone. You wait for it to get better but alas, it never does. A bit of humor would have added an element of relief to an otherwise pitifully self-indulgent seediness. I like gritty as much as anyone, but when you see this, you will want to watch something like.....The Exorcist, just to get the taste of this one out of your mouth.Not all of us see a classic here, to some of us the emperor is naked! (and it isn't pretty!) "}{"Title":"Pretentious and Depressing","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A concentration camp survivor lives a bitter and isolated existence as a Harlem pawnbroker. This is an extremely drab and depressing movie, which would be OK if it was rewarding in any way, but it's not. Lumet, who would follow up this disappointing effort with the brilliant Fail Safe, is annoyingly indulgent and pretentious here. Everything about this movie screams that it's an important movie about a serious subject. Yes, the subject is serious, but the movie is a joke, with a pathetic, melodramatic finale. Steiger, never a subtle actor, is so hammy that it's painful to watch. In fact, with the exception of Fitzgerald, the acting is uniformly bad. The loud, obnoxious score adds to the misery. "},{"Title":"Doesn't work as well as it should but was a brave try with a great performance from Steiger","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sol Nazerman owns a small pawnshop in Harlem, New York. Far from being a racist, Sol hates evenly across the board and can only just stomach the stream of thieves, dealers and junkies who use his shop for their various needs. An intensely private man, Sol doesn't appreciate the enthusiasm of employee Jesus or the interest of Marilyn Birchfield as he wishes to be alone with the painful memories of the concentration camp that he managed to survive.Maybe it is not fair to look back on it retrospectively but I wonder how many modern viewers will have come to this expecting it to be the shocking look what happened type of holocaust film that we have seen from Hollywood over the past decade or so; I wonder how many of them were disappointed as a result of expecting this. Instead this film deals with the memories and mental scars that remain with those who survived and it is a big ask for a film to convey that. Having just had a great deal of holocaust programmes on the television it is easy to perhaps say that we can relate to the feelings of those who survived but the truth is knowing what happened is not the same as having to life with it or having experienced it and this film did face a challenge of bringing the latter experiences to the screen here. It doesn't totally manage to pull it off of course because it can't totally decide what it wants to do &#150; mixing memories with Sol's modern stresses in Harlem. It is still interesting though in both regards even though I had wished it had done better in one or both of them. The modern story is OK but the action took away from where the real story was &#150; in Sol's heart and mind. His memories are delivered in quick flashes and we get a lot from even small moments but there was scope for more character rather than flashbacks.This could have been a bigger weakness were it not for a great performance from Steiger who, despite being way too young and strong for the role, manages to convince that he does have a great deal of anger and pain only inches from the surface. The writing doesn't really allow him to do as much as he could have with it but this is not Steiger's fault and he is great. Sanchez is good in support, although I felt Fitzgerald maybe didn't understand her character that well, because I know she didn't help me do it either. Despite not even having a character name, Oliver gives a brave performance and support is generally good even if they do tend to slip into easy Harlem stereotypes.Overall this is an interesting film even if it doesn't totally work in the ways it tries to. At times Sol isn't as developed as I would have liked but then at other times the pain of the memories is very clear; the modern story is less interesting and I didn't think it paralleled that well but is still worth seeing and has a great central performance from Steiger. "},{"Title":"Days and Nights of the Living Dead","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is much absorbing effect rendered in this Edward Lewis Wallant story, and little cause--especially root cause.Nazarman delivers a brief soliloquy capsulizing his take on a particular heritageIt's something like, after years of deprivation, one takes a piece of cloth, cuts it in half and sells it for a penny more, then keeps repeating this process with greater cloths and profits. Until things like digging in the earth to grow food or gazing at vastness of land to call one's own has lost interest.Thus, attention is primarily paid to achieving monetary profit, and with this comes a label, mercantile heritage. Sol goes on to act out his value and relay that concept to his attentive shop helper, Ortiz.And the lad proceeds to act on Nazarman's advice--only Jesus' object of making a fast-buck is Sol's own pawnshop.It's a cold and heartless tale, with many mental flashbacks of torturous memories. Yet, Sol doesn't seem to learn anything in the end, except to experience more pain and suffering.He never seems to demonstrate self analysis into the source of his sad state. Nor, apparently, does Wallant.It's left for the viewer to do, as one experiences a full dramatic scenario of effect, and little to nothing of cause.But then, when does the general communications media dare affirm cause. "},{"Title":"pretty boring","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a shame, because this was a movie I was looking forward to. The movie was just so slow and I didn't care about any of the characters. I didn't care if they lived or died. I've never really been a fan of Rod Steiger, although I am a fan of Sidney Lumet.  "}]